TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 99 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

HER LOYAL DAUGHTERS

Hesburgh reflects on coeducation

University President Emeritus discusses his efforts to bring women to campus 40 years ago

By KRISTEN DURBIN
News Editor
Long heralded as the driv­ing force behind coeducation at Notre Dame, University President Emeritus Fr. Ted Hesburgh said he had simple reasons for open­ing the University to undergradu­ate women in 1972.
“When God made the human race he didn’t just make men, he made men and women,” he told The Observer this week. “So since this is considered the best Catholic university in the world ever, well, why shouldn’t half the people here be women as well as men since women … are just as important in the scheme of things as men?”
This clear-headed logic seems obvious today, but Hesburgh said his ideas were “heresy” to many Notre Dame supporters 40 years ago.  
“They said, ‘You’re giving away the store. This is the greatest ma­cho, male-dominated thing. … The place will go soft. It won’t amount to anything anymore,’” he said. “I said, ‘Look, I’m in charge, and this is what I think is important. If we’re going to be the greatest Catholic university, we should be open to women as well 


Observer File Photo
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University President Emeritus, sits in his office on the 13th floor of the Hesburgh Library on March 2, 2011. Hesburgh presided over Notre Dame’s transition to coeducation.

see HESBURGH PAGE 4

Career Center offers new course to FYS students

Campus Ministry cancels Encounter

By CHARITHA ISANAKA
News Writer
After spring break, the Career Center will offer a discernment course for first-year students who are won­dering how to make the most of their time at Notre Dame.
Elly Brenner, an academ­ic advisor for First Year of Studies, said the course aims to help students learn the skills necessary for career discernment at a faith-based university.
“We will ask students to take a pretty hard look at their lives,” Brenner said. “We want them to have the opportunity to evaluate what it is that makes them tick and think about wheth­er or not they are feeding their passions.”
Brenner said she and Hilary Flanagan, director of the Career Center, will teach the course on Mondays from 6 to 8 p.m. The pair will collaborate with sev­eral campus organizations like Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for Church Life. 
Various campus advisors and faculty members from the Mendoza College of Business will also assist in the course.
“We hope students who take the course will be 

By CHARLIE DUCEY
News Writer
The Office of Campus Ministry cancelled the Notre Dame Encounter (NDE) re­treat last semester in an effort to better serve the spiritual needs of students, associate director of undergraduate ministry Tami Schmitz said.
“We wanted to give stu­dents the best possible re­treat experience, and the NDE seemed to be missing the mark,” she said.
At the time of the incep­tion of NDE, Schmitz said the retreat was one of few offered on campus. But in the years since, Campus Ministry has expanded its re­treat options, which now in­clude the Freshman Retreat, Sophomore Roadtrip, indi­vidual hall retreats and the Senior Retreat.

see CAREER PAGE 4

see ENCOUNTER PAGE 5

Thanksgiving in February celebrates donors

By NICOLE McALEE
News Writer
In the month of February, the funds from student tuition fees stop covering the costs of edu­cating the Notre Dame student body for the academic year. 
It is that point when the ef­fect of alumni donations are truly felt because those finan­cial gifts cover the gap between the collected tuition fees and the school’s bills, Aaron Wall, associate director of student philanthrophy and annual giv­ing programs, said. 
The Thanksgiving in February event yesterday and today gives Notre Dame stu­dents the opportunity to share their gratitude with these alumni for their gifts, Wall said. The event began yesterday and will continue today in the Sorin Room in LaFortune Student Center from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
“Thanksgiving in February is an opportunity for Notre Dame students to write thank-you notes to a group of alumni who have donated to the University in the past year,” Wall said. 
Last year’s event produced over 3,000 thank-you notes. Wall said he hopes this year’s event will match that number. 
“If it wasn’t for our gener­ous alumni, tuition would stop covering the cost of educa­tion at some point during the month of February,” Wall said. “So it was a natural time to do 


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer
Last semester’s ‘Thank You’ sign with student notes and signatures stands on South Quad on Nov. 2, 2012.

see THANKS PAGE 5





SMC PLAY PAGE 3

SCENE PAGE 11

VIEWPOINT PAGE 8

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 20

2

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

TODAY

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email obsphoto@gmail.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Allan Joseph
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle                              Jeff Liptak
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Andrew Owens
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Sam Stryker
	News Editor:	John Cameron
	News Editor:	Kristen Durbin
	Viewpoint Editor:	Dan Brombach
	Sports Editor:	Chris Allen
	Scene Editor:	Courtney Cox
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Jillian Barwick
	Photo Editor:	Suzanna Pratt
	Graphics Editor:	Brandon Keelean
	Multimedia Editor:	Sarah O’Connor
	Advertising Manager:	Monica McCormack
	Ad Design Manager:	Sara Hilstrom
	Controller:	Peter Woo
	Systems Administrator:	William Heineman
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu
sstryke1@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

What are you doing awake at 1 a.m.? 



Michelle Kim
junior
Badin Hall
“It’s my 21st birthday, and I have an exam tomorrow.”

Dan Whitaker
senior
Fisher Hall
“Chillin’.”



Georgie Herr
sophomore
Pasquerilla West Hall
“Trying to learn the entire French language in one night.”

Michelle Pham
freshman
Lyons Hall
“Because sleep is for the weak.”



Charles Lee
senior
off-campus
“Playing Tetris Battle.”

Trixie Amorado 
junior 
Badin Hall
“1 a.m. is early for me. The night begins at 1 a.m.”


WEI LIN | The Observer
In the first-floor study lounge of DeBartolo Hall, students take a break from the wintry weather outside and sleep, relax and study in the warmth. The snow is expected to continue today into early tomorrow morning.

Today’s Staff

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com

News
Mel Flanagan 
Christian Myers
Catherine Owers
Graphics
Jacqueline O’Neill
Photo
Wei Lin
Sports
Cory Bernard
Laura Coletti 
Casey Karnes
Scene
Ankur Chawla
Viewpoint
Dan Brombach 

Wednesday
Women’s Lacrosse
Arlotta Stadium
6 p.m.- 8 p.m.
Game vs. Ohio State.
Presentation by Alta Gracia
Andrews Auditorium, Geddes Hall
6:30 p.m.- 8 p.m.
CEO Joe Bozich speaks. 
Thursday
Women’s Tennis
Eck Tennis Pavilion
5 p.m.- 7 p.m.
Game vs. Western Michigan.
“Prayers in Islam”
Coleman-Morse Center
7 p.m.- 8 p.m.
Discussion led by Dr. A. Rashied Omar. 
Friday
Bengal Bouts Finals
Purcell Pavilion
6 p.m.- 10 p.m.
Men’s boxing tournament.  
55th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival
Washington Hall
7 p.m.- 10 p.m. 
Performances by jazz programs.  
Saturday
Men’s Hockey
Compton Family Ice Arena
7:05 p.m.- 9:05 p.m.
Game vs. Bowling Green. 
Loyal Daughters and Sons
Hesburgh Carey Auditorium
7:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m.
Performances on gender relations. 
Sunday
Women’s Tennis
Eck Tennis Pavilion
11:00 a.m.- 1 p.m.
Game vs. Duke.
Vespers Concert
Basilica of the Sacred Heart
7:15 p.m.- 8:15 p.m.
Performance by Notre Dame Folk Choir. 

Corrections
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Magazine founder speaks at SMC

Belles cast goes deeper down the ‘Rabbit Hole’

By REBECCA O’NEIL
News Writer
In preparation for Saint Mary’s spring production of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play “Rabbit Hole,” the cast went to extreme lengths to capture the spirit of their characters.
The play tells the story of a family dealing with the col­lective and individual grief over the death of a child. Notre Dame senior Chris Sylvestri, who plays a grieving father, said cast members worked with a psychologist to exam­ine the mental state of their respective characters and read articles on parents whose chil­dren have died.
“We discussed the griev­ing process and how different people have particular ways of dealing,” senior Sophie Korson said. “After a certain period of time, people expect you to get over it, but it doesn’t work like that.”
To prepare for the role of Becca, a mother coping with her child’s loss, sophomore Erin Moran searched social media for articles about par­ents who have lost children.
 “There are Facebook groups,” Moran said. “They offer support for people who can’t accept ‘God needed an­other angel’ as an explanation for their incredible loss — just like Becca.”
Perhaps the most uncon­ventional way the cast tried to relate to the emotional devasta­tion of the family was by giving their child a face. Sylvestri said he carries around a picture of a smiling little boy in his pocket every day to class.
The cast took these extra measures to combat the sense of disconnect the audience will likely feel, he said.
“We always have that voice in the back of our head that says this sort of thing will never happen to me,” Sylvestri said. “This sort of play reminds us that it could.”
Moran said the play pays tribute in this way to any­one who has ever lost someone close to them.
The intimate cast of five re­sembled a family long before auditions for “Rabbit Hole” began. 
“Honestly, we’ve been build­ing this ensemble since last August,” Korson said. “[Four of the five of us] were in the direc­tor, Katie Sullivan’s, character­ization class last semester.” 
Notre Dame sophomore Conor Nicholl, the actor who was not enrolled in the class, coincidentally plays the one character not related to the rest, Korson said.
Senior Kara Quillard, anoth­er cast member, said the com­fortable dynamic between the actors benefited the prepara­tion of the play.
“Being tight-knit works to our advantage,” she said. “We’re kind of subconsciously method acting in our day-to-day life.”
The play’s title, a reference to the infamous rabbit hole in “Alice in Wonderland,” is a dou­ble metaphor, according to the cast. Korson said it compares losing oneself in grief to being lost in a rabbit hole and unable to find one’s way out.
Silvestri said the title also expresses the idea of parallel universes.
“Two realms of reality allow for Becca to imagine another life in which her son is still alive, which she uses as a cop­ing method,” Silvestri said. 
Although the story is sad, the actors agreed the play is not en­tirely somber.
“It’s very real, it’s raw, it’s humorous and there’s a lot of truth,” Quillard said.
“Rabbit Hole” will run from Thursday to Sunday at the Moreau Center for the Arts. Tickets can be purchased on­line or by visiting or calling the Moreau Center box office.
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu


JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer

By KAITLYN RABACH
News Writer 
As part of Love Your Body Week at Saint Mary’s, Emily Raleigh, founder of the online magazine “Smart Girls Group,” shared how the magazine began and why it is important for all girls to be smart girls.
Raleigh, a freshman at Fordham University, brainstormed “Smart Girls Group” one year ago when she wrote her younger sister a guide to getting through high school. The guide discussed fash­ion, peer pressure, classes and so­cial life. 
“When I was younger, I used to dress up and say, ‘Mommy, do I look like a smart girl?’” Raleigh said. “So, when I was thinking of my sister’s Christmas present my senior year of high school, I re­ally wanted to give her something meaningful and I decided to pull from this idea of being a smart girl. My family then really pushed me to get it published and pursue it.”
After Raleigh decided to devel­op the concept as a magazine, she contacted girls from her commu­nity and elsewhere, she said. The group expanded from there.
Today, “Smart Girls Group” is published once a month. The or­ganization started college chap­ters, runs daily blogs and now has more than 150 contributors from 10 countries.
“‘Smart Girls Group’ is all about connecting and inspiring girls from all over to be smart girls,” Raleigh said. “We offer a support­ing environment that cultivates empowerment within girls.”
She said the magazine and overall organization use blogs, ar­ticles and personal stories of high school and college women to pro­vide girls with a healthy support network.
“What is unique about our group is that all the girls who are writing or contributing to the group are high school- or college-aged,” Raleigh said. “You will not find anyone our moms’ age writ­ing for the magazine and I think that is very important. When girls go on our website and read our magazine, they are hearing from girls going through many of the same experiences as they are.”
The magazine covers an array of topics from politics to fashion to relationships, Raleigh said. It also offers advice on how to be a smart girl. She said being a smart girl starts with finding your “I am’s” and using positive language as an essential tool for breaking down barriers. 
“I think that being a leader and being a smart girl starts with how we speak,” Raleigh said. “When we say things like ‘I can’t,’ we are unconsciously putting up barri­ers for ourselves. Saying ‘I am’ and using positive language is the first step in being a smart girl.”
The next step is finding your smarts, Raleigh said.
“‘The Smart Girls Group’ helps you grab your passions,” Raleigh said. “We help you find things that interest you. I always had an inter­est in girl power and technology, and founding this group has al­lowed me to bridge those two pas­sions. That is what we would like to do for our smart girls.”
Raleigh said once a girl finds her passion, she should determine her goals and make plans.
“Ask yourself what can I start doing today? Make sure these goals are something you can con­trol,” Raleigh said. “You do not want to leave your destiny up to somebody else.”
Raleigh stressed the impor­tance of independent leadership and surrounding yourself with positive people.
“You want to surround yourself by people that lift you up high­er,” she said. “This means your friends, boyfriends, whatever. Find people that lift you up.”
Raleigh encouraged those in the audience to find their own in­ner smart girls and set the world on fire.
“Take your smarts and your passions to help change a part of the world,” she said. “There are so many ways we can all impact oth­ers’ lives in some way. Find your smart girl and set the world on fire.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at
krabac01@saintmarys.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


4

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

as to men.’”
Though he faced no overt oppo­sition to the proposed inclusion of women, Hesburgh said the pro­cess of coeducation required ex­tensive discussion and personal initiative. 
“People didn’t come out with battle axes trying to shut the place down or something. … Like any­thing else that goes on in a univer­sity, [coeducation] got thoroughly discussed and there were pros and cons, but someone had to make the decision,” he said. “I figured I was the president, so I made the decision that No. 1, we were go­ing to be coeducational, and No. 2, women were going to have the same … profile of excellence as the male students.”
Hesburgh said he also thought women deserved access to per­sonal space in dormitories sepa­rate from male students. 
“Someone said, ‘Well, let’s put men and women in the same dor­mitories,’” he said. “I said, ‘No, I think women have a life of their own and they can’t really follow it if they’ve got men looking over their shoulders every hour of the day or night.’
“I can see where women can en­tertain men in the halls, but come midnight, the old bell goes off and the men leave, and the women get in their PJs and talk women talk. The space is all theirs.”
Hesburgh spent 35 years in the Office of the President, leading Notre Dame from 1952 to 1987. But he said introducing coeducation to the University was the best de­cision he made in all that time. 
“In any event, I moved ahead quickly, and I’ve never regretted it,” he said. “I think women are holding their own here and put­ting together a very good record, of which I’m very proud.”
‘Impossible conditions’
Although Hesburgh’s per­sonal convictions about the role of women in University life pro­pelled the transition to coedu­cation, the final decision came after long discussions with Saint Mary’s College about a potential merger between the schools. 
“We discussed it at the highest level of administration of both schools,” he said. “We decided in principle we would like to merge the two schools. But you couldn’t just do it because there were all kinds of overlaps of programs and things.”
Administrators from both schools came close to approving the merger on several occasions, but Hesburgh said “impossible conditions” prevented Notre Dame from agreeing to merge with Saint Mary’s.
“After two or three of these for­ays … I said, ‘Well, why don’t we just say it’s been an interesting discussion. We’re still open to merge with Saint Mary’s at any time. If you want to reopen the discussion that’s fine, but there’s no point getting into a discussion where one side has a strong power blocking every time we get close to a merger,’” he said. “That’s where we are now.”
More than 40 years after the proposed merger failed, Hesburgh said his feelings about the prospect have not changed. 
“I was in favor of the merger and I think the superior general [at Saint Mary’s] was in favor of the merger … To this day, I favor joining, but I don’t think it’s nec­essary,” he said. “I think we’ve become closer to [Saint Mary’s] in many ways. … I think we have the best of all worlds short of a merger, so I’ve been happy to see that develop.”
Hesburgh said the mutually beneficial relationship between the schools is due in part to their shared history, beginning when Fr. Edward Sorin founded Notre Dame in 1842 and the Sisters of the Holy Cross followed suit in 1844.
“I think it’s interesting that when Sorin began the school in those days, there were no mixed schools,” Hesburgh said. “[Notre Dame] became a men’s school, but only a year or so went by be­fore [Sorin] asked the sisters to start a school on the other side of the road. Our history is almost identical … and from [the 1840s] on, we’ve been close together and should be. [Saint Mary’s] has been helpful to us and vice versa.”
‘A more normal human situation’
In the 40 years since under­graduate women first entered Notre Dame, Hesburgh has seen their successors make significant contributions to the University’s intellectual, athletic and religious life, complementing the work of their male counterparts.
“Women more and more have had their say on campus. … Men and women tend to think very much along the same lines at a Catholic university,” he said. “I’d have to work hard to scrape up a problem [between men and women]. … I think we get along as a happy family where we’re both making good contributions to the good of the whole enterprise.” 
Hesburgh said he thinks the inclusion of women made the University a microcosm more representative of the world in general.
“Having women here makes it a much more normal human situ­ation. … It seems to me that year after year we get closer together instead of drifting apart,” he said.
Indeed, the world outside Notre Dame had a major impact on co­education and the University as a whole, especially in the midst of the Vietnam War, the civil rights movement and other political tur­moil at home and abroad.
“The great national decisions that were going on … all of these things that affected the world were bound to affect the University,” he said. “I was very happy that the students were very active in world affairs and came at them from different points of view as men and women.”
Though the political and social climate outside the University has changed considerably since 1972, Hesburgh said such a dynamic environment encourages Notre Dame students to consider their role in the world after graduation.
“I think [involvement in world affairs] was a good thing for edu­cation at Notre Dame because we don’t want to be in another world,” he said. “We want to be in the world that exists right now, we want to compete in that world and we want to be leaders in that world, and that’s true of both men and women.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at 
kdurbin@nd.edu


Hesburgh
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Photo courtesy of University Archives
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University President Emeritus, dances with a female student. Hesburgh was integral in bringing women to campus.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


better prepared to be more intentional in their personal development during their time at Notre Dame, as well as in their lifetime pursuits,” Brenner said. “[To take] time for self-assessment and make use of campus resources to focus on discerning a path for their truest and best selves.”
The course aims to help students 
assess personal strengths and areas for growth, devel­op an appreciation for good mentoring and cultivate a disposition for informed ex­ploration during the college years, Brenner said.
“It’s a lofty goal, but I think we have the right team put together to make this a tremendous experience for the students who partici­pate,” she said.
Brenner said she hopes students discover campus discernment resources and recognize why they make cer­tain choices about courses of study and future aspirations.
Flanagan said the Career Center is excited by the inter­est the course has generated.
“As we seek to create an au­thentic human community, it is imperative that we al­low students the opportunity to discover their authentic selves and think about where their unique talents can best serve the world in a way that is also personally filling,” she said.
Contact Charitha Isanaka at
cisanaka@nd.edu

Career
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

See more coverage online.
ndsmcobserver.com
 


5

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Encounter
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

As a result of the wider selec­tion, Schmitz said the level of interest in NDE, formerly the office’s flagship retreat, has declined.
“Our students are still faith-filled and interested in spending time with God and exploring discernment,” she said. “We just need to respond to what the students desire in a retreat experience.”
The retreat’s length also factored into the decision to cancel it, Schmitz said. NDE lasted for two nights, unlike some of the newer retreats.
“It is becoming more and more difficult for students to ‘give up’ an entire weekend,” Schmitz said. “We may have to look at doing one over­night or a day or an evening of reflection instead of the full weekend.”
But junior Cindy Stanley, a previous participant in NDE, said the weekend was well worth it.
“The retreat provided me with the perseverance to power through the rest of an academically difficult soph­omore year,” she said. “I’m heartbroken for my friends who wanted to attend the retreat this year but will not have the chance.”
Although some students like Stanley expressed dis­appointment in the can­cellation, Schmitz said she is hopeful the end of NDE will allow Campus Ministry to further develop engag­ing spiritual experiences. Campus Ministry has already developed a new retreat titled “A Weekend with the Word,” she said.
“The format consists of having a ‘retreat master’ give a series of talks on a particu­lar faith topic,” Schmitz said.
Fr. Joe Corpora will lead one of these retreats focusing on the parables from April 12-14.
Schmitz said the cancella­tion of NDE marks the begin­ning of an exciting time when retreats are becoming more numerous and tailored to the spiritual desires of students. Campus Ministry’s mission must continually adapt to these needs, she said.
“We need to understand their current spiritual needs and stay relevant so that we can respond to these needs in meaningful and effective ways,” Schmitz said.
Contact Charlie Ducey at
cducey@nd.edu

Thanks
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

this event.” 
Senior Mia Genereux, co-chair of Senior Legacy, said students at the event will re­ceive the name of a donor, an envelope and stationary, as well as suggestions on how to thank donors. Genereux and her senior co-chair Danny Leicht will direct the event, which is open to all alumni, staff and students.
Wall said students are en­couraged to share personal stories about life at Notre Dame. 
“We encourage all of our students to say thank you for specific things,” Wall said. “[We want to] give our do­nors a piece of what student life continues to be at Notre Dame.” 
Genereux also noted that the personal nature of the notes is especially meaning­ful to alumni.
“The Development Office here gets a lot of really posi­tive feedback from donors after this event, because opening a handwritten note, I think, means so much more than receiving an automated email, especially when that note contains an anecdotal student story,” Genereux said.
Participating in Thanksgiving in February is a simple way for students to show gratitude for the gener­osity of alumni, Genereaux said.
“I think the sense of duty at Notre Dame rings true in everything we do, and so in enjoying the opportunities we have here, students do feel compelled to show that gratitude however they can, and this is an easy way to do it,” Genereux said.
2011 graduate Pablo Martinez, program man­ager of student programs within annual giving, said alumni contributions to a Notre Dame education have a unique ripple effect.
“[Thanksgiving in February is] a great opportunity for students to give back, and I think more than anything, our alumni realize that giving to Notre Dame is one of the best charities you can give to, just by the simple fact that students take part in so many types of charitable organi­zations and service work,” Martinez said. “It’s like do­nating one gift to 10 different institutions all at once when you donate to Notre Dame be­cause of the work the students do here.”
Wall, who earned his un­dergraduate degree in 2004 and a graduate degree in 2006 from Notre Dame, said alum­ni enjoy receiving thank-you notes as much as students en­joy writing them.
“Students, in my opinion, have just an awesome oppor­tunity to say thanks because so much of what they’ve re­ceived is a gift by alumni,” Wall said. “It’s great speaking as an alumni. I love getting that letter from a student.” 
Wall noted alumni give of what they can and he urged students to do the same. 
“Everyone gives according to what they have,” Wall said. “As students, the thing you have to give is your thanks.”
Contact Nicole McAlee at
nmcalee@nd.edu

Major blizzard hits Midwest, disrupts travel

Associated Press
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — For the second time in a week, a major winter storm paralyzed parts of the nation’s midsection Tuesday, dumping a fresh layer of heavy, wet snow atop cities still choked with piles from the previous sys­tem and making travel perilous from the Oklahoma panhandle to the Great Lakes.
The weight of the snow strained power lines and cut electricity to more than 100,000 homes and businesses. At least three deaths were blamed on the blizzard.
The Missouri Department of Transportation issued a rare “no travel” advisory, urging people to stay off highways ex­cept in case of a dire emergency. Conditions were so bad that some snowplows slid into ditch­es, underlining the danger even to well-equipped travelers.
“It’s straight hell. It’s snowing, blowing, drifting, everything,” said Robert Branscecum, a trucker from Campton, Ill., who was hauling Wal-Mart mer­chandise to Dallas. He had been stranded since Monday evening at Beto Junction, about 80 miles southwest of Kansas City.
“The cars are stuck in the parking lot. Some of the trucks that tried to leave got stuck,” he said. “I’m not leaving anytime soon.”
Up to 10 inches had fallen in and around Kansas City, Mo., by the time the snow tapered off before midday. Mayor Sly James declared a state of emergency.
For a second straight week, schoolchildren, government workers and others caught a break as most schools and office buildings were closed. Hospitals closed outpatient centers and urgent-care clinics.
Although the amount of snow was not unusual for late February, the snow was so heavy it stressed everything it fell on, especially the electrical grid. Power was slowly being restored as the thick clouds moved on.
In the northwest Oklahoma town of Woodward, a person was killed after 15 inches of snow brought down part of a roof. The storm was also blamed for the deaths of two people who were killed in rollover crashes Monday on Interstate 70 in Kansas.
Heavy snow pulled down large trees and caused roofs to cave in at businesses in Belton and Warrensburg, Mo., where 13 inches of snow piled up. In Columbia, a canopy over gas pumps collapsed at a conve­nience store.
By noon, the storm had ar­rived in the Great Lakes with a mixture of blowing snow, sleet and frigid rain that disrupted most forms of travel. Airlines canceled almost 500 flights at Chicago’s O’Hare and Midway airports alone.
Elsewhere in Chicago, the heavy weather threatened to hold down voter turnout in a special election to choose the likely replacement for former Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr. The city deployed extra resources to keep polls accessible. Its full fleet of 284 snowplows was out clearing pavement.
The wintry mix also blew through Iowa, which had been expected to escape any serious snowfall. Parts of the state could now get as much as a foot.
Fueled by a strong low pres­sure system, the crescent-shaped storm began Sunday in Texas, then headed north. It was expected to drop up to 6 inch­es of snow on Chicago before crawling east across Michigan toward northern New England.
Schools and major high­ways in the Texas Panhandle remained closed for a second day Tuesday. Interstate 27 re­opened between Amarillo and Lubbock, about 120 miles to the south, but the Texas National Guard was still working to clear much of Interstate 40 from the Oklahoma border to the New Mexico state line.
Some other roads reopened as sunny conditions began to thaw ice and snow-packed surfaces.


PAID ADVERTISEMENT

AP
A pair of snow plows head west on U.S. Highway 54, clearing the snow off the roadway, near Cheney, Kan., Tuesday.


6

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

Kelly nominated for Jackson Jr. seat

U.S. considers supporting Syrian rebels

Associaed Press
CHICAGO — Former Illinois legislator Robin Kelly captured the Democratic nomination Tuesday in the race to replace disgraced ex-U.S. Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr., after a truncated campaign season where she got a boost from New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s su­per PAC.
The nomination all but as­sures that Kelly will sail through the April 9 general election and head to Washington, because the Chicago-area district is over­whelmingly Democratic. The race among the lesser known Republican candidates was too close to call Tuesday night.
From a crowded field of Democratic contenders, Kelly emerged early as a leader on gun-control issues — a cen­tral theme during the race — which helped her win support from Bloomberg’s super PAC, Independence USA. It poured more than $2 million into the race by airing anti-gun ads in her favor and against another Democratic front runner, former U.S. Rep. Debbie Halvorson, who unlike Kelly is against banning assault weapons.
“We worked really, really hard,” the former state rep­resentative from Matteson, a south Chicago suburb, told The Associated Press. “We were on the right side of the issue and our message resonated.”
Kelly also defended the finan­cial support from Bloomberg, saying: “No one complains when the NRA was spending big mon­ey.” In her victory speech she vowed to fight for gun control until “gun violence is no longer a nightly feature on the evening news.”
Halvorson conceded Tuesday evening, saying the outside money certainly played a roll.
“It shows, unfortunately, you can’t go up against that big money. ...That’s the problem with super PACs,” Halvorson, who unsuccessfully challenged Jackson in a primary last year, told the AP. “There is nothing I could have done differently.”
After casting her ballot earlier in the day, in the snowy weather that pelted the region Tuesday, Halvorson had warned that if the ads were successful, Bloomberg would try to “buy seats” across the country.
Another Democratic front runner, Chicago Alderman Anthony Beale, also took issue with the ads, saying people were “extremely upset” that someone from New York was trying to tell people in Illinois how to vote.
“That’s what money gets you,” he told the AP after conceding late Tuesday. “We earned every vote.”
Bloomberg called Kelly’s win an important victory for “com­mon sense leadership” on gun violence, saying in a statement that voters nationwide are de­manding change from their leaders. His PAC, launched weeks before the November election, has spent more than $12 million backing candidates nationwide.
Guns were a leading issue at candidate forums and email blasts from candidates, even as Jackson’s legal saga played out in court and frustrated voters who’ve seen two other congress­men in the office leave under an ethical or legal cloud.
Jackson resigned in November, after a months-long medical leave for treatment of bipo­lar disorder and other issues, then pleaded guilty earlier this month to charges that accused him of misspending $750,000 in campaign money on lavish per­sonal items, including a Rolex watch and fur coats.


AP
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, right, converses with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Berlin on Feb. 26. Kerry’s visit to Berlin is the second stop in his first overseas trip as Secretary of State.

Associated Press
PARIS — The Obama ad­ministration, in coordination with some European allies, is for the first time considering supplying direct assistance to elements of the Free Syrian Army as they seek to ramp up pressure on Syrian President Bashar Assad to step down and end nearly two years of brutal and increasingly dead­ly violence.
Officials in the United States and Europe said Tuesday the administration is nearing a decision on whether to pro­vide non-lethal assistance to carefully vetted fighters op­posed to the Assad regime in addition to what it is already supplying to the political op­position. A decision is expect­ed by Thursday when U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will attend an international conference on Syria in Rome that leaders of the opposition Syrian National Coalition have been persuaded to at­tend, the officials said.
The officials spoke on con­dition of anonymity because the shift in strategy has not yet been finalized and still needs to be coordinated with European nations, notably Britain. They are eager to vastly increase the size and scope of assistance for Assad’s foes.
Kerry, who was a cau­tious proponent of supplying arms to the rebels while he was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has been consulting with European leaders on how to step up pressure on Assad to leave power. The effort has been as a major focus of his first official trip abroad as America’s top diplomat. On the first two stops on his hectic nine-nation tour of Europe and the Middle East, in London and Berlin, he has sought to assure the Syrian opposition that more help is on the way.
In London on Monday, he made a public appeal to op­position coalition leader Mouaz al-Khatib not to boy­cott the Rome meeting as had been threatened and to at­tend the conference despite concerns among Assad foes that international communi­ty is not doing enough. Kerry and Vice President Joe Biden made private telephone calls to al-Khatib to make the same case.
“We are determined that the Syrian opposition is not going to be dangling in the wind, wondering where the sup­port is, if it is coming,” Kerry told reporters after meet­ing British Prime Minister David Cameron and Foreign Secretary William Hague.
Hague said that the dete­riorating conditions in Syria, especially recent scud missile attacks on the city of Aleppo, were unacceptable and that the West’s current position could not be sustained while an “appalling injustice” is be­ing done to Syrian citizens.
“In the face of such mur­der and threat of instability, our policy cannot stay static as the weeks go by,” Hague told reporters, standing be­side Kerry. “We must signifi­cantly increase support for the Syrian opposition. We are preparing to do just that.”

EGYPT

Balloon fire kills 19 tourists

Only two sightseers survive deadly accident on sunrise flight over ancient city of Luxor

Associated Press
LUXOR, Egypt — The terror lasted less than two minutes: Smoke poured from a hot air balloon carrying sightseers on a sunrise flight over the ancient city of Luxor, it burst in a flash of flame and then plummeted about 1,000 feet to earth. A farmer watched helplessly as tourists trying to escape the blazing gondo­la leaped to their deaths.
Nineteen people were killed Tuesday in what ap­peared to be the deadliest hot air ballooning accident on record. A British tourist and the Egyptian pilot, who was badly burned, were the sole survivors.
The tragedy raised worries of another blow to the na­tion’s vital tourism industry, decimated by two years of unrest since the 2011 revo­lution that toppled autocrat Hosni Mubarak. The south­ern city of Luxor has been hit hard, with vacant ho­tel rooms and empty cruise ships.
It also prompted accusa­tions that authorities have let safety standards decline amid the political turmoil and infighting, although civil aviation officials said the balloon had been in­spected recently and that the pilot may have been to blame, jumping out rather than stopping the fire.
Authorities suspended hot air balloon flights, a popular tourist attraction here, while investigators determined the cause.
The balloon was carrying 20 tourists — from France, Britain, Belgium, Japan and Hong Kong — and an Egyptian pilot on a flight over Luxor, 510 kilometers (320 miles) south of Cairo, officials said. The flights provide spectacular views of the ancient Karnak and Luxor temples and the Valley of the Kings, the burial ground of Tutankhamun and other pharaohs.
According to initial indi­cations, the balloon was in the process of landing after 7 a.m. when a cable got caught around a helium tube and a fire erupted, according to an investigator with the state prosecutor’s office.
The balloon then ascended rapidly, the investigator said. The fire detonated a gas can­ister and the balloon plunged about 300 meters (1,000 feet) to the ground, crashing in a sugar cane field outside al-Dhabaa village just west of Luxor, a security official said.
Both the investigator and the security official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not autho­rized to talk to the media.
“I saw tourists catching fire and they were jumping from the balloon,” said Hassan Abdel-Rasoul, a farmer in al-Dhabaa. “They were trying to flee the fire but it was on their bodies.”
One of those on fire was a visibly pregnant woman, he said.

7

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Billionaire unveils plans to build Titanic II

New version of the famed ship could set sail in 2016 for same course as sunken ship

Associated Press
NEW YORK — What could pos­sibly go wrong?
An Australian billionaire is get­ting ready to build a new version of the Titanic that could set sail in late 2016.
Clive Palmer unveiled blue­prints for the famously doomed ship’s namesake Tuesday at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum in New York. He said construction is scheduled to start soon in China.
Palmer said 40,000 people have expressed interest in tick­ets for the maiden voyage, tak­ing the original course from Southampton, England, to New York. He said people are inspired by his quest to replicate one of the most famous vessels in history.
“We all live on this planet, we all breathe the same air and, of course, the Titanic is about the things we’ve got in common,” he said. “It links three continents.”
The original Titanic was the world’s largest and most luxuri­ous ocean liner when it hit an iceberg in the North Atlantic and sank on April 15, 1912. Only 700 people of the more than 2,200 on board survived the most fa­mous maritime disaster in his­tory, partly because there were not enough lifeboats to carry everyone.
Palmer said an unknown when the original ship sailed — climate change — may play into a posi­tive for the new ship’s fate.
“One of the benefits of global warming is there hasn’t been as many icebergs in the North Atlantic these days,” Palmer said.
Passengers on board the rep­lica will dress in the fashion of that period and eat dishes from the original menu, in dining rooms copied from the ill-fated predecessor.
Joining Palmer on Tuesday was Helen Benziger, the great granddaughter of Titanic sur­vivor Margaret “Molly” Brown. Benziger, who agreed to serve on the advisory board for the Titanic II, said her great grandmother, who died in 1932, would have loved to see the Titanic rebuilt and complete the journey it never got to finish.
In what some may consider a temptation of fate for a remake of a notoriously “unsinkable” ship that sank, a representative of the Finnish designer of the Titanic II said it will be the “safest cruise ship in the world.”
Markku Kanerva, director of sales for marine design com­pany Deltamarin said that while the vessel is modeled after the legendary liner — the diesel-powered ship will even have four decorative smoke stacks mimick­ing the coal-powered originals — it will meet modern navigation and safety requirements.
In addition, plans call for a new “safety deck” featuring state-of-the-art lifeboats, safety chutes and slides. The new ship will also have amenities unknown a cen­tury ago, like air conditioning.
Palmer, who is funding construction of the ship himself, built his fortune in real estate and coal. Australia’s BRW magazine estimated his net worth last year at $4 billion, although Forbes puts it at $895 million.
“I want to spend the money I’ve got before I die,” he said. “You might as well spend it, not leave it to the kids to spend, there will be enough left for them anyway.”


AP
In a rendering provided by Blue Star Line, the future Titanic II is depicted cruising at sea. Australian bil­lionaire Clive Palmer plans to build the ship in China and send it off in late 2016.

Home Depot boosts Dow higher

Senate confirms Hagel as defense secretary

Associated Press
WASHINGTON — A deeply divided Senate vot­ed on Tuesday to confirm Republican Chuck Hagel to be the nation’s next defense secretary, handing President Barack Obama’s pick the top Pentagon job just days before billions of dollars in automatic, across-the-board budget cuts hit the military.
The vote was 58-41, with four Republicans joining the Democrats in backing the contentious choice. Hagel’s only GOP support came from former colleagues Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Dick Shelby of Alabama and Mike Johanns of Nebraska — all three had announced their support earlier — and Rand Paul of Kentucky.
The vote came just hours after Republicans dropped their unprecedented delay of a Pentagon choice and allowed the nomination to move forward on a 71-27 vote.
Hagel, 66, a former two-term Nebraska senator and twice-wounded Vietnam combat veteran, succeeds Defense Secretary Leon Panetta. Hagel is expected to be sworn in at the Pentagon on Wednesday.
Obama welcomed the bi­partisan Senate vote, al­though 41 Republicans opposed his nominee, and said in a statement that “we will have the defense secre­tary our nation needs and the leader our troops deserve.”
The looked past the divi­sions and said he was grate­ful to Hagel “for reminding us that when it comes to our national defense, we are not Democrats or Republicans, we are Americans, and our greatest responsibility is the security of the American people.”
Republicans had opposed their onetime colleague, casting him as unqualified for the job, hostile toward Israel and soft on Iran. The objections remained strong well after the vote.
“I continue to have seri­ous questions about whether Chuck Hagel is up to the job of being our secretary of de­fense,” Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said in a statement. “I hope, for the sake of our own national security, he exceeds expectations.”
Hagel joins Obama’s re­tooled second-term, national security team of Secretary of State John Kerry and CIA Director-designate John Brennan at a time of uncer­tainty for a military emerg­ing from two wars and fighting worldwide terrorism with smaller, deficit-driven budgets.

Associated Press
NEW YORK — A jump in home sales and strong earn­ings from Home Depot helped the Dow claw back more than half of its losses from Monday. Improving consumer confi­dence also brought back buy­ers to the market.
The Dow Jones industri­al average closed up 115.96 points, or 0.8 percent, to 13,900.13. The Dow fell 216 points the day before, its big­gest drop in three months, on concern that the European debt crisis may flare up again. The index has moved 100 points or more on four out of the past five trading days.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 9.09 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,496.94. The Nasdaq composite was up 13.40 points, or 0.4 percent, at 3,129.65.
Home Depot, the biggest home improvement store chain in the country, jumped $3.64, or 5.7 percent, to $67.56 after reporting that its income rose 32 percent in the latest quarter thanks to strong U.S. sales and the cleanup that followed Superstorm Sandy. That made it the biggest gain­er in the Dow, accounting for about 28 points, or about a quarter, of its advance.
“Companies on the whole, particularly U.S. compa­nies, are doing well,” Michael Mussio, a portfolio manager at FBB Capital, said.
Strong earnings from home improvement companies, such as Home Depot and Lowe’s, which reported earn­ings Monday that beat Wall Street forecasts, compounded evidence that the U.S. hous­ing market is maintaining its recovery, Mussio said. Also Tuesday, the government reported that sales of new homes jumped 16 percent last month to the highest level since July 2008.
The report boosted hous­ing companies, which led the S&P 500 higher. PulteGroup rose $1.03, or 5.7 percent, to $19.05, edging out Home Depot as the biggest gainer in the index. D.R. Horton ad­vanced 88 cents, or 4.12 per­cent, to $22.25 and Lennar Corp. rose $1.35, or 3.7 per­cent, to $38.01.
The rebounding housing sector has been an impor­tant factor behind a rally that pushed the Dow above 14,000 last week, close to its record high close of 14,164 reached in October 2007. The Dow is still up 6 percent this year, even after Monday’s sell-off. The S&P 500 is up 5 percent.
Also Tuesday, a measure of consumer confidence rose sharply, reversing three months of declines, as shop­pers began adjusting to a pay­roll tax hike last month.


AP
Secretary of Defense nominee Chuck Hagel testified before the Senate Armed Services during his confirmation hearing on Jan. 31.

8

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Observer endorses Sullivan-Martin

INSIDE COLUMN

Just get back up

Though their ticket will be the only one on the bal­lot for student body president and vice president Thursday, juniors Kat Sullivan and Maddy Martin are promising potential leaders of the Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA). The Observer Editorial Board endorses the Sullivan-Martin ticket for stu­dent body president and vice president in the College election. 
The one-ticket race hints at the pair’s biggest chal­lenge should they be elected — the need to drum up support for SGA and expand student government’s reach to students who don’t understand its role on campus. However, Sullivan and Martin have experi­ence in SGA on their side, as well as a platform full of ideas on how to expand communication with Saint Mary’s students. 
Sullivan is running for student body president and currently serves as vice president of external affairs, where she works with committee affairs, SGA execu­tives and the Senate. Her running mate Martin cur­rently serves as vice president of finance, an executive position on SGA, and is chair for Council of Clubs. 
In a meeting with The Observer Editorial Board on Tuesday, both candidates agreed students lack knowl­edge about how to be involved with SGA. They ac­knowledged the current student government does not advertise the ways students can be involved as well as it could, but they continuously emphasized building an administration that would do so. 
The candidates’ first course of action if elected is to amplify usage of OrgSync, the new communication system the College implemented last fall. OrgSync has met with varied success in its beginning stages and can be better integrated into campus life. Because this system is designed to communicate information to stu­dents, Sullivan and Martin will make huge strides in their more general communication goals as they target OrgSync’s improvement at the beginning of their term in office. 
Sullivan and Martin also plan on working with the new SGA structure that was implemented at the start of turnover last spring. Their student government experi­ence has given them solid perspective on the way this structure works. The women plan to keep up with the councils and committees to better define each group’s responsibilities, which will help increase the strength of the student government as well as the communica­tion between SGA and the student body. 
Encouraging students to run for positions on Senate is another goal the pair have for the new structure. While this year’s Senate did not attract students to fill all its positions, Sullivan and Martin proposed ap­pointing students to positions on Senate, as well as changing the amount of senators per class from three to two. Since the senators will work directly with each of their own classes, the ticket suggested that each class president should appoint their own senators. 
While the ticket recognizes the need to create a more successful Senate within SGA, their idea of appointing both Senate positions may not be the best course of action. Taking away the chance for a class to elect its own representatives reduces its input in this govern­ing body. As one alternative if an election system will be ineffective again, the ticket could perhaps consider appointing one position through class boards and con­ducting student elections for the second.
The combined experience of Sullivan and Martin will provide the student body with an easy transition once turnover takes place. Having served on SGA in different roles will only benefit the ticket as they move into their administration. Sullivan and Martin seem to know SGA inside out and will make a great duo in achieving their goals and ideas for the student body. 
Overall, the Sullivan-Martin ticket presents a strong platform, an immense amount of energy and passion for Saint Mary’s and an abundance of knowledge about SGA. Their administration is one that promises a more active and accessible student government for all Saint Mary’s students. 

EDITORIAL

Maria Fernandez
Scene Writer

From a very young age, I have al­ways been up to date on the lives of movie stars, musicians and celebri­ties in general. Thanks to E! News, Us Weekly, People Magazine and even Hola — for some Spanish and European gossip — I know exactly what they wear for the most ex­travagant Hollywood parties, what weird names they give their new­borns and their latest public faux pas. 
The Oscars, then, are the great­est celebration of all that I love — fashion, movies and celebrities in all their splendor. I look forward to them eagerly every year. I invite my friends over to watch the awards and we comment on the winners, the losers, their fashion choices and their overall performances. 
My reaction to Sunday’s Oscars, however, was very different from the one I tend to have after watch­ing the number of award shows I have not missed for years. I am usually satisfied with some of the performances, in awe of some of the actresses’ gowns and content with the majority of the winners. This year, Ben Affleck’s last words in his thank-you speech took me by surprise, impacting me in a way I never thought Ben Affleck could. 
As he explained how he had been “knocked down” many times throughout his career as an ac­tor, producer and now director, he concluded, “The important thing is that you gotta get up.”  
His culminating words were a perfect ending to the ceremony, as they resounded and perfectly com­plemented what I believe was the theme of this year’s Oscars. From Anne Hathaway’s thank-you speech and last performance as Fantine in “Les Miserables” to Jennifer Lawrence’s unexpected fall as she went to receive her Best Actress award, this year’s Oscars presented a positive and encouraging message to the world: “You just gotta get up.”
Despite the hardships and strug­gles we face in our daily lives, it is important and necessary to con­tinue fighting and never give up on what we want and believe. 
I hope this Oscar lesson encour­ages you to get up, study and ace these coming midterms. No matter how hard or impossible they might seem, I think Ben Affleck’s motiva­tional speech will get me through them smoothly. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON


Contact Maria Fernandez at      
mfernand5@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

9

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Let God fill your life

When I was in kindergarten, 1 p.m. was my least favorite time of day. When the clock struck 1, our teachers would shuffle us down to the gym to begin what seemed like the longest hour of my life — mandatory naptime. Each day, I’d wait patiently for my teachers to find the plastic bag with “Boyle” written across the front. I’d then take my Lion King sleeping bag and scurry to find an open cot as far back in the gym as I could.
None of us really slept during nap­time, though. Once they turned the lights out, we would immediately be­gin goofing off. We’d vie for cots in the back of the gym so we would be in the dark, out of eyesight and earshot of our ever-observant teachers. Each day, we’d try to switch cots and carry on conversations with one another. Most days, this went off without a hitch. Sometimes, however, we got caught.
Goofing off was the only thing that got me through the naptimes that seemed to stretch on into eternity. To combat my boredom, I would lie on my cot and wish to be older. After all, the older kids didn’t have to nap. My wish­ing, however, never seemed to have any great affect. Time never moved more quickly. If anything, it moved more slowly.
I haven’t changed much since I was little. I still have difficulty tak­ing breaks. In many ways, I am still the same kid who could not sit idle or rest during naptime. During my high school and undergraduate years, my natural restlessness led to me to par­ticipate in as many different activities as I could. The only problem was that I tried to fit them all in at the exact same time.
Things got particularly bad during my sophomore year at Notre Dame. On top of my commitment to the Notre Dame Glee Club, I signed up to be a part of the Notre Dame Folk Choir. Then, when some of my good friends approached me about auditioning for Pasquerilla East Musical Company’s production of “Parade,” of course I couldn’t say no.
Juggling all of these activities as a Program of Liberal Studies major proved to be a recipe for disaster. The demands of three different rehearsal schedules left me tired and drained before I even started my day. I quickly grew to dread the classes that had once given me so much joy because I never had time to prepare. To make matters worse, I was always so busy that I never saw my roommates. Consequently, my friendships began to feel more like inconveniences than joys.
Although I did many things, I didn’t do anything particularly well. This was inherently frustrating for me, a guy who just wanted to make people happy. Each day consequently became an exercise in managing my frustra­tion. But everything changed once I realized the real key to my struggles: insecurity.
I read once, “If you try to find in­timacy with another person before achieving a sense of identity on your own, all your relationships become an attempt to complete yourself.” I real­ized I wanted to make people happy to mask the uncertainty I felt inside. I so desperately wanted to feel love that I set off on a frantic search to find it. I searched high and low in Glee Club, Folk Choir and PEMCo. And I found some of the most loving people, people who embraced all that I was, warts and all.
The problem, however, was that I used my busyness and heavy involve­ment in these activities as a Band-Aid for my insecurities. It was easy to feel loved when I was involved in these groups. If I sang a good solo or acted particularly well in a scene, “Good job” was the affirmation I needed. It was a sign of the love I most desperately craved.      
In “The Picture of Dorian Gray,” Oscar Wilde writes, “In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place.” Well, I filled my mind with the deepest rubbish of all: that I only mattered and was loved when other people told me so. I wanted a place in people’s lives only so I could hear I was important, special and most of all, loved.
As French philosopher and mathe­matician Blaise Pascal aptly observed, “[Our] infinite abyss can only be filled by an infinite and immutable object, that is, by God himself.” I have begun to realize that the infinite abyss of my longings — to be known and loved — can only be imperfectly satisfied by earthly relationships. For it is in God alone that the love we all most desper­ately desire will be fulfilled.  
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at 
sboyle2@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Scott Boyle
The Sincere Seeker

Finding home

Like most Notre Dame students, my senior year of high school was filled with college essays, college applications and college anxiety. I sent out multiple applications, received fewer accep­tances and whittled it down to a couple of schools. Then it came time to pick one. Chances are that if you’re read­ing this, then you and I made the same decision to come to Notre Dame. For a time, however, I had no idea where I would go. 
While perhaps inconceivable for some at Notre Dame, I came pretty darn close to picking Boston College. As I am from the Northeast, Boston College sits a comfortable two hours from home. It was neither far enough that distance might be an issue nor close enough that it would feel as though I’d never left home. And when I mean I was close to picking it, I mean I was sitting at my kitchen table in the last week in April filling out the ac­ceptance paperwork. I came closer to mailing that envelope than Pittsburgh came to beating Notre Dame, and my unease from the indecision was prob­ably about the same as Brian Kelly’s as Pittsburgh’s kicker sailed it wide right.  That envelope, however, never made it to the mail. What I couldn’t overcome, what I couldn’t get past, was this feeling that Notre Dame was a special place. I couldn’t get past the feeling that Notre Dame was different. When people would ask me what I meant, I didn’t know how to explain it. There was an inescapable aura that portended Notre Dame was markedly unlike the other schools I’d seen. 
Nearly two years later, I can identify what I felt back then. I can identify the community that envelops campus. I can identify the way dorms become families and confirm the tour guide wasn’t kidding when he said student life was unlike anything else you’ll find. More than anything else, however, I can identify the unique outlook Notre Dame inspires. Over winter break, I watched my share of bowl games. With each successive game, the two schools involved ran a commercial highlight­ing their respective institutions. Almost without fail, schools will show a few scenic shots of campus and highlight the opportunities they provide to ad­vance the prospective student’s career. They’ll show students on a meticulously groomed quad, a studious lab research­er and some kids smiling on a stroll through campus. They’ll list the ways they will serve the student. 
With every Notre Dame home football game, the University airs a commercial highlighting the work of a member of the Notre Dame community bettering society. Whether fighting tropical dis­eases in Haiti, making senior citizens’ dreams come true or limiting the ef­fects of natural disasters, Notre Dame doesn’t promise its prospective stu­dents this or that. Rather, it challenges them to affect others. The school’s recently produced admissions video places an emphasis not on what Notre Dame will do for you but how Notre Dame will enable you to do for others. Combined, these most public displays of the University’s mission show not the ways the University can serve the stu­dent but the ways the student can serve the world. 
In retrospect, this is the intan­gible aura to which I was attracted. University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy has called South Bend our campus and the world our classroom. Whatever one’s major or path, we are told to seek change, to find solutions and to champion a better tomorrow. In the words of University President Fr. John Jenkins, “There is a special expectation, a special hope, for what Notre Dame can accomplish in the world ... that it will send forth grad­uates who — grounded in deep moral values — can help solve the world’s toughest problems.” There is a sense that not only can we affect the world, but we are expected to. Not only are we invited, but compelled. It is a powerful statement and one that even above its sense of community, its academics and its football, makes Notre Dame what it is. This is not to say that no other institutions foster similar ideas; they do. It is not to say our students have no equal; we do. It is not to say Notre Dame is perfect; it is not. It is to say there is an element of Notre Dame that is genu­inely special. 
While back home this Christmas, I ran into one of my old teachers. “National championship? Guess you made the right choice,” he said. I smiled and laughed. I agreed, but it had noth­ing to do with the national champion­ship. Almost two years later, I know I made the right choice in going a thou­sand miles west rather than a couple hours down the coast to Boston, and not just because I don’t want to watch my team’s lineman sobbing on national television when Louis Nix mauls him in the fourth quarter. I know I made the right choice because of the community I’ve found, the friends I’ve made and the experiences I’ve had. I know I made the right choice because I found a place that seeks not to serve me but to help me serve others. Ultimately, I know I made the right choice because I call an incredible place home. But in fairness, the football doesn’t hurt.
Matt Miklavic is a sophomore studying political science and business from Cape Elizabeth, Maine.  He can be reached at
mmiklavi@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Matt Miklavic
The Maine Idea

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

10

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


The Oscars were this Sunday. If you’re not in the loop, it’s a night where people stand around on a red piece of felt and accept awards for pretending to be people they’re not — a time-honored American pastime. While doing this, they wear clothes. Here’s a blunt interpre­tation of this year’s Oscar fashions:

Robots Rule
Do you harbor an irrational fear that robots will soon take over the world? Your fears actually might not be too misplaced. Metallics took the Oscars by storm Sunday evening. Silver stood out on many a diva and hundreds of boxes of sequins were undoubtedly imported from the girls on “Toddlers and Tiaras.” The prime example of sparkly-metal prowess Halle Berry was in prime form, donning a glittering Versace gown that somehow made looking like a robot cool. 

A Star is Born
The slew of cool, robotic silver gowns contrasted nicely with a sprinkling of warm, rich dresses. The stars of our world mirrored the stars in the sky, twinkling under the bright lights as they walked around in stunning, sunny gowns. On the opposite side of the me­tallic pallet from Halle Berry, Best Actress winner Jessica Chastain glowed in a lovely gold ensemble created by the humble Italian de­signer Giorgio Armani.

Wrap Your Comforter Around Your Body and Call it a Day
Jennifer Lawrence is the Kristen Stewart you’re allowed to like. She’s talented but a little ditzy, making her all the more loveable. She tripped up the stairs on her way to accept her Oscar for Best Actress, she joked about pre-gaming her post-Oscar press conference with a shot and best of all, she somehow took her comforter and made it into a dress. Wait, sorry, Dior somehow took her comforter and made it into a dress. Yet she still looked stunning. If I’m asked to a Yacht Dance (fingers crossed) then I just might forgo the usual search for a formal gown and create my own instead. If Jennifer can do it, why can’t I?

“I Like Your Beard”
Dillon’s Stash Bash may be over, but those of you with a penchant for facial hair need not fear. The Oscars suggest that perhaps tasteful facial hair will not scare off the ladies. Maybe Ke$ha speaks the truth. Oscar winners Ben Affleck and George Clooney sported classy beards that screamed, “I just won an Oscar. Get on my level.” With rumors of a beard revival already on the rise due to the success of Affleck, Clooney and our own beard-wielding student body president-elect Alex Coccia, don’t be surprised to see beards popping up around cam­pus soon. 





Gabriela Leskur
Scene Writer


I See London, I See France…
No, you don’t. But man, is it tricky to decipher with nude fabric. Sandra Bullock strutted her beautiful self in a mermaid gown that left little to the imagination. Amidst black sparkling lace, which gave the illusion of scales, nude paneling prompted a double take in certain areas. However, when done right, nude can be sassy and classy. Even though you wish you could see more, Sandra Bullock does it right. (For more double takes, see Anne Hathaway’s dress.)

Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer.


Photos: AP

JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer

11

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

On a night when the most famous actors and actresses gathered to acknowledge each other for a year’s worth of phenomenal work, a star who spends most of his time behind the camera perhaps got the most attention and the most heat out of the 85th Academy Awards.
Seth MacFarlane, best known for creating the hit TV show “Family Guy” and producing the raunchy com­edy hit “Ted,” took to center stage Sunday night to host the awards ceremony. Right off the bat, MacFarlane introduced his bitingly sharp and frankly edgy sense of humor, defying his innocent smile and fooling anyone who did not know any better. Yet this smile shows that MacFarlane already has the next joke up his sleeve and knows how shockingly funny this one will be. 
The hosting performance opened seemingly inno­cently enough. MacFarlane opened by declaring, “the quest to make Tommy Lee Jones laugh begins ... now!” (and he did). Then, once the nice formalities and light introductions were out of the way, MacFarlane knew this was his stage to rule, and he stepped into his own. 
The floodgates on the “Family Guy” brand of humor were opened with no signs of a dam as joke after joke, MacFarlane went after his fellow stars. He said “Django Unchained,” a movie about a man trying to win back his woman after she’s been beaten and subjected to hor­rible violence, was analogous to “as Chris Brown and Rihanna call it, a date movie.” 
This brand of comedy persisted throughout the Oscars, and MacFarlane received the type of criticism that prompted him to announce that he would never host the Oscars again. Deservedly so, right? Wrong.
Bringing in MacFarlane was a guarantee of what you were going to get — how people were surprised about his jokes (unless they had no idea who MacFarlane is) is completely beyond me. Yes, they may have been a bit brow-raising (the joke about Lincoln and John Wilkes Booth definitely made me look around in bewildered laughter), but really, are we and should we be surprised? This is what he does, and asking MacFarlane to reform his brand of comedy and limit his own wit is an even bigger outrage than his performance. MacFarlane’s per­formance was simply entertaining and incorporated all the things he does so well, epitomized in his incorpora­tion of Daniel Radcliffe and Joseph Gordon-Levitt into a trio singing piece that was Broadway-worthy. 
MacFarlane’s joke that the next day’s headlines would call him the worst Oscars’ host ever may have been an admission that his style of comedy was inappropriate. Or perhaps it was his way of embracing that his sense of humor and wit is beyond that of the Oscars and relish­ing his performance despite the criticism he would later receive.
 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer.


Miko Malabute
Scene Writer

JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer

12

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

CLASSIFIEDS

SPORTS AUTHORITY

NCAA BASKETBALL

Spartans remain calm despite losses

Johnson embodies Twitter Era

Editor’s note: This is the third in a 12-part series discussing the defining sportsman (or woman) of this century. In this installment, Jack Hefferon argues for Chad Johnson. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #DefiningSportsman.
Over the course of two weeks you will see several columns in this space about some of the greatest athletes of our time, sportsmen and women who have distin­guished themselves as true legends in their sport.
This is not one of those columns.
Certainly the talents of LeBron James, Lionel Messi or Roger Federer are the best of this young century. And ath­letes like Tiger Woods, Lance Armstrong and Barry Bonds have been some of the biggest stories of the last 13 years, both inside and outside of the lines.
But have they led their respective teams while also starring in reality shows, demanding trades, com­manding social media and changing their name not once but twice (and almost three times)?
No, there’s only one of those type of athletes. And while he’ll never be consid­ered the best athlete of his generation, the personality that is Chad Johnson (or at one time, “Chad Ochocinco”) has come to define exactly what it means to be an ath­lete in the 21st century.
Johnson was nothing special early in his career but busted onto the scene in 2003, when he broke Cincinnati’s franchise record with 1,355 receiving yards in his third season in the NFL. That campaign was Johnson’s arrival as an elite wide re­ceiver, as it proved to be his first of four straight years leading the AFC in receiv­ing yards and the first of five straight Pro Bowl seasons.
Johnson’s true essence never showed itself in his on-field accomplishments but instead came during what happened afterward. His touchdown celebra­tions became legendary, ranging from the impres­sive (Riverdancing, pylon-putting) to the outlandish (proposing to a Bengals cheerleader, trying to bribe referees with dollar bills), with a hefty league fine fol­lowing every one. He also in­troduced props to the realm of celebration, including a fake Hall of Fame jacket, a blank check (for paying the aforementioned fines) and countless, hilarious others.
After making those five straight Pro Bowls, Johnson made another revolution­ary move in 2008 when he legally changed his last name to “Ochocinco” in honor of his jersey number, 85. He planned to make a simi­lar change to the Japanese “Hachi Go” in 2010, but even­tually backed out.
But since the change to Ochocinco, Chad has been muy terrible. He averaged just over 500 yards receiv­ing over his last two seasons in the league and was cut by the Dolphins during the 2012 preseason.
Maybe that’s because he’s been too busy off the field. By an unofficial count, over the last five years Ochocinco starred in five reality shows, released one iTunes app, wrote one autobiography and sent roughly 42,000 tweets. He tried out for Sporting Kansas City of Major League Soccer, rode a bull (for less than two seconds) at a Pro Bull Riders event and raced against a thoroughbred race­horse for charity.
It took him less than two years to go from married to divorced after headbutting his wife, whom he proposed to while playing Call of Duty.
How far has Ochocinco fallen? He actually changed his name back to Johnson last year in hopes of “reconnect­ing with his former self.” It seems at this point that mak­ing the case for Johnson as a defining sportsman would be a foolish pursuit.
However, that’s exactly what makes Johnson the per­fect definition for the modern American athlete. Over the last 13 years, America has embraced athletes for their personalities on and off the field, while increased me­dia exposure and personal branding have thrown their off-field lives — and troubles — to the forefront. Lasting superstars are becoming an endangered species, as play­ers may be everywhere for a week or year, then gone the next (looking at you, Tebowmania and Linsanity).
There are hundreds of athletes that have accomplished more on the field than Johnson in the past 13 years. But as he showed us, it’s not just about that anymore.
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

After two tough losses in a row, Tom Izzo figured his Michigan State team would drop quite a bit in the polls.
Instead, the Spartans fell only five spots to No. 9. That helped Izzo gain some valu­able perspective.
“I am not in any panic mode,” Izzo said. “We are going to play good teams and when you play good teams you are going to lose games. I would like to win them all, but we are not that kind of team yet. I am hop­ing the best basketball we’ve got is coming.”
Michigan State’s Big Ten title hopes took a hit when the Spartans lost to Indiana and Ohio State, but Izzo is taking the defeats almost in stride. Perhaps this late-season slip was simply an inevitable byproduct of playing in an unusually dif­ficult league — and it’s not like Izzo hasn’t taken a team with some losses on a deep NCAA run before.
Two weeks ago, Michigan State looked resurgent af­ter embarrassing rival Michigan 75-52 in East Lansing. For the Wolverines, that was the end of a stretch in which they faced Indiana, Ohio State, Wisconsin and Michigan State in succes­sion, going 1-3.
Now the schedule is be­ing unkind to the Spartans, and it’s Michigan State’s turn to struggle. After los­ing to Indiana and Ohio State, the Spartans will have a chance to regroup before playing at No. 4 Michigan on Sunday. After that, they host Wisconsin.
“It’s all so schedule driven as far as the streaks,” Izzo said. “Everybody in the Big Ten can play the same peo­ple but at different times.”
Indiana leads Michigan State, Michigan and Wisconsin by two games in the loss column, meaning the Hoosiers have the inside track to the league title. That won’t necessarily reduce the intensity this week — not with the big Michigan State-Michigan rematch on tap in Ann Arbor.
After routing the Wolverines two weeks ago, Izzo described his team’s performance as a “perfect storm.” But he’s not about to write it off as a fluke.
“Usually when you play a game like that you shoot 60-some percent and shoot un­characteristic from the 3,” Izzo said Tuesday. “The only thing we did that was maybe more uncharacteristic is we did rebound the ball a little better than we have in some other games. The shooting we were not much different than our regular.”
The biggest question fac­ing the Spartans is how to get leading scorer Keith Appling going again. The ju­nior point guard has scored only nine points combined in the last two games, shoot­ing 2 of 14 from the field. Counterpart Aaron Craft of Ohio State scored 21 points against the Spartans.
“As a team we didn’t guard as well,” Michigan State for­ward Adreian Payne said. “The main thing is that we have to play with more en­ergy to win games.”
That’s no easy task during a season this grueling, and Izzo seems to understand that. He planned to meet with Appling.
“You don’t lose everything in two games, guys,” Izzo said. “It doesn’t happen that way. Even you guys were ready to canonize him for most of the Big Ten season. He has had two games where he played un-Keith Appling-like. I think that’s a tribute to him and how hard he plays 90 percent of the time.”
The pressure is now on for Michigan State to make the most of the extra time off before the Michigan game. Perhaps the most unusual thing about Izzo’s news con­ference Tuesday was the fact that he was hardly asked about his team’s next oppo­nent. That’s how many other issues the Spartans have to resolve.
But as the game draws nearer, the focus will narrow.
“There’s motivation on both sides and we’re still playing for a lot too,” Izzo said. “I don’t think they’ve been out of the top eight all year, have they? We were a little more up and down. They’ve sustained excel­lence like Indiana all year long. So, no locker room talk, no stuff to put up, but it’s true. I can’t believe you didn’t ask me if I love Michigan, by the way. I love them.”

Associated Press

Jack Hefferon
Sports Writer



AP
Michigan State coach Tom Izzo speaks to junior guard Keith Appling during the Spartans’ 75-72 win over Michigan on Feb. 12.

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

FOR SALE
110 E. Pokagon, Large home near ND. 574-277-3910 ask for Jackie
PERSONAL
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or as­sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu

13

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

MEN’S SWIMMING

Notre Dame begins quest for conference title

By MEGAN FINNERAN
Sports Writer
Every season presents an end goal that teams challenge them­selves to achieve. For the Irish, that ultimate goal has finally arrived. 
Notre Dame begins its quest for a Big East title today at the championships in Indianapolis at the IUPUI Natatorium.
More than three weeks have passed since Notre Dame last swam in a competitive meet, but the Irish said the gap will not af­fect them.
“The fact that we haven’t had any meets doesn’t worry us,” se­nior Chris Johnson said. “The pool is the same length no matter where you are.”
The Irish closed the regular season on a high note, earning the 400th dual-meet victory in program history with a 191-177 win over Northwestern on Feb. 2. 
Johnson said beyond the most recent triumph, the squad also garners motivation from memo­ries of last year’s Big East cham­pionships, where the Irish took the title for the fifth time in pro­gram history. Their 887 points topped the 859.5 points earned by two-time defending champi­on Louisville. 
This year the Irish enter as de­fending champions, but Johnson said the distinction changes little.
“Our mentality is that we’re go­ing down to Indy to swim fast,” he said. “If we do that, the rest of our goals will take care of themselves. Being defending champs doesn’t really change that mindset.” 
Today marks the first event for both swimming and diving, be­ginning with the 1-meter dive. Divers need a score of at least 240 points to qualify for the “A” standard. 
On Feb. 2, sophomore Nick Nemetz won the 1-meter dive with 316.35 points, beating out divers from Missouri State, Iowa and Northwestern. Last year, Nemetz was named Diver of the Year at the Big East conference meet.
Today’s events also include the 800-yard freestyle relay and the 200-yard medley relay. The quartet of junior Frank Dyer, senior John McGinley, sopho­more Kevin Hughes and senior Bill Bass makes up the top Notre Dame team for the 800-yard free­style relay. The Irish ‘A’ squad for the 200-yard medley relay in­cludes freshman Bogac Ayhan, sophomore Cameron Miller, Dyer and sophomore Zachary Stephens.
 “We all know what we need to do,” Johnson said. “Now we just have to go do it.”
The championships will be­gin at the IUPUI Natatorium in Indianapolis today at noon with the men’s 1-meter dive prelimi­naries. The consolation contest for the 1-meter dive will follow, and the finals and relay events will take place later in the day.
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu


JODI LO | The Observer
Senior Tylor Gauger competes in the butterfly during the Shamrock Invitational at Notre Dame on Jan. 25. The Irish travel to Indianapolis this weekend in search of their sixth Big East title. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT

NHL


Eriksson lifts Stars in overtime

Associated Press
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Loui Eriksson fought off two defend­ers to get his stick on a rebound and jammed it in 3:03 into over­time to give the Dallas Stars a 5-4 victory over the Columbus Blue Jackets on Tuesday night.
Eriksson was being held back by a pair of Blue Jackets but reached for the puck as he was falling and whipped it past goalie Sergei Bobrovsky for the winner.
Cody Eakin had given the Stars a 4-3 lead with 6:24 left in regulation when his shot from the right wing handcuffed Bobrovsky, the puck trickling through his leg pads and across the goal line.
But the Blue Jackets once again tied it — for the fourth time — when Nick Foligno tossed a hard pass from the left short boards to R.J. Umberger, who scored from the right hash with just 1:34 remaining to force overtime.
Eakin, Antoine Roussel and Derek Roy each had a goal and an assist. Brenden Morrow scored, and Stephane Robidas and Brenden Dillon each had two assists for the Stars, who had lost three of four coming in.
Cam Atkinson, Nikita Nikitin and Derek Dorsett had the goals for Columbus, which opened a stretch with 10 of the next 12 games coming at home but still lost its third in a row overall and sixth in seven games.
Just before the start, the Stars dealt right wing Michael Ryder and a third-round pick to Montreal for right wing Erik Cole in a swap of veteran for­wards. The move came less than 24 hours after Ryder post­ed the first three-assist game of his career.
The Blue Jackets were mak­ing their first appearance at home after a six-game road trip, matching the longest in franchise history. They also were without four of their top players: centers Brandon Dubinsky (knee) and Artem Anisimov (concussion), and defensemen James Wisniewski (broken foot) and Jack Johnson (shoulder).

14

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

Eichler drove Lucisano to the corner and landed a flurry of punches, sealing his unani­mous decision victory.
Devin “Opel” Duffy def. Brian Benedict
Dillon sophomore Devin Duffy outlasted off-campus senior Brian Benedict to earn the split decision win and advance to the finals. Duffy opened the match on the at­tack and connected on sev­eral big punches, although Benedict was able to dodge a few of them. Benedict began the second round with a se­ries of head and body shots, but Duffy defended himself well before landing several headshots in a row that sent Benedict reeling. Duffy con­tinued to rely on the headshot in the third round. This tactic paid off as Benedict appeared to tire out towards the end of the fight. Duffy capitalized by attacking Benedict relentless­ly, using his superior stamina and endurance to lock up the split decision win.
Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker def. Kevin “So Krispee” Kershisnik
In an action-packed bout, Fisher sophomore Garrity McOsker took home a unani­mous decision over off-cam­pus senior Kevin Kershisnik. The fight was evenly matched from its onset, as both box­ers were able to land several punches. McOsker struck first using combinations of jabs and uppercuts, but Kershisnik countered with a series of headshots that pushed McOsker to the ropes to end the round. In the second round, McOsker began to take control of the fight, as he forced Kershisnik to the ropes before delivering several headshots. Kershisnik kept fighting and landed a few big shots of his own, but ultimately couldn’t handle McOsker’s devastating uppercut. In the final round, Kershisnik started on the of­fensive in one last effort to win the bout, but McOsker fought back relentlessly. With a few headshots to finish the fight, McOsker earned the unani­mous decision victory.
Danny “Natty” Leicht def. Mike “El Flan” Flanigan
Despite a disadvantage in size, off-campus senior Danny Leicht defeated St. Edward’s sophomore Mike Flanigan by unanimous decision. Flanigan had a significant advantage in height and reach, but Leicht was stockier and more aggres­sive. Leicht turned Flanigan’s height advantage against him, attacking him low first and then going for head­shots. Flanigan was unable to utilize his reach advantage and landed hardly any shots on Leicht in the first round. Flanigan had trouble defend­ing his body against the small­er Leicht throughout the fight, which Leicht took advan­tage of in the second round. Flanigan attempted to bounce back by going on the attack, but Leicht escaped Flanigan’s long arms. In the final round, Leicht landed a huge headshot on Flanigan and forced him to the ropes before Flanigan finally landed a few punches of his own. However, this last burst by Flanigan was too little too late and Leicht ad­vanced to the finals with the unanimous decision victory.
Contact Alex Wilcox at        awilcox1@nd.edu
By A.J. GODEAUX
Sports Writer
Mark Frego def. Daniel Colt “Pony Boy” Collins
The law student Collins started off the fight establish­ing his jab, almost knocking Frego over halfway through the opening round. Frego would recover, countering with right hooks to Collins’ head. Collins trailed off at the conclusion of the round, un­able to connect on as many jabs. The southpaw Collins got Frego on his heels for the majority of the second round, throwing jab after jab and chasing Frego around the ring. Frego would recover in the third round though, landing a big right hook and quickly combining it with a jab. Collins was much more defensive in the final round, not landing as many shots as in the first two rounds. Frego seized the fight by unanimous decision.
Kevin “Git ‘Er” Dunne def. Daniel Rodriguez
Both fighters came out of the gates with a defensive strategy, but the patience did not last long. Halfway through the first round, ju­nior Daniel Rodriguez flipped the ‘On’ switch, going right at senior Kevin Dunne’s body with jabs, putting him on his heels. Dunne had problems landing his counters, giving the aggressive Rodriguez an early edge. Halfway through the second round, Dunne turned the fight around, get­ting Rodriguez up against the ropes and connecting on left-right combos. Dunne took the momentum into the third round, using his jabs to score points. Rodriguez was able to counter with a few right hooks, but it was too little too late and Dunne taking the fight by split decision.
Sean Hipskind def. Peter “The Wild Irish Rose” McGinley
The fight started off as a slug­fest, with both fighters land­ing hooks to their opponent’s head, while mixing in a few jabs under the chin. At the end of the round, Hipskind went on the attack, using body jabs and hooks to the head to score points. The second round started off with a hammer of a hook by McGinley, but both fighters adopted a much more defensive style for the round. Hipskind started using his length to his advantage, back­ing away from McGinley and using his jab to land shots. The slugfest ensued in the third round though, with McGinley landing low right hooks to Hipskind’s body. Hipskind’s jab was the ultimate factor though, leading him to a split decision victory.
Joey “Kangaroo” Kim def. Jack Healy
Senior Jack Healy came out the aggressor, getting senior Joey Kim up against the ropes just seconds into the fight and keeping Kim on his heels for the majority of the round. However, Healy did not con­nect on a high percentage of his punches, and it came back to bite him when Kim caught him off-balance, sending him to the mat with a crush­ing right hook. The second round played out in identi­cal fashion, as Kim knocked down Healy with a hook, de­spite having been pushed up against the ropes. Kim would add another knockdown in the third round. The three knock­downs combined with Healy’s low strike percentage, helped Kim to a unanimous decision.
Chris “The Crank” DeLillo def. Scott “Bootstrap” Rousseau
The senior Chris DeLillo started the fight off by estab­lishing a left body jab and right hook combo, not wasting any opportunities, as he connect­ed on a high percentage of his punches. Scott Rousseau was able to recover in round two, establishing a jab of his own. DeLillo would adapt, using the same left-right combo to counter. Rousseau had ground to make up in the final round, and came out much more ag­gressive. He attacked with his jab, scoring shots to DeLillo’s head. DeLillo’s counter at­tempts were futile until half­way through the round, when he connected on a right hook that bloodied Rousseau. The fighters exchanged a flurry of punches to conclude the fight, with Rousseau connecting on body jabs and DeLillo bloody­ing Rousseau once again. DeLillo’s consistent perfor­mance earned him the unani­mous decision.
Contact A.J. Godeaux at     agodeaux@nd.edu
By COLE SCHIETENGER
Sports Writer
Patrick Shea def. Gage “Chia Pet” O’Connell
In a hard-fought battle, fresh­man Patrick Shea managed to edge out law school student Gage O’Connell. From the be­ginning, Shea jumped out to a quick start, landing the first punch. However, Shea could not capitalize and missed several hooks. O’Connell re­sponded with a combination of punches. After creating separation, Shea took over the round by capitalizing on his superior arm length and finished the first round with a set of jabs and hooks. After an uneventful second round, O’Connell came out strong in the third, attacking Shea and minimizing their separation by cornering Shea and pin­ning him against the ropes. In the end, Shea won in a split decision. 
Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz def. Brett “Doughboy Freshcake” Geschke
A key right hook late in the third round was all se­nior Alex Oloriz needed to get the Referee Stopped Contest against third-year law stu­dent Brett Geschke.  Geschke and Oloriz remained neck and neck through most of the first round, until Geschke missed a strong uppercut. Countering, Oloriz used his superior quickness to his advantage and threw several hooks to Geschke’s side, while mix­ing in jabs to the head. In the second round Oloriz opened with a flurry of jabs. However, Geschke quickly responded by pinning Oloriz against the ropes. Such an effort seemed to wear Geschke out for the rest of the fight, giving Oloriz the edge. After a similar start to the third round, the referee called the fight when Geschke went down after a vicious right hook, giving Oloriz the win.
Facing a Bengal Bouts cap­tain is never easy, and this fight was no different. Oloriz consistently dodged punches, and was simply able to outlast Geschke.
Pat “No MRSA” Bishop def. Bryan “Cowabunga” Cooley
Senior captain Pat Bishop would not be stopped early on, as he came out firing hooks and jabs at the head of sopho­more Bryan Cooley. Cooley would not go down easily and responded with several hooks of his own. Throughout the first-round punches were traded back and forth aggres­sively, but Bishop landed more punches. In round two, Cooley took control early, but ran out of gas . his hands began to drop and his feet slowed down. At a near standstill, Cooley struggled to keep up with the well-conditioned se­nior. In the final round, this proved to be critical, as Bishop separated himself, earning a split decision victory.
Good things come to those who wait, proved once again by the reward Bishop received for his patience. After an ag­gressive start, Bishop waited for his opponent to tire out be­fore taking advantage on his way to a win in his first and only semifinal victory.
Brian “Smiles” Salvi def. Andrew “50 Shades of” Greybar
In a fight that ended in less time than it took to start, third-year law student Brian Salvi needed roughly five punches to defeat fifth-year architecture student Andrew Greybar. After being knocked off of his feet by Salvi’s first punch, Greybar went down again less than 20 seconds later. After 22 seconds, the ref decided to stop the fight, awarding Salvi the victory by Referee Stopped Contest and a trip to the final round of the 185-pound division. 
Ricky “Scooter” Neville def. Eamon “Gravy” McOsker
In the battle for Fisher Hall, freshman Eamon McOsker squared off against fellow Fisherman, senior Ricky Neville. The fight was con­stantly back and forth, as McOsker and Neville traded punches throughout. Neither fighter showed signs of fatigue during the fight, but Neville landed a key hook in the sec­ond round to slow McOsker down. McOsker rebounded to keep the back-and-forth match up going. In the final round, McOsker put forth a great effort as he landed the first punches and continued to counter Neville’s missed jabs with punches of his own. By the end there was no clear winner, but Neville ended up on top with a split decision.
Contact Cole Schietinger at             @cschieti@nd.edu 
By MEREDITH KELLY
Sports Writer
Jeff “Little Bear” Ulrich def. Jimmy “Jimbo Slice” Bowers 
Senior Jeff Ulrich demon­strated his defensive fight­ing skills at the beginning of the fight, when senior Jimmy Bowers attacked from the sound of the bell. Ulrich firm­ly protected his face as Bowers attempted to break him with punches. At the beginning of the second round, Ulrich con­tinued to keep his gloves up, blocking punches and answer­ing with hard jabs to Bowers’ face. Ulrich then advanced, delivering hard punches to the head accompanied by hooks to the body. These combina­tions slowed down the punch­es from Bowers. Although Bowers eagerly entered the third round with a flurry of punches, Ulrich quickly re­taliated with hard one-two punches to the face. Ulrich won the match by unanimous decision. 
Sunoh Choe “No Mercy” def. Zack “Bedrock” Flint 
While senior Sunoh Choe and freshman Zack Flint were evenly matched in height and strength, they were not similar in fighting style. Choe finished the first round strong with a hard punch combination to Flint’s face. Flint retaliated in the second round with hard uppercuts to Choe’s body that slowed Choe down momen­tarily. Choe soon regained the advantage in the beginning of the third round, delivering a series of hard jabs square in the face of Flint by employing an in-and-out method. Choe finished strong, backing Flint into the ropes and landing a flurry of punches to Flint’s face. Choe won the match by unanimous decision. 
Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti def. Joey “No Game” Stromberg 
Junior Brett Sassetti start­ed out strong with a few quick punches to the face of law student Joey Stromberg. Stromberg demonstrated a more defensive style of fight­ing, as Sassetti advanced again with a flurry of hooks to the sides of Stromberg’s head. Stromberg made an advance at the end of the first round, pushing Sassetti into a corner and landing a few hard jabs to his face. In the second round, both boxers fell back onto the ropes, throwing punches into each other’s bodies. As they both eventually regained their composure, Stromberg ended the round with a punch straight to Sassetti’s face. Stromberg began to tire in the third round as Sassetti stayed strong and delivered quick jabs to Stromberg’s face. Sassetti won the match by unanimous decision. 
Ryan “Dirty” Alberdi def. Brian “The Weatherman” Hartnett 
Senior Ryan Alberdi waited for sophomore Brian Hartnett to advance at the beginning of the fight, showing his de­fensive fight style. As soon as Hartnett threw the first connecting punch, Alberdi answered with strong alter­nating body-head punches. Alberdi ducked under a high punch from Hartnett, who had the height advantage of the two, and retaliated with a strong one-two punch to the face. Alberdi continued to chase Hartnett around the ring throughout the second round with the clear advan­tage. Near the end of the sec­ond round, Alberdi delivered a hard hook to the side of Harnett’s head that threw him off balance and forced the ref­eree to intervene. Alberdi won the Referee Stopped Contest.  
Bobby “Softie” Manfreda def. Tyler Plantz 
Junior Tyler Plantz started off aggressively by deliver­ing low punches to the body of senior Bobby Manfreda. Plantz attempted to advance on Manfreda, crouching down low and delivering body shots to him. Manfreda answered the attack with high jabs to the side of Plantz’s head. Plantz started the second round with a hard punch to Manfreda’s face, but Manfreda regained his composure and knocked Plantz against the ropes. Manfreda earned the advan­tage at the end of the second round by connecting on more hard jabs. Both boxers came into the third round hungry for points to secure the vic­tory, but it was Manfreda who finished strong with a string of punches to the face of Plantz. Manfreda won the match by unanimous decision.  
Brian “Long Arms of the Law” Ellixson def. Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo 
Law student Brian Ellixson started the match on the of­fensive, landing punches on sophomore Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo. Ellixson continued to advance in the first round with hard hooks to the body and strong one-two punches to Esobedo’s face, temporarily knocking him off balance. In the second round, Escobedo connected on some hard jabs to the face of Ellixson. Utilizing a wide stance, Ellixson continued to stand straight up and he an­swered Escobedo’s attack with a punch to the face of his op­ponent. In the third round, Ellixson started off strong, delivering a hard punch that knocked Escobedo to the ground. But Escobedo rallied, getting up from the ground and attacking Ellixson. Both boxers attempted to finish strong, throwing as many punches as possible before the final bell rang. Ellixson’s con­sistency throughout the match awarded him the unanimous decision victory. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly28@nd.edu
By SAMANTHA ZUBA
Sports Writer
Brian “Caesar” Salat def. Chris “Stubbs” Sarkis
Senior Brian Salat mixed an effective uppercut with his jab and straight right against senior Chris Sarkis. Sarkis persevered with his one-two combination and landed sev­eral well-timed shots. Sarkis’ combinations were clean and straight, and the box­ers matched each other well. Without quick footwork, both Salat and Sarkis moved me­thodically around the ring, waiting for opportunities. Salat and Sarkis blocked well, so both had to power through blocks and parries with strong and accurate punches. They answered each other almost punch-for-punch, but Salat used his uppercut to his ad­vantage. He successfully followed his one-two com­bination with his uppercut enough times to seal the split decision.
Mike Broghammer def. Sean “Too Tall” Lischke
Early in the first round, graduate student Sean Lischke dropped his hands, which allowed senior and Notre Dame basketball player Mike Broghammer to land a key one-two-hook combination. Lischke had been using his jab effectively, but dropped his hands to throw a straight right and Broghammer took advantage of this opportunity. Broghammer came out just as strong in the second round. He sent Lischke flying into the ropes with a right hook. A jab and two more hooks sent Lischke to the mat again sec­onds later. Lischke was slow to get up, and the referee stopped the fight. Broghammer won the bout by Referee Stopped Contest in the second round.
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu
By GREG HADLEY
Sports Writer
Daniel Yi def. Bob Burkett
Senior Bob Burkett started off the bout as the aggressor, dancing around junior Daniel Yi for the majority of the first round. Yi mostly stayed in the center of the ring, but was still able to land several hard com­binations to Burkett’s head and body. Burkett was able to con­nect on most of his punches but failed to land any significant shots. The second round saw Yi begin to take over the fight, as he continued to slam Burkett with combination after combi­nation. However, Yi put in less effort defensively, allowing Burkett to turn the fight into a slugfest. Yi continued to land powerful punches on Burkett in the third round and he be­gan to pursue Burkett around the ring, looking for a knockout punch. This left openings for Burkett, but he failed to exploit them. Yi won the semifinals fight by unanimous decision.
Contact Greg Hadley at              ghadley@nd.edu

Bouts
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20


MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer
Law student Gage O’Connell throws a punch at freshman Patrick Shea during the semifinal round of Bengal Bouts on Tuesday.  Shea advanced to the finals Friday at the Purcell Pavilion.

see BOUTS PAGE 15

15

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS


MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer
Senior Chris DeLillo, left, throws a punch during the semifinal round of Bengal Bouts on Tuesday. DeLillo will compete in the final round on Friday at the Purcell Pavilion.

Bouts
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 14

16

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING

Irish seek revenge in Indianapolis

By KATIE HEIT
Sports Writer
After finishing second to Louisville two years in a row, the Irish look for revenge as they head to Indianapolis to compete in the Big East cham­pionships. The meet begins to­day and will continue through Saturday.
Sophomore Emma Reaney said the Irish have a laundry list of goals they want to ac­complish during the four days of competition. 
“Some of them include tak­ing everything in stride, be­ing calm, cheering whenever we can and most of all, having fun,” she said.
Notre Dame is also striving to restore a tradition of win­ning the Big East title. In 2011, Louisville topped the Irish to end Notre Dame’s streak of 14 consecutive conference titles. 
“[The Cardinals] are our archenemies of the swimming world and we are pretty evenly matched this year,” Reaney said.
The competition begins with the 1-meter and 3-meter diving events, the 800-yard freestyle relay and the 200-yard medley relay. The rest of the week, the Irish will compete in prelimi­nary races in the morning and the finals of each event at night. 
Freshman Catherine Galletti, who will compete in her first Big East championship meet, said the Irish must remain focused to stay motivated throughout the lengthy competition.
“It’s important to focus on one race at a time and remem­ber that all of the hard work has been done,” Galletti said. “Big East is a time to enjoy racing and cheering on your teammates.”
Several Irish swimmers have multiple qualifying times or scores heading into the confer­ence championships. Galletti will compete in the 50-yard freestyle with the third-best qualifying time in the Big East. She also earned qualifying marks in all four relays.
Reaney will compete in the most events and registered the top qualifying times in the Big East in the 100- and 200-yard breaststroke and the 200- and 400-yard individual medley. She also earned the confer­ence’s third-best time in the 100-yard freestyle and the 100-yard butterfly. Reaney won the Big East title in the 100-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard individual medley last season.
Senior Kim Holden qualified in the 100- and 200-yard back­stroke as well as the 100-yard butterfly. Junior Kelly Ryan holds the top time in the 200-yard backstroke and will enter postseason competition with the second-best time in the 100-yard backstroke and the 100-yard freestyle. 
In diving, senior Jenny Chiang will be aiming for her fourth straight Big East title in the 3-meter dive. Other members of the Irish com­peting include sophomore Suzanne Bessire, senior Lauren Scott, junior Sarah Dotzel, sophomore Hannah Bowen and sophomore diver Allison Casareto.
The Irish begin competition in the Big East championships today at the IUPUI Natatorium in Indianapolis.
Contact Katie Heit at                 kheit@nd.edu


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer
Freshman Sydney Golic competes for the Irish during the Shamrock Invitational on Jan. 25. The Irish are looking to win the Big East Conference championship after finishing second two years in a row.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT

NCAA BASKETBALL


Xavier takes down No. 19 Memphis

Associated Press
CINCINNATI — No. 19 Memphis ran off one of the na­tion’s longest winning streaks by dominating Conference USA. It couldn’t survive a late out-of-league game.
Brad Redford hit a long 3-pointer that put Xavier back ahead after wasting a 13-point lead, and the short-handed Musketeers beat the Tigers 64-62 on Tuesday night, ending their 18-game winning streak.
From start to finish, it was something for Memphis (24-4) to forget fast.
“It was out of character,” said Geron Johnson, who led the sec­ond-half comeback and scored 14 points. “We had no inten­sity. We came in here thinking they’ll roll over and we’ll get our 19th straight win. It’s not like that.”
The sluggish Tigers scored only 20 points in the first half — their lowest-scoring half of the season — and got dominated on the boards, ending a couple of notable streaks. Their 18-game winning streak was tied with Akron for longest in the nation.
Memphis also was the only Division I school that hadn’t lost a road game this season. The Tigers had won 11 straight on the road overall, the nation’s longest active streak.
“Eighteen in a row is not easy to do,” said Josh Pastner, who was hoping for his 100th win as the Tigers’ coach. “You don’t take it for granted. Long winning streaks, conference championships — those aren’t birthrights.”
Xavier (16-11) made good on its second straight chance to beat a ranked team at home. The Musketeers blew a 17-point lead before losing to then-No. 24 VCU on Saturday.
Xavier pulled it out despite missing point guard Dee Davis, who was recovering from a head injury suffered against VCU.
Travis Taylor had 18 points and 10 rebounds for Xavier, whose 45-36 advantage in re­bounds led to 18 second-chance points.
By contrast, Memphis man­aged only four points off re­bounds the entire game.

17

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

WOMEN’S LACROSSE

Irish look to keep momentum against Buckeyes

By JACK HEFFERON
Sports Writer
After winning its first game of the season under the palm trees in Palo Alto, No. 7/9 Notre Dame will head back inside for its home opener against No. 13/18 Ohio State tonight.
The Irish (1-0) struggled out of the gates in their opener at Stanford, and found them­selves down 7-2 at halftime. The team rebounded out of halftime, though, and tallied 10 second-half goals to secure a 12-10 win.
In the week and a half since that win, Irish coach Chris Halfpenny has tried to refocus her team’s efforts on execut­ing its own game plan to avoid another slow start against the Buckeyes (2-1).
“We struggled in the first half against Stanford, so we’ve been focused on our game and getting back to doing what we do,” Irish senior goalten­der Ellie Hilling said. “Coach Halfpenny is big on having us work on just playing our game and not changing much from opponent to opponent.”
Hilling said she thought nerves and unfamiliarity may have had something to do with the early struggles against the Cardinal (1-1), which she said shouldn’t be as much of an is­sue tonight.
“We have a lot of young play­ers, so I think we needed to get a bit of those first-game jitters out,” Hilling said. “Now we’re settling in and ready for Ohio State.”
Getting ready for the Buckeyes might be easier said than done, as they’ve already hit their stride in the young season. Ohio State’s offense is averaging 16 goals per game and should pose a formidable challenge to Hilling and the defense, although the senior netminder said the Irish may have a head start on shutting the Buckeyes down.
“Their offense is very simi­lar to ours and that’s what we go against all the time in practice,” Hilling said. “So we should be pretty prepared defensively.”
Familiarity could help the Irish in another area, as well. Mid-February in South Bend doesn’t deliver much lacrosse weather, so the game will be played in Loftus Sports Center. The indoor facility can make visibility a difficult proposi­tion at times, but Hilling said that will be nothing new for her or her teammates.
“We’ve been in there all preseason, so we’re pretty used to it,” she said. “Sometimes you lose the ball on a shot or a clear because of the lights, but that shouldn’t be too bad anymore.”
The Irish and Buckeyes will square off in an early-season top-20 matchup tonight in Loftus Sports Center, where the action is set to begin at 6 p.m.
Contact Jack Hefferon at          wheffero@nd.edu


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer
Junior attack Lindsay Powell moves the ball up the field during Notre Dame’s 12-11 win over Vanderbilt on April 18, 2012. The Irish look to maintain their perfect record as they take on Ohio State this weekend.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


18

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

glass. She finished the first half with 16 points and nine rebounds.
“I thought about [putting Achonwa back in the game] es­pecially when we got down 15,” McGraw said. “I kept looking, thinking, ‘We’ve got to do some­thing to change the way things are going.’ But if we could just get it under 10, we would be OK. We wouldn’t need her.”
Indeed, the Irish did not need her. When she returned in the second half, she slowed Alexander down, keeping her off the offensive glass and away from the basket. Achonwa fin­ished with 11 points — all of which came in the second half — and 12 rebounds.
Her 15 double-doubles this season are one shy of a school record. Diggins is one steal behind the school’s all-time leader in that category, Irish as­sistant coach Niele Ivey.
McGraw said she was visibly bothered by her team’s appar­ent inability to score, especially early. She admitted that the emotion of the game got to her team.
“I thought we were all affect­ed by [the emotion of Senior Night],” McGraw said. “We couldn’t make a shot. A little bit of emotion, a little bit trying too hard, a little bit of trying not to let it bother us. I think it was tough in the beginning.”
But she recognizes that chal­lenges like Tuesday’s game provide valuable learning op­portunities for the Irish to pre­pare for postseason play.
“I think [it was] a great test with the Big East tournament looming and with so many great teams coming back,” McGraw said. “Of course with the NCAA tournament and just finish­ing out the season, I thought [it was] a great test for us. We haven’t really been tested since South Florida [on Jan. 8].”
Turner started the game af­ter missing the last four games with an elbow injury. In the second half, she drilled an open 3-pointer off a feed from Diggins to push the lead to nine and ignite the crowd.
“That was huge to see Kaila Turner,” McGraw said. “Just having her on the floor was great. And then for Skylar to find her on the three-point line in a situation when the basket was huge. … It was a great play.”
Though Tuesday night was Senior Night for Notre Dame, the Irish still have one remaining home game. They renew their rivalry with No. 3 Connecticut on Monday in Purcell Pavilion. The Irish also likely will host the first two rounds of the NCAA tourna­ment in March.
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu


	KEVIN SONG | The Observer
Irish senior guard Kaila Turner dribbles past Syracuse junior guard Rachel Coffey during Notre Dame’s 79-68 come-from-behind win over the Orange on Tuesday. Turner and classmate Skylar Diggins became the winningest players in program history on the same night that the team’s Senior Night celebrations honored the duo.

Seniors
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


19

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

DAILY

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Corinne Bailey Rae, 34; Erykah Badu, 42; Mark Dacascos, 49; Michael Bolton, 60
Happy Birthday: Question every move. Focus on partnerships and how you can benefit from bartering with someone who has something you want. Sharing the workload along with ideas will enable you to stabilize your position and turn a me­diocre relationship into a powerhouse that enables you to reach current goals and set new ones. Love is highlighted. Your numbers are 8, 11, 19, 22, 26, 30, 46.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sharing too much information will work against you. Let your intuition guide you when dealing with peers, colleagues or contractual matters. Don’t let uncertainty stop you from making a move. Believe in your abilities.  



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The favors and assistance you are given will depend on what you’re willing to do in return. You can set up a workable relationship with some­one looking to master the same market. Romance is highlighted. 





GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may think you have everything under control, but unexpected situations will develop, leading to all sorts of emotional issues and altera­tions that must be dealt with swiftly yet moderately. Don’t over-share 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don’t let negativity take over. Recognize what you have and move in the direction that suits you best. There is so much you can gain by inter­acting with the right people. Your life is on an upswing. Take advantage of whatever comes your way. 




LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Bide your time. If you are too efficient, you will be given tasks that will slow down your progress. A lifestyle change will lead to an unusual but rewarding way to spend your time.





VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work on important partnerships. You have plenty to gain if you nurture and share a relationship with someone accepting of your goals and willing to help you progress. Love is in the stars, and spending time with someone special will pay off.. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take care of any business you have with banks, govern­ment, medical or legal institutions, and you will avoid a mishap that could set you back. Open, honest discussions will help you prove your point and persuade others to help you reach your goals. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Plan a trip or engage in a pastime that allows you to use your creative input. Take a serious approach to love, life and your future happiness. A special plan you have can be executed brilliantly and bring rewards that exceed your expectations. 





SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Expect to face negativity and setbacks if you try to hide information from someone you have to deal with. Problems with friends, family and people in your community will cause unexpected changes in your status. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep moving forward. You’ll have the ability to make significant alterations to how you earn your living and the people you get to work alongside. There are profits to be made. Love is highlighted.





AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Read the fine print before you agree to something. Not everyone will have your best interests in mind. Ulterior motives can cause you to make an emotional mistake that can cost you personally and financially. Question discrepancies.  



PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Discuss your thoughts and emotions with someone you care for. You have to be on the same page if you plan on moving in a positive direc­tion. Equality will make the difference in any personal or business partnership you form.  



Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, a dreamer and a compassionate, caring individual.

JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK

SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER




LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNY RAGO &       					    PATRICK CROSS


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

20

THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 79, SYRACUSE 68

Refuse to lose

Diggins, Turner become winningest players in program history; McBride reaches 1,000th point

By MATTHEW ROBISON
Sports Writer
Despite trailing by as many as 15 points at one point in the first half, No. 2 Notre Dame came charging back to grab a 79-68 win over Syracuse in Purcell Pavilion on Tuesday. The Irish refused to lose on the night when they honored the two winningest players in program history — senior guards Skylar Diggins and Kaila Turner. 
In 26 seasons under coach Muffet McGraw, Notre Dame (26-1, 14-0 Big East) has only lost three Senior Night games.
“We were not going to do that,” Diggins said.
Rattled by some early-game jitters and the emotion of the pregame ceremonies, Notre Dame started freezing cold from the field, missing its first seven shots. Junior guard Kayla McBride finally broke the ice with a made free throw almost three minutes into the game. But the Irish quickly found themselves in 22-7 hole with 12:45 remaining in the first half.
That was when Diggins’ re­fuse-to-lose mentality seemed to kick in. 
She quickly hit a 3-pointer to quell the Orange flames and eventually powered Notre Dame to trail Syracuse (22-5, 10-4) by only three points heading into halftime, scoring 21 points in the first period. She finished with 24 points.
“Skylar was amazing run­ning the show and attacking,” McGraw said. “[She] didn’t let their press slow us. We kept the pace that we wanted.”
McBride finished with a ca­reer-high 25 points and became the 31st player in program his­tory to reach the 1,000-point milestone.
“Kayla McBride just made big shot after big shot,” McGraw said. “She was huge. Every time we needed a basket, it seemed like she was the one that made it.”
Only four minutes into the game, junior forward Natalie Achonwa picked up her sec­ond foul and was forced to the bench. Her counterpart, Syracuse senior center Kayla Alexander, made her first six field goals and dominated the 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
Irish senior guard Skyler Diggins goes up for a layup during Notre Dame’s 79-68 comeback win over Syracuse on Tuesday. Diggins finished with 24 points, including 21 during the first half. 

see SENIORS PAGE 18

BENGAL BOUTS 

One more night

Boxers compete in semifinal round of Bengal Bouts; finalists advance to Friday night

By ALEX WILCOX
Sports Writer
Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. Nick “Patio” Rowek
In a fight where the fighters preferred to wait each other out, Keough senior Jack Lally won by unanimous decision over off-campus senior Nick Rowek. The first round was marked by long periods of waiting with some occasional missed punches. Both boxers appeared tentative, as neither seemed willing to go on the of­fensive. Lally eventually went on the attack and landed a few punches, but the round closed with more waiting. Rowek, de­fensive since the opening bell, began the second round with several jabs to Lally’s body. But Lally returned fire with a series of head and body shots. As a result, Rowek went back on the defensive, only throw­ing punches when Lally ap­proached. By the third round, Rowek had to go on the offen­sive to win, but Lally deftly dodged Rowek’s advances and secured the unanimous deci­sion victory.
Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler def. Tony “Lucky” Lucisano
St. Edward’s junior Ben Eichler went on the attack ear­ly and preyed on off-campus senior Tony Lucisano’s style to earn a unanimous decision victory. From the start, Eichler took control of the bout, utiliz­ing a vicious hook and upper­cut to knock Lucisano off his game. After a series of upper­cuts to the head, Eichler near­ly knocked Lucisano to the ground before Eichler fell after Lucisano pushed him. In the second round, Eichler used a combination of head and body shots to set up several sweep­ing uppercuts. Lucisano tried to respond, but most of his punches missed their mark and he was left grabbing at Eichler. In the final round, 


MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer
Senior Joey Kim, left, throws a punch at senior Jack Healy during the semifinal round of Bengal Bouts on Tuesday. Kim advanced to the finals Friday at Purcell Pavilion.

see BOUTS PAGE 14



