ThE INdEPENdENT NEWSPAPER SERVINg NOTRE dAME ANd SAINT MARy’S 



Week challenges all forms of intolerance 
StaND Against Hate initiative calls on community to respect LGBTQ students and others 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
News Writer 
Through StaNd Against hate Week, members of the Notre dame community are aiming to raise awareness about and initi­ate the eradication of hatred on campus and nationwide. 
Sophomore Bryan Ricketts, co-president of PrismNd, said the events are meant to foster an in­clusive and loving environment on campus. he said the week is intended to raise awareness of the hatred faced by a wide variety of groups, including, but not lim­ited to, the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LgBTQ) community. 
“We want to acknowledge the unjust hate and discrimina­tion that many people undergo because of their race, socioeco­nomic status, gender or gender identity, or sexual orientation 
— parts of personhood that are attacked all too often,” Ricketts said. 
StaNd Against hate Week is sponsored by PrismNd, the gender Relations Center, and Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS). The Week included a “What It Means to Be an Ally dinner” on Tuesday, as well as a forum about “The Power of Kindness” and a talk discussing bisexuals and trans­sexuals titled “What About the ‘B’ and the ‘T’?” on Wednesday. The series of events will con­clude Thursday with a candle­light prayer service at the grotto. 
Ricketts said he is especially pleased with the Wednesday event that will address the con­cerns of bisexual and transgen­der students. 
“I am most excited about Wednesday’s panel, ‘What About the ‘B’ and the ‘T’?’ Too often, bi­sexual and transgender students are left out of the conversation when their concerns are lumped 
see LgBTQ PAGE 4 



Researchers discover the nature of diabetic wounds 
By EMMA BORNE 
News Writer 
Notre dame researchers led by Mayland Chang, Notre dame research professor and director of the Chemistry­Biochemistry-Biology Interface (CBBI) Program, have identified the enzymes responsible for di­abetic wounds, as well as those that are remedial. 
Chang said diabetic wound research is important today due to the harm these wounds in­flict on patients and the lack of treatment for them. 

“We focus on diseases of the extracellular matrix for which there [are] unmet medical needs. The refractory nature of diabetic wounds result in 66,000 lower-limb amputations every year in the u.S.,” Chang said. “There are no therapeu­tics for the treatment of dia­betic wounds and currently treatment is mostly … to re­move dead tissue and keep [the wound] clean from infection.” 
Chang said the lab group working on the problem consists of about 30 people, mostly postdoctoral students and senior scientists with a few graduate students. 
The research group’s biggest success has been reaching an understanding of the behavior of the enzymes active in diabet­ic wounds, Chang said. 
“[The key was] understand­ing the basis of diabetic wound healing, the enzymes involved in why wounds do not heal … the enzymes that play a role in 
see dIABETES PAGE 4 




Alumnus finds ways to harness solar power 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Managing Editor 
Patrick McCullough, CEO of Amonix, the world leader in solar system efficiency, spoke on renewable energy and en­trepreneurship Tuesday in the Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune. 
McCullough graduated from Notre dame in 1995 with a de­gree in mechanical engineering, and was one of the first two engi­neers to unite the MBA program with an engineering degree. 
Amonix is the industry leader in the design and manufactur­ing of utility-scale solar power systems, McCullough said. The company strives to be on the cut­ting edge of semiconductors and optics, while staying connected with the business side of energy, 
see SOLAR PAGE 3 


Navy weekend features Compton rally, flyover 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Editor 
With one home football game left on the 2013 schedule, direc­tor of game day operations Mike Seamon said Saturday’s Navy game weekend went “incredibly well,” despite the chaos from an influx of visitors to campus. 
“The Notre dame-Navy rela­tionship is certainly one of the most special relationships in all of college football, and we think this past weekend was a testament to that,” Seamon said. “Whenever we play Navy at home, we have a very high number of guests visit campus. We see a large number of Notre dame fans who have a very sin­cere respect and high level of ad­miration for the Naval Academy, so they always mark this week­end to visit campus.” 
Seamon said more than 100,000 people came to campus for the weekend, and one of the highlights was the Blue Angels flyover for the first time this year. 
“We’ve been working hard with our ROTC programs and the military over the course of the past several months to try to get a flyover for one of our home games,” he said. “The sequester presented a unique challenge to [that]. Thankfully, the Blue Angels were open to coming to the Notre dame-Navy game to celebrate our special relation­ship with a flyover. 
“Two of the six jets were piloted by both a Naval Academy gradu­ate and a Notre dame graduate. We were grateful that the weath­er cleared just in time for the fly­over and the game.” 
Friday’s pep rally was the first 
see NAVy PAGE 3 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex hirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite childhood book? 

Michael Vella 
senior 
Siegfried hall 
“‘If you give a Mouse a Cookie.’” 
Chau-Ly Phan 
sophomore 
Badin hall 
“‘Amelia Bedelia.’” 
Margeaux Prinster 
senior 
Walsh hall 
“‘Where the Wild Things Are.’” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Mandy Gilbert 
junior 
Le Mans hall 
“‘The Cat in the hat.’” 
Devin Redmond 
freshman 
Regina hall 
“‘Alexander and the Terrible, horrible, No good, Very Bad day.’” 
Georgiana Klem 
sophomore 
Le Mans hall 
“‘Little Red Riding hood.’” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Christian Myers Samantha Zuba Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Rebecca O’Neil Vicky Jacobsen Abi hoverman Cole Schietinger 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Sara Shoemake Allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Info Session: “Common Estonian National Even Fridays Family SatAWAY Classes Men’s Basketball 
Zach Llorens dan Brombach 
Good Initiative” Symphony Orchestra Swim Rockne Memorial Joyce Center Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing Rockne Memorial 9:30 a.m. and 10:15 a.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. Arts Center 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. TRX suspension Tickets $15-$40 for 
Corrections 

Internships for 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Registration required training. game against Stetson. 
The Observer regards itself as graduate students. Guest Silver Ainomäe. on RecRegister. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Orlando Menes Film: “Sister” Hockey Film: “The Pirogue” Modigliani Quartet 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Reading DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hammes Bookstore Arts Center Arena Arts Center Arts Center 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 8:05 p.m.-10:05 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8:00 p.m. 2 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Poetry by ND Creative 2012 film directed by The Irish take on the Chronicle of immigrants Award-winning French 
we can correct our error. 

Writing professor. Ursula Meier. Minnesota Gophers. sailing to Europe. group. 


SMC SENATE 

group amends Council of Activities’ constitution 
By KELLY KONYA 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s student senate met Tuesday night to discuss the changes to the constitution of the Council of Activities and other updates from the various com­mittees on campus. 
Student body president Kat Sullivan said the Student government Association (SgA) has been working to propose var­ious changes to the constitution. 
“The mission of the Council of Activities is to have its pri­mary aim be to enrich campus life through the collaboration and coordination of campus programming,” Sullivan said. “Before, there [were] no atten­dance standards or responsibili­ties listed in the constitution.  I 
Solar 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
he said. 
McCullough said Vahan garboushian, the founder and CTO of Amonix, pioneered concentrating photovoltaics (CPV),  which is why Amonix’s main advantage is incorporat­ing optics with leading semi­conductor solutions, while optimizing power path and dual access tracking accuracy. 
McCullough said even with this technological think it’s important to acknowl­edge both of these so it is clear to members.” 
Student body vice president Maddy Martin agreed that these policy changes will make Council members responsible for adher­ing to the attendance policy the senate expects of them. 
“If it’s in writing, it’s something that has been approved and is re­flective of the whole senate’s ide­als for the Council of Activities,” Martin said. 
The senate approved the mo­tion to amend the Council’s constitution. 
President of Finance, senior Emily Murphy, presented an up­dated version of the SgA Finance Committee Bylaws for the school year. All changes and edits to the bylaws were approved and finalized by the senate. 
Junior class senator Rachel Sinchak said the new approvals will help the overall organization of SgA. 
“Even though I’m not in Council of Activities or the Finance Committee, it will be nice for their members to know which meetings they are re­quired to attend and what re­sponsibilities matter most to their individual positions in SgA,” Sinchak said. “I think that these changes will be helpful for students to better organize their busy schedules around their du­ties to SgA.” 
Martin also discussed the plans for children from the South Bend Robinson Center to attend one of the senate meetings. 
“The Robinson Center provides after-school activities, tutoring, anti-bullying lessons, amongst other things, for children in our area,” Martin said.  “It’s a great program and we would like to help their leadership group see how we go about doing things here.” 
Vice president of external af­fairs, junior Kelly gutrich, said she is most excited for this event, because she believes that SgA can teach the children a lot about leadership. 
“I think it’s so important for children in the South Bend area to experience firsthand how good leadership can bring success to a community,” gutrich said.  “I’m looking forward to bringing the children here for one of our meet­ings, and I hope it happens soon.” 
President of the Student 
said. “It has more to do with the market that’s made in spe­cific locations throughout the world.” 
The lowest cost of energy wins, McCullough said. In or­der to lower their cost of en­ergy, companies must reduce both the cost of ownership and improve energy production, he said. 
Amonix had to respond to a dynamic market over the past five years, McCullough said. The company scaled up in 2011 to implement their solar system technology, but when Chinese government subsidies increased, the market price fell through the floor, “killing a lot of solar companies.” Forced to cut back drastically to survive, Amonix closed its plants and laid off employees in an effort to restructure. 
“This is the hardest stuff that a startup has to do: to com­mercialize in a dynamic mar­ketplace, invest in research and development, make and sell our own equipment,” he diversity Board (SdB), Carmen Cardenas, also provided an up­date for the senate about the group’s upcoming events, such as the hunger Banquet, which will take place throughout November. Cardenas said the Board is working with Oxfam, an international organization devoted to fighting poverty and hunger, to organize a banquet that will give students a better perspective of the extremities of both world and u.S. hunger. 
“[At the banquet,] some stu­dents will get really good food and others just get rice to show how hunger is a prevalent issue in the world today,” Cardenas said. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
said. “The fact that we are alive is impressive.” 
McCullough said activist groups such as greenpeace risk life and limb to prevent large oil companies from dam­aging the environment, but there are other ways to make the world a better place. 
“If you invent the technology to disrupt the oil and gas busi­ness, that will fundamentally change things,” he said. 
McCullough said he worked at Ford Motor Company and Berkshire hathaway before entering the energy indus­try. When he graduated from Notre dame, he said his top career goal centered on salary, but eventually he asked him­self about the greater meaning of his work. 
“Whether you’re doing tech­nical or commercial work, you can do something you’re proud of,” he said. “you can make a difference.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
breakthrough Amonix is still restrained by the limits of the overall energy market and the solar energy industry within it. 
“Even if you have the most ef­ficient solar equipment, great innovation cannot happen without the macroeconomics of energy,” McCullough said. 
McCullough said solar en­ergy is one of the fastest grow­ing industry in the world, but it has slow, steady, returns com­pared to other sectors. While coal, oil and gas fuels two-thirds of the world’s demand 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
for energy, solar power only comprises a fraction of one percent. 
“Solar’s penetration is a joke compared to other forms of energy,” he said. “It hasn’t had significant traction to date.” 
In terms of growth from 2005 to 2010, however, solar power has seen a 52.7 percent increase, he said. Solar power will see more jobs over the next four years, especially in CPV. 
“But a solar company’s suc­cess has nothing to do with these numbers,” McCullough 
Navy 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
ever to be held in the Compton Family Ice Arena, Seamon said, and drew a crowd of about 7,000 people. 
“We decided to take advan­tage of the hockey team being on the road last weekend and open up the facility to our fans and guests, as many of them had never had the opportunity to vis­it the new facility,” he said. “We were able to honor and recognize the Blue Angels as part of the rally, [and] we received an over­whelmingly positive response to holding the rally in Compton, as everyone thought it was a loud environment.” 
The stadium tunnel tour Friday saw a season-high total as well, with 5,190 participants, Seamon said. The Friday lun­cheon had 1,000 attendees. 
Phil Johnson, director of Notre dame Security Police, said de­spite the early rain, the day turned out well from his group’s standpoint. 
“Traffic ran smoothly, and there were no crashes,” Johnson said. “Police made two custodial arrests Saturday. One man was arrested for shoplifting and pos­session of marijuana, the other for public intoxication.” 
Johnson said police also issued citations for underage drinking to two local young people who were loitering in campus parking lots during the game. 
Post-game traffic was more normal than traffic at the pre­vious weekend’s uSC game, Seamon said. 
“Overall, it was another special weekend celebrating the long­standing Notre dame-Navy rela­tionship,” he said. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



LGBTQ 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
with those of lesbians and gays,” Ricketts said. 
The panel aims to create a space where these groups can share their experiences and an­swer questions about bisexual and transgender communities, Ricketts said. 
“With our panels, we’re ad­dressing two controversial but salient topics: the involvement of allies in helping end discrimina­tion, and the lack of discussion about bisexual and transgender students in both straight and LgBTQ communities,” Ricketts said. “Especially in the case of transgender students, this is a topic that campus has been si­lent on.” 
PrismNd passed out T-shirts Monday to show support for all students. Ricketts said bringing people together to talk about is­sues of hatred will remind peo­ple that no one should be left out and that the university should continuously work to increase inclusion and respect. 
Student body president Alex Coccia said student government wants to ensure students feel welcome and safe on campus and have a sense of ownership of their learning environment. 
“We are very supportive of the efforts of PrismNd, the gender Relations Center and MSPS to host StaNd Against hate Week to promote an inclusive environ­ment to all, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity or expression,” Coccia said. “This week is an opportunity for us to 
Diabetes 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
repairing the wounds, [and also] the discovery and development of inhibitors that selectively target the detrimental enzyme while sparing the beneficial one.” 
Chang said, in a Notre dame press release on the research, this new discovery would help improve treatment. 
“Currently, advanced wound dressings containing collagen are used for diabetic wound healing,” Chang said. “The col­lagen provides a substrate so that the unregulated [harmful enzyme] chews on the collagen in the dressing, rather than on the wound. It would be better to treat the diabetic wounds with a … [harmful enzyme] inhibitor to inhibit the culprit enzyme that is make clear that we are a student body who are our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers.” 
PrismNd is Notre dame’s LgBTQ and Ally student organi­zation, and this is its first year as a club, Ricketts said. 
“We provide a safe space for LgBTQ students and their allies to develop community, engage in programming and service, such 
“This week is an opportunity for us to make clear that we are a student body who are our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers.” 
Alex Coccia 
student body president 
as StaNd Against hate Week, and discuss things relevant to them and their lives, both on campus and outside it,” he said. 
Ricketts said he worked as part of the initial group of students who implemented PrismNd on campus. 
“StaNd Against hate Week, for me, has been a time to talk about topics that are frequently left unaddressed by the LgBTQ community and by those who interact with it,” Ricketts said. “It’s a way to be honest and open with ourselves and others about how our actions have real and lasting effects, and the responsi­bility each of us has to be under­standing and respectful.” 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 
impeding wound healing while leaving the beneficial [enzyme] uninhibited to help repair the wound.” 
According to the press release, the team has done most their work using mice, but Chang said they want to move the project forward in the wake of their lat­est discovery. 
“We plan to study chronic wounds in diabetic patients,” Chang said. “The standard of care is debridement of the wounds. We want to analyze this wound tissue in diabetic patients to determine which [enzymes] are present. This will support that the animal model is relevant to the clinical situation and gives us confidence that what works in animals will work in humans.” 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 


McAuliffe wins Virgina gubernatorial race 
Associated Press 
TySONS CORNER, Va. — Terry McAuliffe wrested the gover­nor’s office from Republicans on Tuesday, capping an acrimoni­ous campaign that was driven by a crush of negative advertising, non-stop accusations of dodgy dealings and a tea party-backed nominee who tested the limits of swing-voting Virginia. 
McAuliffe received 47 percent to Cuccinelli’s 46 percent, with 97 precincts reporting. he im­mediately promised to reach across party lines, starting with a pledge to meet with Republican lawmakers to find areas where they might collaborate. 
“Over the next four years most democrats and Republicans want to make Virginia a mod­el of pragmatic leadership,” McAuliffe said. “This is only pos­sible if Virginia is the model for bipartisan cooperation.” 
McAuliffe, a democrat, ran strong among unmarried wom­en, voters who made abortion a top issue and those who called the suburbs of Washington, d.C., home, according to preliminary results of an exit poll conducted for The Associated Press and the television networks. Cuccinelli, meanwhile, fared well among tea party backers, gun own­ers and among the state’s rural residents — but there were not enough of them to yield a victory. 

In winning, McAuliffe broke a stubborn streak in state history. during the past nine governor’s races, the party that controlled the White house at the time has always lost. 
That’s not to say voters rushed to back McAuliffe’s vision for Virginia. Turnout was low, and both candidates worked through Election day to reach as many potential voters as possible. 
Only 52 percent of voters said they strongly backed their can­didate, while the rest had reser­vations or backed a candidate because they disliked the other options, according to exit polls. Neither major candidate’s ideo­logical views seemed “right” for a majority of Virginians; 50 per­cent called Cuccinelli too con­servative; and 41 percent said McAuliffe is too liberal. 
The exit poll included inter­views with 2,376 voters from 40 polling places around the state. The margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
Voters’ dissatisfaction couldn’t overshadow the fight on televi­sion. McAuliffe enjoyed a 10-to­1 advertising advantage over Cuccinelli during the final days. 
“I think that every single per­son in Virginia is glad now that the TV ads are over,” McAuliffe said to laughter and applause. 
In his emotional concession speech, Cuccinelli also noted the lopsided spending and vowed he would not give up on his fight against democrats’ national health care law. 
“The battle goes on,” Cuccinelli said. 
The campaign’s tilt turned many voters off. 
“I really hated the negative campaigning,” said Ellen Tolton, a 52-year-old grant writer. “I didn’t want to vote for any of them.” 
Richard Powell, a 60-year-old retired IT manager who lives in Norfolk, described himself as an independent who frequently votes for members of both par­ties. he said he cast his ballot for McAuliffe, although not be­cause he’s particularly enthusi­astic about him. he said he was more determined not to vote for Cuccinelli, who he said over­reaches on a variety of medical issues. 
Voters were barraged with a series of commercials that tied Cuccinelli to restricting abor­tions, and while Powell said the negative advertising “got to be sickening,” abortion rights played a factor in his vote. 
“I’m not in favor of abortion — let’s put it that way — but I find that restricting abortion causes far more social harm than allow­ing abortion, so that was an issue for me,” he said. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 




Border Patrol continues use of deadly force 
Associated Press 
SAN dIEgO — Border Patrol agents will be allowed to con­tinue using deadly force against rock-throwers, the chief of the agency said, despite the recom­mendation of a government-commissioned review to end the practice. 
The Police Executive Research Forum, a nonprofit group that advises law enforcement agen­cies, recommended that the Border Patrol and its parent agency, Customs and Border Protection, stop the use of deadly force against rock throw­ers and assailants in vehicles, Border Patrol Chief Mike Fisher said. 
CBP rejected both recom­mendations, which were part of a broader internal review of the agency’s use-of-force poli­cies and practices that began last year. The measures were not included in a revised policy an­nounced on Sept. 25 that calls for more training and better record-keeping. 
CBP considered the proposed curbs “very restrictive,” Fisher told The Associated Press. 
under current policy, agents can use deadly force if they have a reasonable belief that their lives or the lives of others are in danger. 
“We shouldn’t have carve-outs in our policy and say, except for this, except for that,” Fisher said. “Just to say that you shouldn’t shoot at rock-throwers or vehi­cles for us, in our environment, was very problematic and could potentially put Border Patrol agents in danger.” 
CBP has not released the full findings of the Police Executive Research Forum. Fisher’s com­ments are the most publicly de­tailed about them. 
The internal review began last year after 16 members of Congress raised concern about the May 2010 killing of Anastasio hernandez, an un­armed Mexican who died from stun gun wounds at San diego’s San ysidro port of entry. Authorities have said he was 

Serbs sabotage voting booths 
Associated Press 
PRISTINA, Kosovo — Authorities may not tally lo­cal election results in northern Kosovo after hard-line Serbs al­legedly attacked a polling station there, but the country’s prime minister insisted Monday the vote was valid and should stand. 
It was the first time voters in all of Kosovo were choosing local leaders since the country seceded from Serbia in 2008. The vote was seen as a key test of whether ethnic Serb-majority areas in the north who have rejected the ethnic Albanian government’s author­ity would cast ballots, but hard­liners are suspected of smashing up a polling station to intimidate fellow Serbs from voting. 
Prime Minister hashim Thaci maintained the Serb-majority areas now have “legitimate repre­sentatives,” even though election authorities have not yet decided whether to count the results. Enough ethnic Serbs turned out there and elsewhere around the country to give them a voice, he said. 
“Regardless of the blackmail ... or isolated acts, the citizens in the north have decided to be part of the electoral race, of the vote, part of democratic life,” Thaci told re­porters in the capital Pristina. he said voter turnout in the Serb-run north was 22 percent before the attack. 
Serbs in the rest of Kosovo marked a record turnout in some areas with over 50 percent of vot­ers casting ballots. 
A group of masked men broke windows and tore up voting materials at a polling station in the northern town of Mitrovica on Sunday, forcing the closure of the voting station and evacuation of members of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which provided technical support for the vote. 
Nikola gaon the spokesman for the OSCE in Kosovo, said vot­ing materials from three munici­palities in the north have been handed over to Kosovo’s elec­toral authorities. Ballots cast in Mitrovica north were damaged, gaon said. 
“We were not able due to the at­tack on the polling center to take custody and protect those materi­als,” gaon said. 
The votes from the rest of northern Kosovo are not being processed until there is a decision on what to do with the ones at the Mitrovica polling station, election officials say. 
Participation of minority Serbs in the elections was a key ele­ment in an Eu-brokered deal between Serbia and Kosovo that seeks to settle longstanding dis­putes. Serbia does not recognize Kosovo’s independence. 
An AP reporter witnessed Serbs crowding outside polling stations in Mitrovica to discourage fellow Serbs from voting. Posters de­scribing participation in elections as treason had also sprung up in Serb-majority areas. 
In Belgrade, Serbia’s minister for Kosovo said the government is waiting to hear from election officials before taking a stance. he said Serbia will punish any of its citizens who took part in the violence. 
being combative while being returned to Mexico. The Justice department is investigating that killing. 
hernandez was one of 20 peo­ple killed by CBP officials since 2010, including eight who died in rock-throwing incidents with Border Patrol agents, according to the American Civil Liberties union. 
Fisher repeated the agency’s long-standing position that rocks are lethal weapons. Smugglers have long pelted agents with rocks, bottles and other objects — often from Mexico — hoping to create an opening elsewhere along the border when agents rush to assist colleagues being pelted. 
Agents were attacked with rocks 339 times in the 2011 fis­cal year, more than any other type of assault, according to the department of homeland Security inspector general. They responded with gunfire 33 times and with less-than-lethal force — a category that includes pepper spray and batons — 118 times. 
Rock attacks fell to 185 in the 2012 fiscal year, the second most common type of assault. Agents fired a gun 22 times and responded 42 times with less­than-lethal force. 
The proposed ban on firing at vehicles would have brought the Border Patrol in line with some metropolitan police de­partments, Fisher said. But he pointed out that the federal agency operates in much differ­ent terrain. 
“you don’t want to just start shooting indiscriminately at a vehicle and try to blow out tires like they do on TV, but our en­vironment is totally different,” Fisher said. “In many cases, un­like a concrete jungle, you have a very narrow trail and the Border Patrol agent doesn’t always have the ability to get out of the way.” 
Activists were disappoint­
ed  that  CBP  rejected  the  
recommendations.  
“We’ve  long  held  that  

deadly force should be lim­ited to the most exceptional 
circumstances,” said Andrea guerrero, executive director of Alliance San diego, who at­tended a meeting with Obama administration officials at the White house in September that covered the topic. 
“The Border Patrol has yet to demonstrate that that’s the ap­propriate level of force in the 
cases  that  have  happened,”  
guerrero said.  
Shawn  Moran,  spokesman  

for the National Border Patrol Council, the union representing Border Patrol officers, welcomed the agency’s position. 
“Almost every Border Patrol agent has been rocked at one point or another,” Moran said. “I know agents here that have had vehicles accelerate toward them, attempt to run them down.” 
Fisher rejected any suggestion that Border Patrol agents were trigger-happy. 
“When you look at that envi­ronment, that workspace, I think our agents show a great deal of restraint when it comes to use of deadly force,” he said. 

Candidate pressured to reveal sexual orientation 
Associated Press 
PORTLANd, Maine — The congressman who wants to un­seat Maine gov. Paul LePage says he’s gone through more than a dozen elections without anyone questioning his sexual­ity. Now the entire world knows he’s gay. That includes his mother, who’d been in the dark. 
The 58-year-old u.S. Rep. Mike Michaud informed his mom that he was gay just hours before he released an op-ed in which he came out publicly to end what he described as “whisper campaigns, insinu­ations and push-polls” that were dogging his gubernatorial campaign. 
“It was a difficult decision to tell my sister and my mother,” Michaud said Monday in his Portland campaign office hours after he released an op-ed. his mother, sister and five other siblings said through his cam­paign staff that they didn’t want to be interviewed. 
The announcement lifts the profile of a three-way race in which the six-term con­gressman and former paper mill worker is running close in the polls with LePage, the Republican incumbent. Also in the race is wealthy independent Eliot Cutler. 
But the ramifications were unclear. Maine approved gay marriage last year. 
Michaud’s acknowledgement that he’s gay could mean big contributions from gay rights groups. It also could win over some liberal voters concerned about his “blue dog” image and votes on abortion. But it also could cost him the votes of some socially conservative supporters. 

“It makes things more inter­esting. There’s no doubt about that,” said Mark Brewer, a po­litical science professor at the university of Maine. 
With Michaud’s announce­ment, there are now seven members of the u.S. house who are openly gay, along with one member of the u.S. Senate. 
There are no openly gay governors. 
Michaud’s coming out elic­ited statements of support. 
“We applaud Congressman Michaud and look forward to working with him in the fu­ture,” said Chuck Wolfe, presi­dent and CEO of the gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, adding that “his example will promote understanding and show the importance of being open and honest about who you are.” 
By nature, Michaud said he doesn’t like talking about him­self. Quiet and unassuming, he worked for more than 29 years in the great Northern Paper Mill in East Millinocket, where his father and grandfather worked. he keeps his lunch box in his office as a reminder of his roots. 
he said the decision to an­nounce that he was gay was not easy. he told his mother and sister on Sunday as his staff was preparing to release his op-ed to The Associated Press and two Maine newspapers. 
“I ran for office 17 times and it’s never been an issue. however, someone or some group definitely tried to make it an issue in this campaign, and I decided to put it right out there on the table,” he told the AP. 
Cutler’s campaign denied any involvement in dirty tricks. LePage’s campaign declined to comment. 
MaryEllen Fitzgerald, a pollster from Critical Insights in Portland, said she doubted that Michaud’s announcement would have a big impact on the race. 
“he is a politician who has been in the public eye for a sig­nificant amount of time. he has a track record that people can judge him on, and I don’t think his sexual orientation is generally going to be a factor,” Fitzgerald said. “Because he’s a known entity, I don’t think this is going to change opinions of him.” 
Michaud, for his part, said there’s a sense of relief. Well, sort of. 
he said he doesn’t have a ro­mantic interest at the moment but he prefers to not to talk about his personal life. he said he hopes his opponents will join him in waging a positive cam­paign that focuses on issues. 
“My personal life has never factored into how I do my job, whether I was working in the mill for over 29 years, whether it was during my time in the Legislature or as a member of Congress. My personal life nev­er factored into it, and it won’t factor into how I’d be governor,” he said. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Being a nerd 
Samantha Castaneda 
News Writer 

Today, the word “nerd” has negative connotations, oftentimes associated with being anti-social and constantly complet­ing homework. Sometimes I hear students call each other nerds in an endearing way for passing a tough biology test. I also no­tice students teasing each other for leaving a football game early to finish their essay due the following week. 
Webster’s dictionary defines a nerd as an individual who is “intelligent but single-minded, obsessed with a certain hobby or pursuit.” 
dr. Seuss, a well-known children’s book author, coined the word “nerd” when describing a character in his book “If I Ran the Zoo.” Today, the word is used to describe a studious person with giant glasses, happily studying his or her book of gadgets. 
I do not think being a nerd is, by defini­tion, being “single-minded.” I think it is more about being dedicated to learning from multiple sources, such as classes and newspapers. 
Being a nerd is no easy task. One is bom­barded with multiple exams, papers and responsibilities every single school day. A person must make time to complete as­signments while marking in her planner time to think about her passions and find a way to incorporate those passions into possible goals. 
Even though I struggle with academ­ics at times, I find myself completing homework a few days before the due date. I make time to learn the material in my classes in depth, and I scribble questions that I will ask my professors. Some of my friends, on the other hand, cram for their math exams the night before or complete their homework during class. 
Time management is essential for com­pleting assignments and learning mate­rial, but a lot of the time students forget to become dedicated in their studies by finding a connection to their learning in their lives. 
I often think to myself after completing a written reflection or a creative writing piece, “how will learning this material help me to become a better younger sis­ter?” or, “how will reading this book in depth help me to become a better writer?” Questioning one’s learning and homework assignments may help the person become a brighter “nerd” and find his or her direc­tion in life. 
Being a nerd does not mean having one area of focus, but rather, having multiple interests in various disciplines. I am fo­cused on writing diverse pieces, such as poetry and fiction, and I have an interest in learning concepts in biology and physics. 
It is important to realize that nerds are not simply a candy or a dr. Seuss creation. They are students that are passionate about finding success through learning 
— even if they don’t wear giant reading glasses when completing school work. 
Contact Samantha Castaneda at scasta01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 
It sometimes amazes me that Ronald Reagan, who famously played george “gipper” gipp in “Knute Rockne, All American” and who has been out of presidential office for 25 years, has become the modern-day hero of the Republican Party. This has become even more true as the party has lurched to the right over the past few years. The issue is that many Republican politicians and media fig­ures forget that positions they oppose today are ones Reagan once held. 
1. Reagan increased deficits: 
One of the greatest myths about Reagan was that he was a fiscal con­servative (someone who believes in a balanced budget). The average deficit from 1946 to 1980 ran approximately one percent of gross domestic product (gdP), based on data from the Office of Management and Budget. however, between 1981 and 1989, when Reagan was in office, the average budget defi­cit was 4.1 percent. Some of the early deficits were caused by the recession that lasted from July 1981 through November 1982. But even as the economy grew, the deficit exploded due to Reagan’s tax cuts and defense spending increases. This increased the national debt (the total of all past deficits) in Reagan’s presidency from $1 trillion to $3 trillion. Thus, refer­ring to Reagan as a fiscal conservative is like saying Bernie Madoff was an ethical businessman. 
2. Reagan raised taxes: Reagan is known for his large tax cut in 1981 that cut individual and corporate rates while also increas­ing tax exclusions and deductions. While applauded by many, these cuts created huge deficits. In response, Reagan signed tax increases into law in 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986 and 1987. Reagan increased payroll taxes (1983), ended loopholes (1984, 1986 and 1987), and ended the gasoline tax (1982) and cigarette tax (1985). The phrase “the goal is simple and just: to see to it that everyone pays his fair share,” sounds very similar to what President Obama and congressional democrats have pushed for in recent years. however, this statement was made by President Reagan in August 1982 when describing why he signed tax increases into law. 
3. Reagan signed immigration reform: 
Perhaps what Reagan is least known for is signing into law comprehensive immigration reform that granted amnesty to 3 million undocumented immigrants. As Reagan said in a presidential debate against Walter Mondale in 1984, “I believe in the idea of amnesty for those who have put down roots and lived here, even though sometime back they may have entered illegally.” Once again, this sounds very similar to the language used by democrats in the immigra­tion debate. 
Many forget that Reagan was once a governor of California, a state with a major influx of undocumented immi­grants. Reagan was forced to deal with the undocumented population and understood how having an immigra­tion system that brought people out of the shadows was not just humane, but could help grow the economy as well. 

4. Reagan compromised: 
underlying all of this is the simple fact that Reagan could compromise with the opposition. Reagan faced a house of Representatives controlled by democrats during his eight years in office and a democratic Senate for his last two years. Reagan knew that, as president, he could not ignore the opposition, but rather, had to work with them. 
As Reagan’s chief of staff, James Baker, once shared, “President Reagan wanted to succeed, and he knew that to succeed in politics, particularly with a democratic Congress, he would have to compromise. he said to me many times, ‘I would much prefer to get 80 percent of what I want than to go off the cliff with the flag flying.’” 
The truth is that Reagan was a much different person than the ultra-conservative, ultra-partisan politician that ideologues paint him as today. Rather, Reagan was a prag­matic politician who understood that one should always compromise when necessary on policy, but never compromise on values. If only today’s Republicans could more emulate the man Reagan was than the man they imagine him to have been, America would be much closer to Reagan’s vi­sion of a shining city on a hill. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Weighing in on ‘Irish Bachelorette’ 
hi, students of Notre dame (or Observer readers), 
I’ve never written one of these be­fore, but I thought that a joke with some of my friends turned into some ideas that I wanted to share with you all, so I appreciate your understanding and patience with me. 
On Monday, I tuned in to Ndtv for the first time since my last “Rudy” craving and watched “Irish Bachelorette.” I thought it was hilari­ous. Some of those guys were really funny, and the production and enter­tainment value were great. 
Afterward, my friends and I jokingly began a support group for one of the contestants who, unfortunately, lost, and I failed to do any of my actual work for the evening. 
here’s why I am taking up some of your time: I think we have to be really careful about understanding how we think about this show and its potential effects on our community. I think it’s hilarious and entertaining — and it encourages me to trivialize my rela­tionships with women into a competi­tion. I don’t think anyone should take life too seriously, but unfortunately, relationships can often be sources of real pain in people’s lives. People struggle immensely with rejection and love lost, and I don’t think this show does justice to how relationships actu­ally (or ideally) work. I am particularly concerned with how someone truly struggling with these issues may feel as a result of the values promulgated by this series. 
I appreciate your patience, and understand that by no means am I any sort of relationship guru. I’m not a gender studies major, and I often slip up on this sort of thing. But it is scary to me that we thought it was okay to portray an acceptable start to a relationship as similar to a young lady choosing meat at a butcher shop. I believe that as Notre dame men and women, we deserve better in our relationships. 

So yes, I will most likely tune in again next week, but part of me is hop­ing that it all turns out to be some sort of giant social experiment or some­thing. Like “Lost” or whatever — I never really understood that show. 
Stephen Fox 
senior off campus Nov. 5 



A sigh and a powerful realization 
Michael Fliotsos 
Viewpoint Columnist 

This column found its origin at 9 
p.m. on a rainy Wednesday night last week on the sojourn from Jordan hall of Science to duncan hall — a journey that is already long enough as it is, let alone in the pouring rain with soaked socks. Facing the impending doom of two yet-to-be-completed lab reports, a pre-lab for organic chemistry and a mountain of Arabic homework left over from what should have been a more productive fall break, I was walking back from my beloved home-away-from-home after fruitlessly trying to edit uneven proton NMR graphs using software available only on the computers in Jordan. To put it in context for the non-science majors out there, you know it’s bad when the graduate teaching assistant at office hours who specializes in reading these very graphs tells you she has no idea why “your graph is completely messed up.” I was frustrated, tired, wet and done with everything school-related. 
It was just one of those days. 

As I walked from Jordan listening to my twangy country music playlist to unwind, I thought to myself, “Why bother with all this?” Why did I bother coming to Notre dame in the first 
Robert Alvarez 
Man on a Nag 

My great-grandpa fled Spain in the early 1900s to escape a military draft for Spanish imperial ambitions in North Africa. he retreated to Mexico and married there before being re­cruited to work in coal mines in West Virginia. Shortly after World War I, he moved to Los Angeles, where he stayed for the remainder of his life. With my great-grandma, he had five children, one of which was my grandpa. My grandpa was a very intelligent student, but my great-grandpa never encour­aged him in his studies (I’m not really sure why not). however, my grandpa enlisted for World War II right out of high school, affording him the op­portunity to take advantage of the gI Bill when he returned home. With the degree in civil engineering with which this bill provided him, he got a good job at the California department of Transportation, surveying the con­struction of freeways in the Los Angeles area. This job enabled him to give his children a quality education and a standard of living from which I now benefit. 
To all of you who got this far in the place? I mean, I could have gone to a school that was both cheaper and far less academically rigorous. I would presumably be under substantially less stress than I am now, with easier classes and competing against stu­dents that aren’t nearly as gifted as the students here. I could also probably get into my state medical school well enough and do it far more cost-effec­tively.” The question again pulsed in my mind: “Why, Michael?” 
As I got onto South Quad, a new song came up on the playlist — “The house That Built Me” by Miranda Lambert. Seeing as how my mind was otherwise preoccupied — and that it’s one of my favorite songs, so I didn’t pay close at­tention to the lyrics — I continued my walk without a thought. As I started walking along the sidewalk closest to god Quad, I passed the clearing where the golden dome is completely visible and, like I normally do, I stole a glance to my right. 
This time, however, I stopped dead in my tracks, turned so I was facing the dome, looked up through the driz­zling rain and, to the sultry crooning of Miranda Lambert, inhaled deeply and sighed an unusual sigh. 
It is difficult to describe what that sigh sounded like, but I can definitely tell you how it felt. 
It was the release of all the frustrations encountered throughout the day, week and semester. It was the resolution of all my uncertainties and doubts, all my insecurities and fears both big and small. Above all, it was the answer to the question I kept ask­ing myself. 
“Why bother, Michael? I’ll tell you why — you belong here, and being here will help you accomplish even your wildest dreams.” 
granted, the above realization in quotation marks is far more eloquent than the mish-mosh of thoughts swirl­ing through my head at the time, but that’s the best way I can describe the overwhelming flood of reassurance and the dissipation of self-doubt that occurred to me last Wednesday night for a reason I can’t exactly explain. 
As is evident by now, that night wasn’t exactly what I expected to be inspiration for an “I-heart-Notre­dame” column, but oddly enough, that’s what it turned in to. As I walked away from that priceless view of Our Lady on the dome, I listened to Ms. Lambert’s words with new meaning. This place — the people, the classes, the extracurricular activities and, above all, the problems — is the house that is continually building me and challenging me to be the best I can be and to never settle for second-best. It is the place I know I can call home 
My historical guilt 
article, I would like to thank you. That first paragraph may have been a bit dull. I told this brief history of my family to make a point, though: I owe my existence to colonialism and the holocaust. If it weren’t for these two cases of imperialism and genocide, I would not exist. The history of my fam­ily is intimately tied up with the history of these two events, and I am indebted to these events. 
I imagine that if many of us retraced our roots, we too would find direct correlations between our personal his­tories and global histories. In a sense, by existing in the present, we are the culmination of history. All of cosmic history has occurred with the end re­sult of producing us: the present. This creates a problem, however. While I am a product of many good things — like my grandpa’s loving hard work — I am also the product of many bad things, like the holocaust. I’ve been fortunate to come out on the “winning” side of history, but the same history that has named me the victor has named others the loser. This does not deny free will but affirms there is historical inequal­ity that is sometimes impossible to overcome by any individual will. 
This analysis extends far beyond me, however. As a nation, we carry the guilt of centuries of the continual theft and genocide of a native population coupled with the enslavement of an­other. We are products –– both benefi­ciaries and victims –– of that history. It is no coincidence that two of the most consistently marginalized groups in American history are Native Americans and African Americans. Their enslave­ment and murder echo through our history, through slavery, through Jim Crow, through Civil Rights and through our judicial system. It is even apparent in the very geography of our cities and countryside. Thanks to this history, there has developed a culture of preju­dice based on skin color. Fortunately, I’ve been able to benefit from this because I have lighter skin. My uncle, however, wasn’t so lucky. he was born with darker skin and was therefore treated differently by my great-grand­pa. how can I justify these benefits I have received that have been borne on the backs of injustice? 
It might be said that I have no need to justify this because I am not responsi­ble for history. After all, how can I be re­sponsible for what came before me? But this logic would deny my existence as a creature in history. history continues with me in it. Every second that I live with the unearned privileges afforded more truthfully than anywhere else except for my actual home. It is, as clichéd as it sounds, where I belong — and where I know I belong. 

As students at Notre dame, we all have to deal with unique challenges and struggles that are as varied and multi-faceted as we are. Everyone has an “I’m-over-my-head” moment when they ask some variation of the question, “Why?” While I am not claiming to have the answer to the personal issues you may be facing, I can tell you what helped me. Thinking long and hard about the point of it all on a 15-minute-long trek through the rain on a Wednesday night un­der the gleaming gold of Our Lady is what helped this writer. Perhaps your method of reflection involves less wet­ness, a lot less organic chemistry and more of something else. Whatever that something may be, looking at the grand scheme of things every once in a while can put even the most seem­ingly insurmountable of days in sweet, sweet perspective. 
Michael is a Science-Business sophomore currently residing in Duncan Hall. He can be reached via email at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
me by history is another second that compounds my complicit guilt in the inequality of history. The only conclu­sion that I can arrive at, considering the weight of history’s injustice, is that I am responsible to all for all. That is why I try to remember. I don’t mean to remember the big dates, the big names or the big places of history. Frankly, these things only have tangential inter­est to me. The history that interests me involves the stories of the losers. I want to know what my victories have brought about and what I can do about them. 
you might justifiably ask now, some­what incredulously, “Are you claiming that every one of us has irrevocable guilt for every injustice that has been committed in the world up to this point in time, and because of this guilt we have an irrevocable duty to dedicate our lives to the amelioration of these injustices?” 
yes. yes I am. 
Robert Alvarez is a senior majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies. He is living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he  expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Managing Editor 

What does it take to be the Irish Bachelorette? 
According to senior Matthew McCurdy, executive producer of Ndtv’s new show, she needed to be, drum-roll please: a conversationalist. 
yes, folks, believe it or not, the producers selected Kirsten Fernandez as the leading lady based on her abil­ity to drive through awkward social situations and cre­ate some good dialogue. 
“We also wanted them to be pretty,” McCurdy said. “Looks were important.” 
Added to the strange animal that is Notre dating plagued by the “ring by spring” mentality, Irish Bachelorette is bound to be one heck of an uncomfort­able ride. 
Fernandez, a junior in Badin, had less than two weeks to get to know 11 Notre dame bachelors, who were se­lected based on their energy, quirks and the variety of personalities they offered to the show. Social skills and an open mind were must-haves if this show was going to be a success. 
Senior Jeff gerlomes, the show’s host and director of Special Programming at Ndtv, said he was able to chan­nel his inner Chris harrison because his mother and sister watch “The Bachelorette” on ABC “religiously.” 
“I was able to follow the lovely drama of des and Brooks this summer, so I’ve gotten to know the conven­tion of how they run things, the fan culture, the format,” gerlomes said. 
Matt McMahon 
Scene Writer 

It’s a daunting task to properly honor someone after his or her passing. It’s doubly worrisome that you may not do justice to the life and legacy of such a venerated and enigmatic star as Lou Reed. After having some time to reflect and let his death sink in — with time spent blasting his band The Velvet underground’s al­bums on my drive back to campus following fall break, getting choked up listening to his solo work laying in the dark on a futon in my common room, and tearing up from all the classy tributes from his friends, fam­ily, fans and even possible nemeses, like critic Robert Christgau — I hope I can write up to his grandeur. 
Rather than rattle off the history of Reed’s career, the many accolades from critics and peers alike, the various twists and turns in his musical endeavors and all the information you can find with a simple google search if you are not familiar with him, I think the best way for me to write about and remember Lou Reed would be to share my personal association with him and his music. 
There are two separate occasions when I truly dis­covered Reed and his music: 
growing up, I was raised on such classic bands and acts as The Beatles, The Beach Boys, The doors, Crosby, Stills and Nash, Joni Mitchell, Neil young, Simon and garfunkel and Buffalo Springfield. All were hugely in­fluential and supremely successful. Any time I’d catch SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
gerlomes said he tried to be Fernandez’s ally through­out the dating process. 
“harrison really advocates for that character [on The Bachelorette], and [Kirsten and I] got to be fairly friend­ly by the end of the show,” gerlomes said. 
McCurdy said the skilled production crew of about 15 members didn’t give Fernandez or the bachelors any di­rection during the hectic filming period. 
“We showed them we were serious,” McCurdy said. “It was a full weekend of filming, and everything fell into place. The first impressions were genuine — none of the guys knew her beforehand. Seeing the guys go down the stairs and see her for the first time, that was really spe­cial for me after two months of work.” 
divided into six episodes, McCurdy said the team tried to recreate “The Bachelorette” with as many Notre dame elements as possible. For example, Fernandez gave out shamrock hats instead of roses and will only expect a dating relationship out of her final selection, instead of an evening in the fantasy suite and a mar­riage proposal. 
McCurdy said the approximately $800 production was filmed over two weekends between Oct. 3 and Oct. 13 and the team only encountered a few weather-related snafus while they filmed. 
Creator and producer Caitlin Crommett said the team brainstormed cute date ideas that would be specific to Notre dame. Crommett, a junior, said she was friends with Fernandez before the show and thinks the bach­elorette benefited from the dating process. 
“She was coming out of a long-term, long-distance 
a “100 greatest” anything list about music on Vh1 or in Rolling Stone, all of those artists would be represented for their contributions to popular music. yet, among and often atop these, always seeming to me as a black sheep in the group, was Lou Reed’s 1960s formed band The Velvet underground. I wondered why the band was not in my parents’ regular rotation of artists. 
So, in order to properly introduce myself to their music, the first time I visited my local record store, I made a point of seeking out “The Velvet underground & Nico,” the band’s debut LP, universally regarded as one of the greatest albums of all time. The moment I got back in my car, I popped in the Cd. I was immedi­ately confronted with the beauty of the opening celesta melody of lead track “Sunday Morning,” with Reed’s signature voice delicately creeping through. What fol­lowed was a wholly captivating tour de force of experi­mental rock that hasn’t lost any of its edge almost 50 years later. 
Reed and company offer an escape from the mun­dane, something so raw and appreciable in scope, with so much emotion and viscera oozing out of their performances, there’s a reason the equally influential Brian Eno has stated the echoed sentiment, “While the first Velvet underground album may have sold only 30,000 copies in its early years, everyone who bought one of those 30,000 copies started a band.” Listening to that album for the first time was a revelation for me that music could not only exude this much energy, but could also invoke it. 
In addition, my first real in-depth exposure to Lou relationship, so now she has a good idea of what dating is like on campus,” she said. 

Crommett said most of the students who auditioned to be on the show “wanted to have fun and meet new people.” No one had any reservations by the time they got to the audition room in Alumni hall. 
Junior Mike from duncan was the favorite at creator and producer Caitlin Crommett’s viewing in Walsh hall on the night of the premiere, but unluckily for Mike, Fernandez decided to send him home. 
“Everything went without a hitch, which was surpris­ing because we thought it would be treated like a joke,” Crommett said. “But all the guys were serious about it, she was serious about it. It was weirdly perfect.” 
McCurdy said the production team came up with the idea for the show during the SAO-sponsored media re­treat the weekend before school started this year. 
“We were all sitting around a campfire, brainstorming different spoofs on current TV shows,” McCurdy said. “We started getting serious about Irish Bachelorette, and by the end of the weekend, it was the talk of the re­treat. Everyone was sold, so we had to follow up. 
“No one has watched Ndtv before, and now people are talking about it.” 
When asked about the possibility of “The Irish Bachelor,” McCurdy said it was “too early to tell.” 
“‘The Irish Bachelor’ has been discussed and is in the planning process,” he said. “We’ll see how the season progresses.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
Reed’s solo work came as a result of watching the wonderful 2009 film “Adventureland,” which featured prominent references to Reed and two of his songs in its soundtrack. The first bit of “here She Comes Now,” playing over the opening credits was the only motivation I needed to look further into Reed’s solo discography. Similar to many of the movie’s characters, I was slightly outside the norm of a typical teenager; however, Reed and his music perfectly suit these types of individuals. his intriguing storytelling and imagery makes listeners think, and his instrumentation com­mands ears. he provided an outlet into the different. 
Reed was the catalyst for a cultural awakening of sorts, surely not only in me. 
he was a progressive experimentalist, never content to dwell in the present, and in an age when so much is not original, he was. he was untouchably cool, yet his slight missteps only made him cooler, perhaps bringing him to Earth, all while maintaining his unwillingness to conform. 
I’d end this with something about how we should make a point to continue to remember the influence Lou Reed had on the music world, but with how regu­larly and widespread he is cited and referenced, I’m not concerned about the longevity of his legacy. More im­portant, Lou probably won’t be wasting his time giving a darn about what anybody thinks of him. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Scene Writer 

In recent weeks, the indie music world has been gifted with EPs from both active up-and-comers and groups that have laid low in recent years. Whether these mini-releases were meant to follow up recent full-length albums, transi­tion into a new sound or just remind fans that they’re still around and making music, they have been a refreshing taste of what the alternative scene has to offer. here’s a look a five recent EP releases from bands to keep on your radar. 
Best Coast – “Fade Away” 

Frontwoman and songwriter Bethany Cosentino and bandmate Bobb Bruno are back at it again with a seven song EP, “Fade Away.” The duo, known as Best Coast, released the EP on Oct. 22, the first since their 2012 full-length album, “The Only Place.” While their last album was largely unimpressive, “Fade Away” brings energy and depth to the band’s discography. The opening song, “This Only Morning,” shows that not only has Beach house re­covered from their last album’s misstep, but they have grown as artists and refined their lo-fi, surf rock sound into a powerful set of songs worth a listen. 
Ducktails – “Wish Hotel” 

In addition to Beach house, fellow West-Coast native 
By JUAN CANCIO 
Scene Writer 

Over fall break, I had the chance to read the book “Ender’s game,” and what a ride it was. This novel was published in 1985 by Orson Scott Card and has led to a series of 12 novels, 12 short stories and 47 comic book is­sues. The universe Card created is very interesting, and he has definitely set himself apart as a premier science fiction writer. To date, he is the only science fiction writer to have won both the Nebula and the hugo awards (the two most important literary awards for science fiction novels) for two consecutive years. This book has finally received a much-deserved cinematic adaptation, which came out Nov. 1. 
Prepare to be introduced to the universe of Ender Wiggin. 
The book and movie offer a window into a faraway fu­ture when the human race has made contact with an in­telligent alien race that humanity refers to as “Formics” or “Buggers.” however, the alien race has revealed itself as hostile. The name “Buggers” should point to the rather obvious conclusion that the aliens are insect-like, and as in most other science-fiction universes, insect-like in this universe translates to a hive-mind mentality. 
The plot centers around a child named Andrew Wiggin (Ender), who is born into a world where there is an ever-present danger of impending alien invasion. The beauti­fully insane premise of the movie is that an International Fleet has been forced to resort to recruiting and training brilliant young children, essentially beginning at infan­cy, to be the commanding officers of the entire fleet. This is arguably a natural culmination of the necessities of the ducktails put out a five-song EP, “Wish hotel,” last month after his well-received album “The Flower Lane” released earlier this year. ducktails is the solo project of Matthew Mondanile of the band Real Estate. But while Real Estate is dedicated to their beachy sound, ducktails has explored and incorporated electronic music and psychedelic rock into his newest project while still perfecting the beach rock genre. Think of Real Estate crossed with Tame Impala, then add a little Caribou for good measure, and you’ll have “Wish hotel.” 
Widowspeak – “The Swamps” 
yet another West-Coast band, Widowspeak, is a group to look out for. After releasing their second album, “Almanac,” in January, the indie group put out six songs under the name “The Swamps” last month. The band claims “The Swamps” is a transition from their most recent music into a newer sound, and the release is certainly compelling. While the trio has largely exuded a catchy, poppy sound, this EP shows the group’s transition into a darker, more bluesy genre. Complete with sound effects of swamps and filtered guitar, singer Molly hamilton’s vocals sound bet­ter than ever — a promising look at what’s to come. 
Active Child – “Rapor” 
A male harpist and former choirboy doesn’t exactly seem like the best candidate for indie rock fame, but that exactly 
fleet, since children are veritable crucibles of creativity. They lack the cynicism and fear that would hold back an adult from trying some of the crazy tactics that might lead to victory. 
What happens when the human race is faced with the very real threat of extinction? The armed forces go about creating the super soldiers required to increase Earth’s chances of survival — at any cost. With no oversight, the International Fleet offers these child soldiers a guiding hand in tactical thinking with hopes that the children’s creative-thinking skills will define the coming war. It is fascinating to see how the storyline unfolds in this au­thor’s vision of a world where the cost of survival is mo­rality, and perhaps to a greater degree, our humanity. 
The movie’s cast has a few big-name hollywood stars, including harrison Ford and Ben Kingsley, and was co-produced by the author, Card. This should have guar­anteed that hollywood would do justice to the intricate world Card had painstakingly created for the better part of three decades. unfortunately, this movie falls short and almost falls completely into the trap of relegating itself to being just another visually stunning science-fiction blockbuster (we’re looking at you, “Transformers 2 and 3”). The problem with trying to transform “Ender’s game” into a movie was finding a balance between the child side of the main character and the side of him that appears to have wisdom far beyond his years. 
Asa Butterfield, who played Wiggin, performed admi­rably, but was unable to transcend convincingly from child to an adult confined to a child’s body. Although it was a valiant effort, it seemed as though the child side of the character was undoubtedly able to dominate the describes Pat grossi of Active Child. In recent years, grossi has released two albums and received comparisons to Washed Out and Elite gymnastics. But in his newest EP, “Rapor,” grossi has released six disappointing songs that sound far more like bad depeche Mode than any of the interesting, beautifully orchestrated songs on his previ­ous albums. The EP’s single, “Evening Ceremony,” showed promise, with some clear R&B influence and a James Blake-like sound, but the remaining tracks miss the mark. Even with the help of collaborators like Ellie goulding and Mikky Ekko, “Rapor” fails to come together and is ulti­mately difficult to enjoy. 

Unknown Mortal Orchestra – “Blue Record” 
If you haven’t checked out unknown Mortal Orchestra’s second album, “II,” you have another chance with their EP, “Blue Record.” The EP features five acoustic songs, includ­ing three covers of songs from their most recent album and two covers of other artists, Beck’s “Puttin it down” and The dirty Projectors’ “Swing Lo Magellan.” While the group certainly isn’t known for anything acoustic, the covers somehow work, simultaneously sounding unlike anything else they’ve made while maintaining their cool, psych-rock sound. yet another reason to love unknown Mortal Orchestra. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
film, and this failure to capture the gravity and pressure that Wiggin experiences inevitably detracts from the se­riousness of the situation. This is quite sad because the material had some solid potential to go far deeper into the psyche of this troubled child and the trauma he had to endure so that the innocents of Earth could have a chance at survival. 
I will admit, though, that just because it didn’t meet my expectations of what the movie could have been, does not mean that it was necessarily a bad film. The lack of character development was a little disheartening, but the action sequences were a highlight. The battle room fights were awesome but were surpassed by the crowning jew­els of the action, the space battles. 
If you are looking to watch an action flick, go right ahead, I guarantee you will enjoy it. however, do not ex­pect the storyline or the characters to reach even half of the potential exhibited in the books. 
Contact Juan Cancio at jcancio@nd.edu 
“Ender’s Game” 
Chartoff Productions 
Starring: Harrison Ford, Ben Kingsley, Asa Butterfield Director: Gavin Hood 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bears and Pack: R-E-S-P-E-C-T 

Samantha Zuba 
Sports Writer 
A weird sort of respect exists between longtime rivals. 
Bears and Packers fans un­derstand. Since the storied franchises first played each other in 1921, Bears and Packers fans have been more than a little suspicious of one another. Bears fans can’t understand the allure of those silly cheese hats, and Packers fans hate how Chicagoans drive like highway speed limits don’t exist and state troopers will never catch them. 
But somehow, the fans and teams from green Bay and Chicago respect each other. 
The crazies in green-and­yellow and navy-and-orange acknowledge they need each other. The Bears might despise the Packers, but without those ridiculous Cheeseheads, there is no rivalry. Without the Bears and the lunatic drivers who are their fans, there is no rivalry. 
This does not mean the Bears or the Packers would like to see each other succeed. Absolutely not. Come Sunday (or Monday or Thursday), both sides would like to see the other get obliterated. 
Still, with pride comes the necessity of having someone to wield pride over. It’s even better when a team can hold their suc­cess over the heads of another historic team. 
The Bears beat the Packers 27-20 Monday, but they earned more than the right to brag about one game. 
When the tides turn in the Bears-Packers rivalry, the win­ner takes over more than 80 years of bragging rights. The Bears and the Packers respect each other because their collec­tive history makes the rivalry exciting and one of the best in professional sports. Their col­lective success is even stronger than one team’s history. 
Monday night’s storyline would have been interesting without the background of the rivalry. Behind backup-turned­starting quarterback Josh McCown, the Bears and rookie NFL head coach Marc Trestman challenged the division-lead­ing Packers, who had beaten the Bears in six consecutive matchups. 
years of rivalry supercharges this kind of atmosphere. Now it’s about Chicago’s laborious struggle to find a franchise quarterback, while green Bay has been a quarterback factory, training home-grown prod­ucts in Brett Favre and Aaron Rodgers. Now it’s about the Bears’ vendetta against Favre for years of precision torture and B.J. Raji for his intercep­tion, touchdown and dancing celebration during the 2011 NFC Championship game in Chicago. 
green Bay and Chicago have caused each other sporting pain for decades, so both organiza­tions know how it feels both to lose excruciatingly and to win triumphantly in the rivalry. It’s a strange form of respect, but this understanding of defeat and victory connects the teams and fans. 
It creates a weird apprecia­tion for the rival’s success, too. 
during Favre’s career, Bears fans couldn’t stand him. By the end of his career, neither could Packers fans. But Bears fans couldn’t help but appreciate some of Favre’s great perfor­mances — in a complicated way. 
Chicagoans gave Favre a pat on the back for being absurdly talented, while promising, at the same time, to make him cry next time around. “Brett,” Bears fans seemed to say, “you are not welcome in our homes, but thanks for keeping the rivalry great.” 
The feeling is at once resent­ful and begrudgingly grateful. 
It’s not the same when the Packers play anyone else. Losing to, say, the San diego Chargers would annoy a typical Packers fan, and perhaps anger a belligerent one. But only a loss to the Bears can keep a Packers fan up at night with nightmares about the Chicagoan next to him in the stands wearing a ditka mustache and chanting for “da Bears.” Only a loss to the Packers can keep a lactose-tolerant Bears fan up at night, worrying about cheese. 
That’s special. That’s a rivalry. 
And somehow, that’s respect. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

The not-so-Big Ten struggles in bowl season 
Associated Press 
INdIANAPOLIS — No. 4 Ohio State is chasing per­fection and a chance play for a national champion­ship. No. 18 Michigan State has the inside track to the Big Ten championship game. 
Four other conference teams are bowl-eligible and Iowa could join that list with a win this weekend. 
But with only four weeks left in the regular sea­son, the Big Ten is looking at the possibility of com­ing up short in postseason play again — even before the bowl lineups are an­nounced. With eight bowl tie-ins, six qualifiers and Iowa on the cusp, the last available spot will have to be filled by one of three teams that are a combined 1-12 in league play: Illinois, Indiana or Northwestern. 
“I think it’s pretty evi­dent to our guys that our backs are against the wall,” Wildcats coach Pat Fitzgerald said Tuesday. “We’ve had every opportu­nity to win four out of our last five games and unfortu­nately we haven’t coached our guys well enough or our guys haven’t executed well enough in games, especial­ly in the fourth quarter, to win. It’s disappointing but with games left ahead of us, we have opportunities and really we just have to coach our guys to play better and if we do that, we’ll be all right.” 
For the Big Ten, this is not an unusual predicament. 
The league failed to pro­duce enough bowl-eligible teams to fill its allotment four times it the last five years and it could hap­pen again. The lone excep­tion during that five-year span came in 2011 when conference officials had to find a bowl game to take the Fighting Illini because there were more bowl-eli­gible teams from the league available than actual game commitments. 
A league spokesman 

FOR RENT 
Spring Semester Rental. Prime location next to Eddy Street. Email for photos and additional info nd­house@sbcglobal.net 

wrote in an email to The Associated Press that Commissioner Jim delany was not available for com­ment Tuesday because of meeting and his travel schedule. But clearly, this is not how the conference envisioned the final month playing out. 
“We’re all trying to do that (win six), and we’re all trying to do better than that,” Iowa coach Kirk Ferentz said. “I think we really just try to get our guys focused on the week at hand. I think most coaches do that. That’s what it’s all about, so if you want to be somewhere good at the end of the season, then you have to handle each step along the way. If you do that, the more apt you are to be in a good place at the end.” 
Most analysts expect the unbeaten Buckeyes and surging Spartans, the league’s two division lead­ers, to meet in Indianapolis on dec. 7. The winner would become the first team other than No. 21 Wisconsin to win the Big Ten title game, ending the Badgers’ streak of three consecutive Rose Bowl appearances. 
The Badgers, peren­nial powers Michigan and Nebraska and surprising Minnesota all have at least six wins, enough to fill out the New year’s day allot­ment with one team left over for a non-New year’s day game — the Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl, the Texas Bowl or the Little Caesar’s Pizza Bowl. Iowa’s best chance to join the club comes this weekend when it travels to reeling Purdue (5-4, 2-3). 
But things could get tricky if the Boilermakers end a six-game losing streak. Iowa (5-4, 2-3) would then have to beat either Michigan at home or Nebraska on the 
road just to qualify.  
Then  there  are  other  
three:  
—  Northwestern  (4-5,  

0-5), once ranked in the top 20, is trying to get healthy during this week’s bye. It needs to win two its last three with home games against Michigan and Michigan State and a trip to Illinois. 
—
 The Illini (3-5, 0-4) have lost 18 straight conference games, yet somehow still have a shot. how? If Illinois wins three of its last four — at Indiana, home against Ohio State, at Purdue and at Northwestern — it’s in. 

—
 Indiana’s best chance may have evaporated with a fumbled lateral in the fi­nal 30 seconds last week­end. That mistake dropped the hoosiers to 3-5 (1-3), forcing them to win three of their last four — home against Illinois, trips to Wisconsin and Ohio State, and the home finale against Purdue — to reach the six-win mark. 


There could be a way out, though it’s a longshot. Last year, the NCAA opened the possibility of putting 5-7 teams in the postseason but only if there weren’t enough qualifiers to fill ev­ery bowl slot and then only if a school ranks in the top five of football’s Academic Progress Rate rankings. 
The Big Ten can’t count on that, putting pressure on virtually every team in the league to keep winning — from division leaders trying to protect their leads to the Big Ten title game hopefuls needing help to the bowl-game hopefuls and even for a team such as Purdue, which is playing spoiler as it tries to avoid its first win­less conference season in two decades. 
“I think that’s part of football, part of life, there’s always pressure on you to succeed,” Illini coach Tim Beckman said. “We came darn close this last week (at Penn State) to having that first success, I want these players to feel those suc­cesses. So yeah there’s pres­sure on you each and every football game to be better, but in my opinion that’s how the programs that are being built get better is be­ing able to succeed in those pressure moments.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Bad Puns Gallore! Two drums and a cymbal fall off a cliff... ba-dum chhh! A horse walks into a bar. The bartend­er asks, “Why the long face?”  What do you call a fish with no eyes? A fsh. When a clock is hungry, it goes back four seconds. I usually take steps to avoid elevators.  



MEN’S SWIMMING 

Stephens leads by example 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Writer 
Ask Irish head coach Tim Welsh to name the best race he has ever seen from junior Zach Stephens — one that sticks out more than the oth­ers — and he might have a difficult time choosing just one. 
“There have been lots of them,” Welsh said. “I know at one point, we kept mov­ing him around, and he kept doing well, and we thought, maybe we should just ask him what he could swim.” 
For now, Stephens seems to have found his place in the 200-yard breaststroke, an event in which he holds a school record in a blazing 1:55.21, set at last year’s Big East Championships. And whose record did he break? his own: he’s held the mark since his freshman year. 
Welsh said he remem­bers a particularly good race for Stephens in that event against Louisville last season. 
“One of the most outstand­ing races [at Rolfs Aquatic Center] was probably when he went under two minutes in the 200[-yard] breast­stroke last year,” Welsh said. “And he did that just in the middle of a dual meet, and I thought, oh my goodness, this is just outstanding.” 

But, as Welsh said, Stephens is no one-trick pony. In his sophomore year, he claimed first place in the 50-yard freestyle, 200-yard freestyle, 100-yard breast­stroke, 200-yard breast­stroke and 100-yard butterfly in meets throughout the sea­son. he also finished out­side the top-two positions in individual events in dual meets just three times that year. 
“he’s a really, really, re­ally good competitor,” Welsh said. “he’s a very in­tense racer. he’s a very good competitor.” 
Welsh said the drive that fuels the Bloomsburg, Pa., native to victory is some­thing he developed over his time at Notre dame. 
“As he’s gotten better, he’s learned to give him­self to a race,” Welsh said. “Everybody kind of swims with what they have, but with Zach, what makes him such a good competitor is that he’s able to just give himself completely to a race. There’s an extra gear in there somewhere, and he finds it.” 
With all the success he has had over the past two-plus season and the accolades he has collected, including last year’s Monogram Club Most Valuable Player award, voted by his teammates, Stephens has reason to be a little con­fident. But Welsh said confi­dence never translates into cockiness on the pool deck. 
“he’s a modest, unassum­ing guy, so you’re not going to hear any bragging or boast­ing from him; you’re not go­ing to see any trash talk from him,” Welsh said. “he just takes care of business.” 
That combination of suc­cess and modesty has made a popular teammate out of Stephens, whose sister, Jessica, swam for the Irish from 2003 to 2007. 
“he is a team player,” Welsh said. “When he’s with the guys him, on the bus traveling to meet, wherever, he’s a team player. The guys like him, he likes the guys, and he’s very supportive of the program. 
“he’s not self-inflated at all; he’s just a quiet, modest, hardworking, tough-as-nails competitor.” 
Stephens will next put that competitive drive on display Saturday, when the he and the Irish take on Pittsburgh and Virginia Tech in Pittsburgh. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


NCAA BASEBALL 

NCAA rolls out new ball for 2015 
Associated Press 
The NCAA cleared the way Tuesday for teams to start using a new baseball in 2015 in hopes of increasing the number of runs scored. 
The division I baseball committee’s unanimous vote allows conferences to adopt the new ball for regular-season play. The ball, shown by researchers to fly farther, will be used during the NCAA baseball tournament in 2015. 
The ball will have flat seams and be similar to the kind used in professional baseball. A raised-seam ball is now used in the college game. 
Clemson’s Jack Leggett and Rice’s Wayne graham led the call for a new ball after di­aled-back bats put into play in 2011 led to a drop in of­fense to levels not seen since the wooden-bat era before 1974. An American Baseball Coaches Association sur­vey this fall found that 87 percent of coaches who re­sponded wanted to make the change. 
“When a guy nails a ball really good and squares up on it, a ball that should be a home run should be a home run and not wind up on the warning track,” ABCA ex­ecutive director dave Keilitz said. 
The decline in offense has been most visible on the game’s biggest stage, the College World Series. Last year, there were three home runs hit in 14 games — the fewest since there were two in 1966. The .234 CWS bat­ting average was the low­est since it was .227 in 1974, the year metal bats replaced wood. 
The CWS moved to Td Ameritrade Park in 2011, the same year the new bat standards went into ef­fect. The dimensions are identical to those at the old Rosenblatt Stadium, though Td Ameritrade sits lower and the wind typically blows in. 
Those dynamics aren’t enough to explain the dis­parity in offensive numbers. 
There was an average of 33 home runs over the last 10 years the CWS was played at Rosenblatt. There have been a total of 22 home runs hit at Td Ameritrade Park in three years. 
The committee’s decision affects only the height of the seams. Other specifications remain the same. 
Leggett said while he’s pleased the flat-seamed ball was approved, one more change is needed. he said a slightly harder core, match­ing the specs of the minor-league ball, would give an additional bump to offense but wouldn’t risk player safety. 
“Trust me, we’ve taken bat­ting practice with the minor-league ball, and it’s not like balls are flying out,” Leggett said. “It just helps to get the ball off to the gap. It’ll make a difference but not something so noticeable it would change the game drastically.” 
The 2013 CWS statistics re­flected what happened dur­ing the season. Entering the CWS the national batting av­erage of .274 was the lowest since 1975 (.273), team scor­ing of 5.28 runs a game was the lowest since 1973 (5.07) and team home runs per game of 0.42 was lowest since 1973 (0.42). 
Washington State re­searchers found that flat-seamed balls launched at a typical home-run trajectory traveled about 387 feet com­pared with raised-seam balls that went about 367 feet. The findings were duplicated in research by Rawlings, the primary ball manufacturer for colleges. 
The baseball committee was more concerned about the overall dip in offense than about the decrease in home runs, said chairman dennis Farrell, commission­er of the Big West Conference. he said outfielders will have to play deeper, creating big­ger gaps, because of the po­tential for longer ball flight. 
“how many more home runs it leads to,” he said, “we have no way of knowing.” 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish travel to Syracuse for ACC matchup 
By MERI KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a successful weekend with two back-to­back wins, Notre dame traveled to Syracuse, N.y. to compete against ACC opponent Syracuse today. 
Irish coach debbie Brown said in order to win, the team needs to continue the momen­tum of offensive production, a skill she said the team excelled at last weekend. 
“Last weekend we did really well generating more kills and having greater efficiency, and I think it is really important to keep that emphasis,” Brown said. “Even though this is some­thing we have been working on all season, I feel like we really made it over the hump.” 
Notre dame (10-13, 4-8 ACC) had a quick turnaround from its last game, with only one day between Sunday’s match against Pittsburgh and travel­ing to Syracuse. Nonetheless, Brown said the Irish prepared as well as they could, looking over film and attempting to get to know Syracuse (11-13, 6-6) a little better. 
“Syracuse has a couple effi­cient hitters with high kills, but the thing that is a little more challenging is that they use a different lineup a lot, so we don’t know the exact lineup,” Brown said. “But we do know the hitter tendencies, and we want to use that to our advantage.” 
Brown said she hopes know­ing more about Syracuse’s play­ing style will assist Notre dame in slowing down the Orange’s offensive and shutting down their top hitters. 
The team usually has a set schedule before away games to establish consistency, Brown said, but something that stands out about this game is the arena where the game will be held. The Carrier dome has a capacity of 49,250, compared to Purcell Pavilion’s capacity of 9,149. 
“We have never [played] in something this big,” Brown said. “We are eager to get in there early today, to get in some serving and passing, to get used to it.” 
Brown said Syracuse and Notre dame are very similar, but the Irish have their work cut out for them if they expect to win. 
“We know this isn’t going to be easy,” Brown said. “We also know it’s going to be very com­petitive, but certainly, we are going in with every intention of winning.” 
Notre dame and Syracuse will play at 7 p.m. tonight in the Carrier dome. 
Contact Meri Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 


NBA 

Ellis paces Mavericks in win 
Associated Press 
dALLAS — Monta Ellis had 30 points and nine assists, dirk Nowitzki was one of seven dallas players in double figures with 11points and the Mavericks beat the Los Angeles Lakers 123­104 Tuesday night. 
Ellis, Nowitzki’s new pick­and-roll partner, put on a show for Steve Nash, the big german’s buddy and old running mate. he was 11 of 14 from the field, made all eight of his free throws and had just one turnover. 
Nash was scoreless until the second half and finished with five points. Nick young led the Lakers with 21. 
The Mavericks never trailed, led by 20 late in the first half and pushed the lead to 26 early in the second half after Ellis got them off to a quick start with a jumper and two assists, includ­ing one when Nowitzki took the pass and ducked under a de­fender’s arm for the layup. 
Jose Calderon had 12 points on 4-of-6 shooting from 3-point range, including one that put dallas ahead 90-60 with 4:33 left in the third quarter. The Mavericks were 13 of 27 from long range. 
The Lakers tried to make it interesting with a 19-4 run, but deJuan Blair stopped it by blocking a layup attempt by Chris Kaman, leading to a 3-pointer by rookie gal Mekel after Nowitzki passed out of a double team. 
Mekel scored again on layup off a steal from Blair, who had 10 points — all in the first half — and eight rebounds. 
The top three scores came off the bench for the Lakers, who were blown out for the second time in two road games with­out Kobe Bryant. After young, Jordan Farmar and Jodie Meeks had 11 apiece. 
Jae Crowder kept the Lakers from getting any closer by go­ing 4 of 5 from 3-point range in the second half, and getting a breakaway dunk on assist from Ellis. he finished with 18. 
Nowitzki didn’t get his first points until he faked Pau gasol and drove for a dunk to put the Mavericks up 59-39 with 3 min­utes left in the first half. 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

All-American Reaney steadily leads team 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Junior breaststroker Emma Reaney started off her col­lege career with a bang and has never looked back. 
Named MVP by the Monogram Club her fresh­man year, Reaney has bro­ken school records in seven events, was named an All-American in two events, given honorable mention All-America in two more events and competed in the 
u.S. Olympic trials after her freshman year. Reaney was also named to the 2013-2014 National team, based on her performance at the u.S. Open. 
“My 200 breaststroke this summer at the  u.S. Open was one of my favorite races ever,” Reaney said. “I was re­ally ready for that race and I knew it.” 
Reaney said despite all the success, she’s always tried to stay humble and focus on the next race. 
“I try not to let it get to my head,” Reaney said. “My family has always taught me to be humble and thankful for all I have and that’s all I can do.” 

Instead of allowing the success to heighten her ex­pectations in each race, Reaney said she has contin­ued to train and to focus on every individual competi­tion with what she calls her “Let’s do this” mentality. 
“I don’t think about it too much,” Reaney said. “I just try to have fun and dance out the nerves before I get up on the blocks but other than that I pretty much try to think about anything but swimming.” 
Reaney said she first looked at Notre dame after getting a call from her for­mer club coach in Lawrence, Kan., current Irish coach Brian Barnes. 
“When he called to re­cruit me, I hadn’t even been thinking of Notre dame,” Reaney said. “I decided I’d give it a shot because of the reputation the school had and that Brian had as a coach.” 
Reaney’s decision has paid off. In her junior sea­son, Reaney was named ACC swimmer of the week after her first weekend of compe­tition — the first ACC honor awarded to an Irish swim­mer. In just three meets this season, Reaney has already qualified for the NCAA B cuts in the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke. 
A leader on the team com­petitively since her fresh­man year, Reaney said she hopes she has become a leader for the Irish in and out of the pool. 
“I think I’m a leader in that I will speak up for the good of the team or the good of a few people when it needs to be done,” Reaney said. “I also hope that I am a leader by example when it comes to hard work, technique and dedication in and out of the pool.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 




PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


M Soccer 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
season in the 60th minute. Only 37 seconds later, junior forward Vince Cicciarelli gave the Irish a two-goal lead and notched his fourth goal on the season. Cicciarelli has scored in the past two games. 
“Cicciarelli continues to be a threat to any team he faces,” Clark said. “And harry Shipp did what he always does. he did an amazing job.” 
With 59:37 on the clock, Shipp received a pass from junior midfielder Robby gallegos at the top of the box and placed a bank shot off the right post into the net to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. With 60:14 on the clock, Cicciarelli, assisted by se­nior forward Leon Brown and sophomore midfielder Patrick hodan, ripped a shot from eight yards out of the penalty box and beat Spartan sophomore goalkeeper Zach Bennett to the near post. 
“getting two goals that quick was definitely was a big contributor [to putting away the Spartans], but it was still a contest right up until the end of the game,” Clark said. “We played very well in the second half, and when we got the two goals, it definitely made it hard for them to get back in the game.” 
The Irish were unable to get a lot of offense going in the first half, putting only two shots on goal, while Michigan State mustered four. The Irish defense staved off the Spartan attack un­til the two goals sprung the game open. 
“We opened the game very well, actually,” Clark said. “Somehow we got dragged down a little bit. We dropped back too much defensively, maybe. But we came out strong in the second half.” 
Bennett made five saves on the night from 16 Notre dame shots, while Irish se­nior goalkeeper Patrick Wall made five saves on 15 shots. It was Wall’s sixth shutout of the season. 
The win over the Spartans comes three days after a 3-1 Notre dame victory away at No. 13 Wake Forest on Saturday. Clark said the trav­el may have been an issue in the first half but did not af­fect the Irish overall. 
“Every game on our sched­ule is a problem,” Clark said. “We always create a tough schedule for ourselves. We don’t have one game that we can check in our win column. That was always going to be a challenge, but this team has risen to every challenge it meets.” 
The Irish face their fi­nal challenge of the regular season as they host ACC foe Pittsburgh on Friday at 7 
p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


Lorton 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
Michigan State on Tuesday. That’s 1,640 miles, two top-20 teams and two wins in the span of a little under 72 hours. Notre dame is undefeated on the road with a 6-0-1 record. 
And let’s not forget that on top of the grueling schedule the Irish face, they are in a completely new conference — one of the best conferences in the nation. Every ACC team they play is unknown territory. yet, their conference record? 6-1-3. 
It is quite impressive what the Irish have done so far this season, and they deserve the No. 1 spot, but Irish coach Bobby Clark said the ranking has no effect on his team. 
And it shouldn’t. 
“We never discuss it,” Clark said. “[Rankings] have never been mentioned in our locker room. And they won’t be. Rankings are for the media and the fans. To the players, it means absolutely nothing. We won’t talk about it internally until the end of the season.” 
The Irish still have confer­ence opponent Pittsburgh at home Friday to worry about before they enter into the ACC tournament and then the NCAA playoffs. The Irish men­tality is that every game is a playoff game, and their perfor­mance reflects that. 
Notre dame is firing on all cylinders. Its defense boasts a 0.68 goals-against average, while the offense looks to be finishing opportunities as of late. 
But a No. 1 ranking can only carry a team so far. When it comes down to double over­time in single elimination, any­thing can happen. So, the Irish need to take advantage of the chances they get on offense. 
The Irish can’t become com­placent with their powerful defense. If they sit back and can’t connect on opportuni­ties, nights like the 2-0 loss to Virginia on Oct. 16 will happen again. It is Notre dame’s only loss on the year, but from it comes a valuable lesson: be ag­gressive. In the past two games, the goals that have been scored by the Irish were within five minutes of each other. In the Wake Forest game, the first two Irish goals were just four minutes and 17 minutes apart, while in the Michigan State game, the goals were scored 37 seconds apart. After a goal, the Irish cannot sit back and hope its defense will hold onto the lead. In these playoff matches, overtime golden goals can go either way. 
At the end of the season, the Irish want to say they were the No. 1 team in the country 
— and have the hardware to prove it. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Football 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
backs through the years that we played them,” Kelly said. “This year it seems to be more prolific in terms of throwing the football. Maybe that’s a lit­tle bit different from last year.” 
Pittsburgh senior Tom Savage (whom Kelly played while he was at Cincinnati and Savage was at Rutgers) has thrown for 1,779 yards and 14 touchdowns with seven in­terceptions. he has managed to do this behind an offensive line that has allowed 29 sacks. Pittsburgh ranks 118th in the country (out of 123 teams) in sacks allowed per game. 
Kelly said the Panthers al­ways play the Irish tough. 
“Midwestern team, tough, blue collar, physical, they don’t seem to like Notre dame very much, and they want to beat Notre dame,” he said. “I think it’s one of those games where you know you’re going to go in and it’s going to be a fight. We’re prepared for that.” 
Updates on injuries 
While Kelly announced on Sunday junior linebacker Ben Councell had suffered a “sig­nificant knee injury” during the win over Navy, he con­firmed Councell hurt his ACL and will be out for the rest of the season. Councell would likely be limited during spring practice, Kelly said. 
Sophomore linebacker Romeo Okwara, who has seen time as a defensive end, drop linebacker and cat line­backer, will fill in for Councell as freshman Jaylon Smith’s backup. 
Kelly said senior nose tackle Louis Nix and sophomore de­fensive end Sheldon day would both practice and he is hoping for them to play Saturday. 
With a depleted front seven, the Irish will look toward other 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 



players — like graduate stu-freshman defensive lineman dent Tyler Stockton, senior de-Isaac Rochell — to take some fensive lineman Justin utupo, snaps. junior linebacker Anthony Rabasa, sophomore defen-Contact Matthew DeFranks sive lineman Jarron Jones and at mdefrank@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS |  hILLARy MANgIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 


HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kevin Jonas, 26; Tatum O’Neal, 50; Bryan Adams, 54; Art garfunkel, 72. 
Happy Birthday: See, believe and finish what you start. you’ll have control and can master whatever you set your mind to. Engage in the unique and aim to grab attention with your persistent and precise way of dealing with anything or anyone that confronts you. don’t let the past stand in your way. Take a different approach and try again. your numbers are 5, 13, 20, 24, 31, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): gravitate toward what’s realistic. Let your faith lead you in the right direction. your knowledge and expertise will not disappoint you. Talk with someone you feel has something to add to your life. Stand by your eth­ics and you will have no regrets.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An old friend or colleague will help you make a decision based on your past performance. Changing where you live or searching for information or solutions outside your local parameters will lead to answers. honor whatever rules are set. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a moment to go over all the facts and decipher what’s transpired. There is no point getting angry or frustrated over an emotional situation that you cannot alter. Someone is withholding information or not tell­ing the truth.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Speak up and join in. don’t be afraid to be different. your unique way of dealing with others will garner the response and help you need in return. Let your emotions lead the way. Keep your energy focused on improving your environment.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll be looking for a good time but not everyone will be in the mood to join you. due to personal responsibilities or promises you made at work, must be taken care of before you can take off with friends. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll capture attention with your selective way of dealing with people and projects. Trouble at home must not be allowed to slow down your progress or hinder your work ethics. Make whatever personal change is necessary to avoid emotional manipulation. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t miss out on a professional opportunity be­cause you are too busy making personal plans. Take care of business and put the effort in to gain the confidence of those willing to pay for your skills and service. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a close look at your to-do list and get the ball rolling. A little action will help you regain someone’s interest. Romance coupled with a promise to make special plans with someone will enhance your personal life.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Address financial matters realistically if you want to make progress. don’t let your emotions lead you down a path that stands between you and a resolution that can result in benefits. Cut your losses and be thankful for what you receive. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you don’t have to make an impulsive move. Watch what everyone else does and you will realize you are in a good position that only requires you to carry on and do your thing. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Listen carefully and prepare to make changes that are based on your needs, not on what someone else expects from you. you will learn through past mistakes and by dealing with humanitarian concerns. Let your emotions guide you. Act on impulse. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Tie up loose ends. Put agreements and contracts to rest. Show your interest and negotiate your position. you have everything to gain by speaking up and taking charge. This is not the time to let emotions or insecurity take over. 


Birthday Baby: you are persistent, curious and intuitive. you are serious-mind­ed and intense. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


FOOTBALL 
Call ‘em out 

Pittsburgh tight end J.P. Holtz calls out ‘cocky’ Notre Dame; Nix should return against Panthers 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Pittsburgh sophomore tight end J.P. holtz made no attempt to hide his feeling for Notre dame. 
“I just think they’re really cocky and their coaches are re­ally cocky. I just don’t like that,” holtz said to reporters Monday. 
holtz’s Panthers (4-4) will look to do Saturday what they could not last year — take down Notre dame. The No. 23 Irish (7-2) enter Pittsburgh on the heels of four consecutive victories and back-to-back of­fensive performances of 45 and 38 points against Air Force and Navy, respectively. 
“We found a pretty good rhythm, offensively, over the last few weeks,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We want to build on that.” 
despite his offense’s recent success, Kelly said the unit cannot lead the Irish to a BCS bowl game on its own. 
“We know more about our strengths and weaknesses of­fensively, and that’s pretty clear, and I think we know now … who we are offensively and that is where we’ll move for­ward,” he said. “I don’t think we’re a strength in terms of being able to carry this team. We’re going to need every piece working together.” 
The Irish will have to deal with Panthers senior defensive tackle Aaron donald, whom Kelly described as a “one-man wrecking crew.” donald leads the nation in tackles for loss per game and is third in sacks per game. On the season, the 6-foot, 285-pounder has 36 tackles, 19.5 for loss and nine sacks. 
“We know about him from last year,” Kelly said. “Big, physical defensive line, and he will be somebody that we will have to game-plan and find a way to slow down.” 
In last year’s 29-26 triple-overtime Irish win, donald had seven tackles, including one for loss. 
On the offensive side of the combined 26 yards, including a ball, the Panthers have strug-minus-8 figure against georgia gled to find consistency. In Tech last week. their last three games against Still, Kelly said running the BCS conference opponents, football is a staple of Pittsburgh the Panthers have rushed for a teams. 


“Running the football has always been one of their trade­marks, because they always had outstanding running 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER | Nd 2, MIChIgAN STATE 0 
No. 1 Notre dame defeats No. 18 Michigan State 
Squad secures big road win 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
In a repeat of last sea­son’s NCAA Championship second-round matchup, the No. 1 Irish traveled to No. 18 Michigan State on Tuesday and came home with a 2-0 win. 
Much like last season’s 3-0 playoff victory over the Spartans (9-4-3), Notre dame (10-1-5) has a lot riding on the line. 
“It was a very important win for us,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “[Michigan State] is a high RPI team in our re­gion. It will help our RPI from here on out, because we beat a very good ranked team on the road.” 
After a first half without scoring, the Irish netted two goals in quick succession midway through the sec­ond half to take a 2-0 lead they never relinquished. Senior captain and forward harrison Shipp scored his team-high seventh goal of the 
see M SOCCER PAGE 13 

Irish face tough schedule ahead 

Isaac Lorton 
Sports Writer 
Early Tuesday morning, the Irish were named the No. 1 team in the country. 
Later that afternoon, they proved why, with a 2-0 victory over No. 18 Michigan State. 
Notre dame (10-1-5) tallied its sixth shutout and ninth multiple-goal game of the season. 
The Spartans (9-4-3) are no easy team to beat on the road, as they currently sit at No. 11 in the RPI standings. Prior to Tuesday’s matchup, the Spartans held a 14-5 advantage in goals over their opponents while at home. 
Now as the No. 1 team in the country, it would be expected that the Irish beat the No. 18 team, but it is not that simple. It is Notre dame’s second away game in three days against ranked opponents. The Irish beat then-No. 12 Wake Forest 3-1 Saturday, returned home, had one practice and then beat 
see LORTON PAGE 14 





