THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 
VOLUME 46, ISSUE 69 | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Judge dismisses lawsuit against HHS Freedom Act and other fed-those budget decisions need time they believe is need-regulation,” Miller wrote. By MEGAN DOYLE Managing Editor eral laws. The mandate is part to be made now. ed for those changes to be University Spokesman of the Patient Protection and But in a compromise an-made. Court documents list Dennis Brown said the ad-A federal judge has dis-Affordable Care Act, passed in nounced last year, the fed-the defendants as Health and ministration is still examin­
missed the University’s 2010. eral government had granted Human Services Secretary ing the judge’s ruling. religious liberty lawsuit chal-U.S. District Court Judge Notre Dame and other reli-Kathleen Sebelius, Labor “We are reviewing the opin­
lenging the constitutional-Robert Miller Jr. ruled Jan. gious employers a year-long Secretary Hilda Solis, ion and considering our op­
ity of a mandate that requires 2 that the lawsuit should “safe harbor” before any reg-Treasury Secretary Timothy tions, but it is important to employers to provide con-be dismissed because the ulations would take effect. In Geithner and their respective note that this is not a ruling traceptive services in their University’s claim is not yet Miller’s written opinion on departments. on the merits of our claim minimum health insurance “ripe,” meaning it is not ready the case, he stated the defen-“Notre Dame lacks standing that the challenged mandate packages. to be litigated. dants have announced they to attack the present regula-infringes on religious liberty,” The lawsuit, filed last May, Notre Dame argued the are working to refashion the tory requirement because it Brown said. states the mandate would go University needs to set aside mandate and its exemptions, isn’t subject to that require-Law professor Rick Garnett, against Church teachings and significant funds for the costs and he dismissed the case be-ment, and, taking the defen-an expert on religious liberty therefore violates the First it would incur in connection cause Notre Dame remains dants at their word, never Amendment, the Religious with the regulations, and under the safe harbor for the will be subject to the present see HHS PAGE 7 
Championship game draws Irish faithful Despite loss, fans 
BCS competitors cherish Miami partner to build experience urban garden 
By KRISTEN DURBIN By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Editor News Writer Despite the disappointing 
While the Notre Dame and outcome of the BCS National Alabama football teams pre-Championship on Jan. 7, pared for their faceoff in the Notre Dame students and fans BCS National Championship, brought South Bend to South squads of volunteers from Beach for an entire weekend the opposing communities to support their Irish against set rivalries aside to plant the University of Alabama a community garden in the Crimson Tide. Overtown neighborhood of Tens of thousands of Notre Miami. Dame fans descended on the Katie Rutledge, service pro-greater Miami area in the days grams manager for the Notre leading up to the game, includ-Dame Alumni Association, ing a star-studded Jan. 5 pep said the project originated rally featuring such Photo courtesy of Bill Purcell from the desire of the Senior David Jones and fellow volunteers plant flowers in a new community garden in Miami. Notre Dame see MIAMI PAGE 5 and the University of Alabama co-hosted the service project before the BCS National Championship game. see GARDEN PAGE 6 
Students conduct research abroad over break By JOANNA LAGEDROST News Writer While many students dedicat­­
ed their time off from classes to some much needed rest and relaxation, a number of them took the time to conduct research abroad. Seniors James McClay and Tre Carden jetted off to India to work in a Tibetan refugee commu­
nity called Mainpat, assisting in the development of an artisanal handicraft business. Their work consisted of product design and development, marketing and business strategy. McClay said the pair spent a week in the village speaking with locals about their daily routines to gain insight for the project. When not working on the busi­
ness project, they spent time studying Mainpat’s architecture, culture, and resources, all while living in the Mainpat monastery. After the week in the village, McClay and Carden traveled to Mumbai, Varanasi, Dharamsala and Jaipur in India, as well as Kathmandu, Nepal. 
“We chose these cities because they are unique and offered new perspectives on handicraft, Buddhist, Tibetan and Indian design,” McClay said. McClay said he and Carden constantly interacted with local Indian people because their re­
search required learning about local culture. “The experience was incred­­
ibly eye opening and very beneficial for the [project],” McClay said. “I learned so much while also immersing myself in a new and different culture. My ex­
pectations were exceeded and my personal experience has changed the way I view things.” Senior Katherine Damo, an account and Italian Studies ma­
jor, spent a week in Trastevere, a historic neighborhood in Rome, researching how cultural differences between Italy and the United States affect business. Damo said the op­
portunity to visit the PricewaterhouseCoopers Rome office was a highlight of the trip, having previously worked at the company’s offices in Ohio and Edinburgh, Scotland. “Researching corporate cul­
ture of the same multinational firm in three different countries see ABROAD PAGE 6 
FITNESS ADVICE PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 8 SCENE PAGE 10 HOCKEy PAGE 20 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 20 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph 
Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: 
Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising (574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office (574) 631-5313 
News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What did you do over winter break? 
Pablo Quan senior Dillon Hall “I went on tour with the wonderful Notre Dame Liturgical Choir.” 
Ashley Armendariz senior Pangborn Hall 
“I saw my newborn nephew and spent lots of time with my family.” 
April Adams junior Welsh Family Hall “I [drove] ... to Quincy, Ill., on Christmas Day to surprise my brother.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
Ashley Lawrence junior Farley Hall “I played with my baby cousin and she’s awesome.” 
Ian McGraw freshman Fisher Hall “I went down to South Beach but I don’t want to talk about it.” 
Theresa Parker junior off campus “I skiied in Colorado, tanned in the Keys and cheered for Notre Dame in Miami.” 
Want your event included here? News Sports 
John Cameron Sam Gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Christian Myers Katie Heit Sarah Swiderski Laura Coletti 
Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Jacqueline O’Neill Maria Fernandez Photo Viewpoint 
Hula Hooping Zen Meditation Blood Drive Men’s and Women’s Women’s Basketball Grant Tobin Dan Brombach LaFortune Ballroom Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Library Indoor Track Joyce Center 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Center 8 a.m.-5 
p.m. Loftus Sports Center 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Stress relief workout. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 10 a.m.-12 p.m. ND vs. St. John’s Corrections 
All faiths welcome. Invitational The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 
Film: “The Third Man” “Can Christianity the Women’s Tennis Hockey Moreau Day strives for the highest standards DeBartolo Performing Imagination of Our Eck Tennis Pavilion Compton Family Ice Scavenger Hunt of journalism at all times. We do, Arts Center Contemporaries?” 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Arena Coleman-Morse however, recognize that we will make 7:30p.m.-9:14 p.m. Geddes Hall ND vs. Bowling Green 7:05 p.m.-9:05 p.m. Center mistakes. If we have made a mistake, $7/$6/$5/$4 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. ND vs. Alaska 2 p.m.-5 p.m. please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so Lecture Feast day of Blessed we can correct our error. Basil Moreau. 
Instructors share fitness advice for new year By NICOLE MICHELS News Writer Every January, enthusias­
tic masses flood gyms to put their new resolutions to the test — and often abandon those 
workout goals before swimsuit season even begins. To avoid this mid-winter funk, physical education and wellness instructor Stephanie Gaal said students should take the time to develop real­
istic goals. “Every student’s goals are going to be different. … Every person’s body is different and so everyone’s goals are as well,” Gaal said. “The biggest mistake people make is to start off too strong and they end up injured or burned out. Be progressive.” Before starting any workout program, students need to do the research to structure their workouts properly, she said. “For students who are be­
ginners, a lot of times I see them doing things they don’t know how to do or trying to start a program that they have no idea how to start,” Gaal said. “They can’t be afraid to go in and do the research. Knowing what you’re doing is really important, you have to be mindful of what you’re do­
ing and how you’re doing it.” Students can search for sources online but should consider potential reliabil­
ity issues, Gaal said. The instructors in the Physical Education and Wellness Department are also avail­
able to help students develop a fitness or diet plan, she said. To increase their chance at sticking to a regimen, Gaal said students should choose workouts that can keep their interest. “It’s easier to stay motivated if you are enjoying yourself,” Gaal said. “Think outside the box. Try something new. Variety keeps the body guess­
ing and adapting. … It’s a matter of experimenting: not everyone likes squats, not everyone likes lunges. Often students only want to do car­
dio, but they don’t realize how good strength training can be for the body,” she said. Gaal said she cautions stu­
dents against cutting corners in their workouts. “If you think long term, it would be wise to incorporate as many parts of a solid work­
out as possible: Warm up, conditioning, flexibility and balance work, cooling down and stretching,” she said. “Recover properly: your body reaps the benefits of your ex­
ercise regime when you give it rest and sleep well. Hydrate, eat properly.” Joshua Scott, physical edu­­
cation and wellness instruc “The biggest mistake people make is to start off too strong and they end up injured or burned out. Be progressive.” Stephanie Gaal physical education instructor tor, said students should also evaluate their own time man­­
agement abilities before beginning a fitness program. “How many hours do stu­
dents want to dedicate to whatever their goal is?” he said. “Understanding what their priorities are and how they currently spend their time will give them a much better idea of how to put that [plan] into their daily lives.” 
Knowing potential barriers to success is key to attaining that success, he said. “If it were going to be some­­
thing easy to change, you would have done it already,” Scott said. “Trying to understand and develop a plan of action for getting past those barriers … especially devel­
oping a support system … will help students. Sharing what you’re doing with your close friends might inspire them to do the same, or they can help you with [your goals].” Planning ahead is crucial, he said. “For example, if you want to eat better and you’re eat­
ing regularly in the dining hall, you have the ability to look ahead for the next month and plan what you want to eat so you can make healthy, in­
formed decisions,” Scott said. Notre Dame has an abun­
dance of resources to help students devise plans, Scott said. “Online there are many great resources — and many horrible resources,” Scott said. “Meeting with some­
one here at Notre Dame can help students successfully make a fitness and wellness plan. The Physical Education Department, Rec Sports, di­­
eticians and counselors are all able to help students with a wide range of goals: nutrition, fitness, time manage­
ment or more interpersonal goals.” Scott said students should try more than one approach to fitness. “Everyone is so drastically different in how they make changes in their lives; there is a sequence of things that seem to work for a lot of peo­
ple but within that there are so many different things that seem to work — it’s more of a problem solving activity,” Scott said. The key to achieving long­­
term fitness goals and resolutions is to stay motivated, Scott said. “Even the most dedicat­
ed people are going to go through the ebb and flow of being super motivated and a little more unmotivated. … The longer you’re involved you’re just going to realize that’s reality.” Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu PAID ADVERTISEMENT PAID ADVERTISEMENT SMC gift planning welcomes new director By KAITLYN RABACH News Writer Saint Mary’s has named 1998 graduate Jennifer Winnett Denniston as its new director of gift planning, according to a College press release. Denniston returned to her alma mater for the sense of com­
munity she remembers on the campus. “There is something in­
tangible about Saint Mary’s,” Denniston said. “No words can truly describe this sisterhood. I am very blessed to be back and to be working with alumnae from across the country on setting up trusts for the College.” Denniston majored in mass communications and politi­
cal science at the College. After a few years working in the fi­
nancial industry, she attended Indiana Maurer School of Law. Denniston also has a master’s degree in business manage­
ment from Indiana Wesleyan University. In this position, Denniston will be responsible for soliciting financial gifts from alumnae. These gifts are usually in the form of a trust and are given to the College over time. 
“When I was in private prac­
tice, I actually wrote these trusts for my clients,” Denniston said. “This background has really helped my transition into this new position.” Denniston succeeds former director of gift planning Jo Ann MacKenzie, who retired earlier this fall after 24 years of service to the College. “I was able to work with Jo Ann for a couple of months,” Denniston said. “She also gradu­
ated from the College and we were able to travel together to meet with other alumnae from across the country. She really set me up for success in this position.” Denniston credited much of her success to her Saint Mary’s education. “Saint Mary’s helped me un­­
derstand that I am truly capable of anything I put my mind to,” Denniston said. “This new understanding allowed me to take risks and jump on new op­
portunities as they came to me. Law school was a risk, but Saint Mary’s taught me if I could find a way to get there I could han­
dle it. I thought the same thing when I took this job opportu­
nity and moved my family from Indianapolis to South Bend.” A former resident of Le Mans Hall, Denniston said she is happy to be back in a familiar setting. “I love Saint Mary’s College,” Denniston said. “Our students are so involved with the world around them. I am always hear­
ing of the different projects and activities they are involved in. I truly enjoy this type of work and I am thankful I can do the work I love for a college with a good cause. This job allows me to help more young women pursue some of the same educational opportunities that I did.” Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
College loses beloved spiritual leader By JILLIAN BARWICK Saint Mary’s Editor Sr. Mary Louise Gude, other­
wise known as “Sr. M.L.,” passed away on the evening of Jan. 9 at the Saint Mary’s Convent at the age of 73. She enjoyed a reward­
ing career at Saint Mary’s and the University of Notre Dame that spanned four decades. Gude was a 1963 alumna of Saint Mary’s College, having studied secondary education and French. A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Gude spent most of her adult life serving Saint Mary’s College and the University of Notre Dame in various capacities. At Saint Mary’s, she worked as as­
sistant professor of French from 1976 to 1991 and as coordinator of the French program at the College from 1977 to 1987. Most recently, she served as vice pres­
ident for mission at the College. On Monday, friends and col­
leagues honored Gude before she was laid to rest at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto on the College’s campus. Sr. Veronique Wiedower, who took over for Gude in 2011, praised Gude’s commitment to the College’s work. “Sr. M.L. was always very sup­
portive of the work of Campus Ministry,” Wiedower said. “She was a great vice president, en­­
couraging and affirming our efforts. We are both sisters of the Holy Cross and I have known her as a sister in the community for over 45 years.” 
Wiedower said Gude had a major impact on expanding di­
versity at the College, including her work with the President’s 
Council for Multicultural Affairs. “She loved to work with stu­­
dents … and was a compassionate presence to anyone in need,” Wiedower said. “[Gude] facili­­
tated the “Friend to Friend” program about sexual orientation and Church teachings for first-year students. She chaired the Going Green group, a sustain­
ability committee on campus, and also the Joint Sustainability Group between the College and the Sisters of the Holy Cross, looking at best practices that would support campus-wide sustainability.” Wiedower described her fel­
low sister’s personality as full of life and fun. “She had a brilliant mind and loved to pass on her knowledge and insights,” Wiedower said. “She contributed her transla­
tion skills and knowledge of all things French with Holy Cross programs in Le Mans, and helped to translate for Congregation chapters and in­
ternational events.” “She loved her local com­
munity and continued to share life with them even when her illness necessitated her move to Saint Mary’s Convent,” she said. “[Gude] loved getting to know our newer members from around the world and was a great mentor and teacher to them.” For Wiedower, Gude’s passing meant the loss of a sister, friend and mentor. “She knew who she was and always accepted others for who they were,” Wiedower said. “Although we are very different personalities, we worked well together and I always enjoyed spending leisure time with her. I will miss her wit, humor and deep spirituality.” Sr. Rachel Anne Callahan, an­­
other friend of Gude’s, remembered the time she spent with the sister before she was “M.L.” “My memories of Mary are a mosaic of special times and or­
dinary times — walking around the lake, her great gourmet cooking, people watching in Paris, sharing great family sto­
ries, laughing at everything and nothing,” Callahan said. Although they had been friends for 53 years, Callahan said she wishes she could have spent more time with Gude. “[We] have spent our lives in different parts of the country depending on ‘live’ visits as fre­
quently as possible and phone and email,” Callahan said. While she may be gone, Callahan said she will cherish the time she was able to spend with Gude. “[I will remember] most espe­
cially having a window into her beautiful soul,” she said. Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Miami CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 Irish legends as Lou Holtz, Joe Theismann and Mike Golic that attracted an estimated 20,000 fans to South Beach. Junior Pat Wall said the Notre Dame presence in Miami was impossible to miss. “Walking up and down the main street in South Beach … was just like walking through the quad on campus,” Wall said. “you knew someone ev­­
erywhere you would go. The amount of Notre Dame fans in Florida that week was unreal. It seemed as if we moved South Bend to South Beach and I had the time of my life.” Senior Ellen Carroll, who spent a week in Florida with her friends, said Irish spirit was rampant throughout the greater Miami area. “It was like the entire school had an extra spring break in Miami,” she said. “The crowd was huge everywhere you went and the number of Notre Dame fans was overwhelming. I hadn’t realized before going down to Miami just how large the Miami area is … but you couldn’t go anywhere without running into people you knew and Notre Dame fans who wanted to talk to you.” Carroll said she and her friends attended the Jan. 6 concert on South Beach fea­
turing country group Dierks Bentley and hip-hop artist Flo Rida. “They shouted out to the crowd to see if there were more Notre Dame or Alabama fans in the audience, and the Notre Dame fans were easily twice as loud as the Alabama fans,” she said. “It was pretty incredible to be able to travel so far from our school … and feel the same sense of family and school pride that we al­
ways have here on campus.” Sophomore Christian Knight said the beachside concert was a highlight of his trip to Miami. “While Flo Rida isn’t exactly the most musically talented artist, just being on the beach with over half the Notre Dame student body was unforget­
table,” he said. Carroll said the experience of supporting the Irish in Miami reinforced her love for the University and the mem­
bers of its family. “I never thought that I would have the chance to [watch Notre Dame play in the na­­
tional championship] as a student here, and I was so proud to be able to tell people I met that we were students at Notre Dame,” she said. Knight, who received a ticket to the game as a birthday pres­
ent, said his favorite part of the championship experience 
was the gameday activities leading up to the ultimately ill-fated matchup against Alabama. “Being able to sleep on the beach, attend several Notre Dame tailgates and attend the national championship game all on the same day … was one of the most unforgettable ex­
periences I will ever have,” he said. Wall said the extended gameday allowed more time to tailgate with friends and Notre Dame alumni. “It was impossible to move 10 feet without running into someone I knew, had class with or just recognized from around campus,” he said. “There were so many alumni tailgating who loved to talk … about their experiences at Notre Dame, and I loved get­
ting to hear about their college experience.” Regardless of the final out­
come of the game, Knight said he “would relive that weekend 100 times over.” “There is nothing better than treating winter break ‘domesickness’ with a week­
end in South Beach with all my closest friends from all across the country,” he said. Carroll, who attended the game after receiving the ticket her younger sister won in the student lottery, agreed the experience was memorable whether the Irish football team was victorious or not. “I’ve never experienced such an exciting pre-game atmo­
sphere before,” she said. “The game itself was pretty painful to watch after the first cou­
ple minutes, but I would 100 percent go again if given the chance.” Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Garden Sunday in addition to the vol-Abroad unteers provided by Roots in CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
the City, the Miami-based or-student and alumni com-ganization dedicated to com-has allowed for a side-by-side munity to demonstrate the munity development, healthy comparison which will be the Christian values of charity eating initiatives and inner-foundation of my research proj­
and gratitude. city beautification as stated ect,” Damo said. “It puts a proper perspec-on the non-profit’s website. Although busy, Damo said tive on life,” Rutledge said. “We had a lot of help from she still had some time for fun “Talking to the volunteers, guests at the Camillus House, while in Italy. [University President Fr. a shelter which also partners “I conducted informational John] Jenkins said that the with Roots for a work pro-interviews throughout the project was a victory for both gram,” Rutledge said. “Many week to obtain research but sides. This rings true, espe-of the men work in the gar-still had time to enjoy Italy — cially now after the loss. The dens on-site at Camillus, and the sights, the food and the cul­
service project and impact I think their presence added ture,” she said. will be a win for the com-to the experience for every-Senior Kalyn Fetta also trav­­
munity and those who spent one. The men were very wel eled to Italy and conducted time in service during their coming and understanding research on non-profits and Miami trips.” of people like me without non-governmental organiza-Planting season only be-green thumbs. They did a lot tions in Italy. gan recently, so volunteers of backbreaking work, mov-Damo said she and Fetta had could not immediately plant ing 3000 cement blocks and several chances to interact with the vast array of information “I had little free time be-a full garden in Overtown. more.” local Italians. available online, she had to cause of time limits placed Inspired by the service ini­“One person I interviewed lat-go to the source for certain on me by my grant bud­
tiative’s success, Rutledge er invited Kalyn and me out to resources. get,” Brandenberger said. “Talking to the said she hopes the alumni or-dinner,” Damo said. “He picked “I needed to access primary “Therefore I was overwhelm-volunteers, ganization will continue its 
a local restaurant and gave us documents from U.K. archives ingly at libraries and archives partnership with Roots in the a truly authentic Italian dinner that are unavailable elsewhere,” working alone.” [University City. 
experience. It was a wonder-she said. Although her trip was a busy President Fr. John] “The CEO of Camillus ful opportunity to talk to him Brandenberger said she was one, Brandenberger said she Jenkins said that House is a Notre Dame grad-about life in Italy, and not just productive during her trip, enjoyed the experience and 
the project was a uate, so he was very support-about the research project.” largely thanks to extensive would recommend research ive of the project,” she said. Damo said she was happy to planning. abroad to other students. victory for both “We hope to start a [Summer pursue a topic that interested “I’d say my research experi-“Though research requires 
sides. This rings Service Learning Program] her for the project. ence went very smoothly,” she a lot of hard work, it is very re-true, especially for students at the Camillus 
“I’d say my trip exceeded my said. “I spent a lot of timing warding to produce a large now after the loss. House.” expectations because I was ask-planning, and as a result knew project as an undergrad. Notre While the event required ing people questions about a exactly where I was going and Dame does a great job of mak-The service project extensive planning, Rutledge topic I was genuinely interested what I was looking at.” ing these opportunities avail-
and impact will said the opportunity to have in and I really enjoyed myself,” Because she was sourcing her able to students,” she said. 
be a win for the an impact of the community she said. “It wasn’t like most information from documents “We just need to be smart community and made it worthwhile. school projects.” rather than interviewees, enough to take advantage of the “We knew that we would Senior Ellen Brandenberger Brandenberger said she did not opportunity.” those who spent have a great turnout,” she spent a week in the United have many chances to interact 
time in service said. “Keeping 300 people 
Kingdom to complete research with the locals beyond the con-Contact Joanna Lagedrost at during their busy for three hours — es-for her history thesis. Despite fines of her hotel. jlagedro@nd.edu Miami trips.” pecially Domers who always PAID ADVERTISEMENT come ready to work — takes a Katie Rutledge lot of preparation.” Alumni Association This year’s urban gar-service programs manager den initiative continues an 
Alumni Association tradition However, the timing did not to sponsor a service proj­
stop the group from leaving a ect 
preceding bowl games, mark in the community. Rutledge explained. She said “Only a few vegetables were she hopes the service work planted in the beds — lots will continue going forward of parsley,” Rutledge said. regardless of where Notre “However, a subset of volun-Dame finds itself in the teers planted seedlings into postseason. tiny vessels, and once the “It’s an honor to be in seedlings are strong enough, charge of providing service they will be transplanted opportunities for alumni at to the raised beds. We also these big athletic events,” she planted flowers to beautify said. “There’s an obvious de­
the lot. Roots in the City pro-sire to serve among alumni cured red and white and blue and students, as evidenced and yellow flowers to repre-by the turnout.” sent the two schools.” Around 300 Notre Dame Contact Aubrey Butts at and Alabama fans, alumni abutts@nd.edu and students participated in the planting activities century average of 57 F (13.9 C). 
The hottest was 2010 when the average temperature was 
58.2 degrees (14.6 degrees Celsius). NOAA records go back to 1880. “We’re playing in a new neighborhood as far as global temperatures go, compared to even the late 20th century and especially the mid-20th century,” said Deke Arndt, head of monitoring for NOAA’s National Climatic Data Center. A weather pattern called La Nina — the flip side of El Nino 
— and mildness in Alaska, Canada, the United Kingdom and parts of Asia moderated the globe’s average tempera­
ture. The Lower 48 states in the 
U.S. recorded its hottest year last year with an average of 
55.3 F (12.9 C). PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Climate trends continued in 2012 Associated Press WASHINGTON — While the 
U.S. was smashing heat marks last year, the world as a whole barely slipped into the top 10 hottest years on record, two American science agencies said Tuesday. The global average tempera­
ture for last year would have been a record 15 years ago, an indication that what used to be unusual heat is more commonplace. Now it merely ranks 10th, something climate scientists shows man-made climate change in action. Last year’s average was 58 degrees Fahrenheit (14.5 de­
grees Celsius), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said. That’s a full degree above the 20th 
HHS CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 cases, explained the judge’s reasoning based on the fact that the mandate has not yet begun to directly affect Notre Dame’s operations. “Simply put, the district court concluded that because the mandate has not yet ac­
tually been applied to Notre Dame — and because the mandate might be changed or revised before it is ap­
plied to Notre Dame — the legal challenges to the rule are premature,” he said in an email interview. “If Notre Dame is not yet being harmed by the mandate, the reason­
ing goes, it is not yet time for Notre Dame to challenge its legality.” Garnett said he respectful­
ly disagreed with the judge’s ruling. “There is no ‘Trust us, changes are coming’ clause in the Constitution,” Garnett said. “The mandate, in its cur­
rent form, is the law and Notre Dame is facing substantial fi­
nancial costs associated with preparing to comply with that law, if and when the mandate goes into effect.” While protecting everyone’s right in such a diverse soci­
ety is challenging, Garnett reiterated the Constitution commits the government to passing laws placing a bur­
den on religious freedom only when necessary. 
“In this case, the burden is not necessary and my hope is that this case will both vin­
dicate the religious freedom rights of the various challeng­
ers, but also inspire current and future officials to be more mindful of our foundational commitment to religious free­
dom that the [federal court] was here,” he said. In an interview with The Observer last fall, University President Fr. John Jenkins ex­
plained he felt Notre Dame’s case would eventually be suc­
cessful as it moves through the legal system. “I saw a few headlines after we filed, ‘Catholic bishops, Notre Dame and 62 other insti­
tutions file lawsuit,’” Jenkins said. “That Notre Dame is picked out, and I don’t say this with arrogance, but it just shows I think people look to us for leadership on these is­
sues. If I didn’t feel it was a fundamental issue, an issue of the limits of government as against religious organi­
zations, I wouldn’t have done this.” As an outside observer, Garnett said he expected the ruling to be reviewed and re­
versed, but the University’s lawyers and administrators are responsible for deciding their next step. The ruling does not preclude another lawsuit after the issue has be­
come ripe. Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
The award goes to... Brendan Bell Sports Writer 
Christmas time is one of the peak sea­
sons for movies at the box office. I was able to spend time going to the theaters this break. Here are my thoughts on which ac­
tors, actresses and movies will win awards at the Oscars next month: Best Actor: Daniel Day-Lewis, “Lincoln.” A method-actor, Daniel Day-Lewis has been known to go to great lengths to mas­
ter a role. Director Steven Spielberg wanted to make “Lincoln” three years earlier, but Daniel Day-Lewis insisted that he perfect the voice of President Lincoln before film­
ing. One of the most selective actors in Hollywood, he has starred in only seven movies since 1997, and yet he has won two Best Actor awards at the Oscars during that period. I think this year Daniel Day-Lewis will add a third to his shelf, as he is ex­
tremely convincing in his role as President Lincoln during the legislation process of the 13th Amendment. Best Actress: Jennifer Lawrence, “Silver Linings Playbook.” Jennifer Lawrence alongside Bradley Cooper in a romantic comedy shot in the suburbs of Philadelphia. Between Cooper, Lawrence and Robert De Niro, the film has plenty of star power. “Silver Linings Playbook” follows the life of Cooper’s character, ex-teacher Pat Solitano, as he leaves a mental hospital and returns home to live with his parents. Solitano tries to find a way to get in contact with his ex-wife who has left him, but instead meets Tiffany, played by Lawrence. Best Supporting Actor: Christoph Waltz, “Django Unchained.” In Quentin Tarantino’s “Django Unchained,” Waltz is the driving force behind the plot and the never-ending action that ensues. Waltz has worked in movies with Tarantino be­
fore, and in this western he plays a bounty hunter and helps Django (Jamie Foxx) find his lost wife. Best Supporting Actress: Anne Hathaway, “Les Misérables.” As Fantine in “Les Misérables,” Hathaway set the tone for the movie even though she only managed to be on screen for a short period of time. Her rendition of “I Dreamed a Dream” and her overall take on the character Fantine were memorable for viewers. Best Picture: “Les Misérables.” “Les Misérables” had high expectations before it reached the box office, and it was able to deliver on many levels. It is difficult to put together an onscreen adaptation of Victor Hugo’s work, but the combination of performances between Hathaway, Hugh Jackman as Jean Valjean and Amanda Seyfried as Cosette among others pro­­
vided beautiful music and talented acting. Collectively, it was the most powerful performance on screen this year, and should be awarded Best Picture. Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Scott Boyle The Sincere Seeker Chances are you’ve probably seen a sun­
rise or a sunset that has stopped you in your tracks. There’s just something memorizing about the colorful hues that blanket the sky as the sun creeps up over a distant horizon or sets over a vast ocean. I used to love these moments as a child. And while I still appreciate the beauty of these moments now, I can’t help but realize these scenes often do not capture creation as it really is. As the sun’s light shines the least at the beginning or end of a summer day, it causes dark reds and golds to blanket a landscape that is traditionally lush and green. Shadows 
lengthen too, making our paths perilous and unsure. At the peak of the day, however, the sun is at its brightest and shadows are at their shortest. Trees stand tall and flowers bloom in true hue. The sun’s rays reach far and wide and illuminate the horizon in its true color. Those who know me well know that I am fascinated by the sun and all its meta­
phors. This fascination began last year after I enrolled in a class on “Purgatorio” and “Paradiso,” the final two books of “The Divine Comedy” by Dante Alighieri. Metaphors ooze from every page in “The Divine Comedy;” just when you think you’ve identified them all, one or two more appear. My professor, Christian Moevs, loved to talk about these metaphors. Although he would give beautiful descriptions of the symbolism and intricacies of these im­
ages in class, perhaps his greatest teaching moments came outside of class when he would write emails to us. 
Professor Moevs always made sure to tell us that while the Comedy described Dante’s journey away from sin to God, it was applicable to all of us, too. So, when he began these emails with salutations from the words of Dante, salutations like “Gentle rays of divine light” or “Gentle embodi­
ments of divine love,” we were reminded that we too are these “gentle rays,” created extensions of God, the ultimate sun whose rays of light and love guide all of our paths. Since finishing his class last spring, I have tried to consistently remind myself of these truths. To do this, I have gotten in the habit of taking pictures of these “gentle rays” in nature. While I like taking pic­
tures of the sunrise or sunset, my favorite pictures come at the peak of day. I’ll point my camera at the sun and snap away. The brilliance of the sun at those moments reminds me that the more I let God’s light illuminate my path, the more I’ll begin to see things for the way they truly are. I’ve come to call moments of clarity like these “gentle ray” moments. I had one of these moments this summer when I lived and worked at a Catholic Worker commu­
nity here in South Bend. I was working at Our Lady of the Road, a drop-in center that provides clean clothes, breakfast and conversation for the un­­
derprivileged of South Bend from Friday through Sunday. One particular day, I happened to be working the laundry machines. It was a particularly busy day and we were running low on detergent. One man — I’ll call him “Tom” — brought his clothes to me to be washed. you can imagine my relief when I discovered a large bottle on a shelf immediately adjacent to the washer I was using. I threw it in quickly and closed the lid. There was only one problem — it was bleach. It didn’t take me long to realize my mis­
take. I rushed back over and immediately grabbed his clothes out of the washer. The damage, however, was done. A couple of shirts and pants had large orange marks running along their sides. As I put the clothes back in with detergent, my heart was pounding. I knew I would have to tell Tom the bad news. I was ready for him when he wandered over to pick up his clothes. “Tom,” I mum­
bled, “I accidentally used bleach instead of detergent on your clothes! I am so sorry!” In place of the anger and frustration I ex­
pected, however, I found a smile: “That’s okay,” he said, “They’re just my work clothes anyway!” He walked away without another word. Chances are these were some of the only clothes that Tom owned. But Tom simply brushed my mistake aside with a smile. In that moment, I could not help but think of Helen Keller’s apt observation: “The best and most beautiful things in this world cannot be seen or even heard, but must be felt with the heart.” In that moment, Tom was a “gentle ray” for me, echoing God’s love and compassion to the depths of my heart. Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Every one of us gets through the tough times because somebody is there, standing in the gap to close it for us.” Oprah Winfrey Talk show host 
THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
How we remember Matt Miklavic The Maine Idea 
For some Notre Dame students, it represented their first day of win­
ter break. For others, their last day of finals. For 26 students and staff of Sandy Hook Elementary, Dec. 14 was the final day of their lives. Thousands of laughs and millions of moments short, that was it. For them, there is no more. For the 26 families forever shaken by the Newtown mas­
sacre, the reminders will be frequent. At every birthday, Christmas and would-be milestone, that day will be remembered and that pain will be felt. Their challenge is to find a way to overcome this tragedy. For the rest of us, the challenge is to remember it. In the aftermath of the shooting there has been much discussion about the horrors of that day. Some have claimed America has a gun problem. Others will contend it is our culture, not its weapons, which cause our seemingly insatiable appetite for violence. The truth is it is both. Momentarily ignoring the gun part of the issue, America remains a violent and impulsive country. Our intentional homicide rate lies between those of Turkmenistan and Belarus, above those of Palestine and yemen. Impressive company, to be sure. Beyond homicides, America’s penchant for destructive activities manifests itself through an array of statistics, including embarrass­
ingly high levels of incarceration and drunk driving. This societal dedication to devastation gnaws at the country and weakens it from within. Perhaps it comes from our apparent comfort with violence in entertainment. Perhaps it has roots in America’s increasing problem with poverty and a growing gap between the haves and the have-nots. Perhaps it starts in our schools, which, while educating millions, also fail millions more. Whatever the cause, surely this is one of the areas we must seek to improve in our society. Surely we can build a consensus that our culture needs some change. As for guns, there is little question that it is a highly emotional and con­
tentious issue. This fervor, however, should not distract nor deter us from confronting our addiction to violence and openly debating its remedies. Homicides by firearm in recent times have exceeded 10,000 per year. We suffer a Newtown each and every day, then allow it to perpetuate. We accept more deaths each year than in the War in Afghanistan and the Battle of Gettysburg combined — and continue on as though nothing happened. So long as we can agree with the Supreme Court’s conservative wing that, “like most rights, the right se­
cured by the Second Amendment is not unlimited,” we can see that like the other freedoms afforded by the Constitution, the rights afforded by the Second Amendment have limits. Our debate, then, is not whether we can restrict and regulate guns but to what extent they can be restricted. Can states and cities ban handguns? The Supreme Court has said no in the case of both Chicago and Washington 
D.C. bans. These decisions must be treated as precedent. It is notewor­
thy, however, particularly in light of Notre Dame’s upcoming role in the March for Life on the 40th anniver­­
sary of Roe v. Wade, that while precedents carry weight, they can also be overturned. Can we ban assault rifles, large capacity magazines and similar weapons of little use for self-defense but great use for mass violence? I believe we can, and should. These weapons are many times more pow­
erful than the handguns favored for self-defense. They’re also respon­
sible for many of the most notorious mass shootings, as legally acquired weapons of these varieties were used in the Columbine, Newtown and Aurora shootings. They belong on the battlefield, not on our streets. Can we enforce our current laws? Irrespective of new laws, what if we simply enforce what is already agreed upon regulation? What if the federal agency responsible for the enforcement of these laws had a confirmed director for the first time in six years? What if we closed loopholes that prevent the common­
sense, agreed upon restrictions that exist from taking full effect? It wouldn’t eliminate the problem, but I’m pretty confident it would help. Ultimately, we remember Newtown by working to prevent it from happening again. It will not be a singular action or effort. It requires cooperation, political courage and genuine action. It will take action in state capitals, in Washington, in our communities and in our schools. It will take society deciding to finally step against violence, and refusing to leave the safety of our children to the hope that our kid won’t be the one at that school on that day. We remember Newtown by refusing to settle for failure. We remember Newtown not by resigning ourselves to another massacre, but by seeking to recapture the exceptional society for which we once strove. Matt Miklavic is a sophomore studying political science and business from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Stretching toward a more meaningful life Sitting in Dillon Hall Chapel on a late April morning, we the 16th cohort of the Alliance for Catholic Education’s Service through Teaching program waited for Mass to begin, which would officially kick off the next two years of our lives. As we sat in silence, our attention turned toward the pitter-patter of sandals hitting the South Quad pavement outside the chapel walls, as three Notre Dame men jogged toward the pearly gates of South Dining Hall for breakfast. That is, until one of them stopped short, clearly in discomfort. “Ahhh,” he screamed, “I think I just pulled a butt muscle!” We all just let out some nervous laughter at the time, but in retro­
spect I can think of few more fitting expressions than this exclamation to describe teaching in ACE. The ACE Service through Teaching program is extremely challenging. I am confident that no ACEr would tell you otherwise. Being a full time teacher and a full time graduate stu­
dent (as you earn a free master’s in education degree from Notre Dame) is simply not easy. I am just as confi­
dent, though, that most former ACE teachers would identify their time in the program as two of the most for­
mative and rewarding years of their lives, a 24-month period in which they experienced incomparable personal and professional growth. ACErs are thrust into leadership positions that few 22 to 23 year olds occupy. Leading the school’s Campus Ministry program, plan­­
ning all of the school’s retreats, serving as the student council moderator, overseeing the Homecoming Dance and acting as one of two school chaperones on a 20-hour trip to Washington D.C. for the March for Life are not responsibilities typically entrusted to recent college graduates. Neither is assuming the position of head coach for a varsity sport. yet, it’s a reality in ACE that schools need these important roles filled for the students. As an athlete, I attended hundreds of practices. Like many other ath­
letes, my questions about practice never extended much further than asking what time it started and end­
ed. In ACE, though, I was now the person responsible for crafting the practice and devising ways to help players elevate their game. I was the one delivering the pre-game motiva­
tional speech and offering sugges­
tions for mid-match adjustments to my players, who looked to me with the expectation that I had all the answers. I certainly didn’t have all of them, but, as a team, we made strides. In the first year, we won a handful of matches. In the second year, we won half. I certainly do not anticipate my enshrinement in the Tennis Hall of Fame, or any other one for that matter, in the near fu­
ture, but it wasn’t too bad for a team that had not won a single match in the previous five years. 
ACErs undoubtedly have many demands on their time, but one reason they are able to retain their sanity is the built-in support that comes from living in an intentional faith-based community. I cannot enumerate all the instances in which a housemate generously offered his or her care to another community member, but there are few notable ones that immediately come to my mind. There was the time my house­
mates took me out for a birthday dinner and then kept on driving to New Orleans (about two hours away) to pick up my girlfriend, whom they flew in to surprise me. There was the time our community threw a surprise “Live-abetes” party dur­
ing National Diabetes Month for our housemate Brock, who has dealt with Type I diabetes since he was a child, inviting ACErs in nearby cit­
ies to come celebrate with us and eat sugarless treats. There was also the time a couple of housemates stayed up until 3 a.m. on a school night so that Drew, who was returning from a family member’s funeral, would not return to a dark and quiet house. The people with whom I shared this time of challenge and growth became and remain very dear friends, our bond permanently forged through this incredibly meaningful experience. But above all else, it was the rela­
tionships with students that infused my time in ACE with purpose and truly changed my life. The great trust they gave me, inviting me into their lives, was humbling. I felt chal­
lenged and compelled to become better than who I was for them. Because of my students, I believe I am a better man today and a bet­
ter husband to my wife, and when my wife and I (God-willing) start a family, I believe my students will make me a better father to our future children. I can never fully express my gratitude for this unanticipated transformation. Much like that unnamed jogger, in ACE you will be stretched in ways still unimaginable. you may experi­
ence some major strains and perhaps even a tear or two, but I strongly encourage you to take this opportu­
nity; you will never be the same. Matt Gelchion 
Associate director Program for K-12 Educational Access Alliance for Catholic Education Jan. 15 
THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Alexander McQueen and Giorgio Armani respectively. By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
All of these actresses’ outfits were definitely Golden Globe material, but one star stood out. Nominated for her With very entertaining hosts and unexpected winners, lead role in “Salmon Fishing in the yemen,” Emily Blunt’s Sunday’s Golden Globes were a successful and perfect gold cut-off Michael Kors dress and Lorraine Schwartz start to this year’s much-awaited awards season. But not jewels were a bold but perfect choice for the big night. She all was movie talk Sunday. was definitely the best dressed for the event. Film awards are also special occasions for fashion, and The women usually take the spotlight when it comes to these Golden Globes were no exception. fashion in film awards. However, some very stylish actors Nominated actors, actresses and presenters walked that walked down this year’s Golden Globes red carpet down the glamorous red carpet to show off their unique are also worth noting. designer suits and gowns, sparking new fashion trends “Homeland” star Damian Lewis rocked a Burberry for the public to imitate, critique and enjoy. tuxedo, while actors George Clooney, Bradley Cooper As always, some wardrobe selections were good — and Leonardo DiCaprio looked handsome and slick in even great — and some not so good. their ensembles. They never disappoint. These year’s fashion hits were all about black, white and red silhouettes. Fashion misses were truly all over The Worst the place. Here are these year’s Golden Globes best and Although the majority of this year’s Golden Globe worst dressed. nominees and attendees made great fashion statements with their ensembles, some chose looks that were too The Best over-the-top or too boring for the occasion. For these special occasions, simplicity is key and Anne Damian Lewis’ co-star Claire Danes has worn jaw­
Hathaway’s ensemble for Sunday’s festivities definitely dropping gowns for past years’ award ceremonies, but exemplified this. Her white strapless Chanel gown and her bright red Atelier Versace gown did not favor her jewelry looked simply elegant and contrasted impecca-Sunday night. The dress’ ordinary halter silhouette and bly with her black pixie haircut. her loose middle parted hairstyle were definitely not Jennifer Lawrence, winner for best actress in a musical what viewers are used to seeing the actress wear. or comedy, also followed suit with a pristinely beautiful “Girls” Lena Dunham’s plum off-the-shoulder Zac look. She looked naturally sophisticated in a simple red Posen gown did not flatter her either. With such a fun strapless Christian Dior Haute Couture dress. and unique style, she could have opted for a brighter and If the “Silver Linings Playbook” star looked great in bolder look. bright red, actress and presenter Jessica Alba rocked an-Actress Halle Berry was also in Sunday night’s worst other lighter tone of the color. Her melon strapless Oscar dressed list. Her printed one-shoulder Versace dress de la Renta gown and Harry Winston diamond jewelry looked tacky for the occasion. It showed too much leg and were a perfect combination and choice for the occasion. the fabric’s pattern was confusing. Actresses Kerry Washington, Kate Hudson and Olivia Overall, this year’s Golden Globes were a fashion do. Munn also looked flawless in their fashionable selec-Stay tuned for the Oscars — and the new stylish trends tions. Washington wore a delicate nude and crystal-they might bring. white beaded Mui Mui dress, while Hudson and Munn both opted for very elegant beaded black gowns from Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu Scene Writer All photos courtesy of justjared.com JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 
THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Courtney Cox Scene Editor 
The matriarchs of comedy, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, shined Sunday night when they hosted the 70th annual Golden Globe Awards. The duo should have been a natural choice for NBC, which houses some of the greatest comedians on televi­
sion at SNL, but it wasn’t until this year that they finally got their shot. Unlike many hosts on the award show circuit, Poehler and Fey seemed comfortable and witty. The ever-frightening prompter didn’t trip them up and their natural ban­­
ter was the highlight of the otherwise sedate show. Opening the show with a lengthy monologue that quelled any fears about whether or not they would flop, they acknowledged the strangeness of the Golden Globes format as Amy Poehler so poetically noted, “Only at the Golden 
Globes do the beautiful people of film rub shoulders with the rat-faced people of television.” The women had no fear the fate of former host Ricky Gervais might befall them when Poehler said, “We want to assure you that we have no intention of being edgy or offensive tonight because as Ricky learned the hard way … when you run afoul of the Hollywood Foreign Press they make you host this show two more times.” But they didn’t shy away from good-hearted jabs at some of Hollywood’s heavy hitters. When mentioning Kathryn Bigelow, the Golden Globe-nominated director of “Zero Dark Thirty,” they even went so far as to reference her ex-husband, “Avatar” and “Titanic” director James Cameron. “I haven’t really been following the controversy over ‘Zero Dark Thirty,’” Poehler said, “But when it comes to torture, I trust the lady who spent three years married to James Cameron.” Tina Fey, who is best known now for her work on “30 Rock” as the loveable but aloof Liz Lemon, used some of that “imperfect but endearing” shtick by talking about how tough it was to get into her cou­
ture gown. 
Most people consider the Golden Globes to be a warm up for the Academy Awards in February, but the setting at the Globes is dis­
tinctly more relaxed while all the nominees and presenters are dining and drinking throughout the night. Poehler and Fey were able to feed off that relaxed energy and let their chemistry run the show. After hosting the Globes with such ease, they made other hosts who had fallen flat in the past seem that much worse. They even had a few laughs at the expense of former Oscars host Anne Hathaway. “Anne Hathaway, you gave a stunning performance in ‘Les Miserables.’ I have not seen some­
one so totally alone and abandoned like that since you were on stage with James Franco at the Oscars,” Fey said. As hosts, Fey and Poehler seemed casual — but not sloppy. They worked on their timing and had every joke down perfectly. Their training on “Saturday Night Live” was clearly formative in preparing them for the gig. Both Poehler and Fey received nominations for their roles in “Parks and Recreation” and “30 Rock” re­
spectively, but when Lena Dunham beat them out, they ran with it and riffed off her endearing acceptance speech.
 “Julia, Tina, Amy and Zooey have respectively gotten me through middle school, mono, a ruptured ear drum and the acute anxiety that populates my entire life,” the 26-year-old Dunham said. The hosts responded with jok­
ing rage that the newcomer was so young that their work got her through middle school. It wasn’t the freeform, slightly nerve-wracking style of a Ricky Gervais Golden Globes, but I’d take Tina and Amy any day. Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
By MADELINE DALY Scene Writer 
This year’s Golden Globe awards show contained a mixture of surprising upsets and obvious winners. As anticipated and definitely as deserved, Daniel-Day Lewis went home with the award for best actor in a drama for his convincing role as Abraham Lincoln in the film “Lincoln.” Relative newcomer Jennifer Lawrence took the award for best actress in a comedy or musical for her part in “Silver Linings Playbook,” a more mature role for the “Hunger Games” star. The award for best actress in a drama went to Jessica Chastain from “Zero Dark Thirty,” a film that showed up in several other categories, in­
cluding best motion picture. Best actor in a comedy or musical went to Hugh Jackman in “Les Misérables,” a fairly uncontroversial choice. The film also unsurprisingly won best motion picture, musical or comedy, and cast member Anne Hathaway earned the award for best supporting actress. However, the crowd seemed taken aback when the award for best screen­
play went to Quentin Tarantino for “Django Unchained,” soaring above films like “Lincoln” and “Argo.” Despite this upset, “Argo” was still able to capture the best motion picture award for drama. The film also received the best director award because of Ben Affleck’s work. During the television segment, shows like “Homeland,” “Downton Abbey,” and “Girls” went home with big wins. “Homeland” was named best television show, drama, while “Girls” received the award for best TV show, comedy or musical. Best dramatic actor and actress awards went to stars of “Homeland,” Damien Lewis and Claire Danes, while Lena Dunham from “Girls” snagged the award for best performance by an actress in a musical or comedy tele­
vision show. As always, the awards were all well deserved and hard earned, but surely several people went home unexpectedly empty-handed due to the upsets. Contact Madeline Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
NHL lockout may be a blessing 
Jack Hefferon Sports Writer Santa was a little late for hockey fans in America, but the gift of sanity finally ar­
rived in the form of a new NHL Collective Bargaining Agreement about two weeks after Christmas and after several months of missed games — 510 in all. The lockout, which was the league’s second such labor dispute in eight years, caused all sorts of changes in the way the league is run, mostly at the expense of those actu­
ally playing hockey. Team owners were able to wrangle a further seven percent of league revenue away from the players, put new caps on contract lengths and insti­
tute one-time “amnesty buy­
outs” on expensive deals. In return, the players got some improvements to their pension fund. Fans got less. And in eight years, the own­
ers have the option to opt out of the CBA again, which means we’re staring down another season of lost games in 2022. But in the meantime, the players will lace up and play a shortened 48-game sea­
son, one missing the Winter Classic, the NHL Premiere series in Europe and more than 500 other nights worth of national anthems, one-timers and final buzzers. But while the entirety of this drawn-out lockout has been an absolute travesty, the shortened season may be a blessing in disguise for both players and fans. For the players, who often are ground into pieces by the September-to-June marathon of a schedule, a shortened season should cut down on wear-and-tear injuries and extend careers. The short schedule has also forced the league to cut inter-con­
ference play entirely, which means no more exhausting cross-country road trips (I don’t think the Vancouver Canucks will miss their mid-season trips to Florida). Fans will benefit as well from fewer games, as each takes on further significance in the sprint to the playoffs. Winning or losing streaks will double in importance, as a team that comes out of the gates slowly or loses five straight might fall out of the running entirely. And match-ups against divisional rivals, which make up 18 of the 48 games, will be more crucial and more heated than ever. Shortening up the season is a concept that can help other sports too, as we saw in the wildly exciting 66-game NBA season eventually won — as The Observer’s associate sports editor Matt DeFranks has probably already told you 
— by the star-studded Miami Heat. It will never happen be­­
cause another night of games is another night to fill stadiums and make money, but play would benefit from trimming back overlong seasons. Baseball was never meant to be played in November, and back when Lord Stanley handed out his first Cup, you can bet it wasn’t in June. Cut the MLB schedule to 120 games and the NHL and NBA to 60 apiece. you can add in more midseason off days, and still cut down on some of the most brutal road trips, as well as the whole last month of the season. And if you think fewer games are less fun, just look up to the king of American sports, the NFL. It runs circles around the other leagues, thanks to 16 do-or­
die matchups that define our weekends. So enjoy this frantic NHL season, and hopefully it can spur our sports to embrace the saying, as old as Lord Stanley himself, “Less is more.” I just hope it doesn’t take more mindless lockouts to do it. Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 
McCoy heads to Chargers Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Mike McCoy’s interview with San Diego went so well that both sides felt he was a perfect fit to 
become the Chargers’ new coach. McCoy had one thing to do, though, before accepting the Chargers’ offer, so it was a good thing Chargers President Dean Spanos’ private plane was at his disposal. “There was no doubt in my mind when I got back on that plane to go back home,” said McCoy, the former Denver Broncos offensive coordinator who was introduced Tuesday as Chargers’ new coach. “They wanted to keep me here last night. But I said, ‘I’ve got to talk to my wife about this before. If I made the decision without talking to my wife, I might get in a little trouble.’” So McCoy flew back to Denver to talk it over with wife Kellie. McCoy, his wife and their two children were back on the same plane Tuesday morning, flying back to San Diego to take the job. “Without a doubt we knew this was the place we want­
ed to be,” said McCoy, who signed a four-year contract. McCoy replaces Norv Turner, who was fired along with general manager A.J. Smith after the Chargers finished 7-9 and missed the playoffs for the third straight season. The move comes three days after the top-seed­
ed Broncos were eliminated from the playoffs in a double-overtime home loss to the Baltimore Ravens. The 40-year-old McCoy is the same age as Tom Telesco, who was hired as general man­
ager last week. He interviewed after the Chargers already had talked to Seattle defensive co­
ordinator Gus Bradley, fired head coaches Lovie Smith and Ken Whisenhunt, and Bengals offensive coordinator Jay Gruden. “Once he came in and once we saw how good he was, we just felt we had to have him now,” Telesco said of McCoy. “We had to get it done or we’d lose him.” 
FOR SALE 
Move in-ready townhome near ND. $75K. 574-532-5961 Seven-month-old MacBook Pro. Very little use. $3K of software for graphic design. Magnetic char­
ger. 15-inch screen. $1800. Call 574-370-0801 
“He was polished, prepared, had great questions, which I think is big, too, that he had a lot of questions for us,” Telesco said. “It’s a partnership be­
tween the GM and the head coach, through and through. We spend more time with each other during the season than we do with our own family so it’s got to be a tight relation­
ship. When he came in, after a little bit of time you could tell he was the right guy for us. We went after him hard.” San Diego was scheduled to interview Indianapolis offen­
sive coordinator Bruce Arians on Wednesday. Telesco, previ­
ously the Colts’ vice president of football operations, called Arians on Tuesday morning and told him the Chargers had hired McCoy. “It was a tough phone call,” Telesco said. “I have so much respect for Bruce. He’s an ex­
cellent football coach. He’s going to be a great head coach in this league. I was honest with him. I said, ‘There’s dif­
ferent situations, different fits, and right now, this is a fit for Mike McCoy.’ He understood.” McCoy inherits a team that hasn’t won a playoff game since after the 2008 season. He thanked all the coaches and players he’s worked with over the years for helping him get to this point. He also said he knew just a few minutes into his interview that San Diego was the right place. “They all laughed at me when I walked in yesterday with this big ol’ bag with all these books and binders and everything,” McCoy said. “Well, that’s my life’s work. We’ve got a detailed plan that Tom and I are going to put to­­
gether. ... There’s going to be some change. There’s a reason for change. And change is good sometimes in organiza­
tions. We’ve just got to make the most of the opportunity we have moving forward.” The Broncos have won consecutive AFC West titles. McCoy tutored quarterbacks Kyle Orton and Tim Tebow in 2011, and had Peyton Manning behind center in 2012. McCoy, who interviewed with the Miami Dolphins last year after retooling Denver’s offense to the read-option for Tebow at midstream in 2011, burnished his head coach­­
ing credentials this season while blending the power formations the Broncos used in leading the league in rushing last year with Tebow and some of the spread formations that Manning ran in Indianapolis. “I think he’s going to be a great head coach. Very detail-oriented, knows the game, relates with players very well,” Broncos wide receiver Brandon Stokley said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. FOR RENT PERSONAL Commencement rental. Beautiful house on Notre Dame Ave., One block from campus and Eddy Street Commons. Email nd-house@sbc­
global.net for photos and additional info. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­
fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­
tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­
nancysupport@nd.edu 
CYCLING 
Anti-doping officials call for Armstrong oath Associated Press A televised confession by Lance Armstrong isn’t enough. Anti-doping officials want the disgraced cyclist to admit his guilt under oath before considering whether to lift a lifetime ban clouding his fu­
ture as a competitive athlete. That was seconded by at least one former teammate whom Armstrong pushed aside on his way to the top of the Tour de France podium. “Lance knows everything that happened,” Frankie Andreu told The Associated Press on Tuesday. “He’s the one who knows who did what because he was the ringleader. It’s up to him how much he wants to expose.” Armstrong has been in con­
versations with U.S. Anti-Doping Agency officials, touching off speculation that he may be willing to cooper­
ate with authorities there and name names. Interviewer Oprah Winfrey didn’t say if the subject was broached during the taping Monday at a downtown Austin hotel. In an appearance on “CBS This Morning,” she de­
clined to give details of what Armstrong told her, but said she was “mesmerized and riv­
eted by some of his answers.” Asked whether the disgraced cyclist appeared genuinely contrite after a decade of fierce denials, Winfrey replied, “I felt that he was thoughtful, I thought that he was serious, I thought that he certainly had prepared for this moment. I would say that he met the moment.” She was promoting what has become a two-part special, Thursday and Friday, on her OWN network. Around the same time, World Anti-Doping Agency of­­
ficials issued a statement saying nothing short of “a full confession under oath” would cause them to reconsider Armstrong’s lifetime ban from sanctioned events. The International Cycling Union also urged Armstrong to tell his story to an independent commission it has set up to ex­­
amine claims that the sport’s governing body hid suspicious samples from the cyclist, accepted financial donations from him and helped him avoid detection in doping tests. The ban was only one of several penalties handed to Armstrong after a scathing, 1,000-page report by USADA last year. The cyclist was also stripped of his seven Tour de France titles, lost nearly all of his endorsements and was forced to cut ties with the Livestrong cancer charity he founded in 1997. The report portrayed Armstrong as the mastermind of a long-running scheme that employed steroids, blood boosters such as EPO, and a range of other performance-enhancers to dominate the tour. It included revealing testimony from 11 former teammates, including Andreu and his wife, Betsy. “A lot of it was news and shocking to me,” Andreu said. “I am sure it’s shocking to the world. There’s been signs lead­
ing up to this moment for a long time. For my wife and I, we’ve been attacked and ripped apart by Lance and all of his people, and all his supporters repeat­
edly for a long time. I just wish they wouldn’t have been so blind and opened up their eyes earlier to all the signs that in­
dicated there was deception there, so that we wouldn’t have had to suffer as much. “And it’s not only us,” he add­
ed, “he’s ruined a lot of people lives.” Armstrong was believed to have left for Hawaii. The street outside his Spanish-style villa on Austin’s west side was quiet the day after international TV crews gathered there hoping to catch a glimpse of him. Nearby, members of his legal team mapped out a strategy on how to handle at least two pending lawsuits against Armstrong, and possibly a third. The AP reported ear­
lier Tuesday that Justice Department officials were likely to join a whistleblower lawsuit against Armstrong by former teammate Floyd Landis, citing a source who works outside the government and requested anonymity be­
cause he was not authorized to speak on the record about the matter. The lawsuit by Landis, who was stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title after test­
ing positive, alleges that Armstrong defrauded the U.S. government by repeatedly de­
nying he used performance-enhancing drugs. The deadline to join the False Claims Act lawsuit, which could require Armstrong to return substan­
tial sponsorship fees and pay a hefty penalty, is Thursday. 
Landis is hardly the only one seeking money back from Armstrong. During his long reign as cy­
cling champion, Armstrong scolded some critics in public, didn’t hesitate to punish out­
spoken riders during the race, and waged legal battles against still others in court. 
The London-based Sunday Times has already filed a law­
suit to recover about $500,000 it paid Armstrong to settle a libel case, and Dallas-based SCA Promotions, which tried to deny him a promised bonus for a Tour de France win, has threatened to bring another lawsuit seeking to recover more than $7.5 million award­
ed by an arbitration panel. In Australia, the government of the state of South Australia said it will seek the repay­­
ment of several million dollars in appearance fees paid to Armstrong for competing in the Tour Down Under in 2009, 2010 and 2011. NFL 
Colts eager to chase willing free agents Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS — Now that general manager Ryan Grigson has money to spend in free agency, he’s devising a new game plan. If he can find a big-named, high-priced free agent that could get Indianapolis to the Super Bowl, he’s willing to pay top dollar. If he can find a lesser-known player for a bargain, he’s willing to roll the dice, too. Either way, Grigson finally has the flexibility to do whatever it takes to make the 2013 Colts bet­
ter than they were last season. “I don’t have to rub two nick­­
els together to find a key position. Now, if there’s something that I really want that I feel is going to get us over the hump in a certain area, I could at least take a crack at him,” Grigson told a small group of reporters Tuesday at the team complex. “I feel almost in a sense like I don’t want to go after a name just be­
cause that’s easy. There’s guys out there, that to me, that if you really scout this league and you really know this league, you can find guys that are under the ra­­
dar that are right under people’s noses, just because you dig a little harder and you have a better feel for some guys than the next team does.” It’s a far cry from the financial mess Grigson inherited when team owner Jim Irsay hired him last January. Indy wound up releasing Peyton Manning, cutting a handful of other fan favorites and letting several more key contributors leave in free agen­
cy just to scrape enough money together to start rebuilding. Then Grigson had to go bargain-shopping to fill in the gaps, all the while looking ahead to year 2 as the season Indy could make the big jump. Somehow, though, Grigson cobbled together a unit that went 11-5 and wound up in the playoffs. Now, he’s going back to work with an opportunity to give Andrew Luck & Co. more talent. Indy heads into this offseason with 58 players already signed to contracts and more than $40 million available under a salary cap that is expected to come in at about $121 million With that much available room, Grigson can go after al­
most any player he covets in free agency — even if he’s not ready to say what he’ll do. Grigson declined to identify specific plans, players or ar­
eas he hopes to improve in free agency though it is widely be­
lieved the two areas Indy will try to upgrade are the offensive line, which allowed 41 sacks, and a secondary that continu­
ally gave up 100-yard games to receivers throughout the second half of the season. “Andrew has to get hit less, we know that,” said Grigson, a for­
mer offensive lineman. “Andrew took a lot of shots this year but also keep this in mind, and I say this with a lot of conviction, there was only I believe four games this year where our start­­
ing offensive line played together. How can you have a cohesive unit?” 
The list of offensive tack­
les that could be available in free agency includes Jermon Bushrod, Ryan Clady, Jake Long and Andre Smith. Cornerbacks such as Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie and Cary Williams also could become free agents. Grigson always has the draft, too, something that seems to be looking better by the week. On Tuesday, Grigson acknowl­­
edged that the Colts will keep two conditional picks they originally traded to Philadelphia and Miami during the preseason, and that he’s hoping to get some additional supplemental picks, after losing Dallas Clark, Pierre Garcon, Jeff Saturday and Jacob Tamme in free agency last year. That’s not all. Grigson also confirmed that the Colts are in strong pursuit of 300-pound defensive tackle Armond Armstead, who has 
been playing in the Canadian Football League. “He was here on a visit, he’s a talented guy, I feel he fits this de­­
fense nice and had some versatility with this defense,” Grigson said. Irsay is content to let Grigson do pretty much whatever he deems necessary to make Indy a Super Bowl contender. “It’s going to be an exciting offseason,” Irsay said. “Ryan really understands how in put­
ting a team together you don’t just go to the board and pick a player. He has a naturally in­
tuitive ability to see how all the components come together and complement each other.” And for Grigson, who is still trying to figure out whether Bruce Arians will be back as of­
fensive coordinator and who will coach special teams next season, he can’t wait to get started on what could be Indy’s biggest move into free agency in years. 
THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to continue win streak against Hope 
By KIT LOUGHRAN Sports Writer After defeating Trine 59-43 on Jan. 9, Saint Mary’s will look to follow up strong to­
night against sixth-ranked Hope.. The Belles (5-11, 3-4 MIAA) enter the game on a two-game winning streak. The Belles’ victories over Albion (3-12,1­
6) and Trine (9-7, 3-4) put the Belles back on track after a five-game los­
ing streak. Belles coach Jennifer Henley said the team is work­
ing one game at a time and 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL Hartley leads Huskies Associated Press HARTFORD, Conn. — Bria Hartley showed no ill effects from an ankle injury, playing one of her best games of the season. Hartley had 16 points and seven rebounds to help No. 3 Connecticut beat 15th-ranked Louisville 72-58 on Tuesday night. “When she’s playing like she played tonight and has the at­
titude she played with tonight, she makes a huge difference,” UConn coach Geno Auriemma said. The junior guard sprained her left ankle — the same one she hurt over the summer while playing for USA Basketball — in the first half of Saturday’s game against Marquette. “It felt a lot better than it did the last couple days,” Hartley said. “Getting out there, get­
ting moving was good.” Auriemma admitted he wasn’t exactly sure what he was going to get out of Hartley. “I didn’t have any expecta­­­
tions going in,” he said. “One of those, let’s see what happens. She played a lot of minutes. I figured why not. She played like the old Bria. With the stretch we got coming up, I don’t worry about her.” UConn will host Syracuse on Saturday then play No. 4 Duke on Monday. While Hartley was able to play, UConn was missing freshman Breanna Stewart for the second straight game. The budding star sprained her left ankle in practice Friday. She did partake in pregame warmups, but didn’t get into the game. “I think she’s come along a lot faster than we initially thought when she first got hurt,” Auriemma said. “She looks good. If it was an emer­
gency she could have played tonight. I’m expecting her to be fully ready on Saturday.” The Huskies (15-1, 3-1 Big East) didn’t need her. They built a 14-point halftime lead behind Hartley and Stefanie Dolson and Louisville could only get within 11 the rest of the way. not getting caught up in los­
ing or winning streaks. “Each time we compete, we are getting better,” Henley said. “This is such a young team and we understand that it is going to take some time to develop.” While the Belles are still a young team, they face a vet­­
eran Hope squad. To shut down a team like Hope (141, 6-1) that can go very deep into its bench, the Belles will turn to their defense, Henley said. “We need to play great de­­
fense,” Henley said. “Hope has a lot of offensive threats, and we need to play solid team 
defense the entire game.” Whereas the Belles are coming off a solid win over Trine, the Dutch are enter­
ing this game after their first conference loss to No. 2 Calvin (13-1, 7-0). Saint Mary’s sophomore forward Ariana Paul led the Belles with 18 points and 20 rebounds in the win over Trine. In the preceding game, Belles junior guard Shanlynn Bias scored 19 points in the win over Albion. Henley recognizes the great games these two play­
ers had offensively in recent matchups, but she looks to clinch another win over Hope 
“This is such a young team and we understand that it is going to take some time to develop.” Jennifer Henley Belles Coach by concentrating on the de-play, anything can happen,” fensive side of the game. Henley said. “It’s always about defense,” Saint Mary’s will travel to Henley said. Hope to play Wednesday at 7:30 Despite Hope’s national p.m. in the DeVos Fieldhouse. ranking, Henley is confident in her team and her players. Contact Kit Loughran at “When it comes time to kloughr1@nd.edu PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
TRACK & FIELD 
Notre Dame takes 11 events at Open the meet, ranging from Division In addition to the sprints, soph-By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer I to NAIA institutions, including omore Mary Esther Gourdin and Michigan and Michigan State. junior Jessie Christian, placed 
In a final tune-up before “There was a pretty big range of first and second, respectively, this weekend’s Notre Dame competition all around,” Finkel in the triple jump, while sopho-Invitational, the Irish track said. “Still, there was definitely more Keith Mesidor placed third squad travelled to Grand Valley enough to spur us to that next in the long jump for the men. State in Michigan for a success-level.” Sophomore Emily Morris also ful showing in the Bob Eubanks Finkel praised the perfor-contributed a second-place fin-Open, winning 11 events over the mance of the sprinters. Senior ish in the shot put. course of the two-day meet. Brendan Dougherty, sopho-In the multi-events, sophomore Returning from winter break, more Chris Giesting and ju-Carly Loeffel and junior Meghan senior captain and pole vaulter niors Patrick Feeney and Jarrod Moore took the top two spots in Chrissy Finkel had high expec-Buchanon all contributed to the the pentathlon, while senior Ted tations both for the meet and for winning 4x400-meter relay and Glasnow won the heptathlon. the rest of the season. won the 400-meter, 600-meter, The Irish compete this “Coming back from winter 300-meter and 60-meter hurdles, weekend at the Notre Dame break, there’s an expectation to respectively. The Irish women Invitational at the Loftus Center. be fresh and not to waste all the were just as dominant, with The field events will start at 10 hard work we put in before the freshman Margaret Bamgbose a.m. with the long jump and the break, so the meet was great for and juniors Michelle Brown and track events will follow at 12 p.m., testing that,” Finkel said. “We’re Megan yanik sweeping first place beginning with the 60-meter trying to win the Big East title for in the 200-meter, 300-meter and hurdles. both men and women, indoors the 400-meter. The women also and outdoors.” placed two teams in the top four Contact Greg Hadley at Fourteen schools competed at of the 4-by-400-meter relay. ghadley@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Reaney breaks records, leads Irish in tri-meet By KATIE HEIT Sports Writer 
Sophomore Emma Reaney led the Irish to victories against No. 24 Michigan and unranked Northwestern, breaking two records held by current Olympic swimmer Rebecca Soni in the process. The Irish grabbed the 185-to-115 victory over the PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Wolverines and crushed broke the pool record at Rolfs Northwestern 205-95. Reaney Aquatic Center with a time of and senior Kim Holden each 59.79. Soni previously set the won three individual events record in 2007 as a swimmer and one relay. In the 100-for USC. Reaney beat Soni’s yard breaststroke, Reaney record by over a second. Reaney said breaking the re­
cord taught her just how much she can push herself. “For me personally, I think it was realizing no matter how tired you think you are, you can always put together a good race if you do it exactly top spot in the 200-yard but­
terfly and sophomore Allison Casareto took first in the one-meter dive. Reaney said Michigan proved to be the toughest competition of the weekend and was a big win for the Irish. “We have not taken Michigan down since around 2007 and to beat both them and Northwestern by such large margins is a great con­
fidence boost for us,” Reaney 
“For me personally, I think it was realizing no matter how tired you think you are, you can always put together a good race if you do it exactly like you have practiced it.” Emma Reaney Sophomore Irish swimmer like you have practiced it,” Reaney said. “We had a re­
ally tough week and a half of training down in Miami and we were all [exhausted], but it was so awesome to see our team pull together and win that double dual for the first time in a long time.” In the 200-yard breast­
stroke, Reaney broke another of Soni’s records with a time of 2:10.75. Holden earned big points for the Irish with first place fin­
ishes in the 100 and 200-yard backstrokes, finishing with times of 54.93 and 1.59.14, respectively. Other top performances included junior Kelly Ryan’s individual victory in the 200­
yard freestyle. Sophomore Bridget Casey claimed the said. “I think knowing we have those under our belts will only help us heading into [the Big East] conference.” Reaney said Irish coach Brian Barnes works every practice to make sure the team is ready and eager to win. “Brian reminds us every day after practice to stay moti­
vated,” Reaney said. “I think that’s what we’re doing. We have exactly six weeks until Big East [championships] and if we keep pushing ourselves and each other, I have a feeling we will be really successful.” The Irish are back in action Saturday when they take on Indiana in Bloomington at 11 a.m. Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Wisconsin upsets Indiana Associated Press BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — Wisconsin is making Indiana its second home. Even in basketball. Ryan Evans scored 13 points, Traevon Jackson added 11 and the unranked Badgers used their typ­
ically deliberate, safe style to up­
set the second-ranked Hoosiers 64-59 and take sole possession of the conference lead. Surprised? Not the Badgers. “It’s huge you know,” Jackson said. “We’ll celebrate for 24 hours and then we got to get ready for Iowa. Just got to get ready for an­
other one.” The numbers tell the tale. Wisconsin has won 11 consecu­­
tive games in this series, matching the second-longest streak of any school Indiana has played. The Badgers also won 11 straight over Indiana from 1912-19 and Purdue won 12 straight from 1908-14. That’s not all. The Badgers (13-2, 4-0) are the first team since 1923 to win a fifth consecutive game in Bloomington, matching a record achieved only three other times, most recently by Purdue, and they still have not lost to Indiana coach Tom Crean since he arrived in Bloomington in 2008. 
And they got this win on a night that coach Bo Ryan was not feel­
ing well and in the same state the Badgers have won their last two league championships in football. “I really liked how hard our guys played, the adjustments our guys made on the court, I thought our assistant coaches did a great job in practice, getting us ready for this game because the head coach is a little under the weath­
er,” Ryan said. “It’ like whoa! I feel like someone just took me in the corner and worked me over.” If that’s not enough to convince the detractors, Wisconsin now has seven straight wins and two victories over Top 15 teams in the last four days by doing the same thing — slowing the pace, taking advantage of opportunities and limiting the turnovers. MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish take first at Copa Coqui Meet By MEGAN FINNERAN Sports Writer 
The Irish escaped the win­
ter weather for a trip to Puerto Rico, where they competed in the Copa Coqui Meet in Trujillo Alto on Jan. 5. The team took first place, gathering 64 points to beat out a variety of opponents, in­
cluding Army, Connecticut and schools from Puerto Rico. “We were happy with the re­
sults,” senior Chris Johnson said. “We thought Army was going to win overall.” Many members of the squad contributed to the top fin­
ish in their individual events. First place finishes earned nine points, second place earned four, third place took three, fourth place took two and fifth place added one point to the team total. Irish junior Frank Dyer kicked off the day by taking second in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 54.14 seconds, while freshman teammate Michael Hudspith fin­
ished third with a time of 54.68. In the 100-yard butterfly, Irish PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
senior Bill Bass took second “We were very focused on the with a time of 57.79, closely fol-10-by-50 relay,” Johnson said. lowed by Irish sophomore John “We’ve never lost it.” Williamson with a time of 1:00.16. Notre Dame took first place in “We were happy with the results. We thought Army was going to win overall.” Chris Johnson Irish senior swimmer Sophomore Cameron Miller gathered a first place for the Irish, finishing the 100-yard breast­
stroke in 1:06.04. Irish freshman Bogac Ayhan won the 100-yard backstroke in 1:01.17, followed by junior team­
mate Bertie Nel in fourth place in 1:03.31. The Irish performed strongly in the 200-yard individual medley, with junior Colin Babcock and sophomore Patrick Olson finish­
ing first and second, respectively. The most exciting and an­
ticipated event was the 500-yard freestyle relay, the final event of the day. the event. Overall, the team saw the meet as a success and good op­
portunity for a diverse range of competition. “This meet serves as a good break during our training trip,” Johnson said. “It gives us a chance to compete against local teams from Puerto Rico as well as other teams on their training trips.” The Irish next head to Cleveland for a dual meet against Cleveland State on Jan. 18. Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
Junior center T.J. Tynan, left, skates towards the puck during Notre Dame’s 6-1 win over Lake Superior State on Dec. 1, 2012 at the Compton Ice Arena. 
Alaska this weekend. The “We have to do a better job with Jackson Compton Family Ice Arena, the puck offensively, and we have CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
where Notre Dame has won its to have more discipline,” he said. killed us.” last five contests and scored “We have to do a better job of Despite the loss, Notre 22 goals in that span, should competing as a team.” Dame still sits atop the CCHA be a sight for sore eyes this with 33 points, and will look to weekend, and Jackson hopes Contact Jack Hefferon at extend that lead when it hosts the goals will return as well. wheffero@nd.edu PAID ADVERTISEMENT MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer 
Irish senior guard Skylar Diggins looks for an open teammate during Notre Dame’s 79-64 home win over Georgetown on Tuesday. were running the floor, and 
Loyd that’s when we hit the wall, 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 right after that,” McGraw said. 
on a 13-2 run to put an end to “And then [senior guard Skylar any thoughts of an easy Irish Diggins] got the two fouls and win. we had to take her out, and I “I think the press was work-don’t think any of the point ing, we got some steals, we guards were particularly ready today. I thought [sophomore guard] Whitney Holloway did a pretty good job, but we need some work with Skylar not in the game.” 
The Hoyas’ aggressive play did pay off in the turnover bat­
tle. They forced the Irish into 28 giveaways — the most of the season and well above the sea­
son average of 15 turnovers. But McGraw promised that this one aberration wouldn’t keep her up at night. “The turnovers I thought were a lot of good ideas that we didn’t catch,” McGraw said. “Or maybe it was deflected but it was a good idea. The ones that bother me are the ones that are a result of poor deci­
sions. And out of the 28 there were maybe eight, so we can fix that really easily.” The Irish are now 4-0 in the Big East. They opened confer­
ence play with a 73-72 win over then-No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 5, but needed overtime to put away South Florida three days later, finally winning 75-71. Notre Dame then beat Rutgers at home last Sunday, winning 71-46. The Irish aim to remain un­
defeated in conference play when St. John’s visits Purcell Pavilion for a 12 p.m. tip-off on Sunday. Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Storm CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 with 17 points and sophomore forward Amir Garrett provided 11 points, two steals and three blocks off the bench. “I thought they were very good offensively at key times,” Brey said. “We needed a little more offensive efficiency for longer periods of time, like we had at times. But you’ve got to be more efficient to get out of here with a win.” The Irish, who entered the game ninth in the nation in three-point field goal shooting at 42 percent, made just one of nine 
attempts from beyond the arc. The teams went back-and-forth throughout the first half, with St. John’s entering the break up 32-21. The Red Storm exploded on an 18-4 run early in the second half to take a 55-43 lead with 10:52 remaining in the game. Notre Dame then went on an 18-4 run of its own to claim a 61-59 lead with 4:32 left in the game. But Harrison and the Red Storm tight­
ened up defensively from there and held the Irish to just one field goal for the remainder of the game. The Irish came out strong and led for the first 16 minutes of the first half behind the all-around play of Atkins. The Irish asserted their dom­
inance down low — despite playing without foul-ridden senior forward Jack Cooley for the majority of the first half — and buried their first 10 field goals from inside the paint. Knight buoyed the Irish front-court in 17 minutes of action. The Dixfield, Maine native recorded six points, three rebounds and four blocks while Cooley played just 18 minutes total for the Irish and fin­
ished with three fouls. Senior center Garrick Sherman played just five minutes. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
“I think that’s really something to build on with [Knight],” Brey said. “He gave us energy and bounce and he’ll be the first big off the bench [against Rutgers] on Saturday and we’ve got to cultivate that.” Brey said the Irish need a strong week of practice leading up to their suddenly important tilt with the Scarlet Knights at Purcell Pavilion. “Our backs are against the wall,” Brey said. “you lose two in a row. We’re coming home. We need three good days of hard practice to get ready for Saturday.” Although the Irish have fallen on tough times after starting the season 14-1, Brey said he is confi­
dent in his team. “I think this group has a great sense of itself and ownership of it­
self so I think more than half of [the key to improvement] will be them wanting to do better,” Brey said. “We’ve got to help them and put them in some better positions and look at our rotations at times.” The Irish look to avenge their recent losses when they battle the Scarlet Knights on Saturday at Purcell Pavilion. Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 
LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNy RAGO & PATRICK CROSS 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 
HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Drew Brees, 34; Regina King, 42; Chad Lowe, 45; Mario Van Peebles, 56. Happy Birthday: Good results will develop if you resolve past mistakes that were left to fester. you are best to rework and reuse old ideas and possessions that are sitting idle. Persistence will lead to success as long as you don’t let frustration lead to anger. Embrace what comes your way and deal with each situation individually and system­
atically. your numbers are 7, 9, 16, 23, 32, 43, 45. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Research and patience will help you avoid a mistake. Don’t aggravate a situation you cannot change. Time is on your side, so wait and see what happens. Moderation will be key to getting through challenges unscathed. Offer hands-on help for a fair trade. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you can get ahead if you are confident in your actions. An emotional change will lead you down a different path. Enjoy the journey and embrace the encounters you have with others. Travel and communication will result in new beginnings. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Expect a change of plans. Choose a path that suits your needs if you aren’t happy with the way things are heading. Someone from your past will make a different impression on you now. Display your intentions. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don’t fear being unique. Taking the road less traveled will attract positive attention. A relationship that needs TLC should be reassessed and dealt with accordingly. Expanding your interests will also bring about a change of heart. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Reestablish your position with your peers, friends or family. The pecking order may have to change if you are going to achieve your goals. A seri­
ous approach to getting things done will help you gain confidence and respect. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A networking event will provide you with plenty to think about or to strive to acquire. Don’t feel you have to make an impulsive move to get what you want. Go over contracts carefully and make whatever changes you feel necessary to meet your needs. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Venture out and discover what’s available that motivates you to make changes to enhance your lifestyle. Taking on too many responsibilities will weigh you down, causing an inability to accomplish. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Jump in and be a participant. your ability to find solu­
tions and to be in tune to the people around you will help you get ahead and com­
mand a position of leadership. Love and romance will bring about unique lifestyle changes. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Being upfront and honest about the way you think and feel may be difficult, but it will also be necessary if you want to avoid problems. Put what isn’t making you happy behind you so that you can move forward positively. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):Question the motives of those you deal with before you jump in and take part in something that may not be to your benefit. Call the shots and set the standards you want to live by, and you will feel comfortable about moving forward. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):Gauge what you should do by how others respond. you mustn’t let anyone take advantage of your curiosity or friendly demeanor. Stick close to home and to those you know you can trust. A change in the way you live will improve your future. 
PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Help people you need to in your life to ensure you reach your goals. Cooperation and collaboration should go hand-in-hand. Strive to reach financial security by sticking to your budget and concentrating on the best way to make money. 
Birthday Baby: you are loyal, observant and reserved. you are empathetic and unique. JUMBLE | DAVID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 
Make checks payable to and mail to: Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 Name Address City State Zip 
THE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | ST. JOHN’S 67, ND 63 Storm damage No. 20 Irish overcome 12-point deficit but can’t hang on; lose second straight game By MIKE MONACO Sports Writer The No. 20 Irish failed to exor­
cise their Madison Square Garden demons as St. John’s upset Notre Dame 67-63 on Tuesday night in New york and handed Notre Dame its second consecutive loss. “They guarded us,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in a postgame inter­
view with UND.com. “We weren’t able to get into a consistent offensive flow. you’ve got to probably score more to get out of here with a win.” Notre Dame (14-3, 2-2 Big East), which had lost its previous four games against the Red Storm (10-7, 2-3) inside Madison Square Garden and fell to Louisville in the Big East semifinals last season, battled back from a 12-point deficit in the second half to take a 63-61 lead with 2:50 left to play. But Red Storm sophomore guard D’Angelo Harrison drilled a three-pointer from NBA range to give St. John’s a 64-63 lead that held up until the waning moments of the game. With 22 seconds remaining, the Irish had a chance to win, but Harrison blocked a layup attempt from Irish senior forward Tom Knight and the Red Storm pounced on the loose ball and held on for the upset victory. The Red Storm, who entered Tuesday leading the nation in blocks, had nine blocks in total. Irish junior guard Eric Atkins poured in a season-high 21 points and added four assists and six steals to propel the Notre Dame attack while playing all 40 minutes. Fellow junior guard Jerian Grant chipped in 14 points. St. John’s freshman forward JaKarr Sampson led the Red Storm see STORM PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 79, GEORGETOWN 64 HOCKEY | BOWLING GREEN 4, ND 2 Irish win on the foul line By VICKY JACOBSEN Sports Writer Notre Dame entered Tuesday’s game against Georgetown as the nation’s best free-throw shooting team, making just over 81 percent of their foul shots. But the Irish (15-1, 4-0 Big East) outdid themselves against the Hoyas (10-7, 1-3), converting 35-of-38 free throws on their way to a chippy 79-64 victory. Those 35-made foul shots 
— the third-most in program history — came courtesy of 26 Hoya fouls, 16 of which came in the first half. Georgetown junior forward Andrea White fouled out with just over a minute left in the second half. Senior center Vanessa Moore was issued her first technical for elbowing Irish sophomore guard Madison Cable in the mouth and had to leave the game when she was given a second for comments made during a tussle with Irish ju­
nior forward Natalie Achonwa. Achonwa herself also fouled out with almost two minutes left in the second half, but not before registering a double-double with 12 points and 10 rebounds. Georgetown coach Keith Brown said he thought the ref­
erees issued technical fouls that would not be called in a men’s game. “I think that we have to get to the point in the girls game that they are in the boys game, where the referee talks to the players before you quickly ‘T’-them up,” Brown said. “Emotions are high. Things that are said in the women’s game, if it was said in the boy’s game, wouldn’t be a technical foul.” Irish coach Muffet McGraw joked about her team’s compo­
sure despite the rough play. “We were [on our best be­
havior],” McGraw said. “Our emotions were under control today.” The Irish held Georgetown senior guard Sugar Rodgers, the nation’s top scorer, to just 
Squad ends road trip with loss 
By JACK HEFFERON Sports Writer No. 5 Notre Dame will be more than happy to return to campus this week, as its stretch of four road games in eight days ended with a 4-2 loss at Bowling Green on Tuesday night. The loss to the Falcons (7-10-5, 4-7-3-1 CCHA) was just the latest in the team’s road blues, as the Irish (15­
7-0, 11-3-0­
0) lost 4-1 at No. 1 Minnesota on Jan. 8 be­­
fore splitting a weekend series against Michigan State. Scoring, or a lack thereof, was much of the issue for the team over the four-game trip, as Notre Dame scored just five times in that span. “We’ve had some injuries that have forced us to shuffle our lines, and that ruins any chemistry that we’ve had,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “That’s something that de­
velops over time. Hopefully, we’ll be able to get guys back, but until then we have to work on rushing the zone, and hopefully getting some of that chemistry back.” Tuesday’s game looked to be different early on, as junior winger Bryan Rust tipped home a shot from ju­
nior center T.J. Tynan — his sixth goal of the year — to give the Irish a quick lead. But Bowling Green fired right back in the second, getting two pucks past senior goal­
tender Mike Johnson, who earned a rare start. Johnson made his fair share of saves, including a few spectacular ones to keep the Irish in it, and Jackson said that his per­
formance was up to par. “[Johnson] played well enough to help us win,” Jackson said. “We just gave up too many decent chanc­es. It wasn’t about him, it was about being unable to capitalize on our power 
play, and playing too loose defensively.” The Falcons pushed the lead to 3-1 in the third pe­
riod, but the Irish didn’t stop fighting. With just over three minutes remaining, Tynan created another goal on the power play to cut the lead to one. But the Irish sur­
rendered a five-on-five goal seconds later, which put the game out of reach and ce­
mented the win for Bowling Green. “That wasn’t a good goal,” Jackson said. “That was a big momentum goal, because we had just cut it to a one-goal game to get some of that mo­
mentum back. That goal see JACKSON PAGE 17 14 points on the night. “I’m really pleased with our defense on Sugar,” McGraw said. “She’s a great player, obvi­
ously. [Freshman guard] Jewell Loyd did an outstanding job covering her. She covered her the majority of the minutes, held her to a season-low, and she scored one or two when Jewell went out. So I’m really, really happy with the defense on her.” The Irish jumped out to a 35­
11 lead in the early minutes of the game, but the Hoyas went see LOyD PAGE 17 
