The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 108 | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Argentina considers homegrown Pope 
Center for Social Concerns director recounts witnessing the Papal announcement in Buenos Aires 
By KAITLYN RABACH                
saint mary’s editor 
argentine cardinal Jorge mario bergoglio was elected as the new pope on march 13 and catholics around the world are rejoicing at the news of this pontiff - especially in his home country, argentina. rachel Tomas morgan, assistant direc­tor of notre dame’s center for social concerns, took in this his­toric moment from buenos aires, argentina. 
“we were sitting in a café [in buenos aires] and all of a sud­den a news flash came on say­ing there was white smoke,” morgan said. “argentina is pre­dominately catholic, but they are mostly ‘cultural catholics’. Just knowing the pope would be announced was important news for argentines as a whole, but when cardinal bergoglio was announced we all stood there in disbelief. we had to take time to process it.” 
morgan said prior to the an­nouncement there was no real sense from the community that this argentine cardinal was a po­tential candidate for the papacy. 
“we talked to waiters, servers and taxi drivers and no one really anticipated this would happen,” morgan said. “This then result­ed in groups of people standing wide-eyed in front of the Tv in utter shock and disbelief. 
“we all could not believe this was unfolding before our eyes. one woman even started crying next to me,” she said. 
morgan said when she walked out of the café, church bells were ringing in the neighborhood and crowds rushed to the plaza de mayo and the cathedral. The plaza has historical and political significance for argentines, ac­cording to morgan. 
“it is a very prominent place 
see pope PAGE 6 




Students provide tax filing service 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news wrtier 
Taxpayers nationwide often dread the april 15 filing date, but many notre dame and saint mary’s students volun­tarily participate in a unique service program to provide tax assistance to low income families in the south bend area. 
The vivian harrington gray Tax assistance program is in its 43rd year of providing this service, and faculty advi­sor edward hums, a professor of financial and managerial accounting in the mendoza college of business, said the program has grown this year. 
“we have approximately 100 undergrads participating in the program,” hums said. “it is a two-credit course and last year the program filed about 3,900 taxes.” 

in order to be eligible to provide this service, students need to complete one course in tax, hums said. once en­rolled in the program, stu­classes and then go into the community to help local fam­ilies with their tax returns for four to six weeks. 
students in the program complete state and federal tax returns for free, and tax­payers must have an income of less than $40,000 dollars 
dents attend four weeks of see TaX PAGE 6 

ccusa, nd partner to combat poverty 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
news writer 
university president fr. John Jenkins and catholic charities usa (ccusa) president fr. larry snyder met yesterday to sign a memo of understanding between the two institutions, pledging to work together to reduce poverty wat a national level. 
snyder said ccusa, the na­tional office of more than 160 catholic charities nationwide, has a long-standing partner­ship with the mendoza college of business through the annual commission for service pro­gram. at the signing, snyder said ccusa wants to engage with the university on another level, strengthening cooperation with each other. 
“when you look at the mis­sion statement of the university and the mission statement of catholic charities, it’s amazing 
see JenKins PAGE 8 


JODI LO | The Observer 

Father Jenkins addressed the campus Wednesday regarding the new memo of understanding to help reduce poverty in America. 

mendoza earns top rank 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame’s mendoza college of business took first for the fourth consecutive year in bloomberg businessweek’s ‘best undergraduate business schools’ ranking released wednesday. mendoza placed first in student sat­isfaction and fifth in employer satis­faction, two of the ranking criteria, bloomberg businessweek reported. students surveyed by bloomberg businessweek commended mendoza for its “well-rounded busi­ness curriculum, strong liberal arts bent and focus on ethics” in the ar­ticle accompanying the ranking. 
roger d. huang, dean of mendoza, said the ranking high­lights the work of those who shape notre dame into a “special place.” 
“There is so much that goes into the educational experience of 
see mendoZa PAGE 3 


news PAGE 7 viewpoinT PAGE 11 scene PAGE 12 fooTball PAGE 24 mens lacrosse PAGE 24 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna                               Online Editor:    Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

News  Sports  
ann marie Jakubowski  vicky Jacobsen  
meg handelman  Katie heit  
lesley stevenson  casey Karnes  
Graphics  Scene  
brandon Keelean  allie Tollaksen  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Jodi lo  dan brombach  

Corrections 

in the march 20 issue of The observer, the mendoza college of business was incorrectly said to have been founded in 1941. The college was founded in 1921. The observer regrets this error. 
How did you celebrate the first day of spring? 

Ude Ineduru 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“dropping o chem.” 
Danielle Dorrego 
junior 
badin hall 
“Trying to keep bundled up.” 
John Sandberg 
junior 
fisher hall 

“by wearing my winter hat like everyone else.” 


Paul DiGaetano 
senior 
dillon hall 
“Trying to stay warm.” 
Gracious Adegbite 
sophomore morrissey manor 
“studying.” 
Brittany Sanok 
freshman 
welsh family hall 
“Today is the first day of spring?” 

Want your event included here? 
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Thursday 
Zen Meditation 
Coleman-Morse Center 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Sitting, walking and reading meditations 
Ask Anonymously 
Carole Sandner Hall 
7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Receive answers to your hot-button Catholic questions. 
Friday 
Women’s Lacrosse 
Arlotta Stadium 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Game vs. Rutgers 
Concert: Altan 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. A traditional Irish ensemble. 

Saturday 
Notre Dame Holy Half Marathon 
Campus wide All day 
Baseball 
Frank Eck Stadium 
2:05 p.m. - 5 p.m. Game vs. Seton Hall 
Sunday 

Women’s Lacrosse 
Arlotta Stadium 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Game vs. Villanova 
Film: Monty Python’s “The Meaning of Life” 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
11:55 p.m. - 1:38 a.m. A classic comedy. 
Monday 
Lecture: Sustainable Business 
Mendoza College of Business Room 162 
12:00p.m. -12:50 p.m. Speaker Michael Skelly 
Baseball 
Frank Eck Stadium 
5:35p.m. -7:35 p.m. Game vs. Kent State 



CNN Hero shares vision of hope for Uganda 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
derreck Kayongo, co-founder of the global soap project and a refugee from uganda, delivered the closing address of saint mary’s 8th annual diverse students’ leadership conference on wednesday in carroll auditorium. 
in 2011, Kayongo was recognized as a cnn hero for creating the project, a nonprofit organization that recycles and donates decon­taminated hotel soap to refugee communities around the world. 
lives upturned by his country’s civil war, Kayongo said his family left uganda when he was ten years old. 
his later entrepreneurial mission was inspired by his first experience in an american hotel, where the automatic toilets and faucets mys­tified him. he and his companions stood at the sinks, which he later learned were controlled by auto­matic sensors, unable to find knobs to wash their hands, Kayongo said. every time they bent over the wa­ter rushed out, but as soon as they stood up, it stopped. 
“we must’ve looked like such fools,” Kayongo said. 
Kayongo said an unexpected perk of his stay at the hotel was the its seemingly infinite sup­ply of soap. he said he stowed the precious toiletries in his bag each day, but new soaps would appear back in the bathroom the next day. convinced that he would be charged for excessive usage, Kayongo confessed to a hotel at­tendee and offered to give them all back. 
“i went up to him and said ‘guess what? i’ve been stealing your soap. if i give it back to the room services can i get my money back? i can’t afford it,’” said Kayongo. 
he said the man laughed and explained that everyone “stole” the soap. relieved and curious, Kayongo recalled asking what be­came of the leftover soap bars and half empty shampoo bottles. he said he was appalled to discover that they were thrown away “for proper etiquette.” 
“i returned to my hotel room and lost it,” said Kayongo. “Keep in mind, i am the child of a father who made soap. a child who became a refugee and saw people without soap. and i came to america to see it thrown away.” 
each year, american hotels dis­card roughly 800,000,000 bars of soap, Kayongo said. such soap is a key weapon in fighting infectious diseases in third-world countries. 
“it’s incredible that a problem of this magnitude can be fixed by [do­ing] something so small,” Kayongo said. “putting a tiny bar of soap in a child’s hand reduces their chance of infection by 47 percent.” after his 
return to Kenya, Kayongo said he spent ten years researching all he could about the infrastructure of the united states and building a foundation for his idea of a nonprofit project, which called for thorough education and serious networking. 
Kayongo said he appealed to hilton hotels and resorts’ desire to be eco-friendly because he said he told them when soap and germs mix in landfills it slows the decom­position process. 
“i approached them with facts they could not avoid,” Kayongo said. “companies want to be on the right side of history.” 
To persuade those with self-serv­ing perspectives, one must broaden their own horizons, Kayongo said. 
“i took my general idea and 

paid adverTisemenT 

broke it into tiny ideas so others could understand,” said Kayongo. “each person has the ability to understand the environment in which they exist.” 
“empathy gives us the ability to be capacious,” said Kayongo. “you can’t lead people or be a part of their team if you don’t identify with them.” 
Kayongo challenged his audi­ence to leave their comfort zones and explore the world. 
“don’t under estimate the power of travel,” he said. “i know you love south bend but get out there. a trav­eling mind is a productive mind.” 
Kayongo encouraged students to acquire as deep and broad of an education as possible through diversity. 
“you are the vessel of intelli­gence. in other words, you must ap­ply yourself to get results,” Kayongo said. “The most powerful people in this country are those who innovate.” 
Kayongo also said in order to be a successful leader, it is impera­tive to understand the power of self-awareness. 
“if you don’t understand the power of self, it’s hard to see how you can change the world,” Kayongo said. 
This vision is essential to growth because the youth now are the world’s future leaders, he said. 
“christian missionaries come with huge donations of clothes, but what they don’t realize is that their generosity is kills the clothing mar­ket at home even more,” Kayongo said. 
Kayongo closed the lecture with a song and dance in swahili, joined 
by the audience.  
visit  globalsoap.org  for  more  
information  on  Kayongo’s  
foundation.  

Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
Mendoza 
conTinued from page 1 
the educational experience of be­ing part of the mendoza college of business , including the spirit of the students, faculty, alumni and university as a whole,” huang said in a university press release. 
university of virginia’s mcintire school of commerce and cornell’s dyson school of applied economics and management earned second and third honors, respectively. The report ranked 145 undergraduate business programs this year. 
bloomberg businessweek said it examined nine data points to rank the schools, such as surveys of the satisfaction of both senior business majors and employers, median starting salaries of gradu­ates and the number of graduates to pursue masters degrees from top programs. 
The study also examined aca­demic quality at each school by combining saT scores, student-faculty ratios, class size in core business courses, the percentage of students with internships and time devoted to class work. 
paid adverTisemenT 




law student to run london marathon 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
while many notre dame stu­dents make final preparations for the holy half marathon this weekend, one notre dame law student across the pond pre­pares for another, much longer run. 
second year law student beth scarola plans to run the london marathon next month to raise money and awareness for the international Justice mission (iJm), a cause she said she strongly supports. 
scarola, who is studying abroad in london this semester, said she wanted to get back into running this year.  after learn­ing she would be in london, she began searching for an organi­zation that would sponsor her participation in the marathon. 
“i came across the international Justice mission and read their mission state­ment, which was all about hu­man rights and trafficking,” scarola said. 
according to the iJm’s mission statement, the organization is “a human rights agency that brings rescue to victims of slavery, sex­ual exploitation and other forms of violent oppression.” iJm’s law­yers, investigators and aftercare professionals work with local officials to secure “immediate victim rescue and aftercare.” The iJm also aims to prosecute perpetrators and monitor the 
“Being a different kind of lawyer meant using my talents to help people.” 
Beth Scarola 
law student 
integrity of local public justice systems. 
“it was really cool to me be­cause these were lawyers glob­ally who were fighting to help,” 

paid adverTisemenT 

scarola said. 
scarola said she felt the orga­nization’s mission paralleled the notre dame law school’s mis­sion, which strives to prepare “a different kind of lawyer.” 
The london marathon al­lows charities to apply for bal­lots, which are used to sponsor runners. 
“i approached the organiza­tion with the hope of attaining their one ballot,” scarola said. “i was interviewed, and was of­fered the ballot.” 
scarola said she believes her time at the university, both as an undergraduate and later as a law student, has fostered a yearn­ing to utilize her talents for the greater good. 
“being a different kind of law­yer meant using my talents to help people,” scarola said.  “i was really inspired by the attorneys that work for the international Justice mission that spend their entire careers utilizing their tal­ents to fight these atrocities.” 
scarola, who plans to raise $6,500 for the organization, said the iJm embraced the notre dame law school’s mission statement as well as her back­ground doing human rights work in the dominican republic. 
although scarola plans to practice healthcare law, she said she the opportunity to raise money for a just cause is still rel­evant to her. 
“This cause is very near and dear to my heart,” scarola said. “i’m not going to stop fighting for it, even if that means just run­ning a marathon as opposed to being able to dedicate my entire career to fighting these atrocities.” 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
senate discusses course changes 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
notre dame’s academic council will soon vote on changes to the undergraduate academic code, and university registrar chuck hurley intro­duced the proposed revisions to the code to the student senate wednesday evening. The biggest change proposed is the adjust­ment of standard course times beginning in fall 2013, he said. 
“for the benefit of the stu­dents, senior associate pro­vost chris maziar has come up with more optimized schedule times,” hurley said.  
The changes mostly focus on the 75-minute classes, hurley said. 
“on mondays and wednesdays right now there are two large open blocks be­tween 9:15 a.m. and 11:45 a.m.,” hurley said.  “This was because in the late [1970s], the provost office reserved that time for faculty departmental meet­ings, which have long since been moved.  we’re making two new slots available for 75-min­ute classes that weren’t there before.” 
hurley said they will also align the 75-minute class times on monday and wednesday with those on Tuesday and Thursday.  These changes will result in a major decrease in the amount of schedule conflicts, going from seven to three, hurley said. The earliest class start time will shift from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:20 a.m. 
The reason for the adjust­ment of standard class times has to do with the availabil­ity of classrooms, according to hurley. 
“There are 155 classrooms 
at the university,” hurley said. “none are available basi­cally between 11:00 a.m. and 
2:00 p.m., but outside of that block there are lots available. we have required all faculty members to abide by standard class times unless they have approval from our office to schedule non-standardized classes.” 
off-campus president Katie Kehl also introduced a new resolution to dissolve the po­sition of off-campus senator. 
“i feel that the position of off-campus senator is redun­dant,” Kehl said.  “as the off-campus president, i sit in on 
“For the benefit of the students, senior associate provost Chris Maziar has come up with  more optimized schedule times.” 
Chuck Hurley 
University Registrar 
senate and the off-campus senator comes to meetings and reports to me. we es­sentially have the same in­formation coming to us from senate.” 
Kehl said she does not see the removal of the position to be a disadvantage for off cam­pus students due to decreased representation because of the class president and the off-campus president. 
student body vice president Katie rose suggested direct­ing Kehl’s resolution to the office of internal affairs. 
“i think having the office of internal affairs come speak to senate would be beneficial be­cause of the complexity of this resolution,” rose said. 
with their term coming to a close in less than two weeks, the senators decided to post­pone their decision until af­ter hearing from the office of internal affairs. 
director of constituent services liza manfred an­nounced an upcoming event regarding hall apparel. 
“Tuesday and wednesday of next week in the sorin room of [lafortune student center] from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. we will be holding a sale of old dorm apparel,” manfred said.  “if you haven’t already, contact your hall president and bring your apparel to me by monday night.  also go on facebook and check out the event to spread the word.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Pope 
conTinued from page 1 
and has historically been the center for rallies and politi­cal movements,” she said. “it continues to be a place where argentines hold their demon­strations. after the announce­ment it was natural that people began to congregate there.” 
morgan said argentine president cristina fernández de Kirchner quickly aligned herself as a close ally of the new­ly-named pope, publicly com­menting on it at a previously scheduled event. 
“obviously with the an­nouncement of the pope she took the opportunity to ex­press joy for the new pope,” morgan said. “at the same time she aligned herself with pope francis, saying she too cares about the poor in much the same ways the new pope does. This comment has been made with some critique.” 
in the days following the pa­pal announcement, morgan said argentines’ opinions about the new pontiff “varied across the spectrum”. 
“about 75 percent of argentines are catholic, but only about 10 percent actively practice catholicism,” morgan said. “This leads to a variety of different opinions. 
“some argentines had very strong opinions about bergoglio and his new role in the church and there were others who sim­ply did not care,” she said. 
morgan said after the official announcement and celebration, the world, including argentines, came away with a more com­prehensive picture of the type of man pope francis is. 
“information emerged giving us a fuller picture of who this man might be,” morgan said. “we learned more about his role in the church and politics of argentina. we were begin­ning to see information that cri­tiqued the pope.” 
morgan said there were two images presented of the new pope as a leader during argentina’s political upheaval. 
“an image of a humble man concerned with working with the poor in the slums emerged,” morgan said. “This image talk­ed about him cooking his own food, loving soccer and taking the bus to work. 
“at the same time we were hearing some really strong cri­tiques of the pope from human rights leaders in argentina,” she said. “These leaders were criti­cizing his leadership during the years of 1976-1983.” 
morgan had the opportunity to meet with students, staff and faculty from local universities in buenos aires and said the stu­dents had mixed reactions to the pope’s leadership while the country was in turmoil during the ‘dirty war.’ 
“some university students we spoke with said he didn’t do enough during these dark times, but that he was not complicit or directly involved,” morgan said. 
morgan said the older faculty and staff members emphasized the importance of context in the pope’s critiques. she said one faculty member offered a good 
“An image of a humble man concerned with working with the poor in the slums emerged,” Morgan said. “This image talked about him cooking his own food, loving soccer and taking the bus to work.” 
Rachel Tomas Morgan 
Assistant Director, CSC 
interpretation of bergoglio’s de­cision to not openly confront the military during this time. 
“This faculty member talked about some of the criticisms around bergoglio,” morgan said. “he added [that] most argentines did not openly con­front the military either and at the time, bergoglio was a young leader and new to the political scene. 
“This faculty member was not excusing bergoglio’s actions, but rather working to put his actions in context with what was going on throughout latin america at the time. in other parts of latin america, church leaders were being killed for openly con­fronting the political situation. This paints a more complicated picture.” 
regardless of the image argentines associate with the new pontiff, morgan said every­one she spoke with expressed joy and hope for this argentine cardinal named pope. 
“i got the sense from some university students, faculty [and] staff we met with, and from other argentines, that people are really curious and hopeful for what this all means,” morgan said. “argentines are not only curious for what this means for their country, but also the world and church as a whole. They shared with us hope this historic moment can help revitalize the church.” 
 Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


Tax 
conTinued from page 1 

per year, the median income in saint Joseph 
county, hums said. There are eight sites through­out the south bend and mishawaka area and one site in plymouth, ind. 
“in addition to taxpayers in the community, the program helps international students here at notre dame,” hums said. “part of the tax return is also a report to immigra­tion service, and we want to make sure students are in proper compliance with their visas.” 
senior program presi­dent sam matthew, said the initiative also focuses on service to the commu­nity beyond the monetary aspect. 
“you’re doing their taxes and doing them a service, but we also become people’s companions,” matthew said. 
matthew, who has par­ticipated in the program for the past two years, said he has worked with the elderly and people with physical disabilities who are unable to leave their houses. 
“we benefit a lot from [the work], and it is really helpful for our education, but the bonds we form with the community are great,” matthew said. “i really en­joy that part.” 
hums also stressed the service programs at notre 
“You’re doing their 
dame,” hums said.  “it al­
taxes and doing 

ways amazes me how stu­them a service, dents start out nervous at but we also the start of the program, and 
then grow confident at the 
become people’s 
end. 
companions.” 

“They grow in understand-Sam Matthew ing, interview techniques senior and are very proficient do­
ing the returns at the end of role of community service in program.” the program. 
“it is very rewarding, and Contact Katie McCarty at one of the oldest community kmccar16@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




SOUTH KOREA 

Cyberattack paralyzes South Korean network 
seoul, south Korea — a chinese internet address was the source of a cyberattack on one company hit in a massive network shutdown that affected 32,000 computers at six banks and media companies in south Korea, initial findings indicated Thursday. 
it’s too early to assign blame 
— internet addresses can easily be manipulated and the inves­tigation could take weeks — but suspicion for wednesday’s shutdown quickly fell on north Korea, which has threatened seoul and washington with at­tack in recent days because of anger over u.n. sanctions im­posed for its feb. 12 nuclear test. 
south Korean regulators said they believe the attacks came from a “single organization,” but they’ve still not finished in-society was vulnerable. on banks, hospitals and other vestigating what happened at Thursday, only one of the at-institutions to prevent more the other companies. tacked banks, shinhan, was outages. 

experts say hackers often at-fully online, officials said. in an indication of the tack via computers in other a chinese address created the high tension on the Korean countries to hide their identi-malicious code in the server of peninsula, south Korean me-ties. south Korea has previously nonghyup bank, according to dia reported that north Korea accused north Korean hackers an initial analysis by the state-sounded air-raid warnings in of using chinese addresses to run Korea communications radio broadcasts Thursday infect their networks. commission, south Korea’s morning as part of military 
seoul believes north Korea telecom regulator. drills. runs an internet warfare unit investigators are analyzing The network paralysis took aimed at hacking u.s. and the log-in records and the ma-place just days after north south Korean government and licious code collected from the Korea accused south Korea and military networks to gather in-infected servers and computers. the u.s. of staging a cyberat­formation and disrupt service. it could take at least four to five tack that shut down its websites 
The attack wednesday caused days for the infected computers for two days last week. loxley computer networks at major to recover fully. experts say the pacific, the Thailand-based banks and top Tv broadcasters entire investigation could take internet service provider, con-to crash simultaneously. it para-weeks. firmed the north Korean out­lyzed bank machines across the south Korean regulators have age but did not say what caused country and raised fears that also distributed vaccine soft-it. south Korea denied the this heavily internet-dependent ware to government offices, allegation. 
paid adverTisemenT 

The attack may have also ex­tended to the united states. greg scarlatoiu, executive director of the u.s.-based committee for human rights in north Korea, said he discov­ered early wednesday that their website had been hacked. They have yet to establish who was behind it but strongly suspect it came from north Korea. 
several of the committee’s publications, including lengthy reports with satellite imagery of north Korean prison camps, had been removed, along with biographies of their staff and board, and their policy rec­ommendations to the obama administration. 
The south Korean shutdown did not affect government agen­cies or sensitive targets such as power plants or transporta­tion systems, and there were no immediate reports that bank customers’ records were compromised, but the disrup­tion froze part of the country’s commerce. 
some customers were unable to use the debit or credit cards that many rely on more than cash. at one starbucks in down­town seoul, customers were asked to pay for their coffee in cash, and lines formed outside disabled bank machines. 
broadcasters Kbs and mbc still didn’t have full comput­er use on Thursday, but the shutdown did not affect Tv broadcasts. 
The yTn cable news chan­nel also said the company’s in­ternal computer network was paralyzed. footage showed workers staring at blank com­puter screens. 
Kbs employees said they watched helplessly as files stored on their computers be­gan disappearing. 
last year, north Korea threat­ened to attack several news companies, including Kbc and mbc, over their reports criti­cal of children’s’ festivals in the north. 
“if it plays out that this was a state-sponsored attack, that’s pretty bald faced and definitely an escalation in the tensions between the two countries,” said James barnett, former chief of public safety and homeland security for the u.s. federal communications commission. 
an ominous question is what other businesses, in south Korea or elsewhere, may also be in the sights of the attacker, said barnett, who heads the cyber­security practice at washington law firm venable. 
“This needs to be a wake-up call,” he said. “This can happen anywhere.” 
an official at the south’s Korea communications commission said investigators speculate that malicious code was spread from company servers that send automatic updates of security software and virus patches. 



authorities investigate south bend plane crash 

Associated Press 
souTh bend, ind. — The fuse­lage of a private jet that plowed into three houses, killing two people and injuring three others, was re­moved a northern indiana home Tuesday by a crane that lifted it from a home, placed it on a truck and hauled it to a hangar where investigators trying to identify a cause will sift through its battered remains. 
meanwhile, barricades were re­moved from the south bend neigh­borhood and all residents who were evacuated following sunday’s crash, except for those living in the three homes that were struck, were allowed to return home Tuesday. 
“it sure does feel good to be home,” said stan Klaybor, who lives across the street from the homes that were struck. 
frank sojka said he’d never re­ally worried about living so close to the south bend regional airport until the jet sheared the roof off the house where he’s lived for 55 of his 84 years. 
“i never worried about it, but i thought about it,” he said with a chuckle. “now i’m worried about it.” 
sojka said he was in the front bedroom sunday when he heard a loud, dull sound and went to his living room. 
“i could see the sky through the ceiling and all kinds of debris in the far end of the living room,” he said. 
The private jet originating from Tulsa, okla., crashed into three homes sunday, killing former oklahoma quarterback steve davis who led oklahoma to back-to-back national championships in the 1970s, and his friend, wes caves, a Tulsa businessman. davis, 60, and caves, 58, were the jet’s flight crew. funeral services for both are still pending in Tulsa. 
The crash occurred after two aborted attempted landings at south bend regional airport. it wasn’t immediately clear who was at the controls when it crashed. 
Two passengers and a woman residing in one of the damaged homes remained hospitalized Tuesday. 
nearly 8,000 small private planes take off and land at the northern indiana airport each year, said michael guljas, the airport’s direc­tor of administration and finance. but in his 30 years working at the airport, he has never seen anything like sunday’s crash. 
“during my time here we’ve nev­er had a plane go into a neighbor­hood,” he said. 
The most similar incident to oc­cur near the airport was in 2004, when two pilots safely landed a disabled single-engine aircraft on a heavily traveled state highway. 
national Transportation safety board statistics show nearly 200 planes crashed into residential areas during a five-year period beginning in 2003. but since 2008, the agency has not distinguished between crashes involving homes and those involving other buildings. 
some crashes into homes have proven deadly. a regional airliner crash into a home near buffalo, n.y., in february 2009 killed 50 peo­ple. in January, three people were killed when their plane crashed into a palm coast in florida while trying for an emergency landing at a nearby airport. no one on the ground was seriously injured. 


Jenkins 
conTinued from page 1 

how similar they are in what we are trying to do as catholic or­ganizations,” snyder said. “we both want to have an extreme impact on building commu­nity and building lives in this country.” 
ccusa’s social service work and the university’s academic focus are an ideal combination, snyder said. 
“what’s exciting about this [partnership] is that we’re some of the first groups to come together and use our re­sources, our talents, and our creativity to have a greater im­pact in lowering the amount of people living in poverty in this country,” he said. 
snyder said the help pro­vided by the university’s aca­demic skills and economic guidance is an essential tool in helping catholic charities to effectively use its resources. 
“we’re social workers. [catholic charities] needs economists who are going to look at what we do and say ‘this is really having an im­pact,’ so that we can take that and run, or ‘this is not having an impact’ so that we can take that and shut it down, putting our resources where they are needed,” he said. 
Jenkins said the partner­ship between ccusa and the university is a great op­portunity for the notre dame community because helping those in need is at the core of a catholic institution. 

“you can’t claim to be a genu­ine catholic university if you don’t serve those in need,” he said. “it’s one thing to have good intentions, and it’s an­other thing to make something actually happen. i believe, that with this partnership, we can find innovative ways to actually help people in need rise out of poverty.” 
Jenkins concluded by em­phasizing the uniqueness of this partnership, calling it “ex 
tremely exciting.” 
“as we continue to build this partnership between these two institutions, i think we will have a powerful effect in help­ing people rise out of poverty,” Jenkins said. “This is a great op­portunity for us to be more of what we say we are, a catholic university being of service to people in need.” 
Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 





‘unpredictable’ pope worries security team 
Associated Press 
vaTican ciTy — forgive pope francis’ security team for looking a bit nervous. 
one pope was shot in st. peter’s square while riding in an open vehicle. another was tackled by a woman with mental problems in st. peter’s basilica. so in the early days of francis’ 

pontificate, as the pope de-present a huge headache for pontiff, francis caused a stir 
lights the flock by wading a security detail attached by mingling with bystand­
into crowds and pressing the to one of the planet’s most ers at a vatican gate, shak­
flesh, it’s only natural that high-profile people. ing hands and even allowing 
chief vatican cop domenico The day after his elec-himself to be grabbed by the 
giani seems on edge. tion, francis eschewed the shoulder, all while people Just consider some of vatican’s armored limousine jostled to get closer. 
francis’ acts of papal out-and traveled through the Then on inauguration day, 
reach, which have all made chaotic streets of rome in an francis stood for nearly 30 
for a refreshing change from ordinary car to pick up his minutes Tuesday in an open 
the reserved style of his pre-things at a downtown hotel. vehicle that circled the vast 
decessor benedict Xvi, but at his first sunday mass as square, kissing babies hand­ed up to him and at one point 
paid adverTisemenT 
jumping out to bless and kiss a disabled man in the crowd. 
it’s not for nothing that francis has quickly been dubbed the “unpredict­able” pope. and for a body­guard, unpredictable means trouble. 
giani looked particularly worried by the crowd that gathered after the sunday mass. la stampa newspaper quoted an aide at the scene as saying that things “better get back to normal or we’re in trouble.” 
vatican spokesman the rev. federico lombardi said last week that the vatican was well aware of francis’ informal and open style and that “proper security measures” would be taken, even if that hasn’t happened immediately. 
“There are a lot of nut cases out there,” said an­other vatican official, who requested anonymity as he is not authorized to discuss security. 
“but you can be sure that 
the security issues are being 
examined.” 
even francis’ habit of con­stantly running late can’t make his bodyguards happy, since they’re used to care­fully choreographed and timed events. after mass on sunday, it seemed as if one of the monsignors was beg­ging francis to hurry up, as 

paid adverTisemenT 

he nervously looked at his watch — but the pope kept diving into the crowd. 
francis’ meet-and-greet manner is reminiscent of John paul ii’s open style in his first years as pope. and an iconic event in the ear­lier papacy brought to light some of the terrifying poten­tial consequences of papal spontaneity. it was 1981 and John paul had just handed a baby back to her mother, as his open jeep drove slow­ly through a crowded st. peter’s square. shots rang 
out.  The  pope  crumbled  
and  bodyguards  swarmed  
around him.  
The  Turkish  gunman’s  

assassination attempt left John paul severely wounded. while he made a full recov­ery, an era of light security was over. 
benedict’s papacy also had its share of scares. 
in 2008, a german man jumped on the pope’s jeep and had to be wrestled down by a vatican policeman. Two years later, a woman with a history of psychiatric problems jumped the secu­rity barricade in st. peter’s basilica during christmas eve mass and pulled benedict to the ground. The pope was uninjured but a cardinal fell and broke his hip. 
experts say that ditch­ing the motorcade and the security detail can be dan­gerous in unexpected ways. “if someone like the pope publishes the fact that he doesn’t have the usual level of security, it only high­lights the potential threats,” said british security expert richard aitch, the author of “close protection.” 
aitch, whose resume lists work for royalty, diplomats, and other vips, cited the example of british prime minister david cameron, whose decision to forego motorcycle outriders drew concern after his official car was pictured caught in cen­tral’s london slow-moving traffic a few years ago. such a situation could basically turn him into a sitting duck for any potential attacker. 
in general, aitch said that any leader’s decision to drop their guard “creates a secu­rity headache” — particular­ly if it becomes a habit. 
and the pope isn’t just any leader, he’s one of the most public figures in the world. during an ordinary week, the pope makes a minimum of two appearances, at his general audience wednesday and from his apartment win­dow for his sunday blessing. 
for the new pope, it may all boil down to balancing legitimate security concerns with his down-to-earth manner and distaste for luxury. 

The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Belief and understanding 

INSIDE COLUMN 
a small miracle 

Gabriela Leskur 
scene writer 

imagine my surprise when in the most unlikely of places i found a ray of hope, a random act of kindness that lifted my spirits. 
This incident occurred in the basement of farley hall in the wee hours of the morning. i knew at that point on a monday only the engineers and i were still awake. The silence was that profound. 
yes, on that fateful day, an eerie quiet hung over the room like a fog. unfortunately, a similar haze was keeping me from thinking clearly. 
with two papers, a test and a slew of other things waiting to be checked off my to-do list, i needed a jolt of caffeine and fast. i was starting to fade and i swear i could hear my bed beckoning me. That sly seductress gets me every time. i just can’t turn her down. 
having just purchased my beloved venti toffee nut mocha from starbucks a few hours earlier, i looked at the vending machine hesitantly. did i really need more caffeine? my domer dollars and flex points were becoming scarce. 
suddenly, i remembered i had some ac­tual paper currency in my book bag. Things were looking up. 
The vanilla coke called my name once again and, with money in hand, i ap­proached the cool-looking coke machine that was all red, pretty and new. 
overwhelmed by the beauty of this lovely mechanism, i did not realize three drinks were stuck inside and that it wasn’t working. 
in my ignorance, i put in a dollar and plopped in a quarter. 
since i always accidentally press the wrong button and end up wasting money on bottled water, i carefully made sure i select­ed my beloved vanilla coke  — all in vain. 
as the tray moved up to retrieve my vanilla coke and dispense it, i finally no­ticed the vending machine wasn’t working. 
of course i had no more money so i wouldn’t be able to go to another vending machine, and my student id was all the way up in my room on the third floor. i knew there was no way i was walking all the way to my room unless i was going there to sleep. 
This is when the miracle occurred. 
The vending machine realized it wasn’t working and returned my money. 
i swear the heavens opened up and a chorus of angels sang. 
in that moment, after a week of being disappointed by the selfishness of others, this humble vending machine restored my faith in the world. 
i went back to my homework with a refreshing drink and a smile on my face. i guess little acts of kindness are always appreciated, no matter who  — or what  — they come from. 
but then again, it is just a vending ma­chine, not some act of god. 
maybe i should stop drinking so much caffeine. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kate Barrett 
faithpoint 

“do not try to understand in order to believe, but believe in order to understand.” 
i came across this quotation by st. augustine of hippo recently in a book of prayer my husband and i regularly use together. it appeared in the midst of the scriptures and prayers for Thursday, mar. 14. maybe it was simply because we are approaching the end of lent, but its timeliness has struck me again and again in the past week. 
The gospel readings for these last days of lent describe the tension that now fills every situation wher­ever Jesus goes. animosity, fear and jealousy drive both the leaders of the Jews and their roman oppres­sors, and they look for opportuni­ties to arrest Jesus or even to kill him. yet Jesus somehow slips out of their grasp, eludes their pursuit and escapes from their power, all the while teaching his disciples, raising the dead lazarus, praying with his friends and showing mercy to the woman caught in adultery. 
The difference between Jesus’ atti­tude and that of his opponents pres­ents a stark contrast, and one st. augustine still recognized 400 years later. The Jewish leaders who feared and hated Jesus tried to lead from 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
their understanding when they real­ly needed to cast their lots in on the side of belief. Jesus again and again offered the pharisees freedom, truth and comfort if they would only be­lieve in him, the living word of god. but again and again, the pharisees’ responses reflect their attempt to understand rather than trust and believe: “your testimony cannot be verified,” they accuse Jesus. in the gospel readings for today and to­morrow they even attempt to stone him for blasphemy. 
in the last days of his life, Jesus faced not only hostility from the religious leaders but the coward­ice, fear and betrayal of his closest friends. Judas sold him out for a relatively cheap price of 30 shek­els. peter denied him. by the time Jesus hung on the cross, John alone remained out of his twelve compan­ions because their belief could not yet summon the strength to over­come their lack of understanding. 
at the same time, Jesus must have been touched by the glimmers of faith he saw growing in the hearts of his disciples even as he faced death. as he washed the feet of his disciples at the last supper, he told simon peter, “what i am doing, you do not understand now, but you will understand later.” finally, peter, his heart opening to belief even though he did not in fact understand, re­plied, “master, then not only my feet, but my hands and head as well.” 
how could we ever reason our way to a god who, surely possessed of the power and opportunity to come down off the cross and strike down everyone in authority who put him there, instead chose to remain nailed in place and pray for mercy toward his tormentors? 
as is true at any point in the year or at any point in our lives, but espe­cially during these days of lent and holy week, we walk with Jesus not necessarily because we understand, but because we believe. when we hear again next week the amazing stories of Jesus taking up his cross, we can allow our belief in Jesus and our gratitude to god to lighten the crosses we bear as well. we will nev­er suffer humiliation, pain, rejection or shame on the same scale the son of god suffered for each of us, and yet through the complete and total gift of himself, Jesus remains at our side through each of the crosses we encounter.  when we open our hearts to belief in this most pro­found of truths, we will have the freedom to begin to understand. 
Kate Barrett is the assistant director of Undergraduate Life in the Office of Campus Ministry. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“happiness is the only sanction of life; where happiness fails, existence remains a mad and lamentable experiment .” 
George Santayana Philosopher 


The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Abolish parietals during finals week 
as far as i can tell, the arguments traditionally “i haven’t washed my hair in over 56 hours” braid 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

some people like to study in their rooms. some people like to study in groups. some study groups in the college game are mixed gender. and no study group likes to be lifted out of productivity by an unwelcome distraction just as soon as they really get “in the zone.” yet for those like me who would rather be able to complete a final group project in the comfort of my two-room quad than try fruitlessly to find a group study room amidst the bump and — study — grind of “club hes,” parietals are that distraction. 
parietals are a tired and usually contentious subject. some say they rob us of the “real college experience.” some say they’re an asset to notre dame’s unique on-campus living. i say it doesn’t matter. granting parietals are good, or at least that we can’t generally do anything about them, we can still say definitively they serve none of their prescribed functions during finals week and should thus be abolished during that time. This may seem a radical or even unnecessary step, but it would address a real need in the university community — that of insufficient quiet, open and private study space when all 11,000 or so students here are trying to find it at the same time. by bringing this up now we can give the university several weeks to think it over before they adopt what is — as i’ll show — a very reason­able solution. 
posed in favor of parietals are as follows: They help us as students to “close out the day” at a rea­sonable hour, they reinforce a sense of dorm com­munity and they prevent excessive breaking of dulac’s ban against premarital sex. 
here are the reasons why, during finals week, all of the above arguments are no longer relevant. first, after three semesters here, i have yet to have a day during finals week that “closed out” before 12, two, three or sometimes four in the morning. i imagine most will agree with me here. 
The second argument is actually the one i most agree with. The freedom to walk down the hall­way in boxers or to burn through a few episodes of “archer” with your bros can hardly be overesti­mated. i’m sure girls have post-parietals bonding moments too, i just don’t know what they are. The problem here is finals are an individual — or the occasional three-to-five person group — venture. dorm community goes out the window. exam week is, in the words of somebody who will surely show up on my international relations final, “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short.” and for this short period of time, the university ought to make some concessions to benefit students who want to responsibly utilize all of the study spaces they pay for. 
in response to the third argument, i may be naïve, but i honestly think students just aren’t having sex during finals week due to two factors. The first is desirability. a guy who hasn’t shaved in eight days and a girl with her hair in the classic are not going to find romance among the ex­cesses of stress and sweatpants. The second is the even simpler fact our individual desires to attain high gpas and to put in the sleep and study time necessary to accomplish them can and do over­ride the burdens of hormonal urges, if only for a week. Those who doubt me here will at least con­cede students really are unlikely to use extended nighttime hours for anything but study or sleep. The closer an exam gets, the more urgent these anything-but-sexual needs become. if sex is hap­pening here during finals week, i doubt it’s after 8 
p.m. and we’re not going to institute 8 p.m. pari­etals now, are we? 
ultimately, this comes down to notre dame’s commitment to facilitating the most rewarding finals experience possible. There are few things worse than having the flow of your study inter­rupted. if i am on a roll, steaming through history notes or economics problems, the fact i am doing so in a female group member’s common room at 
12:04 a.m. on a wednesday is simply not suffi­cient reason to uproot me from my work. 
whatever your stance on parietals for the other 15 or so weeks of the semester, we can agree dur­ing finals week they are a nuisance and nothing more. let’s end them. 
Alex Caton is a sophomore studying political science.  He can be contacted at acanton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

coming to grips with the iraq war 
Ten years ago this week, the united states in­vaded iraq. hundreds of thousands of iraqis have died. even though combat operations have of­ficially ended, violence and a de facto occupation continue. meanwhile, thousands of united states service members have died. many more have been wounded — physically and psychologically. suicide is an epidemic among veteran ranks. working class and lower-income families in the united states bear a disproportionate weight of this suffering be­cause their sons and daughters disproportionately fight our wars for us. 
The rest of us, for the most part, have been so removed from the war that we have been asleep. distance is nice, admittedly, but it is a luxury that allows us to go on with our lives without second — or first — thought. furthermore, distance can anesthetize us to the next war. 
what better time to wake up than in this 2013 lenten season? what better time to come to grips with the legacy of the iraq war than now, 10 years on? or at least to give it mention in our daily dis­course and in our houses of worship. next week, when we recall the passion and death of Jesus — himself occupied by a foreign power — let us not forget the crucified peoples of today who have borne the brunt of this war: both iraqi and american, but the majority of them poor. let us not miss an opportunity to repent for our abdication to the war 10 years ago and our distraction from it since. peace and resurrection are more than pos­sible, but they are not cheap. 
Terry Fitzgimmons 
rector duncan hall 
UWIRE 

The resurrection of the extinct 
Editorial Board 
The daily free press 

according to The boston globe and “national geographic,” scientists are debating bringing extinct spe­cies back to life. Their first test, if this happens, will be the passenger pigeon, which was driven to extinction by hunt­ers in 1914. 
in february, scientists gathered at harvard to decide whether such a feat of conservation  — which they’re calling “de-extinction”  — can and should be done. The process of resurrecting a dead and instinct species would involve the very precise changing of individual spots in a genome so as to take one species and tweak its dna in the appropriate ways to create a closely related one that is otherwise extinct, according to the globe. 
There are advantages to pursuing this experiment, but it seems a frightening science-fiction-like endeavor  — and a potentially futile one at that. species become extinct for a reason, and bringing them back will disturb current ecosystems perhaps more than we can predict. according to the globe, some are concerned that if species revival technology became available, it would detract scientific attention and resources from the critical job of protecting habitats and saving existing species. moreover, if we choose to bring back a species from 1914, we must also make sure that we have ways of sustaining them with suitable habitats and diets, and it might be the case that these things went extinct along with the species. resurrecting long-gone animals might be a lost cause in that it instigates an unsus­tainable cycle of ecosystem imbalances. 
on the other hand, understanding how to tweak genes so as to conserve certain species would be a good thing, so long as we can support the animals we choose to bring back or keep around. perhaps reaching into the past to alter and fortify the genes of a dead pigeon will enable us to do the same to the genes of animals we have at present and prevent further cases of extinction. 
The experiment should be carried out either way, though, in the name of scientific discovery and possibility. if it suc­ceeds (or even if it doesn’t) it will help us better understand our world and its delicate and changing ecosystems. 
This column originally ran in the March 19 edition of The Daily Free Press, serving Boston University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By WILL NEAL 
scene writer 

six years ago, the tiny, adorable, sloth-loving, blonde known as Kristen bell impressed the world with her widely popular and critically successful series, “veronica mars.” The show followed the story of bell’s title charac­ter: a girl who spends her high school and early college years moonlighting as a private investigator under the direction of her detective father in the fictional town of neptune, calif. 
The show won numerous awards during its three-season run and delivered consistently solid story arcs that were thrilling, funny, smart, love-able and, most importantly, quite entertaining. sure it was a great show, but why am i writing about a se­ries that was cancelled in 2006? well, in a surprise move that shocked “veronica mars” fans across the globe, the actors and series creator, rob Thomas, announced a Kickstarter campaign to have its dedicated fans fund the show’s long-awaited jump to a feature film. what is far more surprising, however, is that the Kickstarter page reached their $2 million goal in less than 10 hours. The page continues to receive funding and has currently ac­cumulated over $3.6 million from generous and loyal supporters. 
The cast and crew offered various prizes to their fans ranging from signed scripts to walk-on roles, and 

Maddie Daly 
scene editor 

country music fans, it’s time to come together for a night full of southern drawls and line dancing.  This friday, legends is featuring Jerrod niemann in concert, and since i know we are a minority, we need to show all the support we can. 
in case you are unaware, niemann is signed to a record label co-owned by the country heartthrob brad paisley and has appeared in the top 40 country music charts for three of his songs.  appearing on radio stations and playing shows all over the country, notably at nashville’s grand ole opry, niemann is following the footsteps of some serious stars.  This is our opportunity to show off our country mu­sic pride by singing along with this upcoming star, so here’s your chance to get a head start on learning those lyrics. 
part of niemann’s appeal is the fact that his music re­sembles that of garth brooks, one of my absolute favorite country music artists.  in fact, niemann and brooks have collaborated in the past, co-writing songs like “good BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer promised that production would begin this upcom­ing summer. so for those of you who are neither fans nor familiar with the show, why should you care about this piece of news? To put it simply, “veronica mars” has changed the game for all of our favorite cancelled series. but, let’s first explore the bold move that made this all happen. 
while there was certainly a wide range of enthusi­asm following the news of the successful campaign, the team’s efforts also faced their fair share of controversy. The campaign’s host website, Kickstarter.com has been known as the premium source of funding for indepen­dent projects, so that even the little guys could have a shot at making their dream projects. 
if you’re not familiar with the Kickstarter, it essentially allows users to set up their own fund raising campaign website that includes in text and video an explanation of what they hope to accomplish. There are countless types of projects on the website including fashion, new tech­nologies, music, gaming and (in this case) films. a page will include a desired financial goal the user hopes to hit and the date by which they plan to achieve it. from there, the word is spread to potential supporters. many users offer prizes and rewards to those “backers” who donate higher amounts. only if the goal is met by their deadline does the project receive its funding. 
Kickstarter has been a revolutionary way to bring to life an idea that can’t quite get off the ground, and it is one 
ride cowboy” and “midnight sun.”  The songs are catchy without being poppy and mainstream, and they all have their unique rhythm unlike some country stars these days (i’m looking at you, Taylor swift).  his most popular song, “lover, lover,” could even be mistaken for a Zac brown band number, only by a country music rookie of course, because of its simplistic layers and natural, nearly-a ca­pella vocals.  The stripped-down yet catchy song shows off niemann’s natural talent as well as featuring subtle yet impressive guitar picking. 
another hit, “down in mexico,” has a very Jimmy buffet­esque vibe, with tambourines, ukuleles and lyrics about girls, drinking and beaches.  it’s the perfect song for the anticipation of summer, and niemann will put you in a happy mood, even if just temporary, while you picture warm beaches and summer sun. 
in the past, niemann has toured with love like crazy singer lee brice and country megastar miranda lambert. his concert at notre dame is just one stop on a summer-long tour, sandwiched between shows in new york and fort wayne, ind. 
with the intimate setting of legends, you will be able to that rob Thomas and the “veronica mars” team used to their advantage. yet, many have expressed the belief that network shows and studios have no place on Kickstarter. however, if we all consider that there is a finally a chance for our favorite shows to return from the dead, maybe no one would be complaining then. 
let’s take for example the prematurely cancelled cult favorite, “firefly,” created by the great and powerful Joss whedon, director of “The avengers” and creator of “buffy the vampire slayer.” he has seen the success of the “veronica mars” team’s bold move and said he certainly wouldn’t be opposed to a similar move for his beloved sci-fi series someday. 
The success of this Kickstarter campaign has opened a huge door for the potential return for other series, and fans are jumping to the internet to express their desires for shows they wish to return for a big-screen treatment. what if we had a chance to see Tony and the rest of fam­ily return for “The sopranos” as a feature film? or to see what happened to the lovable gang of “freaks and geeks” more than a decade later?  maybe we will even see a con­tinuation of the “battlestar galactica” saga. 
only time well tell what shows will rise from this rev­elation, but just keep in mind that there is a new hope for all of your favorite cancelled shows. and for that, we thank you, “veronica mars.” 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
experience Jerrod niemann up-close and personal without having to pay ridiculous venue prices or deal with obnox­ious 40-year-old country music fans drunkenly attempting to sing along (if you’ve ever been to a rascal flatts concert, you know what i’m talking about). 
come out to legends this friday at 10 p.m. for a guaran­teed good time, surrounded by country music lovers — all you haters, just stay home or at least keep your mouth shut if you decide to come.  it’s about time legends gave us a well-known country artist to sing along to lyrics about drinking (try niemann’s “one more drinking song”), beaches and the country. 
directly following the concert, legends goes country, equipped with not only non-stop country music but also a mechanical bull.  if that doesn’t convince you, i don’t know what will.   so grab your cowboy boots, throw on some “jorts” and a plaid shirt, don that dusty cowboy hat and grab a partner to take to country night at legends, y’all. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

This friday evening’s hijinks will kick off with The improv showcase at the carey auditorium in the hesburgh library presented by the humor artists, notre dame’s premiere improv comedy group. 
“The humor artists are notre dame’s short-form im­prov comedy group,” senior brian rodgers said. “we perform comedy scenes made up on the spot based on suggestions by people in the audience, similar to the popular show ‘whose line is it anyway?’ we have 36 members in the group, and this membership consists of notre dame and saint mary’s undergraduate, graduate, and law students.” 
The comedic art of improv requires quick wit and, more often than not, knowledge of current events. but this de­mand has not kept new students from joining humor artists. in fact, membership has grown drastically in 
By JUAN RAMON CANCIO VELA 
scene writer 

gone are the days where netflix resigned itself to merely being a middleman for content that could be found elsewhere, now that the online streaming service has finally shown that it too can bring unique content to its subscribers with the addition of the “house of cards” to its online lineup.  “house of cards” will exclusively be broadcast on netflix. 
“house of cards”, stars Kevin spacey as the series’ pro­tagonist, u.s. rep. frank J. underwood.  The series be­gins when the president neglects to follow through on his promise to underwood to name him secretary of state 
— but the story only gets more complex as the series progresses. underwood’s tactics stink of machiavellian moral calculation, which spacey embodies perfectly in his portrayal of a power-hungry politician. underwood pulls the audience in, and seems to be a man with all the power and influence he needs to accomplish everything he wants to achieve. he and his wife are as calculating as they come, and both are extremely invested in repaying all those who have crossed them. 
The show is host to an all-star cast that portrays characters who evolve fascinatingly over the course of recent years. 
“our group has existed since 1996,” rodgers said. “i have been performing with this group since my fresh­man year, so this is my fourth year in the group.” 
This year alone the group size has doubled, adding about 16 new comedians to the ensemble. 
“if someone wants to join ha [humor artists], they will have to wait until next semester,” he said. “The rea­sons for this are that our coach meghan brown [rector of lyons hall] gives us lessons each week and it would be difficult for someone to catch up.” 
These lessons have prepared The humor artists for performance all over notre dame. The group performs several shows throughout the course of the year. 
“we typically perform at legend’s four times a semes­ter, a show at washington hall a semester and a show in the carey auditorium in the hesburgh library once a se­mester,” rodgers said. 
however, The improv showcase still stands out 
underwood’s ever-darkening pursuit for power. The sto­ry incorporates a wide range of themes that promise to keep us at the edge of our seats. 
“house of cards” showcases the challenges of main­taining ideals in a world that does everything to thwart that pursuit, while highlighting the troubles that come with trying to fulfill individual ambition. life on capitol hill is revealed to be defined by deceit, retribution, and backstabbing by its focus on those who step on others to achieve a ‘greater good.’ This show also adds a touch of adultery, murder, and addiction to pique the interest of even the most jaded viewers. 
possibly one of the best features of this show is when Kevin spacey’s character breaks the fourth wall to speak to us about his plans, even as they are unfolding moment by moment. although underwood usually shows un­wavering conviction and admirable resolve even in high-pressure situations, there are instances toward the end of the season wherein frank underwood lets us in on some of his insecurities. This unexpected show of vulnerabil­ity is uncharacteristic of the protagonist — it draws us deeper into the plot and helps us understand the char­acter better. 
even though the morality of his tactics is suspect, you can’t help but find yourself almost rooting for this among the group’s other shows, despite each and every show boasting an enthusiastic and hilarious cast. The showcase is the humor artists’ biggest show of the year, rodgers said. 
“what sets [the improv showcase] apart is that improv is much more engaging to audiences,” 
rodgers said. “we take all out prompts from audience members, and therefore the audience contributes to the creation of our hilarious scenes.” 
The audience can expect not only a hilarious improv show, but an interactive experience where they can be the directors. with so many new games and faces, the show is sure to have a new fantastic energy unlike any other ha show before. 
The improv showcase will take place on friday at 7:00 pm, at the carey auditorium at the hesburgh library. admission is $1. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
character and hoping he will achieve his objectives. after all the work, all the frustration and circumvention of the political system, we somehow want to see frank underwood get his shot at revenge — and with every passing episode he inches closer. 
This show is definitely a must-see for any political drama aficionados. hopefully, “house of cards” is also a sign of the way netflix hopes to shape its online stream­ing service. i for one am excited to see what other great series netflix can present, and i hope the second season of “house of cards” is as impressive as the first. 
Contact Juan Ramon Cancio Vela at jcancio@nd.edu 
“House of Cards” 
Netflix 

Starring: Kevin Spacey, Michael Gill, Robin Wright Streaming online 


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

streaks revive nba, nhl 

Matt Robison 
sports writer 
The year 2013 has already been the year of the streak. The blackhawks started the nhl regular season with an unprecedented 24-game point streak. The heat had a 23-game winning streak, the second-longest in nba history. and in the shadow of miami comfortably sit the nuggets, who have won 13 straight. 
if nothing else, what the streaks have done is stir interest in what can be the most boring part of sports 
— the middle of lengthy regular seasons. The 82­game nba regular season is entirely too long. The nhl benefited from the lockout by having their regular sea­son shortened from 82 to 48 games. 
but finally, the regular season is bearable again. and with march madness, arguably the most exciting stretch in sports underway, people actually have a rea­son to watch professional sports. lebron and the heat are making professional basketball a spectacle again. The blackhawks stole the show when the nfl playoffs usually have every sports fan consumed. The effect the streak had on the pub­lic perception of the league cannot be overstated. 
most of the united states has a hard time getting back into hockey after the lock­out. even though the league has a presence in nontra­ditional hockey cities like Tampa, fla., and nashville, Tenn., the nhl has a hard time gaining fans during the grueling regular season. 
but the streak drew at­tention from across the sporting world. lebron and patrick Kane went back and forth on Twitter. all of a sudden, barry melrose was espn’s most popular sports analyst. 
when it comes to the nba, the heat are drawing com­parisons to some of the best teams of all time: Jordan’s bulls teams of the 90s, wilt’s lakers during the 70s. in an era when professional sports have lost a great deal of credibility — cheating scan­dals, steroids, ridiculous free agencies — the leagues are regaining the awe and admiration of the sports faithful. 
The paradigm is shifting. people often looked to col­lege athletics as the exem­plar for everything that was good and pure in sports. That has broken down with recruiting scandals and eli­gibility questions. Then it was the olympics. but dop­ing and steroids ruined that, too. 
but even with the scan­dals, the $100 million con­tracts and “The decision,” professional sports are watchable again. 
i am a confessed lebron hater. i hate what he did to the city of cleveland and the farce he created during his free agency. but watching him play the game is just too fun to avoid. 
i’m not a blackhawks fan, either. To be entirely honest, i hate that the blackhawks are the only nhl team that consistently plays on televi­sion in our area. but they’re a fun team to watch because they did something no team in history has ever done. 
in a way, i just don’t want to miss out on seeing his­tory unfold before my eyes. in the future, when other teams approach the marks set so far in 2013, i’ll be able to remember watching those streaks unfold. 
as i’m writing this col­umn, the heat are on the verge of the streak break­ing. but even if it does, i’ll be glad i tuned in to watch the nba player i hate more than anyone in the league. not because i’m a fan of the heat, but because i’m a fan of the game. 
when the streak heat is over, and the nuggets’ streak as well, i can rest easy. because as the year of the streak, i can already tell 2013 has plenty left to offer. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

Goodell intends to adjust Rooney Rule 
Associated Press 

phoeniX — The nfl is looking to make the rooney rule more effective after eight available coaching jobs and seven for general managers did not go to a minority candidate. 
“we were disappointed in the results this year,” commissioner roger goodell said wednesday at the owners meetings, adding the league will make some tweaks to the rule. 
“we think that some of the changes we are making (are) to make sure we get the right candidates better training and we really are doing a better job of getting them in front of the people who are making the decisions.” 
The rooney rule, imple­mented in 2003, was named for pittsburgh steelers chairman dan rooney, who steadfastly pushed the league to require every team to interview at least one minority candidate every time there is a coaching or general manager opening. 
before the rule went into effect, the nfl had had only six minority head coaches in more than 80 years. since it has been in place, 12 have been hired. 
but none this year, and not for a gm’s job, either. plus, two black head coaches, lovie smith and romeo crennel, and one general manager, rod graves, were fired. 
so one focal point for the league will be reinstating a symposium program that was primarily focused on coaches, them greater tools to be able to advance their careers,” he said. “we also want to be able to give them greater feedback on the interview process.” 

one unidentified club sug­gested to goodell there needs to be more flexibility in the interviewing process. Teams still involved in the playoffs are very reluctant to grant per­mission to interview their per­sonnel, although the nfl has established a small window for those interviews early in the postseason. 
“when there’s an opening, 
“We think that some of the changes we are making [are] to make sure we get the right canidates better training and ... in front of the people making the 
decisions.”  
Roger Goodell  
NFL commissioner  
but  goodell  said  likely  will  it’s good practice to allow your  
have some potential gm can- best people to interview and  
didates also attend.  have that opportunity to get a  
“and this will be a learning  new job, and that will attract  
experience, this will be an op- even  better people,” goodell  
portunity for us to help give  said. “That’s what the whole  


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL-CHICAGO FIVE FOR THE prime location on ND Ave. Beautiful HOMELESS. Helping the home-house within walking distance to ev-less around Michiana and Chicago. erything. Email for additional info and “LIKE US” on FACEBOOK photos nd-house@sbcglobal.net @ www.facebook.com/ 
chicagofiveforthehomeless 
effort here is, to give the best people the best opportuni­ties, and that’s what everyone is asking for and looking for. i think we’re making progress on that ...” 
during super bowl week, robert gulliver, the nfl’s ex­ecutive vice president of hu­man resources, said that the hiring results were “disap­pointing” and that he expects to make revisions in the rule. 
The fritz pollard alliance, a group of minority coaches and front-office, scouting and game-day nfl officials, wants the rooney rule expanded to apply to coordinators, assis­tant head coaches and club president positions. 
There are currently four minority head coaches: pittsburgh’s mike Tomlin, minnesota’s leslie frazier, cincinnati’s marvin lewis and carolina’s ron rivera. minority general manag­ers include baltimore’s ozzie newsome, detroit’s martin mayhew, houston’s rick smith, the new york giants’ Jerry reese and oakland’s reggie mcKenzie. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or as­sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancy­support@nd.edu 



NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Griner heads into final NCAA tournament on top 
hey, i’m kind of getting away 
Associated Press 
from the youTube dunker 

waco, Texas — brittney girl.” griner arrived at baylor going into her final ncaa known as the girl who could tournament, the defend-dunk. ing national champion lady 
The 6-foot-8 griner has bears (32-1) are again the no. obliged over the years with 1 overall seed. They have a some rim-rattling highlights. nation’s-best 55-game win-even in her last regular-sea-ning streak at home, where son home game, she made they play their tourney a quick spin move around a opener sunday night against Kansas state defender on the swac champion prairie view baseline for a one-handed (17-14). slam. griner is the big 12 career 
while the 14 career dunks scoring leader with 3,203 are impressive — fun, too — points, 190 short of the ncaa griner always wanted to be record with no more than six known for than just slamming games left. she has a nearly the ball. add in all the blocks, seven-and-a-half-foot wing-points and championships, span that contributes greatly and she has indeed proven to to the record she really cher­be so much more in four sea-ishes: 736 blocked shots, sons with the lady bears. more than any other man or 
“a lot of people come up woman ever in the ncaa. to me all the time and just “she’s one of a kind,” Kansas tell me, just compliment me state coach deb patterson on my game, other than the said. “look at the great run dunks and the scoring,” she that baylor has made with said. “Just how i find my team-the final four and national mates and just everything, championship, and really, how i move on the court. That a second potential national 
paid adverTisemenT 
let me know right there that, 


her impact is hard to measure with words.” 
The dunk against Kansas state was part of griner’s big 12-record 50 points in a game. five days later in the big 12 tournament, griner had 19 points, 13 rebounds and a career-high nine assists in another game against the wildcats. 
“no matter what anybody says, she’s not great because of her size,” patterson said. “she’s great because she continued to improve her repertoire and compete ex­traordinarily well.” 
her high school dunks made griner a youTube sen­sation, with as many as seven per game for houston nimitz. They even caught the atten­tion of the likes of nba super­star lebron James, who met griner when she was still in high school and has kept up with her since. 
“she’s awesome,” James said. “it’s not like she’s just catching and laying it or dunking every time either. she’s shooting turnaround jumpers. she’s drop-stepping over her left shoulder, right shoulder, shooting jumpers. she’s got a fadeaway jumper. and she’s dunking the ball, too. she’s great.” 
griner still hears plenty of jeers and taunts from oppos­ing fans during games. and there is no shortage of insults and insinuations about her on social media. 
griner used to be bothered and angered by some of the things said and written about her. she shrugs it off now. 
“i went on Twitter and typed in my name just to see what people were saying, and it was pretty funny,” griner said. “They don’t know what they’re talking about. They’re mad, (i) probably beat their team. They’re jealous. ... in one ear, out the other, and i use it kind of as entertain­ment really, just to see some of the ignorant stuff that they will say.” 
or what will be made up, like the fake Twitter account somebody created represent­ing the new orleans pelicans (the future name of the nba’s hornets) to congratulate anthony davis, the first over­all pick in last year’s nba draft, for “becoming engaged to brittney griner.” 
That obviously wasn’t true, but it even surprised griner, certain to be the wnba’s first overall pick this year. 
“it sounded legit how they said it, and worded it,” she said. “i was like, ‘wow!’ Kind of made me believe. ... i looked at my hand.” 
The only ring she had on was the one signifying the lady bears’ national cham­pionship last year, going undefeated in the ncaa’s first 40-win season. 


“brittney griner, after win­ning the national champion­ship last year, should have erased any doubt in people’s minds as the greatest to ever play the game,” coach Kim mulkey said. 
it’s hard to believe that griner was like any other freshman when she arrived, nervous and unsure what to expect. The lady bears went 27-10 her first season, and made it to the ncaa final four before a national semifi­nal loss to connecticut. They are 106-4 since. 
There was also that punch late in her freshman season after tangling under the bas­ket with a Texas Tech player. after being slung back and lunging toward the base­line, griner stopped, took two steps and delivered a roundabout right to Jordan barncastle’s face. 
like so many of griner’s dunks, the video of that punch went viral. she got an automatic one-game ncaa suspension, and mulkey add­ed a second. it’s something griner still regrets happened. 
but griner is constantly pushed and shoved during games with opposing teams often putting two, three and sometimes even more de­fenders on her. 
as fierce as griner can be during games, including oc­casional scowls and chest pounding, she is fun-loving and often goofy off the court. 
after her 50-point game on senior night, griner pedaled around the court on a tricycle used for student races dur­ing timeouts of baylor games. she rides an elongated skate­board on campus, where oth­er students find out she’s just another college kid. 
“she’s a great person. she talks to everybody. she’s al­ways laughing and joking around,” said baylor men’s point guard pierre Jackson, the big 12’s leading scorer. “she just makes everybody smile.” 
Jackson was a junior college transfer and admittedly “kind of star-struck” by her when he first got to baylor two years ago. she introduced herself to Jackson to break the ice. 
There are less than three weeks left in her college ca­reer that griner realizes “just went so quick.” she will leave an indelible mark on the women’s game, even though she cringes when asked about her impact on the game. 
“ i just feel like i’m adding on,” she said. “i guess you can say i’m changing the de­fensive end ... Just because i’m so big and i move. i’m not stationary. 
“i want people to look back and be like ‘dang, i remember when i played her back in col­lege, she was a game-changer on the defensive end,” griner said. “i want that to be my mark on the defensive end.” 
well, that’s a slam dunk. 



NCAA 

Moore steps down as ‘Bama athletic director 
Associated Press 
Tuscaloosa, ala. — alabama athletic director mal moore is stepping down to become special assistant to the president because of health problems after a lengthy reign at his alma mater that ended with the crimson Tide’s football pro­gram back on top nationally. 
The university announced the move on wednesday. The 73-year-old moore, who played and coached for paul “bear” bryant” and then hired football coach nick saban, has been hospitalized at duke university medical center since march 13 with pulmonary problems. 
he has been the Tide’s ath­letic director since 1999, and will work under university president dr. Judy bonner. 
“as many of you may know, due to factors related to my health, i am at a point that i can no longer fulfill my duties as athletics director in the true championship manner the position requires,” moore said in a statement released by the university. “while i have to focus on my health issue, i look forward to main­taining an ongoing working relationship with this great university as special assistant to dr. bonner. 
“i cannot adequately ex­press what the university means to me. it has been a part of my life for more than 50 years, and i feel honored to have served the crimson Tide as a player, coach and administrator.” 
moore has been part of 10 national championship foot­ball teams in those various capacities. his biggest move as athletic director was hir­ing saban away from the miami dolphins in January 2007 after a failed attempt to hire rich rodriguez. 
saban has led the Tide to three of the last four national titles, and said moore set the table for that success. 
moore, however, started with a nice recruiting job on wife Terry saban. 
“i wasn’t even going to talk to him,” saban said. “but
 called Terry and said, ‘i don’t think i’m going to talk to these guys.’ and she said, ‘oh, well mal is already here. we’ve been talking for an hour.’ so, that was his first step in the right direction. but you know, i always had a tremendous amount of re­spect for mal since i was at lsu. as a coach, you always have a special appreciation for the other coaches who are ads. 
“i think he’s always con­tributed in a positive way to the league. mal has really become a good friend and somebody that i have a tre­mendous amount of respect for. i’m happy for him. i’ll be most happy for him if he can get healthy and be around here with us. but i’m going to miss him.” 
saban said moore had talk­ed about stepping down for a while. 
alabama said it would hire a replacement as ad “as quickly as possible.” 
moore oversaw an ath­letic department that made more than $200 million in facilities improvements — including two expansions of bryant-denny stadium total­ing about $112 million — and won national championships in football, gymnastics, soft­ball and women’s golf in 2011­
12. The stadium now holds 101,821 
The football building and his own memorabilia-cov­ered office are housed in the mal m. moore athletic facility, named after him in 2007. alabama opened a $9 million athletic training fa­cility in february. 
“mal moore is crimson Tide sports,” bonner said. “during his tenure as athletics direc­tor, our student athletes have experienced unprecedented success in every aspect of their careers at ua, on the field of play and in the class­room. his contributions to ua athletics on every level are unsurpassed. and, while he will no longer be in charge of day-to-day operations, i am so pleased that we will continue to be able to rely on his wisdom and expertise go­ing forward.” 
moore was a freshman on bryant’s first alabama team in 1958 then spent 22 seasons as a coach, including stints with the nfl’s cardinals in st. louis and phoenix and at notre dame. 
he joined bryant as a grad­uate assistant in 1964 and coached both the second­ary and quarterbacks before becoming the Tide’s first of­fensive coordinator in 1975. he was also gene stallings’ offensive coordinator from 1990-93 in a tenure that in­cluded the 1992 national championship. 
he interviewed to take over the program after bryant re­tired in 1982 but was passed over in favor of new york giants coach ray perkins. suddenly jobless and ponder­ing getting out of coaching, moore accepted an offer to coach notre dame’s running backs. 
“at the time, i kind of felt like a man without a country,” moore said in a december 2012 interview ahead of the bcs championship game with the fighting irish. “i was in a strange position that i’d never been in before.” 
moore was inducted into the state of alabama sports hall of fame in 2011 and won the John l. Toner award giv­en by the national football foundation and the hall of fame to the nation’s best ath­letics director for the 2011-12 school year. 
stallings recommended moore twice for the athletic director spot, and the second time he got the job. moore hired three coaches — includ­ing mike price, who was fired before coaching in a game — before landing saban. 
The program has flourished since. 
“i just think he’s done a super job,” stallings said of moore. “he’s kept an excellent profile. nearly everything under his watch has contin­ued to grow. The stadium is as pretty as any in the country. i just can’t say enough good things about mal.” 
paid adverTisemenT 





NFL 

Urlacher fails to reach agreement with Bears 

Associated Press 
chicago — The chicago bears are parting ways with vet­eran linebacker brian urlacher after 13 years. 
general manager phil emery said wednesday that the team couldn’t agree on a contract with urlacher, for years the heart and face of the franchise. he is now a free agent after be­ing slowed by a knee problem and then missing the last four games of the season with a hamstring injury. 
“we were unable to reach an agreement with brian and both sides have decided to move for­ward,” emery said in a state­ment. “brian has been an elite player in our league for over a decade. he showed great lead­ership and helped develop a winning culture over his time with the bears. we appreciate all he has given our team, on and off the field. brian will al­ways be welcome as a member of the bears.” 
The 34-year-old urlacher, an eight-time pro bowl player, started 180 games from 2000 through 2012, recording a team-record 1,779 tackles. The ninth overall selection in the 2000 draft has 41.5 sacks, 22 inter­ceptions, 16 fumble recoveries and 11 forced fumbles. he was the ap’s defensive player of the year in 2005 and helped lead the 
paid adverTisemenT 
2006 team to the super bowl. 
“over the last 13 years brian urlacher has been an outstand­ing player, teammate, leader and face of our franchise,” chairman george mccaskey said. “as bears fans, we have been lucky to have such a hum­ble superstar represent our city. he embodies the same charac­teristics displayed by the bears all-time greats who played be­fore him and he will eventu­ally join many of them in the pro football hall of fame. we thank brian for all he has given our team and our city. he will always be a part of the bears family. we wish him the very best.” 
The parting with urlacher is just the latest change in what’s been a busy offseason for chicago. 
The bears fired coach lovie smith after a second straight late collapse left them out of the playoffs for the fifth time in six years, although they did finish with 10 wins. 
They replaced him with the offensive-minded marc Trestman, hoping he could get the most out of quarterback Jay cutler, and addressed two ma­jor issues in free agency by sign­ing left tackle Jermon bushrod from new orleans and tight end martellus bennett from the new york giants. 
Trestman also said that the bears wouldn’t change much from the cover-2 scheme they ran under smith, but he offered what seemed like lukewarm en­dorsements when asked in re­cent weeks about urlacher. 
now, they’re parting ways. and the bears have big holes to fill at the position. 
Their only starting linebacker under contract is lance briggs. strong side linebacker nick roach — who also saw time in the middle — signed with oakland. 
it’s not clear what’s next for urlacher. he had said he want­ed to return to the bears and had posted pictures on Twitter in recent weeks indicating he was working his way back into shape, but whether he will latch on with another team remains to be seen. 
his agents did not immedi­ately respond to messages seek­ing comment. 
last seaso, urlacher sprained his medial collateral ligament and partially sprained the posterior cruciate ligament in his left knee during the 2011 regular-season finale against minnesota and hasn’t been the same since then. 
he barely participated in training camp, had an ar­throscopic procedure in mid-august to relieve the swelling, and spent most of the season trying to regain his old form. 


NCAA BASETKBALL 

ncaa investigates syracuse basketball 
boeheim would not answer 
Associated Press 
any specific questions about the 

syracuse, n.y. — syracuse report but said he wasn’t both-has been under investigation for ered by the timing of it on the possible ncaa violations, most-eve of the tournament. ly in its basketball program, for “we’re concerned about play-at least a year, according to two ing montana,” he said. “what media reports. people write or say, you know, 
cbs sports.com, citing an there’s 30,000 people in the unidentified source, reported dome yelling at me all the wednesday that the school has time. people yell at their televi­received a letter of preliminary sion sets. i tell them i can’t hear inquiry from the ncaa. them, but they still yell at them. 
The post-standard reported There’s no distractions for me. ncaa investigators have been and these players, there’s abso­conducting interviews with lutely no distractions for them. syracuse employees and former They’re here to play montana employees. The newspaper said and that’s it.” the investigation includes the The school also acknowledged handling of former player fab last year that the college sports melo’s academic eligibility. governing body had inquired 
in 2012, the star center was into old allegations that play-declared ineligible for the ncaa ers were allowed to practice and tournament days before it play despite being in violation of started. the school’s drug policy. 
“same story they had last year This season, forward James at this time,” coach Jim boeheim southerland sat out six games said in san Jose, calif., before during the season for an aca­the orange played montana in demic issue. cbs sports reported their opening game of the ncaa the investigation is not related to tournament. “i guess that’s an-sexual assault allegations made nual. i guess next year we’ll get against former assistant basket-it again.” ball coach bernie fine in 2011. 


The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NBA 

LeBron dominates in comeback victory 

Associated Press 
cleveland — miami’s win­ning streak was in danger of disappearing — in the most un­imaginable setting. 
lebron James wouldn’t give up. 
“That guy right there doesn’t want to lose in this building,” teammate dwayne wade said, nodding toward James. “not tonight.” 
James scored 25 points as the heat overcame a 27-point defi­cit in the third quarter and won their 24th straight game, 98-95 over the short-handed cleveland cavaliers on wednesday night to extend the second-longest win­ning streak in nba history. 
The heat are within nine games of matching the record of 33 consecutive wins held by the 1971-72 los angeles lakers. once believed to be untouchable, the mark is now within reach. 
James and his teammates have insisted the record isn’t one of their goals, and for more than 30 minutes the defending champi­ons seemed disinterested and on the verge of losing for the first time since feb. 1. miami trailed 67-40 with 7:44 left in the third quarter. 
but behind the irrepressible James, who added 12 rebounds and 10 assists in 42 minutes, the heat inched closer to history and matched the nba’s biggest come­back this season, according to sTaTs. 
“This was one of the most bi­zarre, unique days of my life with everything that happened,” said James, referring to a homecom­ing in which a fan ran onto the floor and the opening tip was delayed 35 minutes by a leaky scoreboard. “it also was one of the best comebacks i’ve ever been a part of.” 
James had 14 points, seven re­bounds, three assists and two steals in the fourth as miami ral­lied to win for the second game in a row. The heat were down 17 points — 13 in the fourth quar­ter — and stormed back to beat boston 105-103 on monday and surpass the 2007-08 houston rockets for the second-longest streak in nba history. 
“i knew there was a lot of time, so we never panicked,” James said. “we were down 27 with 18 minutes left. That’s a lifetime in basketball.” 
although the cavs were miss­ing all-star guard Kyrie irving, dion waiters and anderson varejao — their top three scor­ers — they pushed miami to the limit. 
it wasn’t until James, play­ing his fourth game back in cleveland since leaving as a free agent in 2010, made two free throws with 4.7 seconds left that miami could relax, but just a lit­tle. The cavs had one last chance to tie it, but c.J. miles was long with a 3-pointer in the final sec­ond, letting miami off the hook. 
following the game, James stopped to sign a few autographs as he made his way to miami’s locker room. This was much tougher than he and the heat could have imagined. The win also completed a five-game road trip, dubbed “The reunion Tour” by James because miami visited wade’s home in milwaukee, chris bosh’s former team in Toronto and ray allen’s in boston. 
“The streak wasn’t on my mind, but us getting blown out was,” James said. “i was going to be the only guy to take an ‘l’ on the reunion tour.” 


NIT TOURNAMENT 

mercer surprises Tennessee 
Associated Press 
KnoXville, Tenn. — mercer had much more time than Tennessee to get over the disappointment of miss­ing the ncaa tournament. That difference was apparent wednesday in mercer’s 75-67 niT first-round victory over Tennessee. 
Travis smith scored 25 points to match his ca­reer high as mercer (24-11) showed more energy than Tennessee (20-13) all night in front of only 4,468 fans at the 21,678-seat Thompson­boling arena. mercer ad­vanced to a second-round game monday at byu. 
mercer won the atlantic sun regular-season title, but it lost to florida gulf coast in the march 9 conference championship game. The niT grants automatic bids to conference regular-season champions that fail to win their league tournaments and don’t receive ncaa at-large invitations. 
Tennessee didn’t learn it was going to the niT until it failed to earn an ncaa at-large invitation on sunday. 
“i could definitely see where it’s a lot harder for them to have a quick turn­around like that,” said mercer center daniel coursey, who scored 15 points and shot 7-for-7. “i feel like that did have sort of an effect. we had a full week-and-a-half that we didn’t even play a game. we had a few days off and then had practice. That defi­nitely helped us.” 
Tennessee coach cuonzo martin said his players were emotionally drained, but he also credited mercer for out­playing his team. mercer led 34-28 at halftime and stayed ahead throughout the second half. 
“we knew as a staff it would be a tough game because of their talent level, not nec­essarily because we didn’t make the tournament,” martin said. “That just adds to it.” 
This marked the second straight night a southeastern conference team had lost to a team from a low-major con­ference in the niT. robert morris of the northeast conference beat defending national champion Kentucky 59-57 on Tuesday. 
mercer improved to 2-1 this season against southeastern conference foes. mercer lost 58-49 at georgia on dec. 18 and won 66-59 at alabama on dec. 22. alabama had won two of its three meetings with Tennessee this season. 
“we were very confident,” smith said. “we’re a tight-knit team and we believe we can compete with anybody at any given time.” 
Trae golden scored 20 points and Jarnell stokes had 14 points and 13 rebounds for Tennessee. stokes’ 12 offen­sive rebounds were the most by a Tennessee player since the school started keep­ing track of that statistic in 2011-02. Jordan mcrae had been leading the vols with 16 points per game, but he scored just seven wednesday and shot 3-for-14. 


paid adverTisemenT 

CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s Ultimate goes 0-3 at Tally Classic 
Women’s Ultimate reaches semifinals in Tallahassee, Fla., goes 6-0 in Axton, Va. 
The a team headed to mary in another hotly con-edinboro 11-5. brought more playing time 
Special to The Observer 

carrollton, va on the second tested battle to finish 4-for-4 despite the winless week-and confidence to young 
both the notre dame men’s weekend of the mid-semes-in the tournament. end, sophomore captain Tim players filling in for injured ultimate a and b teams trav-ter break to compete in the strong individual perfor-hosty was proud of the fight upperclassmen. sophomore elled south during the break woodside invite. mances came from senior his squad showed against Kristen collins made a beau-to compete in two tourna-They started strong on connor sea, sophomore vcu on saturday and all day tiful up-field throw to assist ments, the Tally classic and saturday as tough defense steven Zurawski and fresh-sunday.  he is confident that Kasey coonan in scoring on the woodside invite. and smooth offense lead to men Jeremy doyle, patrick with this experience and in-sunday, truly demonstrating 
The Tally classic, which three consecutive victories. hansen, and matthew creased practice time, the great improvement. began in Tallahassee, fla., conditions were wet and farrell. victories will come for notre in addition, freshman mara on march 9, did not go as well the fields were muddy, but The a team will be in ac-dame b. Jurkovic improved her cuts as notre dame would have the irish made good deci-tion in three weeks at the The team was lead with and on-field communication, liked.  The a team went 0-3 sions with the disc and ex-last call Tournament in cen-exceptional play by cap-helping her to score as well. in pool play with close loss-ploited holes in the defense. tral illinois. tain Tim hosty, as well as senior captain Kelly Taylor es to auburn, mississippi, however, the team lost the The b team competed al-sophomores mike Keough acknowledged the team’s and georgia.  in all three of final two games of the day to most exclusively against a and billy schell, and fresh-improvement as a whole and these games the irish started finish 3-2 in pool play. still, teams at the woodside invite men Joe norby and Jonathan was an effective leader on the strong, but could not close the irish record was good and performed well.  despite cernanec. field. out the opposing teams. enough to earn a place in the going 0-5 in pool play on fellow senior captain 
The team hoped to bounce championship bracket for saturday, the b team took Women’s Ultimate Frisbee Kelsey Taylor led the team back in bracket play the next sunday. virginia commonwealth to over spring break, the in effective communication day and came out strong notre dame came out universe point in the last notre dame women’s ul-on the sidelines, increasing against alabama in the first strong against wisconsin-game of the day. timate team competed in field awareness and helping game of the day. but the eau claire on sunday and unfortunately, the defense two tournaments: the Tally each player learn more about team failed to close out the traded points early.  a hard could not get a turnover and classic in Tallahassee, fla., the game. game yet again, as untimely fought, heavily contested, vcu won 13-12.  This hard and virginia is for layouts in on sunday, the b squad breaks gave alabama the 13-muddy break gave wisconsin-fought game gave notre axton, va. found victory over williams b 10 victory. eau claire the 5-4 lead that dame b confidence heading The Tally classic was the (8-2). b squad captain, soph-
The Tally classic ended they never relinquished. into bracket play on sunday. team’s first opportunity to omore nicole vujosevich re-with a 13-4 loss to the indiana They went on to win the They started with a game play ultimate in pleasant flected proudly, “everybody hoosiers, and the team end-game by three breaks.  notre against woodside, but ulti-weather — temperatures played hard and competitive-ed up a disappointing 0-5 dame then played vcu, and mately fell 13-6 after start-were warm and wind condi-ly in every game.” vujosevich for the weekend.  The team again came out strong. This ing strong.  notre dame b tions were fair. on the first attributed the team’s success was lead by strong perfor-time, however, the irish were bounced back with a great day, the a squad beat both to their good spirit. mances from senior captains able to piece together a com-showing against cornell b, purdue (15-12) and georgia The team’s next tourna-Zach woodruff and Jonathan plete game and come away but again could not get over college (9-8), but faced ment will be the “last call” Koch, as well as junior conor with the 11-6 victory. the hump and lost 8-6.  in tough competition and lost to in illinois on the weekend of hanney and sophomore Kyle in the final game of the day, the final game of the tourna-florida state (12-7), who later april 6-7. hill. notre dame lost to william & ment, notre dame b fell to won the tournament title. 
during the playoffs, the team Club Gymnastics 
paid adverTisemenT found success over south The gymnastics club team carolina (15-4), but lost the competed in the illini invite rematch against purdue in at the university of illinois the semi-finals, 11-10. on march 9. The irish started 
despite their disappoint-on the uneven bars and fin­ment from being eliminat-ished on the vault. ed from the championship christa costello, a sopho­bracket, the squad fought more competing in her first hard against Tulane for a 11-7 gymnastics meet of this sea-victory, earning a 3rd place son, finished the day with a finish. 7.9 on the balance beam and 
after a week of recuperat-a 7.7 on the floor exercise. ing, both the a and b squads Junior emily siebert com-went on to compete in the peted on the balance beam, “virginia is for layouts” floor exercise, and vault. she tournament. over the course received a score of 8.0 on of the weekend, the a squad beam, a 9.3 on floor, and an went 6-0, defeating william & 8.525 on vault. mary (12-9), James madison The gymnastics club is cur­(13-3), elon (10-8), davidson rently preparing for their next (13-6), cornell (13-4), and competition in minneapolis, wellesley (13-6). minn. for naigc nationals 
Their success in each game next month. 




The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FENCING 

Irish prepare for NCAA competition 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
with individual titles and a ninth ncaa team title on their minds, twelve notre dame fenc­ers will take to the strips this Thursday through sunday at the ncaa championship in san antonio, Texas, making it the sixth consecutive year the fighting irish have a dozen fencers in the meet. 
The opportunity is one every fencer cherishes, sophomore foilist madison Zeiss said. Zeiss is making her second ncaa cham­pionship appearance. 
“The atmosphere at a meet like this is definitely stressful,” Zeiss, said. “everyone here is incred­ibly determined and focused, but everyone knows what an honor it is to be here so it’s awesome to be here.” 
Joining Zeiss in san antonio is fellow foilist lee Kiefer, a fresh­man who’s looking to add an ncaa championship title to an already impressive resume which­sincludes a sixth place finish in last summer’s olympics. The two are coming off a remarkable ncaa midwest regional meet march 9 and 10, with Kiefer taking the top spot on the podium and Zeiss following right behind in second. 
seniors courtney hurley and ewa nelip will be making their fourth appearance at the ncaa championships. hurley, who is 60­10 in her previous three trips, took third in both the 2009 and 2010 na­tional meets, and won it all in 2011. nelip too has two bronze medals to her name, winning hers in 2008 and 2009. 
like Zeiss, senior sabreuse lian osier is making her sec­ond appearance at the national meet, while freshman newcomer Johanna Thill will be making her first appearance. osier finished second in the ncaa regional meet with a 13-2 record, while Thill fin­ished fifth, going 10-5 in her bouts. 
The men’s squad will be led by past national champions in senior foilist and two-time olympian gerek meinhardt, the 2010 cham­pion, and junior ariel desmet, who took the foil title in 2011. This will be third ncaa appearance for meinhardt and the second for desmet, as both missed last year’s season because of olympic training. like Zeiss and Kiefer, meinhardt and desmet finished one-two in the regional meet, with meinhardt outlasting desmet to win gold. 
freshman John hallsten, who won the ncaa midwest regional sabre draw to punch his ticket to san antonio, and junior Kevin hassett, the third place finisher at the regional meet, will compete in sabre at the ncaa champion­ship. hassett is returning for the second consecutive year after finishing seventh in last year’s national meet. freshman epee­ist garret mcgrath, the midwest conference champion, and junior epeeist michael rossi, the bronze medalist in the midwest regional, round out the men’ squad. 
The entire squad made the trip down to san antonio to cheer on their teammate,, Zeiss said. winning a team title for notre dame would be “everything we have wanted.” she said. 
“no matter how individual the tournament is, to win a title for notre dame…would mean so much,” Zeiss said. 
The men’s bouts take place Thursday and friday, while the women take to the strips on saturday and sunday. The meet will bs held at the freeman coliseum in san antonio. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 






Bandy 
conTinued from page 24 
while irish junior billy pecor won the first set at no. 4 singles, he dropped the last two sets, falling 7-6, 6-4, 6-3. irish senior blas moros also played a three-set match at 1-6, but eventually found his stride by exploiting wang’s weaknesses and playing a tighter game. 
“The first set i started off a little slow,” bandy said. “The guy kind of walked all over me. it really kind of clicked in the second set. i kind of rec­

“We’ve played these teams before, had the experience, but it’s just about making sure when it comes down to game time that you have the energy and you’re focused and you have the confidence.” 
Ryan Bandy 
junior 

no. 3 singles, but lost to no. 65 ognized that he had a tougher Trojans sophomore yannick time hitting the ball when i hanfmann, 1-6, 6-0, 1-6. got him out wide so i started 
bandy was the only irish serving out wide on both sides player to win a match against and started playing cleaner. the Trojans, but the win didn’t when i got a short ball, i really come without a fight. went after it and knew that if i 
The junior lost the first set, wanted to change the match around, i had to play all out. so i waited for the right ball and i’d attack and come in and things worked out well.” 
usc represents the sixth team ranked in the top-25 notre dame has played this spring season. The irish are 2-4 against these opponents, but have only been swept, 7-0, one time against then-no.4 ohio state on the road. 
“we always play one of the toughest schedules in the country,” bandy said. “we’ve played these teams before, had the experience, but it’s just about making sure when it comes down to game time that you have energy and you’re focused and you have the confidence.” 
The irish will next travel to williamsburg, va. this week­end to face william and mary on saturday. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish send six to championships 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
Though six members of the notre dame squad face their toughest competition of the season this week at the ncaa championships, the irish plan to use the op­portunity to relax and enjoy themselves. 
“we love to have fun and goof off,” sophomore swim­mer emma reaney said. “not taking ourselves too seri­ously is what really helps us. [irish coach brian barnes] always teaches us to be pre­pared for anything that goes wrong. he wants us to learn how to stay calm no matter what happens so i’d say we’ve been thinking about that a little more than usual.” 
going into the first day of competition, reaney has top-10 times in the 100­yard breaststroke, the 200­yard individual medley and the 200-yard breaststroke. reaney will also be compet­ing in four relays throughout the three-day competition. 
“i’m always so honored to represent notre dame,” reaney said. “To get that name and logo out there as many times as we can is awesome.” 
reaney is in good com­pany among her teammates. senior backstroke Kim holden qualified for three individual events — the 100­yard butterfly and the 100 and 200-yard backstroke. 
This is the second time holden has attended the ncaa championships, finishing in the top 25 in the 100 and 200-yard backstroke in 2011. 
Junior backstroke Kelly ryan competes in both the 100 and 200-yard backstroke, as well as the 100-yard free­style. ryan was named an all-american in 2012 for her top performance in the 200­yard backstroke. 
sophomore butterfly bridget casey was the last swimmer to qualify in an individual event and will be swimming in the 200-yard butterfly. 
freshman catherine galletti will be traveling with the team and is eligible to compete in any of the four irish relays throughout the weekend. 
reaney said she’s not wor­ried about staying motivated throughout the three-day competition. 
“The energy on deck at this meet is almost palpable,” reaney said. “you can’t help but be excited to be there and excited to swim even until the last minute of the meet. my entire family is here, too, and knowing they’re here to support me will definitely keep me motivated.” 
senior diver Jenny chiang kicks of the irish competition tomorrow when she com­petes in the preliminaries for the 1-meter dive. 
The irish take on the ncaa championships on Thursday at the iupui natatorium in indianapolis. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Kemp 
conTinued from page 24 
who had two assists and two goals and now leads the team with 12 goals on the season. senior attack sean rogers and sophomore attack conor doyle each contributed three points. “matt Kavanagh’s terrific, and when we’re playing good of­fense, matt is even better,“ corrigan said. “he knows how to play when the game is moving. when the offense is moving … matt’s going to find spots to make plays. he puts himself in the middle of things a lot. for me, he’s the canary in the coal mine; when he’s scoring goals, that means we’re playing good offense.” with this victory the irish end a brutal stretch of six straight 
games  against top-10  oppo­ 
nents.  despite  the  success  
of  his  squad, corrigan  still  

thinks his team can improve and wants them to stay fo­cused on the road ahead as they enter conference play. “we played a very, very good first half [today] and we’re a tough team to comeback on from five goals down, but i’m still waiting for us to play 60 minutes together,” corrigan said. “we’re about halfway through the year now and it’s time for us to really know ourselves better and have a sense of what kind of plays we can make and which ones we just have to take a pass on. 
“There  are  no  walks  
in  the  park  in division  
i  lacrosse  right  now.”  

The irish next play rutgers at 1 p.m. sunday in piscataway., n.J 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


“i think collinsworth 
Practice 
moved around very well,” 
conTinued from page 24 
Kelly said. “he’s a smart 

monroe, ga., native was player and it’s good to have held without a sack against a veteran player with a lot of both usc and alabama to smarts. he can play a number close out the year. of positions for us.” 
“The last half of the season Kelly stressed the impor­he really struggled with it,” tance of having depth and Kelly said. “he fought through versatility in the secondary, it. but it was something that something the team lacked needed to be repaired so last season hampering. that was done before spring “you want to be able to play break.” nickel and dime [coverages],” 
Kelly said he was focused Kelly said. we couldn’t even on watching players return-get into the dime last year. ing from injuries that held we couldn’t put four poten­them out of last season. tial corners on the field. it 
“what i wanted to do was just opens up your defensive get around and observe some playbook a little bit more to of our injured players and match up.” see what they look like com­ing back for the first time,” Carlisle impresses in Kelly said. “so for the first crowded backfield two, three days, and probably with the loss of running until we get into next week, backs cierre wood and Theo i want to be able to float riddick to graduation, the around and have a real good rushing attack is an open sense and feel for some of our competition. but junior amir players that we’re counting carlisle, who missed last sea-on to be in key roles for us.” son with an ankle injury af­
ter transferring from usc, Wood and Collinsworth has impressed Kelly with his return to the secondary explosiveness. 
Kelly said he was particu-“i think the guy of all the in­larly impressed with senior jured guys that stands out to cornerback lo wood, who me was amir carlisle,” Kelly missed all of last season with said. “he’s got a gear. he’s got an achilles injury. as a soph-a high level where he’s really omore in 2011, wood played going to be able to help us.” in 10 games and returned Kelly said he could see an interception 57 yards carlisle providing the irish for a touchdown against with versatility out of the maryland. backfield, much like riddick 
“i like the way lo did as both a rusher and a wood looked,” Kelly said. receiver. “obviously, competition at “i definitely can see us play-the cornerback position is al-ing amir and another back at ways good for your team.” the same time because he has 
another returning mem-the ability to play,” Kelly said. ber of the secondary is senior “he’s a very good pass-catch­safety austin collinsworth, er. he’s got good ball skills. who missed all of last sea-i can see us getting him the son with a shoulder injury. football in a number of dif­collinsworth played in all 26 ferent ways with another run-games as a reserve through ning back on the field.” his first two seasons and provides versatility to the Contact Mike Monaco at secondary. jmonaco@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricK cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: sloane stephens, 20; holly hunter, 55; spike lee, 56; william hurt, 63. 
Happy Birthday: you’ll have perceptive insight into what’s going on around you and how you can manipulate situations to suit your needs. problems at home can be expected, but handling them swiftly will give you the upper hand, allowing you more time to pursue your personal goals. anger won’t work, but outmaneuvering will. don’t divulge secrets. your numbers are 6, 10, 18, 27, 32, 41, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Trouble surrounds you. Keep your thoughts to yourself and avoid discussing personal matters. a feud can make or break an important rela­tionship. work quietly on your own and you will make the most of your time. steady progress will eventually pay off. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotions will lead to impulsiveness. stay calm and put energy into helping a cause or exploring an idea you want to pursue. look to partner­ships for greater stability as well as equal contributions. romance is apparent, but so are secret affairs. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): past colleagues and peers are likely to be charming but not trustworthy. don’t rely on second-hand information. do your research and avoid making a mistake you’ll regret. avoid being predictable and you will avoid being taken for granted. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): visit people and places. sharing thoughts, ideas and memories will ignite new beginnings that allow you to reuse past plans. greater security will develop if you let your imaginative thoughts and ideas lead the way. love is in the stars. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): embrace change even if you aren’t completely in favor of what’s happening. a chance to get an inside look at exciting new possibilities will clear your mind and eliminate mistakes. be willing to take on additional responsibili­ties. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t ruin your chance of success by going overboard. Temper your desire to make changes at home or work. Time is on your side, and someone you least expect will offer you a favor. rely on intuition and old friends and colleagues. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): push back if someone tries your patience. you may like to keep the peace, but being taken advantage of will not help your confidence. explore new possibilities, but make sure they are reasonable before you proceed. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): rethink your strategy, look at your surroundings and find a way to make what you have work for you. an addition, new connection or a simple plan that allows you to engage in creative entertainment or functions should be your goal. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Think before you say something you’ll regret. The truth will help you avoid criticism. an old partner or friend will come through for you in a time of need, but first you must be completely honest about your situation. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t feel pressured to make a move or a statement. follow your heart and head in a direction that best suits you. profits and advance­ment are heading your way. added responsibilities will also raise your profile. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): get back to basics and to the things you enjoy doing most. changing the way you earn your living will bring you satisfaction and more confidence. altering your current accommodations will encourage growth and prosperity. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Keep your life simple. avoid exaggeration or taking on too much. put your creative ideas to work for you. exploring a new interest or invest­ing in a talent or skill you want to exploit will give you a new outlook on life. 


Birthday Baby: you are a creative, imaginative dreamer; insightful, caring and posses­sive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 9, ohio sTaTe 4 
Saving the day 
Kemp leads Notre Dame to easy victory over Ohio State with 11 saves 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
after playing four straight games decided by one goal, the no. 3 irish were able to buck the trend and cruise to a surprisingly easy victory over no. 8 ohio state, winning 9-4. for the first three quar­ters, the irish (5-1) defense was outstanding against the buckeyes’ top-15 offense, al­lowing just one goal and only 13 shots. 
They killed all but one pen­alty, forced 18 turnovers and cleared the ball consistently into the offensive zone. when the buckeyes started to rally in the fourth quarter, scoring three goals, the irish defense kept the pace under control and secured the win. all­american senior goalie John Kemp tied his season high with 11 saves. 
“John Kemp was terrific today,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “when he plays like that, we’re aw­fully tough. i thought they had some chances and he took them away … [he] was right there when he needed to be. They generate very good shots most of the time.” corrigan gave credit to the ohio state offense, but thought  his team gained an advantage by playing a similar opponent over the weekend. 
“[ohio state] is a very good offensive team,” corrigan said. “They’ve been giving people fits all year. i think we really benefited from the fact that we played denver on saturday, [because] they’re very similar in their styles. They’re very unique to the rest of lacrosse … but very similar to each other … so we benefitted from playing a very good denver team.” offensively, the irish raced to an early 6-1 lead and add­ed three more insurance goals in the fourth quarter as the buckeyes tried to rally. leading the charge was fresh­man attack matt Kavanagh, 
see Kemp PAGE 22 
FOOTBALL 

Irish start spring ball 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
wednesday morning marked the start of spring practice, but injuries are al­ready on the mind of irish coach brian Kelly. 
after the two-hour practice session, Kelly said irish junior defensive end stephon Tuitt is recovering from a sports hernia injury. Tuitt, who was riding a stationary bike dur­ing the 30 minutes of media availability at wednesday’s practice in loftus sports center, is expected to return for the final two weeks of spring ball. 
“he’s already moving really well,” Kelly said. “he feels so much better. he had some restriction in that groin, hip flexor area where he was re­ally restricted in running out, so we said, ‘you know what, let’s get it done. let’s not wait on it.’ and it’s something that we may have managed, but we want to get him 100 percent.” 
Tuitt led the irish with 12 sacks last season, but the 
see pracTice PAGE 22 


MEN’S TENNIS | usc 6, nd 1 

Trojans steal the show in singles 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 

hosting its toughest oppo­nent this season, no. 27 notre dame fell to no. 3 usc, 6-1. The irish (10-7) forced four three-set singles matches against a Trojans’ lineup filled with nationally ranked play­ers, but only irish junior ryan bandy won his match at no. 6 singles against Trjoans sopho­more Jonny wang, 1-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
“we competed hard with them,” bandy said. “obviously, we didn’t get the win today but we went out there and had three or four matches in singles that we were close to winning. 
“we got one singles point on the board, which is something we are a little proud of. we just competed a lot better in singles and really played with a lot of heart out there.” 
The irish were unable to match the Trojans’ firepow­er in the doubles lineup and dropped the doubles point to begin the night. after los­ing matches at no. 2 and no. 3 doubles, 8-4 and 8-6, respec­tively, notre dame rebounded in the singles and took five to­tal sets from usc (16-2). 
“i think we started off a little slow in the doubles,” bandy said. “i mean we were obvi­ously excited about the chal­lenge but we really came out flat in doubles. They just kind of walked over us in doubles. 
“in the break between dou­bles and singles, we knew we needed to step it up and change up the pace and really come out strong in singles with a lot of energy.” 
besides bandy’s victory at no. 6 singles, the irish gave usc its toughest matches at no. 1 and no. 4 singles. playing against the second-ranked sin­gles player in the nation, irish junior greg andrews recovered from losing the first set, 6-7, to take a hard-fought second set, 6-3. but the junior ultimately lost to the third-set tiebreak­er to Trojans junior emilio gomez at no. 1 singles. 
see bandy PAGE 21 






