The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 49 | tuesday, november 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
basilica houses continent’s oldest carillon 
Computerized system tolls 23 bells Fr. Sorin brought from France, held in bell tower on campus 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
The height of spire of the basilica of the sacred heart makes that building the tallest on notre dame’s campus, tall­er than both the golden dome and the hesburgh library. 
within that tower hangs the oldest carillon in all of north america, the 23 bells Fr. sorin himself purchased and brought over from France af­ter he founded the university. basilica organist daniel bayless said although some of the original ropes, pulleys and weights from the carillon’s mechanical system remains in the tower, most of the notes tolled over god Quad are pro­grammed and played through a computer system. 
“The computer system au­tomatically tolls out the hour chimes and automatically plays the alma mater,” he said. “Twice a day, at noon and six p.m., we have hymns that are played which you can hear on the quad. at noon and six also the angelus prayer is rung, which is a series of bells played before the hour is rung.” 
To program the tolling, bayless said he can play a se­ries of notes into a keyboard located next to the computer system in the sacristy of the basilica. 
“basically, there’s an elec­tronic connection between here and the tower so when­ever you hit a key on the key­board, an electromagnet moves a clapper and makes the sound,” he said. “you can play it down here where it’s rela­tively warm and comfortable instead of having to go upstairs every time.” 
see bells PaGe 5 

TORI ROECK | The Observer 
Each of the 23 bells in the tower of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is named after a saint. According to   Roman Catholic tradition, when the bell tolls, a prayer is sent to that saint. 



Executive MBA program leaps in 2013 rankings 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
notre dame’s executive mba program jumped to the 15th spot in bloomberg businessweek’s biennial ranking of best executive mba programs as “the biggest mover” of the 42 programs included, the businessweek website states. 
suzanne waller, director of degree programs at the stayer center for executive education in the mendoza college of business said the ranking key factor is the student satisfaction aspect. 
“i think [the ranking] validates, to some extent, the experience the students have while they go through this program,” waller said. “really, our emphasis isn’t on the ranking but the stu­dent satisfaction piece. we want to make sure that stu­dents leave the executive mba at notre dame feel­ing that it met or exceeded their expectations.” 


cortney mayfield, admis­sions and student services assistant director at the stayer center, also said the student experience was the most important factor. 
“my number one goal is to have happy students,” [no.] 15 ranking is great, but i think it’s completely because they had a great experience.” 
waller said improving student experience in­volves making each second in the classroom valuable. 
“one of the crucial pieces is the proper management 
she said. “so having a see mba PaGe 5 

Theology professor dies at age 83 
Observer Staff Report 
Former notre dame theol­ogy professor and holy cross priest Fr. John scribner dunne passed away monday at age 83, according to an obituary from the congregation of holy cross. 
dunne is renowned in notre dame’s department of theology for “having taught more stu­dents than anyone else in the university’s history,” the obitu­ary stated. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins said dunne “will be missed by all” in a statement released by the university monday. 
“on behalf of the university, i extend my deepest condo­lences to the family and friends of rev. John s. dunne c.s.c., a beloved teacher, scholar, priest and friend,” Jenkins said in the statement. “John brought humility, honesty and intel­lectual prowess to a quest of faith seeking understanding and, in sharing the journey, he 
John Scribner Dunne
Theology professor 
made lasting contributions to the lives of countless students, colleagues, fellow religious and many readers of his books. 
“like many others, i ben­efited greatly from classes and 

conversations with John, and mourn his passing.” 
dunne received the 2013 presidential award, the sheedy award and the danforth Foundation harbison award from the university, the obitu­ary stated. he published nu­merous books and in 1999 was named one of the “most influential spiritual writers of the 20th century,” the release stated. 
see dunne PaGe 3 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Would you want to compete in the Baraka Bouts or Bengal Bouts? 

Colleen Boyle 


Lauren Groody 
senior 

sophomore 
off campus 

pangborn hall 
“um, probably not.” 

“That would be a negative.” 

Abe Yu 
senior off campus 

“i’m going to grad school just so i can do this.” 


Gracie Gallagher 
sophomore pangborn hall 
“yes.” 
Claire Wiley 
sophomore pasquerrilla east hall 
“no.” 


Jeffrey Wang 
sophomore 
knott hall 
“heck yeah, i’ll be fighting later this year.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski kit loughran Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
katie mccarty vicky Jacobsen haleigh ehmsen isaac lorton 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Snite Salon Series International Taste Piano Recital Men’s Hockey Teaching Tolerance 
wei lin austin Taliaferro 
Snite Museum of Art of South Bend Moreau, Little Theatre Compton Family Ice Moreau, Little Theatre 5 p.m.- 5:45 p.m. LaFortune Student 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m. Arena 10:30 a.m.- 11:30 a.m. Student’s ideas and Center Pianist Jeffrey Jacobs 7:35 p.m.- 9:35 p.m. Erin Gruwell founder 
Corrections 

observationsabout 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. celebrates a piano The Irish face off of Freedom Writers 
in the november 7 issue of The great works of art. International cuisine. given to the college. against Merrimack. Foundation will speak. observer, the names of ann Therese palmer and angie rocca dahl were 
This Country is Yours MFA Reading Gender Studies Meet Tai Chi Film: Mickey B 
misprinted in the article “‘Thanking 
Too! O’Rourke’s & Greet & Eat St. Liam Hall DeBartolo Performing 
Father Ted’ e-book debuts.” The 
Geddes Hall 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m. O’Shaughnessy Hall 1:30 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. Arts Center 
observer regrets this error. 

12 p.m.- 1 p.m. Candidates of the 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. Come and relax with 3 p.m. Anthropology lecture Creative Writing Major information and this Stress Buster Directed by Tom Magill, by Laura Steil. Program. free pizza. Friday event. who will attend. 


Circle K club hosts ‘Turning Over A New Leaf’ 
By LILLIAN McGILL 
news writer 
on saturday, members of circle k, the largest student-run service organization on campus, braced the cold and raked leaves in the greater south bend community. 
circle k club president mina golubovich said the annual event is titled “Turning over a new leaf” and is one of the many volunteer opportunities the club sponsors throughout the year. 
“we went into the community and raked leaves for south bend res­idents who can’t do so themselves,” golubovich said. “we had about 100 people turn out for it and we cleaned over 32 houses and community lots.” 
circle k, associated with the in­ternational service organization kiwanis, partners with several community organizations, includ­ing: catholic worker house, center for the homeless, dismas house, hannah and Friends, the south bend humane society, la casa de amistad, logan center, memorial hospital of south bend, Queen of peace catholic church and school and saint mary’s convent, golubovich said. 
with over 12 partner organiza­tions and multiple volunteer oppor­tunities every day of the week, club president mina golubovich said members have flexibility with their schedules. 
“a lot of our volunteers that do go to a specific site end up returning every week,” golubovich said. “but if you have a busy week or a test com­ing up, it’s not a big deal if you don’t make the shift.” 
service projects include bowl­ing with the logan center, where members bowl with adults with dis­abilities, preparing and serving din­ner at the center for the homeless and tutoring recently released pris­oners at dismas house, golubovich said. 
sophomore annika Fling said her favorite circle k project involves visiting retired nuns at saint mary’s convent. 
“They all have amazing life stories and share all their goodness with us,” Fling said. “we’re doing service, but really they’re serving us more than we’re serving them.” 
in order to coordinate logistics, hilary Johnson, the club’s vice presi­dent of service, said circle k employs commissioners for each project. 
“anyone can volunteer to be a commissioner, but there’s really no compensation for it,” Johnson said. “They’re the ones responsible for coordinating the volunteers and providing transportation to and from the site.” 
on dec. 8, the club will be host­ing one of its signature events called “The aiden project”, Johnson said. she said it involves 
making fleece blankets for cancer patients.“it’s our biggest project of the year,” Johnson said. “we rent out an entire side of south dining hall, spend around $3,000 on fleece and make 500 blankets or more.” 
in order to fund these projects, golubovich said the club relies on donations, a tomorrow fund and various fundraisers. 
Johnson said all students are welcome to participate in service through circle k’s projects and events. 
“we do have a membership fee, which lets you join the larger kiwanis international organization,” Johnson said, “but you don’t have to be a member to participate in projects.” 
golubovich said circle k’s cen­ters projects on its three tenants of fellowship, leadership and service. Through these tenants the organi­zation works to be a force of good within the community, she said. 
“i think one of my favorite parts is just the fellowship because you’re brought together with people who love doing service just like you,” golubovich said. “you build rela­tionships both with your fellow vol­unteers as well as the people at the actual sites.” 
students interested in becoming involved with circle k should attend one of the club’s weekly meetings at 7 p.m. on sundays in the notre dame room of laFortune. 
Contact Lillian McGill at               lmcgill@nd.edu 

SMC hosts dialogue on education in Indiana 
By CAROLINE STICKELL 
news writer 
indiana superintendent of public instruction glenda ritz said today’s schools need to give students a sense of “ownership in their own learning” to ensure future success during a discus­sion monday night sponsored by the saint mary’s education department and the cross currents college speaker series. 
ritz joined “indianapolis star” political columnist matthew Tully in a presentation on the current state of education titled “The dialogue on education in indiana,” focusing on their ex­periences in the indiana public school system and the improve­ments that could be made. 
ritz, who began her education career in 1978 and was elected to her current position in 2012, said educational support is crucial both for the individual students and the schools . 
“all students need caring adults and advocates in their lives,” ritz said. 
Tully, who has written ex­tensively on the state of public schools, said support for local schools needs to come from the local community. 
“There is a ton of positive en­ergy that needs to be harnessed in our local schools,” Tully said. 
he said he has witnessed such positive community involve­ment while observing local schools.
 “students are performing bet­ter when they know they have adults advocating for them, adults who are both inside and outside the school building,” Tully said. 
ritz and Tully also discussed the changing landscape of edu­cation, particularly secondary education and the need to incor­porate “career tech” education. ritz said creativity and problem solving are crucial elements in a school setting. 
“students are craving relevance,d ritz said. “They want to know that what they are learning now will help them achieve their dreams and goals for the future.writz said she hopes to see school’s curriculums becoming more individualized. 
“The best schools have no one path for all students,, ritz said. “we need to give students a sense of ownership in their own learning — kids need to have a say in their education.” at the 


paid adverTisemenT 

end of the discussion, ritz saiz also responsible for instilling the role of schools needs to go values into students and teach-past the test scores. ing them to be good citizens.” 
“when it’s all about the as­sessment, the system must Contact Caroline Stickell at change,, she saiz. “schools are cstick01@saintmarys.edu 
dunne 
conTinued From page 1 
before beginning his teach­ing career at notre dame in 1957, dunne studied at the holy cross minor seminary at notre dame for his senior year of high school and studied philosophy at the university before his or­dination in rome on dec. 18, 1954, the release stated.  
a visitation will be held Thursday from 3:30 to 7 p.m. at the basilica of the sacred heart on campus. a funeral mass will be Friday at 3:30 p.m. at the basilica with a committal im­mediately following at the holy cross community cemetery on campus. 
The obituary said memo­rial contributions can be submitted to support the mis­sion and ministries of the congregation of holy cross at donate.holycrossusa.org or united states province of priests and brothers, office of development, p. o. box 765, notre dame, in 46556 
paid adverTisemenT 




baptizing the bell. it has noth­
bells 
ing to do with the sacrament 
conTinued From page 1 
of baptism, of course, but the 

To qualify as a full carillon, tradition is that every time it a set must contain at least 23 rings, a prayer to st. anthony bells, bayless said. The basilica goes up.” has 23, which can be played all the bells in the tower have electronically from the sacris-names and prayers associated ty and otherwise accessed by a with them. someday i’m going narrow, winding staircase up to make a catalog of the names the tower. bayless’s job brings of all of them, but at this point him up the tower every few that information is gone, ex-months or so, he said. cept for where it’s written on 
the bells themselves.” bayless said each of the bells 
“Fr. Sorin picked all 
has two clappers, one located 
the names on each 

inside for the old carillon sys-bell, one is Mary of tem and one positioned out­side for the electronic system. 
the Annunciation, 
a clavier, or manual keyboard, 
another is Mary of 

looks like an organ and is lo-the Seven Dolors, cated partway up the tower to or Our Lady of play the mechanical system. 
“[The clavier] is really out 
Sorrows who is 
of adjustment and it doesn’t 
the patron of the 

play well right now, which is [Congregation of] something we need to look into Holy Cross.” getting money to fix, but you 
play with your fists,” he said. 
Daniel Bayless 
“it was installed in the [1950s] 
Basilica organist 
because originally, there was no way to manually play the 

The largest bell in any car-instrument.” illon is called the “bourbon,” The 22 bells besides the were originally gleaming, like color.” the city, he said. bayless said, and the one in bourbon are hung above the just pure metal. bayless said the tower walls “in a dream world, hopeful-the basilica is known as the st. platform where the clavier is “over the years, they’ve de-surrounding the bells are in-ly we’ll get them flying again anthony bell. This bell is posi-located, spread to distribute veloped what we call a patina, tentionally left open to let the someday,” he said. “it was tioned lower down in the tow-the weight equally within the this tarnish,” bayless said. sound ring out, and the grates stopped because they thought er, closer to the ground, than tower, bayless said. That changes their sound a are visible from the ground it was making too much force the other 22. “Fr. sorin picked all the bit; it makes them a bit more view. in the original “flying on the tower, but eventually 
“There’s a tradition in roman names on each bell, one is mary sweet-sounding and not as clapper system,” he said people we’ll do an engineering survey catholicism that every bell is of the annunciation, another harsh-sounding. documented hearing the bells and see if we can get it flying given a name, and [the largest is mary of the seven dolors, or “This bell is part of the hour as far away as in downtown again.” one] is named st. anthony,” our lady of sorrows who is the system, and you can see right south bend. when pope John paul ii de­he said. “before it comes in patron of the [congregation of] here with the striker hits, the “in a flying clapper system, clared the church a basilica, the tower, it’s actually washed holy cross,” he said. “They’re patina has worn away and it as the bell goes back and forth bayless said he referred spe­with holy water, which is called made of an alloy … and they gleams? That’s the original the clapper actually goes with cifically to the carillon, which 
the bell and hits on the upper is commemorated by a plaque part of the bell,” bayless said. inside the building. “There are other traditions “we know that the pleasant where the bell doesn’t swing harmony of america’s oldest quite as far and so the clapper carillon reportedly resounds comes up and hits the bottom from sacred heart,” the char-part of the bell before the bell ter reads. “we hope that its goes back, which is called a sound will not only calm and hanging clapper.” gladden human hearts but will 
The flying clapper, which also call those who hear it to cannot be used with the elec-faith and christian truth that tronic method of playing the it will stir their spirits.” bells, produced much louder and faster sound, accounting Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski for the toll ringing throughout at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
“it’s rigorous but it’s bal­
mba 
anced by great faculty and 
conTinued From page 1 

a great dean. you can’t beat pieces is the proper man-that.” agement of their time,” she waller said the program said. “knowing that the av-is “continuing to grow” and erage student is about 37 to plans to expand in the future. 38 years old, they are really “as [university president] pressed for time.” Fr. John [Jenkins] shared 
businessweek reported with us, ‘never let us be ac-that the program in the cused of dreaming too small.’ mendoza college of business so it’s global for us. jumped up 12 spots to hit its “we are planning con­current place, largely due to tinue to share with students the student satisfaction re-around the world the notre sponse. mayfield said she dame experience and make credits the significant move sure the composition of our in rank and recognition to class [mixes] individuals their rigor and faculty. all over the world. we’re go­
“we have a lot of rigor bal-ing to spend time in south anced really nicely with the america, africa [and, a num­mendoza backdrop,” she ber of different places shar­said. “we provide a great op-ing the notre dame executive portunity to students who experience.” didn’t go here as [undergrad­uates] to get a notre dame Contact Alex Cao at degree. acao@nd.edu 



brunch boys 

Tori Roeck 
associate news editor 

To the cleverly-nicknamed men of o’neill hall’s third floor, 
Thank you for eating brunch with me in south dining hall on sunday. 
i had sat down at the end of a table, all by my lonesome, not realizing the three guys also sitting there had stra­tegically spread themselves out in the middle of the table, hoping to save the whole space for their friends. 
i started eating my egg sandwich and more guys filled the empty spots, until the last one sat across from me. 
The end of the table in front of us had just opened. i spotted my out. “if you guys have more people com­ing, i can move,” i said. i figured that was what they want­ed anyway and was already leaving. “no, this is everyone. stay and eat with us,” they said. 
i was shocked. notre dame boys boldly asked a strange girl to eat with them. what alternate universe was this? 
as a senior still living on campus, i’ve eaten alone in the dining hall more times this semester than the three previous years combined. i al­most exclusively eat with my friends from my dorm because all of my oth­er friends live off campus. when their schedules don’t match up with mine, i’m stuck with a copy of The observer for company. because i work for the paper, i’ve usually already read it. 
Freshman year i was too scared to eat alone in the dining hall. i was afraid i would be judged for dining solo. if i couldn’t find friends to eat with me, i would get subway and hide in my room, wallowing in my shame. 
i’ve grown up a lot since then, and i’m now at peace with the occasional lonely meal. but eating with others is always better. 
o’neill boys: even though our brunch was a little awkward for both of us at first, you made me feel wel­come. you saved me from sharing my sunday morning with the week-old wall street Journal i grabbed on my way out of walsh hall. 
you guys embody the spirit of notre dame. keep it up. 
Contact Tori at vroeck@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 

ladies and gentlemen, make your way to the starting line, the race for president is about to begin. 
what’s that? it’s only 2013? 
amid the babble of political pun­dits and potential candidates, it’s easy to forget we’re three years away from the next presidential election. 
There’s no shortage of hypotheti­cals surrounding 2016. but honestly, who has the time for it all? 
who has the time to consider the implications of new Jersey governor chris christie’s reelec­tion? who cares what the reelection of a republican governor in a lib­eral state means for his presidential prospects? 
who has the time to consider whether a conservative in new Jersey is “a conservative in the rest of the country,” as governor rick perry of Texas questioned this past weekend? 
speaking of perry, much has been said recently regarding his all but guaranteed second try at the presidency. sure, perry crashed and burned in his run for the white house in 2012, but in a party with a considerable number of deeply con­victed conservatives, who out there is going to challenge him in 2016? 
well, i guess there is that other conservative from the lone star state with presidential aspirations of his own, sen. Ted cruz. who knows, maybe right-wing voters would opt for the rising star over the familiar face. 
wouldn’t that be something — two Texas conservatives with wide popu­lar appeal in their own state going head to head in a primary contest? 
but seriously, who has the time to ponder such things? 
still, if you’re going to talk about potential republican nominees, don’t forget former Florida governor Jeb bush. 
Though he’s stayed out of the spot­light lately, bush’s name alone sparks its own conversations of american political dynasties, as well as more talk about the direction of the gop. 
bush’s focus on immigration and education reform would be a wel­come redirection towards hard pol­icy for a party with a tendency to be sidetracked by social issues. 
expected gop contenders also include sen. rand paul of kentucky and rep. paul ryan of wisconsin. you can be sure to find a litany of “what if” 2016 scenarios surround­ing these two rising stars of the republican party as well. each of them has strong views on public pol­icy but plenty of detractors to make their respective roads to the white house a bit bumpier. 
The most intriguing storyline for the republican party in the next presidential election, the enthusiasts will tell you, is the apparent choice those on the right face between a “true conservative” and a more moderate candidate to represent the gop. 
in short, what kind of candidate will it take for the republicans to win again? 
but honestly, why get wrapped up in all the chatter? it’s really best just to stay away. 
of course i should mention republicans only make up half of the 2016 conversation. democrats face a choice as well. 
do they nominate hillary clinton, who was ordained the 2016 democratic front-runner nearly four years ago? after electing the first african american president in his­tory, will democrats make history again by electing the first female president? 
will hillary run at all? after more than two decades in the national spotlight, does the flame of her po­litical ambitions still burn bright, or will democrats be forced to nominate a different candidate in hillary’s absence? 
what would a different candidate look like? will democrats opt for an old political pro or an unfamiliar, untested greenhorn like they did in 2008?  
how will the democratic nominee handle criticisms from republicans on the failed health care rollout, the benghazi attack and nsa leaks un­der the obama administration? 
These are just some of the ques­tions 2016 cheerleaders, political junkies and talking heads are asking. 
no, there is no shortage of hypo­theticals for what will happen in 2016. as for me though, i prefer not to give the subject much thought. 
after all, who has the time for it? 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIal Cartoon 



letter to the edItor 

incredible india: “Twitter, buffet and darwin” 
roaming cows, arranged mar­riages and spicy vegetables aside, there are countless other perspec­tives people have about india. These perspectives are eagerly ac­cepted by those unaware of certain nuances in the nation, while they are contested equally as eagerly by those familiar with the nation. regardless of your background experience with india, now is the time to make sure you become more familiar. 
with over 1.2 billion people, more than 1,500 different languag­es and almost 70% of people be­tween the ages of 15 and 64, india is a world of its own. while there is no limit to the diversity of top­ics that can be covered regarding the largest democracy in the world, there are certainly trends that are worth noting as we move forward. These trends are intense, intrigu­ing and hotly debated. They are all relative to each unique perspec­tive one may hold. as each country progresses through various cycles in its nation-ness, what is impor­tant is how each state is situated within the larger global context of nation states. how do countries re­late to one another? why does this matter for the rest of the world? 
india and the united states have a significant relationship. politically, even though known for its non-alignment tendencies, india has an identifiable record of changing attitudes and behav­ior. after the dissolution of the soviet union, india reviewed its foreign policy and took steps to strengthen its network with the west. economically, the extensive liberalization of india’s economy greatly contributed to building and sustaining its connection to the united states. globalization and a series of agreements paved the way for rapid economic growth from both ends. These develop­ments only enhanced, and in turn are enhanced by, the cultural 
letter to the edItor 

accept the mission nd! 

dear Fighting irish students: 
First of all, many thanks to the over 1,700 of you that attended last Friday’s game versus minnesota at the compton Family ice arena. i hope you found that experience as exciting and enjoyable as it was for your classmates who played the game for notre dame that night. 
The energy you created in the building served as a sixth skater/ seventh man for the irish in an im­portant game. special thanks goes to matt merten and the notre dame hockey band for all that they do to help create such a great atmosphere for our games all season long. 
with that said, our upcoming hockey east games, beginning with two against merrimack this weekend, are actually far more important than those games against the gophers. 
my challenge to you is to come and create that same energy for your Fighting irish hockey team regard­less of our opponent. when you do so, it gives your team the best chance to succeed in hockey east and to compete for championships. For a couple of hours on a few Friday and saturday nights this winter, that is your mission — if you choose to ac­cept it. 
i am sure that coach mcgraw and coach brey, among others, also would appreciate the support at purcell pavilion when they start play in the acc. 
go irish! 
Jeff Jackson 

notre dame hockey head coach nov. 12 

relationship shared by the two na­tions. indians represent the second largest country that sends students to the united states, christianity is the third most popular religion in india and most people in the united states can identify indian food. The exchange of goods, ideas and people spans a vast expanse of implications. 
clearly, there are things happen­ing in this synergy of these two entities and it is important to ex­plore these issues. Timothy roemer is the former u.s. ambassador to india (2009-2011) and a former u.s. congressman (1993-2003) in the house of representatives. he is a notre dame alumnus and graduated in 1985 with a ph.d. in government and international studies. he will be speaking at notre dame this wednesday, november 13, 2013 from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Jordan auditorium as part of the liu institute’s distinguished speaker series. his talk, titled 
edItorIal Cartoon 
“Twitter, buffet, and darwin: india and the united states’ relationship” will engage the notre dame and south bend community in this topic and will focus on the crucial links between the nations. 
as is customary to every memo­rable notre dame affair, there is a reception open and welcome to everyone immediately after the event. as one of the many events during international education week, this event is co-sponsored by the liu institute for asia and asian studies and the kellogg institute for international studies. with support also from the college of arts & letters, the mendoza college of business, notre dame international and the departments of economics, history and political science. 
Nikitha Taniparti 
class of 2014 nov. 12 




The observer | tuesday, november 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

with her revolutionary new album, lady gaga has invented a revolutionary word: artpop. 
it’s like pop art, except that it’s music instead of painting, and instead of pushing art forward, it daringly takes a huge step back. “artpop” uses sound effects, unique lyrics and unusual instruments with a level of ineptitude previously believed to be impossible. you thought you heard the dumbest-sounding brass synth on your (shouldn’t be a rapper) friend’s mixtape? creatively-titled “Jewels n’ drugs” is here to destroy that notion. Thought you’d heard the silliest lyrical attempt at combining romance and masturbation? “sexxx dreams” will stop at nothing to prove you wrong. across the board, “artpop” is a true award winner — most confusing mispronunciation of a word (g.u.y.), most unappealing sexual comparison (swine) and the most inappropriately Titled closing Track in context (applause, which ironically, i enjoy). 
all over the board, “artpop” does things that confuse me as a listener and confound me as a critic. but when it comes down to it, lady gaga clearly doesn’t care about making a critically acclaimed album.  rather, she made a fun one that does its own thing and parties to its own party. and although critics across the nation have panned the album, i think it’s necessary to revolutionize the rating system for such an album that doesn’t exactly work within its confines. 
because art is mostly subjective by nature, each rating should be personalized to the reader’s taste. Just because something is poor from a criti­cal standpoint doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy it. i mean, we went to high school dances and always complained about the music, but we still had a blast, didn’t we? let’s face it: when it comes to music, whoever has the most fun really does win. 
now for the fun part! in order to find your “artpop” rating, just answer the questions below and tally your points. 
1. What is your favorite pastime? 3. Which of these would you most con-
a)  
watching soap operas and chick-flicks on sider art? netflix. i don’t care what you think! a) pretty much anything i like. b )big, mindless parties, and more than that, b) books, music, paintings, photos, scul getting ready for such pa tures, literature — basically ties. if you’re a guy: smelling my own cologne. anything in a gallery or a library. if you’re a gal: manicures, pedicures, makeup c) something someone does that has and more. meaning in it. meaning makes art. 

c) 
reading fiction novels. i wish i was at d) something that has a cultural impact, hogwarts. that 

d) 
becoming a super smash brothers/league helps bring truth to light of legends master. and opens our eyes to new things. 

e) 
collecting vinyl records and reading e) not lady gaga, that’s for sure. sophisticated blogs. 


2. What would you most like to save the 4. If you could be anyone, who would you world from? be? 
a) 
sad movies and party poopers. a) lady gaga, hands down. 

b) 
hipsters. b) a pop music star of my choice. 

c) 
a cool super villain. c) an actor from harry potter/star wars/lord 

d) 
poorly cooked steaks. of the rings 

e) 
lady gaga. d) a character from a classy realistic fiction novel. 


e) someone too obscure to ever be mentioned in The observer. 
alright, you’re done. now give yourself five points for each “a,” four for each “b,” three for each “c,” two for each “d,” and one for each “e” you chose. divide by four, round up or down to the nearest half, and you’ve got your sham­rock rating! i got two shamrocks – “artpop” isn’t for me, but nothing’s going stop me from having a good time when it’s playing. i hope you enjoy “artpop” no matter what the haters say, and if it’s just not for you, that you show mad respect for those who do. as bill and Ted once said — stay excellent to each other, and party on, dudes. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Artpop” 
Lady Gaga 

Label: Streamline and IInterscope 
Tracks: “Jewels n’ Drugs,” “Sexxx Dreams” If you like: Ellie Goulding, Lily Allen 



The observer | tuesday, november 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

next monday, performer and songwriter devonté “dev” hynes will officially release his second studio album under moniker blood orange.  but if you’re too excited to wait until then, fear not. The album, “cupid deluxe,” is currently streaming on iTunes radio right now. 
if you’re not excited yet, maybe a little background information will change your mind. Though you may think you’ve never heard of dev hynes, you might be surprised to find out that he has had a hand in a number of projects and collaborations with other, more familiar artists. hynes has previously recorded and performed under the name lightspeed champion, and during that time he played and toured with band members from bright eyes, Florence and the machine and Tilly and the wall. he was also a member of punk band Test icicles way back in the mid 2000s. 
along with recruiting others to play with him as lightspeed champion, hynes has contributed to a num­ber of other musical projects in the past decade. he was a songwriter on Florence and the machine’s beloved album “lungs,” contributed vocals to artists like the chemical brothers and arranged music for film soundtracks. as of late, you can hear his work in new solange songs, and it’s rumored that he is working with britney spears. 
in 2009, after his time as lightspeed, hynes began writing and performing under the name blood orange, using it to explore a more electronic sound. in 2011, blood orange released its first studio album, “coastal grooves,” to mixed reviews, and “cupid deluxe” is hynes’ next, 
and certainly more refined, attempt as blood orange.  without talking about prince, and this fact is truer af­ 
while “coastal grooves” was a guitar-driven, relatively  ter listening to “cupid deluxe.” There were times where  
simple album, “cupid deluxe” is immediately charac­ the slapped basslines sounded like they were taken di­ 
terized by a more electronic sound with experimental  rectly from “purple rain,” and even points where vocals  
instrumentals and plenty of funk.  sounded so much like early prince.  i sometimes had to  
“deluxe” opens with the album’s first single, a  pause to make sure i was still listening to the same al­ 
duet with chairlift singer caroline polachek called  bum. (let’s not forget about track eight on the new al­ 
“chamakay.” The track is propelled forward by both vo­ bum with the ever-so-prince title, “always let u down.”)  
calists singing verses in a tense, hushed tone and then  after clearing through the purple fog, you can begin  
breaking out into an emotional chorus. The song is  to hear some of the impressive arrangements hynes  
slinky, moody and enjoyable if only to hear hynes’ and  has created. but still, these arrangements for the most  
polachek’s vocals beautifully intertwine and pull apart  part felt clouded in a sense of nostalgia, often to a point  
throughout the ballad.  of distraction. Though i usually have no problem with  
“chamakay” is immediately followed by the al­ music inspired by another time, certain songs were so  
bum’s second and most recent single, “you’re not  70s funk and r&b inspired that they simply felt dated.  
good enough.” The standout track on “deluxe” so  while “cupid deluxe” certainly shows off hynes’ chops  
far, “you’re not good enough” is another duet — this  as a writer and guitarist, the end product left more to be  
time with Friends’ singer samantha urbani. but while  desired from such talent.  
“chamakay” was an emotional slow jam, “you’re not  
good enough” is far more of a powerhouse, with a pop- Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu  
py beat and breakup lyrics just angry enough. however,  
unlike “chamakay,” the song sounds less convincing as  
a duet. Though urbani’s voice sounds great, the repeti­ “Cupid Deluxe”  
tive melody and echoed vocals of the singers make their  Blood Orange  
parts sound more redundant than complimentary.  
standout tracks include “no right Thing,” with a cap- Label: Domino  
tivating melody where hynes’ vocals really shine, as well  Tracks: “Chamakay,” “You’re Not Good  
as “it is what it is,” my favorite song on the album. “it is  Enough”  
what it is” is an example of when blood orange’s dra­ 
matic vocals, subtle instrumentation and funk influence  If you like: Prince, Friends, Chairlift  
come together to make a dynamic and emotional r&b  
track.  
it’s basically impossible to talk about blood orange  


By CARRIE TUREK 
scene writer 

before i praise indie pop band Flyte’s first and aptly titled “live ep,” i must give some background as to why i am reviewing a self-produced, mail-order-only british cd. 
i first experienced the musical genius of Flyte when i was studying in london last spring semester. The men of the british quartet, will Taylor, nick hill, Jon supran and sam berridge, were assembled on a street corner at portobello market in notting hill. Though i was al­ready primed to love notting hill (due to my love of the Julia roberts film of the same name), hearing the sweet sounds of Flyte made notting hill’s portobello market one of my favorite places in london. i was so infatuated with Flyte that i returned a second time during the ab­normally chilly spring with the sole hope of finding them again on their saturday street corner. 
Fortunately for me, i found just what i came for. Flyte was not only playing to bunches of weekend market-go­ers, but was also flocked by dozens of video-recording lis­teners. it was in portobello market that i fell in love with the street-side melodies produced by a subtly quirky and quietly hipster-looking british quartet. 
Though their rendition of paul simon’s “slip slidin’ away” was flawless, it was their original songs like 
“Faithless” and “over and out” that drew me in. Flyte’s  that the final notes of Flyte’s ep will float in listeners’  
members not only have the ability to effortlessly harmo­ minds for days. it is my prediction that Flyte will only  
nize with one another, but they also do so with a calm- continue to soar.  
ness that suggests they are playing casually in a room full  currently, Flyte’s ep is not available for digital down- 
of dear friends. This easy showmanship makes watching  load. however, the band’s debut “live ep” is available to  
Flyte practically hypnotic; and somehow, miraculously,  ship anywhere in the world at flytetheband.com. you can  
this levity of performance comes through on their first  also visit their Facebook page (facebook.com/flyteband)  
recording, as well.  for more information.  
Flyte released 1,000 copies of their handmade and  if you aren’t yet convinced to purchase the ep from  
signed ep on sept. 16, to be shipped anywhere in the  my review, check out Flyte’s youTube videos. i suggest  
world. i shamelessly ordered mine that day and waited  “Faithless” and the many videos of Flyte serenading  
not-so-patiently for its arrival in south bend. The three­ portobello road shoppers.  
track ep’s only flaw is that it isn’t longer.  
The ep’s opener, “over and out,” is a fast-paced, mo- Contact Carrie Turek at cturek@nd.edu  
bile track that boasts Flyte’s signature layered harmo­ 
nies. “over and out” is an aural mirage of moving guitar  “Live EP”  
lines, understated percussion and well-balanced vocals.  Flyte  
in contrast to “over and out,” “chasing heaven,” the  
ep’s second track, is a perfectly subdued and simple song  Label: Flyte Recordings  
with vocals that call to mind the fresh and clean sounds  
of vampire weekend and walk the moon.  Tracks: “Over and Out,” “Chasing  
Flyte closes their debut cd with “words come easily,”  Heaven”  
a slightly haunting yet driven track full of quiet synthe- If you like: Vampire Weekend, The  
sizer support and piercing lyrics. lines like “There’s al- Beatles, Walk the Moon  
ways something that i mean to say, but it never comes out  
right” and “you shut the light behind closed doors where  
 
no one can get to me. Then words come easily” ensure  


sPorts authorIty 

The logic behind conferences 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
The other day, my mother, who happens to be one of our nation’s more dedicated uconn basketball fans, confessed to me something both horrifying and completely understandable: she could not remember which conference her alma mater now plays in. (For those of you now wondering, it’s the american athletic conference. i googled it.) 
several years of maniacal realignment have left us with a system of conferences that is not only unrecognizable, but makes absolutely no sense. why would anyone think west virginia belongs with the plains states of the big 12 (and judging by their 2-5 record in conference, i’m guessing the mountaineers are wishing they hadn’t gone west)? starting next year, Tulane and uconn will be in the same conference, never mind the 1,450-odd miles between them, the fact uconn enrolls about 22,000 more students and a total and complete lack of history between the two teams. 
The point of conferences is to bring schools of the same re­gion, size and character together to compete in the fairest way possible, not to throw together 12 random teams from across the country because they need someone to play with. clearly, we’ve forgotten that along the way. 
but i have a solution. This quick quiz, which can be eas­ily administered to the higher-ups at each of our nation’s 340 division i schools, can be used to sort schools into brand new groups of 10 to 12 like-minded institutions. up to one oddball is allowed per new conference, because frankly it’s adorable that vanderbilt tries to compete with alabama, and i’d like to preserve that. 
so it here goes. choose your answers wisely, athletic directors of america. 
1) what part of the coun­try is your school located in? 
a.  The northeast  
b.  The south  
c.  The midwest  
d.  The west  
e.  honestly, if it helps the  

football program we’re willing to relocate out campus to another state. 
2) which best describes your school’s attitude toward intercollegiate athletics? 
a. 
we’re paying our ath­letes in revenue-generating sports $15,000 a year, so this is a pretty big deal. 

b. 
sports bring students together in a place that is not a bar or a frat house. you bet we support this. 


c. we went to the rose bowl in 1916 … that was the apex. 
d. 
sports are necessary if we want to keep graduating rhodes scholars. 

e. 
our athletes can gen­erate an equation that would graph the arc of a perfect jump shot. sinking one of those shots during a game has proved to be more difficult. 


3) how many students at­tend your school? 
a.  Fewer than 1,000  
b.  between 1,000 and  
5,000  
c.  between 5,000 and  
10,000  
d.  between 10,000 and  
20,000  
e.  we’re currently build­ 

ing a computer that can count that high. 
4) does your school have a religious affiliation? 
a. 
we’re a public school, so no. 

b. 
yes, we are a catholic school. 

c. 
yes, we’re one of those christian schools that don’t al­low dancing. 

d. 
Technically we started as a seminary. if you’ve seen our greek week you understand how ironic that is. 

e. 
yes, we worship football. 


5) does your school play hockey? 
a. 
ya betcha! (really, we don’t understand why people bother with other sports.) 

b. 
yes, it’s a great way to ensure there’s a fun, fast-paced brutal sport to watch once foot­ball season ends. 

c. 
we have a club team that costs us a fortune in insur­ance coverage. is that what you mean? 

d. 
no, we only play american sports. 


e. what’s hockey? 
6) describe the ideal rela­tionship with your conference. 
a. 
our ideal conference would bring together schools of similar culture and playing style for feisty competition. 

b. 
our ideal conference would bring in enough money to keep our athletic department from declaring bankruptcy in the next two years. no seriously, we’re broke. 

c. 
our ideal conference opponents would be success­ful enough that we have a good excuse for always losing to them. 

d. 
our ideal conference is really any conference that’s will­ing to have us. 

e. 
we are a strong, inde­pendent institution and we don’t need a conference for validation. 


Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
men’s Interhall 

Keenan remains undefeated 
Keough shuts out Siegfried, Alumni defense dominates Knott 
Keenan 13, dillon 6 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 

no. 1 keenan will advance to the semifinals in search of repeat titles after defeating no. 8 dillon 13-6 in sunday’s quarterfinals. 
The knights (5-0-0) scored the first points of the game at the end of the first quarter when sophomore quarterback patrick corry rushed for a touchdown. The knights did not convert on the extra point. 
with less than a minute before halftime, keenan increased its lead when senior receiver John garry took a pass from corry all the way to the endzone. The knights’ field goal was good despite being tipped by a dillon defender. 
“The first half was definitely in our favor,” keenan senior captain and receiver Jeremy riche said. “Then [the big red] came out and punched us pretty quick in the second half with a score and an interception.” 
dillon’s touchdown was scored on a 65-yard double reverse pass play. The big red (2-3-0) did not convert on the extra point, ending the game’s scoring. 
“we worked on the trick play in practice and it paid off,” dillon senior captain and lineman nate steele said. 
despite the loss, steele said he is not disappointed with his team’s performance. 

“keenan is a really good team and i’m glad we went out with a good game,” steele said. “i think if you take into account the size of our ros­ter — we had four substitutes and most everybody played the whole game — i couldn’t be happier.” 
keenan advances to the semi­finals against no.4 keough, while dillon looks to make another playoff run next season. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 
Keough 20, siegfried 0 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 

no.4 keough handed no. 5 siegfried a 20-0 loss on sunday to set up a semifinal date with keenan. 
The kangaroos (4-1) were paced on offense by senior captain and quarterback seamus donegan, who threw for 72 yards and three touch­downs on 5-for-5 passing. donegan got keough on the board in the sec­ond quarter when he found sopho­more receiver mitch patin on a one-yard out route. keough’s sub­sequent two-point conversion was successful as donegan hit senior receiver kyle gurrola. 
keough got back on the board in the third quarter when donegan aired a pass to patin, this one for 32 yards. This time keough’s conver­sion failed. The touchdown was set up by a siegfried fumble that was recovered by keough senior corner­back sammy bungum. bungum, like the much of the kangaroo de­fense, made plays all over the field, adding two sacks to his fumble recovery. 

“our defense got pressure on the ball when [siegfried] was passing, which was huge,” bungum said. “everyone doing their job and keep­ing their gaps also helped.” 
keough would complete the scor­ing on their first drive of the fourth quarter when donegan threw a 16-yard touchdown to gurrola. another failed two-point conversa­tion failed to hurt the kangaroos, as siegfried (3-2) was never able to move the ball into the red zone. despite the win, donegan said keough will still need to focus this week in practice. 
“we’re going to get back to basics this week at practice, just execut­ing, and we’ll be prepared come sunday,” donegan said. 
siegfried was plagued by lapses at key moments, with two sacks al­lowed and two turnovers. despite only being outgained 120 to 106, the ramblers could not find the con­sistency moving the ball on offense that keough did. 
Junior quarterback nate burggraf led the way for the ramblers, com­pleting 7-of -12 passes for 84 yards and an interception. 
siegfried’s season is now over, while keough will take on no.1 keenan this sunday. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
alumni 20, Knott 7 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 2 alumni remained unde­feated after their playoff win against no. 7 knott on sunday showcased the dawgs’ defensive strength. 
alumni senior captain and re­ceiver Jeff kraemer led the domi­nant effort by the dawgs (5-0). he scored the first touchdown of the game as a receiver and made four interceptions from the safety posi­tion, one of which he returned for a touchdown. 
kraemer’s two scores put the dawgs ahead 14-0 before knott (2­
3) scored on a touchdown pass to sophomore receiver Jack Taiclet. 
however, knott’s subsequent at­tempts at a comeback failed due to an interception by alumni sopho­more cornerback nate stone, plus the picks by kraemer. a fourth quar­ter touchdown by dawgs freshman running back alex alcantara put the game out of reach. 
kraemer said he was very pleased with his team’s performance, and he hopes to continue this level of play in the semifinals. 
“after one of their early drives, we pretty much had our way the rest of the game,” kraemer said. “next week we’ll try to just do more of the same. it’s worked so far.” 
knott senior captain and de­fensive end James hodgens said though he was disappointed in the loss, the experience this season was positive for knott. 
“Things didn’t work out today but i’m overall pretty happy with how it went,” hodgens said. “next year we’ll be one of the teams to beat for sure.” 
alumni will play no. 3 carroll on sunday, while the loss ended knott’s season. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
Carroll 14, Fisher 0 
By MATT GARCIA 
sports writer 
despite missing two field goals, senior quarterback and kicker bobby dorman lifted no. 3 carroll to two second-half touchdowns and a quarterfinals victory over no. 6 Fisher. 
dorman completed seven of his 15 pass attempts for 82 yards, add­ing 87 yards on 11 rushing attempts for the vermin (4-0-1). on defense, he added a 25-yard interception re­turn, setting up the first touchdown of the game, a quarterback draw by dorman for 14 yards. 
Freshman running back Zach dodd chipped in with a two-yard touchdown run in the final seconds that sealed the game at 14-0. dodd collected 26 yards on nine carries, adding 30 yards on three recep­tions. senior captain and defensive lineman mike russell said he is looking forward to what lies ahead. 
“our goal was the stadium at the beginning of the season so we took the next step, and we are ready to see what comes next,” russell said. 
The green wave (2-1-2) could not get anything going on offense, rely­ing heavily on senior running back ricky neville. neville had 10 touch­es for just 22 yards, while three team penalties, including two false starts in the same drive, brought down Fisher. a late hook-and-ladder play to senior wide receiver chris cali for 20 yards could not salvage the two-possession game.  senior cap­tain and linebacker matthew nagy said he was disappointed with the loss based on how the team had fared against carroll in its previous matchup. 
“we played them a lot closer in the regular season,” nagy said. “The fact that our offense was not able to get going meant our defense was on the field so much in the sec­ond half.” 
carroll will take on the no. 2 alumni in the semifinals, while Fisher heads into the offseason. 
Contact Matt Garcia at mgarci15@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


Women’s Interhall 

Pangborn offense overpowers Cavanaugh 
Pasquerilla East tops Howard in OT, Ryan shuts out Lyons, Pasquerilla West offense dominates Welsh Family 
Pangborn 33, Cavanaugh 6 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
phoxes junior quarter­back caitlin gargan led no. 3 pangborn to victory over no. 6 cavanaugh 33-6 in the first round of the inter-hall playoffs sunday. 
gargan marched the phoxes (6-0-1) down the field in their opening three possessions of the game, running it in from 21, 23, and 16 yards out to give her team an early 20-0 advan­tage. gargan accounted for 264 of pangborn’s 266 yards of offense (156 rushing, 88 passing). 
“offensively, caitlin [gargan] was big for us to­day,” senior captain and of­fensive lineman mary kate veselik said. 
gargan’s contributions were not the only reason for pangborn’s triumph, as its defense recorded four interceptions on the day. Junior defensive back anna mcnamara returned an interception for a touch­down late in the first half to stretch pangborn’s lead to 27-0 at the break, while senior molly shawhan re­corded three interceptions. 
The chaos (3-4-0) had 219 yards of offense. Junior quarterback samantha Flores contributed 198 of those to lead the cavanaugh offense on the day. Flores connected with fresh­man receiver alyssa anton for a 16-yard touchdown strike to put cavanaugh on the board late in the third quarter. 
“it was a tough break and there was just nothing we could do about it,” senior captain and linebacker meaghan ayers said. 
gargan capped off the win in the fourth quarter for pangborn, connecting with sophomore receiver gracie gallagher on a 24­yard touchdown for the fi­nal score of the game. 
pangborn will play no. 2 ryan next week in the play­offs, seeking to settle the score from the teams’ 7-7 tie earlier this season. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla east 14, howard 7 
By ANDREW EISENREICH 
sports writer 
in a matchup of two high-scoring teams sunday, de­fense took center stage as no. 4 pasquerilla east held 
paid adverTisemenT 
off no. 5 howard in a 14-7 overtime victory. 
pasquerilla east (6-1) kept the ducks (4-3) scoreless in the first half, consistently penetrating howard’s of­fensive line. The pyros re­corded eight sacks on the day, seven from junior de­fensive tackle elizabeth Zopler. 
on the other side of the ball, the pyros’ option passing game was stifled by a ducks’ secondary that had four interceptions. 
The defensive stalemate was finally broken late in the third quarter when the pyros rushed for a four-yard    touchdown. Then, coming off an interception from the ducks’ secondary, howard senior quarterback and captain clare robinson rushed for a 15-yard touch­down with a minute left to tie the game at seven. 
The game proceeded to overtime, where pasquerilla east struck first on a five-yard pass from junior quar­terback macy mulhall to freshman receiver noelle gooding. The pyros sealed the game by picking off an errant robinson toss in the end zone. 
despite the late miscue, the pyros commended the play of robinson. 
“Their quarterback was unreal,” pyros captain caroline kuse said. 
as for next year, things look bright for the ducks, who only graduate four se­niors robinson said. 
“i’m really looking for­ward to see how howard will develop,” she said. 
meanwhile, the pyros hope to build off their first playoff win in over three years in sunday’s semi­final matchup against pasquerilla west. 
Contact Andrew Eisenreich at aeisenre@nd.edu 
ryan 41, lyons 0 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
one had to look closely to spot the difference for no. 1 ryan in its 41-0 playoff victory over no. 8 lyons on sunday. 
The wildcats (6-0-1) usu­ally feature freshman quar­terback kathleen conaty, but due to an elbow injury, her twin, clare conaty, led them at the position. 
on ryan’s first offensive play, clare conaty found junior offensive lineman ashley veselik for a 13-yard touchdown pass. clare conaty added touchdown passes of 24 yards to soph­omore receiver erin clark and nine yards to senior receiver maddie swan and touchdown runs of 13 and 10 yards. 
The freshman finished the day on 5-for-10 pass­ing for a total of 83 yards with three touchdowns and 36 yards rushing with two touchdowns. sophomore running back sarah morris had a 14-yard touchdown run as well. 
“The receivers helped me out, catching a few balls,” conaty said. “it was fun. we played well.” 
The wildcat defense had seven interceptions on the game, including four by senior cornerback beth meisinger. sophomore cor­nerback marycatherine mcroskey had two picks and senior safety caroline Thompson had the other. 
“The defense played lights-out tonight,” meisinger said. “This game gives us a lot of confidence going into the rest of the playoffs.” 
Though it was not quite the finish they were looking for, the lions (3-4) made a lot of progress from the beginning of the season, senior captain christina bramanti said. 
“From our first game to now we’ve improved so much,” bramanti said. 
next sunday, ryan faces pangborn in a regular sea­son rematch, with a trip to the stadium on the line. The first game ended in a 7-7 tie, the only non-win for either team this year. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 25, Welsh Family 7 
By MEGAN WINKEL 
sports writer 
pasquerilla west pulled out a 25-7 win in a battle against welsh Family on sunday to advance to the semifinals. 
The weasels (7-0) set the pace of the game with a touchdown by freshman re­ceiver monica busse within minutes of the start. 
however, the whirlwinds (2-5) matched that momen­tum with a score of their own a few plays later and converted the extra point to take the 7-6 lead over the weasels. 
“we were extremely ex­cited when we scored be­cause we knew we had a chance in the game,” welsh Family senior captain and linebacker carissa henke said.  “we came out in the first half really driving on offense and holding on de­fense and were hoping to continue that in the second half.” 
however, their hopes soon faded as pasquerilla west’s offense proved its strength, and the team by­passed welsh Family’s lead with three passing touch­downs to busse in the sec­ond half. 
“monica [busse] had an amazing game today,” weasels senior captain and linebacker breezi Toole said. “without her catches, the game would not have ended the same.” 
pasquerilla west’s de­fense also gained momen­tum throughout the second half. The team came up with three sacks and pre­vented welsh Family from any further scores to pull out the win and move on to the semifinals. 
“it feels good to get a win, but we still have a lot of things still we need to work on,” Toole said. “we made some mistakes today, but overall i’m proud of how we played.” 
pasquerilla west takes on mod-Quad rival pasquerilla east in sunday’s semifinals. 
Contact Megan Winkel at mwinkel@nd.edu 


The observer | tuesday, november 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

baraKa bouts 

Bouts conclude semifinal round 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
sarah “Crazy stupid” lovejoy  def. sarah Jackson 
seniors sarah Jackson and sarah lovejoy came out defen­sively in the first round and threw mostly jabs to establish their fight­ing styles. Jackson landed a few more quality punches early in the first round.  both boxers were more aggressive in the second round, and lovejoy dictated the pace of the fight early. both fighters re­mained in the middle of the ring and went blow for blow. early in the third round, lovejoy delivered two decisive blows to Jackson’s head. Jackson responded with powerful punches of her own, but they were not enough as lovejoy won by unanimous decision. 
mary shepro def. amanda schifino 
law student mary shepro dominated round one and land­ed a flurry of punishing blows to the head of freshman amanda schifino. more of the same fol­lowed early in the second round as shepro backed schifino into the corner with punches to the body and the head. schifino managed to respond and match shepro the rest of the round. schifino continued to resiliently throw defensive punches into the third round; however, shepro’s power­ful punches provided the majority of the action, and she slugged her way to a victory by unanimous decision. 
erin “the lion” o’brien def. rachael “the Filly from Philly” nave 
From the outset, junior erin o’brien landed several jabs and hooks to the head of law student rachael nave. nave managed a few body blows as the bout pro­gressed and she worked hard to fight inside on o’brien in the sec­ond round. The two traded bar­rages of head shots, but o’brien’s reach kept nave at bay for the majority of the fight. in the third round, nave came out strong with punches to the head, but o’brien fended her off and landed the bout’s last blows to secure the vic­tory by unanimous decision. 
Clare “do Work” burke def. Katie allare 
senior clare burke and gradu­ate student katie allare started the fight in defensive modes and used jabs to find openings in the other’s defenses. late in the first round burke punched allare onto the ropes and landed a series of combinations to the body and head. both fighters worked more aggressively in the second round, and burke tried to work inside for body shots on allare, but allare fended her off and controlled the round with powerful punches to burke’s head. The fighters aggres­sively jabbed at each other in the final round, but burke used jabs to set up fierce right hooks and earn the win by unanimous decision. 
liz “beast from the east” Zolper def. alexandra Gibson 
Junior liz Zolper and sopho­more alexandra gibson threw flurries of jabs and hammered each other with powerful punches to open the bout. but late in the first round, Zolper seized control. Zolper pushed gibson up against the ropes and landed strong hooks to gibson’s head. Zolper carried that momentum into the second round and battered gibson with more punches to the head. both boxers fought cautiously in the third round and jabbed tentatively at each other. Zolper then removed all doubt and landed a few strong, decisive blows to finish off the win by unanimous decision. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
sheridan “sherribomb” rosner def. leah Kalas 
sophomore sheridan rosner landed the first decisive blow of the matchup and held the ad­vantage through the first round’s flurry of punches. rosner kept ju­nior leah kalas on the defensive through the first two rounds, but kalas landed a few decisive blows, as the fight evened out in the third round, with both boxers trading one-two punches. rosner and kalas danced around the center of the ring until the round ended and rosner was declared the winner. 
anna heffron def. elizabeth strehlow 
senior anna heffron and fresh­man elizabeth strehlow began the first round tentatively but quickly started trading decisive blows. heffron took control of the ring and backed strehlow into a cor­ner using a mix of body and head shots. strehlow landed body blows in the second round, but heffron threw a strong right hook to end the round. both boxers swung ag­gressively in the third round, but heffron kept strehlow on the de­fensive and held on for a victory by unanimous decision. 
maeve “maeverick”donovan def. mara “moose on the loose” Walsh 
Freshman maeve donovan and senior mara walsh began their matchup with an aggressive flurry of punches. donovan used body blows in the first round to back walsh up to the ropes. walsh responded by forcing donovan into a corner and delivering mul­tiple punches in the second round. both came out on their toes to start the third round, with neither side holding a decisive advantage. donovan came through with a split decision victory. 
victoria “every K.o. begins With” Kay def. Katherine “K money” herrmann 
senior katherine herrmann began the first round on the offensive, but senior victoria kay guarded her face well against the blows. kay landed multiple body and face punches in the second round. herrmann responded with right hooks. Throughout the third round, kay and herrmann circled each other in the center of the ring and kay held the advantage for the victory by unanimous decision. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at  ckochans@nd.edu 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
hannah “the mean slovene” skrbis def. Clare Kossler 
sophomore hannah skrbis lived up to her nickname and over­powered freshman clare kossler in a win by unanimous decision. skrbis landed jabs and strong rights to get ahead in the first round. kossler could not recover, and skribis landed more blows in the second round to pull away. skrbis kept up the pressure in the third round and landed blow after blow until the final bell secured the unanimous decision. 
rachel “the ringer” Wright def. nikki “the Gremlin” murgas 
with a strong rally in the third round, senior rachel wright de­feated sophomore nikki murgas by a split decision. in the first two rounds, wright and murgas both landed blows, but murgas had a slight edge. wright came out strong at the beginning of the third round and surged ahead in the bout before both fighters traded strong punches as the final round ended before wright grabbed the split decision win. 
molly allare def. Clarissa “schadenfreude” schwab 
Junior molly allare dominated the final two rounds to triumph over sophomore clarissa schwab and secure a unanimous deci­sion. both fighters traded power­ful blows early, before allare had a period of sustained advantage late in the first round. allare  landed a strong punch that nearly ended the match at the beginning of the second round and rode the mo­mentum to drive schwab into the ropes. in the third round, allare landed strong blows and contin­ued to drive schwab against the ropes to secure the unanimous decision. 
annalise “Feel the burn” burnette def. Kendra “the seattle storm” reiser 
sophomore annalise burnette gained a slight advantage in the first two rounds then rode a strong third round to a victory by unanimous decision over ju­nior kendra reiser. both boxers landed jabs in the first round, but reiser gained a the edge with her crisp technique. burnette and reiser fought energetically in the second round and third round 
paid adverTisemenT 
before burnette pulled ahead and grabbed the unanimous decision. 
ryan russ def. ann Caglioti 
senior ryan russ defeated soph­omore ann caglioti in the second round by referee-stopped contest. caglioti landed the most deci­sive blows of the first round to get ahead early, but the bout changed instantly when russ came out with all cylinders firing in the second round. russ landed a series of pow­erful hits that forced the referee to stop the match and award her the victory. 
Gina “I’m not sorry” rogari def. Catherine “you’re Gonna be” bentzen 
senior gina rogari defeated se­nior catherine bentzen by unani­mous decision. rogari landed the strongest blows early on and con­tinued her advantage in the second round and overpowered bentzen. in the third round, rogari landed a series of punches to secure the unanimous victory. 
Katie “Klock em” lockhart def. emily “emdawg” Popovich 
sophomore katie popovich won by unanimous decision over soph­omore katie lockhart. both fight­ers landed sharp blows to start the match, but popovich gained a slight advantage. in the second round, popovich and lockhart continued 
see baraka PaGe 13 





sophomore imani parker. cormack started off the first round on the offensive, backing parker into the corner. even after parker escaped, cormack continued to land hard hits to parker’s body. parker came out determined and rallied in the second round, but after a few suc­cessful shots, she was again backed into the corner by cormack. parker started to make a comeback in the third round, pushing cormack back on defense, before she began to tire. by the end of the fight, carmack had landed several more hard shots. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
erin “dixie danger” Wilson def. stephanie “slobes” lobaccaro 
hometown graduate student erin wilson weathered an early flurry of punches from opposing se­nior stephanie lobaccaro to claim the victory. lobaccaro came out of the gates with a fast, free-swinging approach, but wilson stayed com­posed and was able to land more punches in the round. The second round featured more of the same, with lobaccaro doing most of the movement and wilson landing left jabs and right hooks. wilson took advantage of her opponent’s exhaustion in the decisive third round, dodging lobaccaro’s swings and initiating more of her own to claim the unanimous victory. 
valerie “vallswag” Williams def. norah “the Iron Girl” Griffin 
Junior valerie williams used her mobility and speed to take the unanimous victory over sopho­more norah griffin. williams came out bouncing around the ring in the first round, landing several shots to the body of griffin. she brought the same energy to the start of round two, though griffin was able to land a number of blows midway through the round. williams, how­ever, seized control of the fight with a flurry of punches to close out the second round and maneuvered her way through an even third round to earn the win. 
shannon “the Glommer” bugos def. Kathleen ashcraft 
sophomore shannon bugos came out strong, keeping junior kathleen ashcraft on the defensive for most of the bout en route to vic­tory by unanimous decision. bugos set the tone early in the first round, using a strong combination of al­ternating body and head shots to knock down ashcraft. The second round saw ashcraft come out with a strong flurry of punches, but bugos quickly regained the pace of the fight. after a slow start to the third round for both boxers, bugos sealed the victory with a few strong right hooks and a final frenzy of punches to ashcraft’s head. 
therese “t-Pain” Germain def. Kristen Jackson 
Junior Therese germain put se­nior kristen Jackson on the defen­sive from the moment the bell rang to secure the win by unanimous decision. Jackson shielded her head, 

paid adverTisemenT 
but germain pounded away with several body shots as the first round progressed. in round two, germain alternated between attacking Jackson’s body and head as Jackson had no answer to her opponent’s aggressiveness. Jackson came out with renewed determination in the beginning of the final round, landing a number of left hooks to germain’s body. germain, howev­er, remained calm and took control of the round to coast to victory. 
Courtney “Watch that Wright hook” Wright def. rachel thompson 
after a fast-paced, intense start, freshman courtney wright was able to defeat sophomore rachel Thompsonby unanimous decision. For the early part of the first round, Thompson utilized her size advan­tage and landed some strong left jabs to hold wright at bay, but wright worked to control the fight as the round progressed. Throughout the second round, Thompson landed a few more left jabs but wright main­tained control of both the pace and the bout. Thompson came out with determination in the final round, tiring wright out, but it was too late, as she ran out of time to even the fight. 
Jennifer “Fitz of Fury” Fitzpatrick def. shannon “motion to strike” hughes 
senior Jennifer Fitzpatrick used her long arms to hold off law stu­dent shannon hughes for a victory by unanimous decision. after a fast paced start, Fitzpatrick continually used a strong and fast left jab to keep herself out of the shorter hughes’ reach in the first round. This contin­ued throughout the fight as hughes attempted to get in close to land punches, but instead it opened her up to more jabs as Fitzpatrick seized the victory. 
emily laurent def. nicole acaso 
sophomore emily laurent used her extra height to her advantage as she held off senior nicole acaso for much of the match en route to a unanimous decision victory. laurent quickly seized control in the first round with a number of quick counter jabs as acaso opened herself up trying to get within strik­ing distance. at the beginning of round two, laurent landed a solid left jab-right hook combination. laurent started the third round with a fast string of left jabs, and as­sured her unanimous victory. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
By MATT GARCIA 
sports writer 
Colby “hammer down” hoyer def. ava “ninja” stachelski 
in a fight laden with hooks, the ferocity of junior colby hoyer overpowered her fellow junior ava stachelski for a victory by unani­mous decision. after both boxers exchanged head shots in the first round, hoyer took over in the sec­ond round to secure the win. after stachelski landed a solid jab to hoyer’s face, hoyer ratcheted up her intensity to another gear. her feroc­ity carried over to the third round, where stachelski took multiple punches to the face until the round and fight ended. 
amanda Peña def. Janelle Wanzek 
Junior amanda peña used a strong first round and a dominant third to secure the unanimous decision over sophomore Janelle wanzek. peña started the fight strong, landing two punches to the head, followed by three body shots. wanzek responded by hitting peña with a jab to the face in the open­ing seconds of the second round. peña pushed wanzek back to the ropes, using her strong footwork and a number of combinations. The defensive battle continued in the third round for wanzek, as peña pushed her up against the ropes early on. after repeatedly land­ing one-two punches to wanzek’s face, the referee pulled peña off. The fight continued until the bell and peña earned the victory. 
Carrera brown def. aubrey “Kick some” butts 
senior aubrey butts came out ready to fight, but failed to land any hard blows on  sophomore carrera brown, who won by unanimous decision. midway through the first round, brown began to land powerful head shots through the gloves of butts, using her strong right hook. The second round saw a barrage of punches from butts as she pushed brown back. brown, however, dominated the third round, as the sophomore used jabs to the head to open up butts to body shots and earn the victory. 
Cathy “Chuka-What?” Chukwulebe def. Jessica “hot mess” hendricks 
both fighters came out patiently, waiting for the perfect opportu­nity, until the third round, when senior cathy chukwulebe defeat­ed sophomore Jessica hendricks by referee stopped the contest. chukwulebe held the height ad­vantage and began using her left jab halfway through the first round, landing seven head shots in a row before the referee could separate the fighters. in the second round, hendricks stayed on the defensive, battling off more left jabs and a dislodged face guard. by the third round, chukwulebe began aiming for the knockout punch, continu­ally turning to the right hook, until the referee called the fight in favor of chukwulebe. 
sarah “maverick” mcCarthy def. lindsay Karcher 
senior sarah mccarthy won by a split decision over sophomore lindsay karcher. karcher started the fight with heavy, powerful punches, while mccarthy matched her intensity, trading blow for blow. despite karcher’s height advantage, mccarthy landed two hard shots to the face guard before the end of the first round. The second round re­mained close, as the fighters locked up early, until mccarthy hit karcher three times in the face. leading with her footwork, mccarthy surged in the third round with a massive shot to karcher’s face. 
Contact Matt Garcia at mgarci15@nd.edu 
baraka 
conTinued From page 12 
to match each other’s punches. popovich secured her victory, how­ever, with a strong third round over lockhart. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
Kirby “super smash” mcKenna def. ally “alpal the hoodrat” Weaver 
senior kirby mckenna earned a victory by unanimous decision over junior ally weaver. mckenna start­ed off the first round with several punches to the head and midsec­tion of weaver. weaver rebounded and came out strong in the second round, using her long reach to her advantage, but mckenna stayed even until the second bell. both fighters started the third round with energy and intensity, but mckenna pulled away for the win. 
liz garvin def. Jessica “sting like a bee” balko 
The senior garvin utilized her quickness and persistence to earn a unanimous decision vic­tory against the sophomore balko. garvin forced balko to stay on the defense for most of the first round with several vicious right hooks and combinations. her onslaught of punches continued into the second round, with balko managing only a few swings. in the final round, garvin kept up her energy and quickness to solidify the strong win. 
tori White def. mary “bringing the heat” Calderon 
Junior Tori white came away with a win by unanimous decision over sophomore mary calderon. white began the fight with a relent­less series of punches that backed calderon into a corner for most of the round before calderon was able to escape. at the start of the second round, white landed a hard shot to the face that caused the referee to stop the fight momentarily. after the break, white landed another blow only a few moments later after backing calderon into the ropes. a tired calderon tried to stand tall against white in the third round, but white did not let up. 
Kendall Johnson def. amy Klopfenstein 
senior kendall Johnson pulled out a split decision victory against senior amy klopfenstein in a fast-paced fight. Johnson and klopfenstein both kept the tempo up in the first round of this intense and evenly matched bout. Johnson stayed low to the ground and was able to punch upwards into the face of klopfenstein. The two main­tained the high energy throughout the second round, dancing around the ring at a fast tempo. in the third round, both fighters landed solid hits. klopfenstein landed a vicious right hook as Johnson started to tire but Johnson caught a second wind near the end and held on for the win. 
mary “the mean machine” Green def. therese “the beast” Cushing, 
sophomore mary green and freshman Therese cushing fought out a hard-hitting match, with green pulling out the split-decision victory. The first round started off with an exchange of powerful punches between the two. cushing landed several hard shots on green’s face as the two got tangled up, but green took advantage of some gaps in cushing’s defense to connect on several solid punches. The second round was close as both fighters slowed down, showing signs of ex­haustion. The third round was just as even to start, but green took the fight thanks to a few hard combina­tions to cushing’s body at the be­ginning of the round. 
anna “the maine-iac” Cormack def. Imani “Parks and Wreck” Parker 
senior anna cormack’s barrage of strong punches gave her a unani­mous decision victory against 


The observer | tuesday, november 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

smC volleyball | calvin 3, smc 0 
Belles end season with loss to No. 2 Calvin 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The belles bowed out of the miaa tournament Friday with a 3-0 loss to host no. 2 calvin at the van noord arena in grand rapids, mich. 
as the fourth seed, saint mary’s (12-15, 8-8) drew the no. 1-seeded knights (29­1, 15-1) for its first round matchup and calvin defeat­ed the belles in a sweep 25­11, 25-15, 25-20. 
belles coach Toni elyea praised her team’s accom­plishments in the highly competitive miaa. 
“it was a huge goal that we have had in our minds this whole season,” elyea said. “it was great to see all of our hard work and leadership 
m soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
bit of physicality to their team. it will be a challenge for sure. They’ve got some lads who can really play.” 
duke will bring an eight-game winning streak, one that dates back to oct. 1. 
“we’re going to be aware of them,” clark said. “any team that puts an eight game winning streak to­gether is in a very positive frame of mind. we know that’s a challenge, but we have to look after what we do.” 
accordingly, clark said, the team’s focus remains on themselves rather than their opponent. 
“we don’t spend a lot of time talking about them,” clark said. “we concentrate on what we have to do. we try to get better every game; that’s something we’ve con­centrated on throughout the season. in every game, can we take something from the last game? can we get better at something? we’re going to very much concern our self with who we are on the field.“ 
consequentially, the irish will look to build off of their victory over pittsburgh (1­11-4, 0-9-2 acc). 
“i think we need to take the opportunities that we create a little bit better,” clark said. “we created a lot of opportunities [against pittsburgh], but we didn’t actually convert them. we want to relax, focus and put the ball in the net. i think that’s one of our mes­sages for this game [against duke].” 
The irish host the blue devils at 7 p.m. in alumni stadium tonight in an acc quarterfinals matchup. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
pay off by finishing top four in a conference where the number one and two teams in the conference, [hope and calvin], are also the no. 1 and two teams in the country.” 
saint mary’s hung with the knights in the third game until calvin pulled away from an 18-18 tie with three unanswered points. The belles made it a game again at 21-20, but the knights won four straight points to seal the set and the match. 
Freshman outside hit­ter meaghan gibbons led saint mary’s throughout the match and to near victory in the third set, elyea said. 
“i felt we played our best in the third set,” elyea said. “it was tough not having [junior outside hitter] kati [schneider] in the match on Friday. i felt that first year meaghan gibbons did an amazing job filling that role by leading our team in of­fense and defense for the night.” 
calvin’s offense doubled the belles’ kill total, 42 to 
21. only gibbons (9), ju­nior middle hitter melanie kuczek (5), sophomore out­side hitter katie hecklinski 
(3)
 and freshman setter and outside hitter lexi grady 

(2)
 scored multiple kills for saint mary’s. no belles play­er posted double figures, al­though kuczek recorded a .500 attacking percentage with just one error. 


knights sophomore out­side hitter maggie kamp and junior outside hitter ellie diepersloot led the way for calvin with 10 kills apiece. as a team, calvin had a .315 hitting percentage. senior setter megan rietema (.583) and diepersloot (.526) pad­ded the knights’ average and committed a combined two errors. 


The belles attempted 79 at­tacks, compared to calvin’s 89, but could not minimize miscues as the knights did. The belles committed 17 er­rors while posting a .051 team attacking percentage. 
saint mary’s received con­solation for the loss when hecklinski and schneider were named all-miaa. coaches selected schneider for the first team honor, and hecklinski earned a nod for the second team. 
schneider and hecklinski will return for the belles next season, and elyea said next year holds a lot of promise for saint mary’s. 
“we achieved all but one goal this year,” elyea said. “we wanted to have a win­ning season. we are one win shy of that. we had so many amazing accomplishments this year on and off the court. we will be looking to im­prove as a team so we will be victorious in those five-set matches next season. we are a great team with so much to look forward to for next year. i could not be more proud of our team.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


W basketball 
conTinued From page 16 

allen added seven points and five assists in her second start as point guard. 
playing its season opener, michigan state got off to the early lead, jumping out to a 14­11 advantage with 14:07 to go in the first half. The irish took a lead they would not relinquish just a little over a minute later, when reimer made a turnaround la­yup to make it a 15-14 game. 
notre dame finished the half on a 13-4 run to take a 36-24 lead into halftime. notre dame’s de­fense held michigan state to only eight points in the final 10 min­utes of the half. 
“i think our zone [defense] flustered them a little bit,” mcgraw said. “we were getting in some passing lanes and get­ting some deflections, and they were missing shots. They had some really good looks that they just missed … but i thought our zone was the difference in the first half. 
The irish started the second half strong, as they went on an early 10-2 run to open up a 52-31 lead. 
The spartans quickly re­sponded with a 9-0 run to cut notre dame’s lead to 52-40. The spartans went on a 7-0 run min­utes later to make the score 58-47 with 8:39 left in the game. 
“we had a couple of stretches where we missed some shots,” mcgraw said. “our shot selec­tion maybe was a little question­able … and they went inside. we had a four-guard lineup at the time, and they were throwing it over us.” 
michigan state would not come any closer, though, as notre dame scored several late baskets to seal its eighth consec­utive win against big Ten com­petition and 28th victory over a ranked opponent since the start of the 2011-12 season. 
despite the rebounding ad­vantage, mcgraw said the irish still have room to grow before they can meet her challenge. 
“i don’t think we’re quite where we want to be yet,” she said. “i thought they played today a little bit differently, a little bit meaner.” 
irish senior forward natalie achonwa did not play, as she continues to recover from a knee surgery performed last month, but she may return to the court soon, mcgraw said. 
“we’re hoping in another week we can maybe get [achonwa] individual workouts,” she said. “[she should] definitely [return] by dec. 1.” 
The irish return to action when they meet valparaiso on saturday at 2 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



CrossWord | will shorTZ 


hIGhly PunlIKely | chrisTopher brucker 

Controlled Chaos | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoKu | The mepham group 

horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: leonardo dicaprio, 39; calista Flockhart, 49; demi moore, 51; stanley Tucci, 53. 
Happy Birthday: let your creativity flow and your mind wander. Travel to places that inspire you and hang out with the people who have something to offer in return. love is on the rise, and long-term partnerships will take a favorable turn. Take the initiative and make your home your sanctuary. don’t disrupt your financial goals. put cost-effective plans into motion. your numbers are 2, 13, 20, 29, 31, 35, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): consider how you can get the most for the least. budget wisely and look for bargains. having too much of anything will not end well for you. live within your means emotionally, financially and physically. size up whatever situation you face and make a calculated move. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make this a to-do day. get busy clearing up unfinished business. make calls and redirect your energy into completing your tasks. offer your suggestions and team up with people you’ve worked with in the past and you’ll find unique solutions. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): choose the people you share information with and tread carefully when faced with any incident that has potential to turn sour. go to the source and find out exactly where you stand and what’s transpired before making a decision. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): push for positive change. clear the clutter from your life. Fix up your surroundings and prepare your environment for the activities you want to take on or the people with whom you want to share. romance is in the stars. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your communication skills will let you down. before you engage in talks or negotiations, be sure that you know what you want and what you 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): visit destinations that can supply you with information and answers to questions that are necessary to make a decision. network and social­ize, but refrain from being too accommodating, especially where money matters are concerned. cultivate an important relationship. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): avoid discussions or being forced to deal with personal situations if you need more time to digest. you don’t have to make a decision because someone is pressuring you. Take a time out to breathe and consider your options. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): work from home or use your imagination to make your space unique and geared toward greater productivity. express your feelings and share your intentions with someone special. professional gains can be made if you take action. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): proceed with caution when traveling or expressing your opinions. emotional confusion due to a lack of understanding or not exposing pertinent information will set you back. Focus on what you can do for others in order to get what you want in return. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): concentrate on getting ahead by exercising money­making projects. your tenacity and insight will turn you into the go-to person. added responsibilities may be a burden at first, but in the end you will reap the rewards for your due diligence. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): hide your feelings. refuse to let anyone push you in an undesirable direction. you favor change that you bring about on your own, not what is forced upon you. offer concise information and carry on in the direction that suits you best. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): pick your target and make your way to the finish line. your upbeat, unique and precise way of dealing with others will ensure you get all the help you require to reach your goals. money will come from an unexpected source. 


Birthday Baby: you are competitive, loyal and defensive. you are astute and precise. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | tuesday, november 12, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd Women’s basKetball | nd 81, michigan sTaTe 62 
nd Women’s soCCer 

Physical play earns win 
nd draws iowa in 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
earlier this season, notre dame coach muffet mcgraw challenged her team to be mean­er on the court. on monday night, the no. 6 irish showed they had no problem being physical, as they consistently won battles in the paint and on the glass to defeat no. 19 michigan state, 81­62, at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (2-0) outrebound­ed michigan state (0-1), 52-29, and held a 24-8 edge on the of­fensive glass for the game. notre dame’s rebounding edge al­lowed the irish to score 50 points in the paint and 25 points on sec­ond-chance attempts. 
“we knew they were going to be a really physical team, and they were bigger than the teams we played before, so we really focused on positioning and just being physical and trying to be mean,” irish freshman for­ward Taya reimer said. “That’s the only way you can muscle for those rebounds.” 
in only her second collegiate game, reimer put up her first double-double, as she finished with 19 points and 13 rebounds. sophomore guard Jewell loyd finished one rebound shy of a double-double, recording 22 points and nine boards. 
“i was really pleased with our freshmen; i thought [freshman guard] lindsay allen and Taya played extremely well,” mcgraw said. “Jewell, i thought, was play­er of the game. she made a lot of 

ncaa first round 
hannah clark has played every minute between the pipes for iowa this season and has a 0.94 goals against average, just a bit above the 
0.93 average of irish fresh­man keeper kaela little. 
The winner of Friday’s match takes on the victor of the game between western michigan and no. 2-seed marquette. at the top of notre dame’s region is no.1­seed virginia, who beat the irish in double overtime on oct. 10. 
The acc claims all four no. 1 seeds in the ncaa tour­nament, with no.1-overall Florida st., virginia Tech and north carolina joining the cavaliers as top squads. virginia, Florida state and virginia Tech all beat the irish in double overtime this season, and virginia Tech and unc both beat notre dame by scores of 1-0. 
The first four rounds of the tournament take place at campus sites. once the final four teams reach the semifinals, the tournament then moves to cary, n.c., where those four compete for the college cup. 
looking to advance to their eighth champion game, the irish take on iowa on Friday at 7 p.m. at alumni Field. 


Observer Staff Report 

no. 23 notre dame drew one of the 64 slots in the ncaa women’s soccer championship tournament and will host iowa on Friday in the first round. 
The selection is the 21st consecutive in the tourna­ment for the irish (11-7-1, 7-5-1 acc), who head into the match coming off a dou­ble-overtime loss in the acc tournament quarterfinals to virginia Tech. 
The hawkeyes (15-6-1, 5-5­1 big Ten) enter the tourna­ment after a loss to nebraska in the big Ten championship game. 
much like notre dame, iowa started off its season hot, winning its first nine games. however, the squad’s success leveled off from there as it took only six of its final 11 matches. 
The irish won nine of their first 11 games but claimed only two games in its last eight contests. 
Junior forward cloe lacasse leads the hawkeyes with six goals and seven assists, and the team as a 
things happen for us offensively, first half, irish senior guard kayla 
whole averages 1.55 goals got some rebounds and scored mcbride finished with 15 points, 
per game, compared to when she wanted to.” nine rebounds and five assists. 
notre dame’s average of despite making only two of 
2.11. her 13 field-goal attempts in the see w baskeTball PaGe 14 
sophomore goalkeeper 
men’s soCCer 

Irish to open ACC tournament against Duke 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
after claiming a share of the acc regular-season title Friday with a 2-0 win over pittsburgh, the no. 1 irish begin their playoff run to­night at 7 p.m. notre dame (11-1-5, 7-1-3 acc) will host duke in the quarterfinals of the acc championship at alumni stadium. 
“i don’t think we’ve changed very much,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we take one game at a time, like we’ve done all season, and we’ll continue to do that into the playoffs. you have to take each game at it’s own merit. we know that it’s sud­den death. you win and you move on or you lose and stay home.” 
as a member of the acc, the irish competed against four other teams currently ranked in the top-25. This fall, the irish only lost once to an acc opponent, falling to no. 15 virginia 2-0 on oct. 26. 
“i don’t see the playoffs as anything different,” clark said. “every game we’ve played so far has very im­portant. There hasn’t been one game that wasn’t going to have an impact on where we were. i think this team is pretty conditioned to play­ing in big games, and, obvi­ously, tonight is another big game.” 
The irish enter the acc tournament as the no. 2 seed, while duke (8-4-6, 3-3­5 acc) is the no. 7 seed. 
“They are a big, strong team,” clark said. “They have very good players and players who can play, for sure. They also have a fair 
see m soccer PaGe 14 


COLBY HOYER | The Observer 

Junior midfielder Robby Gallegos strikes the ball during Notre Dame’s  3-0 win over Michigan at Alumni Stadium on Sept. 17. The Irish play Duke in the first round of the ACC tournament tonight. 



