The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 16 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Top Pentagon women discuss leadership 
Opening Notre Dame Forum event takes on challenges faced by women working in the Capitol 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
Two of the highest-ranked women in pentagon his­tory spoke monday in the debartolo performing arts center at the opening dis­cussion of the notre dame forum 2013, whose theme this year is “women in leadership.” 
ann dunwoody, the army’s first female four-star gen­eral, and michèle flournoy, former undersecretary of de­fense for policy and the high­est-ranking civilian woman in pentagon history, spoke to students and guests after an introduction by university president fr. John Jenkins. notre dame alumna anne Thompson of nbc news moderated the conversation. 
The discussion covered topics ranging from issues such as sexual assault to dif­ferent leadership styles ac­cording to gender. 
dunwoody said sexual as­sault in the military is one of the main issues that organi­zations like the army must address within their own chain of command. 
“This is a leadership fail­ure, in my mind,” she said. “if we expect our leaders to train our sons and daughters to fight in our nation’s war, we should expect our leaders to be able to tackle this sol­dier and discipline in an or­ganization where people feel safe, and if they’re not safe that they can report it. 
“until we see sexual assault as egregious as something as racial discrimination, i’m not sure we’ll be through,” she said to a round of ap­plause. “it is a crisis, and we should recognize that and we have to hold the leadership accountable.” 
dunwoody also addressed Thompson’s question of 
see forum PAGE 5 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Michèle Flournoy, left, the Pentagon’s high ranking civilian woman, discusses her experience at the top of the U.S. government with four-star general Ann Dunwoody at the Notre Dame Forum event Monday night. 



‘Getting the job done’ 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
assistant managing editor 
south bend mayor pete buttigieg disclosed his orders to deploy to afghanistan at a press conference Thursday, which will mark his first time in active duty. buttigieg, a lieutenant, Junior grade (lieutenant Jg) in the united states navy reserve, said he received the orders on aug. 28. 
at Thursday’s press confer­ence, buttigieg said he expects to be mobilized from feb. 24, 2014, to approximately sept. 20, 2014. buttigieg named city controller mark neal to serve as his deputy mayor while he is on active duty. 
indiana code 5-6-2 holds that if an elected official is called into active duty during their time in office, he or she may ap­point a deputy. 
buttigieg said neal will vacate his post as city controller at the conclusion of 2013, and 
see mayor PAGE 4 



ecologist studies great lakes 
By KATIE SISK 
news writer 

notre dame research as­sistant professor sheila christopher earned a $155,358 grant from the university of michigan water center, which focus­es on environmental issues specific to the great lakes, to study environmental so­lutions in lake erie. 
christopher,  who  
works with  notre  dame’s  
environmental  change  

initiative (eci), said his research will focus on cre­ating a computer model to represent the effectiveness of two specific farmland-drainage management practices, the two-stage ditch process and the tile drain management pro­cess, to combat fertilizer runoff into the great lakes, which supply 20 percent of the world’s freshwater. 
“The goal would be to identify if these new and innovative management practices can help reduce nutrient pollution at a large scale, as compared to more traditional prac­tices,” christopher said. “and also by using this wa­tershed scale [computer] model … we’ll be able to transfer the technology to other research groups, not only in the great lakes, but other watersheds around the country and even the world.” 
These management processes relate to the use of fertilizer in farm­ing and the way farmers deal with excess fertilizer, christopher said. biology professor Jennifer Tank, who directs the eci, said 
see laKe erie PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you could add a fourth term to “God, Country, Notre Dame” what would it be? 

Braeden Fallet 


Mary Wheaton 
sophomore 

senior st. edward’s hall 
off campus “god, brother, country, notre 
“lit choir.” dame.” for we all must strive to be our brother’s keeper. 
Brian Campbell 


Megan O’Bryan 
senior 

freshman 
off campus 

mccandless hall 
“Keough hall.” 

“family.” 
Emma Borne 


Nicole Splix 
sophomore 

freshman 
lewis hall 

mccandless hall 
“lewis hall.” 

“happiness.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie mccarty isaac lorton haleigh ehmsen Kit loughran 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Film: “Metropolis” Damaged Book Sale Women’s Soccer Stress Buster Friday Saturdays with the 
wei lin austin Taliaferro 
DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Library Alumni Stadium St. Liam Hall Saints Arts Center 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Geddes Hall 3 p.m. Buy books from the The Irish take on the De-stress by 10:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 
Corrections 

Influential silent film. University Press. Syracuse Orange. practicing Tai Chi. Part of the Series: The observer regards itself as “20th Century Martyrs” a professional publication and 
“Harry Potter and Corby Night Iron Sharpens Iron Trumpets Under the 
strives for the highest standards 
the King’s Cross” Corby Hall Coleman-Morse Dome Concert on the Steps 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m. Center Main Building Bond Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Men considering a 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-4:10 p.m. 2:00 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Presentation by vocation can pray and Student-led The trumpet section of Notre Dame Band 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Professor John socialize with Holy interdenominational the Notre Dame Band performs 90 minutes 
we can correct our error. 

O’Callaghan. Cross priests. Christian fellowship. kicks off the weekend. before kickoff. 


SMC screens ‘Band of Sisters’ 
By SAMANTHA GRADY 
news writer 
saint mary’s college will screen the film “band of sisters,” directed by mary fishman, wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in the carroll auditorium. a panel dis­cussion and a question and an­swer session will follow the film. 
molly gower, professor of religious studies and one of the event’s coordinators, said the de­cision to screen the film on saint mary’s campus came from the popularity of a screening held at notre dame last spring. 
“it’s a film that communi­cates really important pieces of catholic history and theology that a lot of students don’t know about in a way that is very easy to watch and easy to learn from,” gower said. “it’s a documentary, but you don’t feel like you are watching pbs. it focuses on per­sonal stories and the way indi­vidual women live.” 
The “band of sisters” website said this film centers on the re­markable journey of catholic nuns living in the united states today and their mission as citi­zens of the world post-vatican ii. The film shares the stories of over a dozen sisters, their perspectives on being faithful citizens, and the inspiring ways in which they are leaving their mark on the world. 
The saint mary’s website said the film “takes up issues of catholics as citizen of the mod­ern world, with special attention to the notion of the universal call to holiness.” 

gower said she offered extra credit to students in her catholic social Thought class who attend­ed the screening at notre dame last spring and was pleased with how much they enjoyed and learned from the film. 
“from my perspective in the classroom, it did so much to help students understand pieces of history and theology that are re­ally important,” she said. “The film gave students a context for understanding catholic social Thought.” 
gower said the idea of screen­ing the film at saint mary’s was exciting because of how mean­ingful the film was to many stu­dents who saw it in the spring. 
“we got excited about screen­ing the film at saint mary’s as a gift to the students,” she said. 
gower said she sees this event as an opportunity for students to better understand the history of the holy cross community in which they live. Though the congregation of holy cross is not specifically focused on in the film, students will better under­stand a piece of holy cross his­tory and how its mission ties into the lives of many catholic sisters in america, she said. 
“The film is an important part of understanding what it means to be catholic in america today and what it means especially to be studying at an institution sponsored by the sisters,” gower said. 
explicit connections with the film to the holy cross sisters will be offered through the panelists perspectives after the film, ac­cording to gower. 
The panel will include mary fishman, producer and direc­tor of “band of sisters,”; sr. elena malits, holy cross sister and pro­fessor emerita of religious studies at saint mary’s; sr. Jessica brock, novice, attorney and musician:; sr. betty smoyer, former saint mary’s campus minister and Kathleen sprows cummings, associate professor of american studies at notre dame. 
“one thing we hope will come out in the panel discussion is the relationship between the history and theology that you learn about in the film and how it connects to the sisters of the holy cross and to the history and mission of saint mary’s college,” gower said. 
This event is sponsored the college’s department of religious studies, the department of humanistic studies,  the center for spirituality, the program in gender and women’s studies, the program in Justice education and the cushwa-leighton library. 
“band of sisters” is 86 minutes long and will be followed by 30 minutes of panel discussion and an open question session at the end. 
Contact Samantha Grady at sgrady01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Triple c initiative inspires outdoor activity 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
local youths have a new opportunity to engage in the outdoors through Triple c, an initiative founded by victoria lam, a notre dame ph.d. student in biology. 
Triple c — which stands for camping, climbing and cameras — is a “501(c)3 backed program that takes a three-pronged approach to connecting youth to the out­doors,” according to the or­ganization’s facebook page. 
The initiative brings to­gether the notre dame climbing club, the robinson community learning center and la casa de amistad to provide local youths with photography lessons and outings, a stream ecology trip to Juday creek and a rock climbing trip to grand ledge, mich. 
lam said she was inspired to start the initiative by lisa coleman-puhvel, co-director and chief instructor of yo! basecamp, an organization that teaches rock climbing to youths in california. 
“i learned that [coleman­puhvel] has a wonderful program … serving children from the Tenderloin, an in­ner-city neighborhood in my hometown of san francisco,” lam said. “i found the work of her organization to be in­credibly inspiring and felt that engagement in the out­doors would be a wonderful way too reach out to our com­munity here in south bend.” 
lam said that 15 children from sixth grade to high school are enrolled in Triple 
c. she works alongside 12 notre dame undergradu­ates who serve as mentors to the kids throughout the program, five graduate stu­dents who volunteer on se­lect days of the program, 56 graduate participants in rock climbing training and four graduate and ph.d. students who serve as instructors in photography and ecology. 
“i submitted two grant pro­posals: one [to the merrell pack project] through outdoor nation, a non-prof­it dedicated to reconnect­ing millennials with the outdoors … and the other to [notre dame] grad life [grants program],” lam said. “ultimately, we were gener­ously granted funding by nd grad life and merrell pack project and were able to pro­vide all the equipment and gear, transportation and dig­ital cameras for the kids to use for the program.” 
Triple c was chosen for funding from among 200 grant proposals submitted to outdoor nation for being part of the “top five that were most innovative, impactful and sustainable projects fo­cusing on increasing outdoor recreation while also creat­ing significant relationships with the environment,” lam said. 
lam, who is studying blood stem cell development and maintenance, said Triple c doesn’t tie in directly with her academic interests, but having served as the philanthropy chair for the biology graduate student organization, she has expe­rience with community in­volvement programs. lam said students should be in­ventive when pursuing their own community involve­ment initiatives. 
“in general, i would en­courage everyone inspired to start their own initiative to just go out and do it,” lam said. “There are many grant opportunities available and all you need is an idea you are passionate about and some good friends to help make it happen.” 
for more information on Triple c, check out https:// w w w.facebook .com/ campingclimbingcameras 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Mayor 
conTinued from page 1 
then return to the private sector when buttigieg returns to south bend.  
buttigieg stated at Thursday’s press conference that he could not share details about his as­signment for reasons “including operational security, personal safety and military policy.” however, he said his selection was based upon his qualifica­tions and military background. 
“There’s not a lot that i’m in a position to talk about now, what i can say is that this is work that i’ve been trained to do,” buttigieg said. “it’s work that my command thought would be a good match based on my background, my rank, specialty training and so forth. i have some colleagues who have done similar work and i’m looking forward to applying my training and getting the job done.” 
buttigieg, 31, was commis­sioned as a lieutenant Jg in 2009. because next month marks his fourth year of service in the navy reserve, buttigieg said he will then be promoted to the rank of full lieutenant. 
“i’m a junior officer, so my re­sponsibilities include work on the intelligence side that i can’t say very much abou, and then work on the unit side like orga­nizing the fitness tests: running, push-ups, that sort of thing,” buttigieg said. “it’s not glamor­ous, but it’s work that i enjoy and that i believe in and i’ve always been glad that i do it.” 
buttigieg said he joined the navy reserve after working on the barack obama presidential campaign during the 2008 pri­mary election season. 
“i was working [at mcKinsey and company] at the time but took a week off, rounded up some buddies and we flew to omaha, rented a car, and were sent to some of the poorest counties in south-central iowa,” buttigieg said. “we were in these small, mostly rural communi­ties knocking on doors, and so many times i was knocking on doors and would have an inter­action with a young man pre­paring for basic training, on his way to either the [army national guard] or the full-time military. 
“you knew that these kids were on their way to iraq pretty fast, and to me they looked like children. … and it started me having a conversation with my­self about why if all these kids [are serving], if this small town in iowa is emptying its youth out, what my reasons are for not serving.” 
after reflection, buttigieg said he felt compelled to serve in sol­idarity with the kids he met in iowa, and others like them. 
“suddenly all of these other things — that i was traveling a lot, that i was too busy, that i had another kind of career — for me they began to feel like excuses,” buttigieg said. “it became hard­er and harder for me to explain why i was not serving, and i was especially concerned by the fact that it seemed like there was a bit of a divide between the peo­ple who served and the people who didn’t, and that it had to do with class and background. 
“if you compare that to my grandfather’s generation, for them, service was something that brought people together. people from different back­grounds, people from different races often got to know each other for the first time in the context of their service. and i think we ought to get back to that.” 
buttigieg said he decided to join the reserve by the end of 2008, and took his oath one year later in september 2009. 
To remain prepared for ac­tive duty, most members of the reserve and the guard devote one weekend each month to training. reservists and guard members also complete a two-week tour of duty known as annual Training each year. Though reservists do not com­plete this training with a defini­tive tour of active duty in mind, buttigieg said they know they will likely be called to active duty at some point. 
“This is something i’ve been training to do for years,” buttigieg said. “all of the ac­tivity that reservists do on the weekends every month and then on the two-week annual training periods are designed to make sure that you’re ready for any kind of recall to active duty.” 
buttigieg said he will continue this weekend training until he reports to the navy operational support center chicago on feb. 28, when he will begin training more specifically tailored to his mission in afghanistan. 
“i’ll be going through a se­quence of training that every­one who deploys to afghanistan goes through,” buttigieg said. “i’m not completely sure what to expect because i haven’t done it before.” 
buttigieg said he will deploy as a navy “individual augmentee,” which means he will mobilize separately from the unit he has trained with during his time in the reserve. he said this type of deployment is usual for people in his unit, though guard mem­bers typically mobilize as a unit and know of their assignments further in advance. 
while buttigieg serves his tour of duty in afghanistan, deputy mayor neal will make executive decisions in his ab­sence, but buttigieg said he plans to remain in close contact with his administration while in afghanistan. 
“my priority, knowing i was going to be away, was continuity of government and making sure that residents of the city contin­ue to feel that the government is serving them, and that our key initiatives continue to move forward,” buttigieg said. “There are really three principles that will allow the administration to operate while i’m away. one of them is that department heads will continue to have a lot of autonomy to make decisions for their departments as they see fit. The second is that i’ll be involved as much as possible to make sure that my preferences and intentions are known. The third is that the deputy mayor will have all my authority while i’m away, so if there’s a need to get a decision or answer espe­cially if i’m not reachable, that’s why we have somebody in that position and why there’s only one person in that position. That [person] will be mark neal. 
“i really feel that there will be total continuity and terrific competence while i’m away.” 
neal’s administrative expe­rience gained as city control­ler prepare him well to assume mayoral duties, buttigieg said. 
“he’s not a politician – he is mostly from the business com­munity – but he understands government, and the role he’s in now … is one of the most pivotal roles in the administration,” buttigieg said. “The controller is responsible not only for the fi­nances of the city, but also over­sees hr [human resources] and technology. so, it’s a broad port­folio, which means he already understands what we’re doing as an administration in a cross­cutting way.” 
buttigieg said neal’s experi­ence within his administration strengthened his ability to serve as deputy mayor. 
“i think [neal] is completely in tune with the overall vision of my administration, that’s one of the reasons i asked him to serve,” buttigieg said.  he’s been with us from day one, so he understands and in many ways helped to shape the priorities of this administration.” 
The relationships neal de­veloped during his work in the current administration also will help him as he begins work as deputy mayor, buttigieg said. 
“i think he has the right kind of perspective on how to get things done … he understands com­plexity and he understands peo­ple,” buttigieg said. “so much of his job [as controller] is work­ing with people to get stuff done and he has built great working relationships with members of the common council, with the business community and with employees of the city.” 
when he returns to office next fall, buttigieg said he will be excited to return to working for the people of south bend. neal likely will return to the private sector, buttigieg said. 
“i think before, during and af­ter my deployment we will have the same vision and the same goals for our city,” buttigieg said. “mark will be ready to move on, and will have richly deserved our thanks at that point, be­cause he’s not somebody who is interested in publicity or ego, he just wants to serve the city. 
“he’s agreed to do this at considerable sacrifice, and i’m sure that once this tour of duty is over for him he’ll resume his private sector life —  which he’s been eager to do — but south bend will owe him a big debt of gratitude.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

Composer discusses careers in music industry 
By RACHEL RAHAL 
news writer 

on monday, composer mark l. priest, delivered a lecture titled “life after a music degree: writing music for visual media,” elaborating on how he discerned his own career path in the music industry. 
priest earned his bachelor of science in music education at new york university then went on to receive his masters in orchestral composition for the media at the city university of new york, he said. he went on to teach music in public schools but then decided to shift to different aspect in the industr y. 
“Teaching and lectur­ing was not enough. ever since high school, i always wanted to be a composer,” priest said. 
priest said in recent years, the field of mu­sic in media has become highly competitive with the rise of technology, and usa Today listed “music directors and composers” third on the list of “Top 10 fastest growing Jobs.” 
“There is potential to make a good living, but be­ware of the rapidly grow­ing competition,” priest said. “The downside is that many people are going back to school to obtain this degree, making this a more competitive field to find work in.” 
priest said music in a film is invaluable because of its ability to alter or am­plify any given mood. 
The right kind of music can add to what is being portrayed while the wrong kind of music can detract from what is being por­trayed, he said, and the result is created where the composer sits down with the director to decide the moods of a given scene and what they want to por­tray through music in that scene. 
“great music impacts emotions just as story tell­ing does,” priest said. 
currently, priest per­
forms  w ith  t he  indiana  
universit y-sout h  bend  
orchestra  and  teaches  

private lessons in piano composition to local stu­dents. he conducts strings for a local junior high orchestra but hopes to eventually conduct with a larger orchestra one day. priest said he also attends conferences across the na­tion to further his interest in composing music for media purposes. 
“Take risks because jobs will not come to you, you must find them,” he said. “i love what i do because i have the opportunity to compose with any type of instrument as well as be­ing able to hear my music being performed.” 
Contact Rachel Rahal at rrahal @saintmar ys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



professor … to take the christopher. 
Lake Erie 

field data that we’ve been “The great lakes are 
conTinued from page 1 

collecting and the positive used for tourism, for drink-such runoff fertilizer could results that we’ve been get-ing water [and] for fish-greatly affect the aquatic ting at the smaller spatial eries, and we need to ecosystem. scale … and then scale that maintain and keep these 
“in order to have produc-up to whole water shed,” lakes healthy. in order to tive agriculture, we need to 
do that, we have to look up-apply fertilizer, and often-
stream,” christopher said. 
“The Great 
times we apply too much 
The eci brings together 
Lakes are used 
fertilize,” Tank said.  “That 

the efforts of about 40 dif­ends up in our streams and 
for tourism, ferent notre dame faculty rivers, and the streams and 
for drinking members from several dif­rivers transport those ex­
ferent disciplines to focus 
water [and] for 
cess nutrients downstream, 
on issues regarding envi­
fisheries, and we 
often to sensitive water 

ronmental change, Tank bodies.” 
need to maintain said. researchers address the 
and keep these “The three areas that the 
problem of nutrient pollu­
environmental change 
lakes healthy. In 
tion on a smaller scale by 
initiative focuses on is the 
order to do that, 
looking at alternative ways 

impact of climate change of managing the land, ac-
we have to look on the environment, the im­
cording to Tank. 

upstream.” pact of invasive species on “we’ve been working 
the environment, and the 
Sheila Christopher 
on different management 
impact of land use on the en-
goals.” 
professor 
strategies and testing out 
vironment, mainly focused 

Forum 
“i don’t believe you have conTinued from page 1 different management around fresh water,” Tank 
to give up your femininity to practices that might reduce Tank said. “and then her said. “The [environmental 
be in any profession, nor do i the impact of agricultural goal is to put that into a change initiative] provides 
whether women in the work believe you have to use your fertilizers,” Tank said. water shed model to see if this umbrella initiative or 
force “can have it all.” femininity to gain anything” however, this small-we can impact or improve organization that organizes 
“i think we’ve let some-dunwoody said. scale research fails to ad-the state of the great lakes faculty around these grand 
one define what ‘it all’ is,” Thompson asked dress bigger problems like Tributary.” environmental challenges 
she said. “men have ‘it all’ if dunwoody about the chal­those in the great lakes, while nutrient pollution that really are facing soci­
they have a family and a job. lenges in commanding large so christopher stepped in, occurs all over the world, ety as a whole.” 
is that all? you define what is groups of men after the in-Tank said. this grant focuses specifi­
all.” tegration of women into the “we hired christopher cally on the impact on the Contact Katie Sisk at 
Thompson asked flournoy army. as a research assistant great lakes, according to csisk1@nd.edu 
about obstacles she faced as “i see soldiers in uniform; a young, non-military and i don’t see men and women,” democratic female entering dunwoody said. “i see sol-the pentagon workforce. diers. and i wanted to be the 

“in many places, none of best soldier i could possibly those things matter, but in be and the best leader i could some corners it just meant possibly be and a leader is that people came in with a taking care of people.” bias,” flournoy said. “what i “when you care about your learned very early on … was people and you take care of that if you encounter that them and they trust you, they 
paid adverTisemenT 

kind of bias, let it be the oth-will follow you. and they er person’s problem. know that you’re trying to do 
“focus on being excellent. the right thing for the right focus on being the best pos-reason. They will follow you.” sible player in your position flournoy said a poster so that there’s absolutely no hung on the first day of the question about your compe-transition to the obama ad­tence. at some point i just ministration in pentagon decided that the absence of headquarters captured the women who paved the exact guiding principle in her path was not going to bother work. me.” “no ego, no drama, this 
dunwoody also said excel-is not about you,” she said. lence is the bottom line in the “you have to come to work face of potential discrimina-every day willing to lose your tion and double standards job if it’s important to speak for women. up, to say what you think is 
“you take their comments true even if you think it could with a grain of salt and then make you lose your job. if you just … let it be their prob-you’re not willing to do that, lem,” dunwoody said. “but you should not be here.” when you perform and you Thompson asked meet the standard, [even] dunwoody and flournoy exceed the standard … those about the difference in lead-biases dissolve.” ership styles between men 
Thompson asked the wom-and women. en if they had to put aside “i think women generally, their femininity to earn the normally are better engag­respect of male subordinates. ers and communicators, be­
“i just tried to be myself,” cause they care,” dunwoody flournoy said. “i know that said. “how we have to chal­there are some women who lenge that is overcoming the have tried to be more mas-perception that leadership is culine as a way of being macho, yelling, screaming, in a man’s world or more telling and men are decisive feminine.” … and women are emotional, 
“i have tried, i have figured indecisive and impassive.” that the best thing i can be is “but look at every profes­just to be myself and let that sion now,” she said. “women speak for itself and focus on are at the top.” making a contribution and being excellent and help-Contact Lesley Stevenson at ing the team accomplish its lsteven@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

The tour guide 

Lesley Stevenson 
news writer 

The coming weeks are big weeks for me. They’re the culmination of much wishing, waiting, planning and practicing for what feels like my whole life. next week, i will probably become a notre dame tour guide. 
my tour guide status is probable because, although i’m officially trained and have an official looking name-tag on file, i haven’t officially been scheduled to give a notre dame tour. i have however, become unof­ficially quite nervous about my looming first attempt. it’s like that feeling you get at halftime when notre dame’s losing to purdue — you’re pretty sure it will all work out, but there’s always that chance it wasn’t meant to be. 
i’m not entirely sure what about herd­ing confused high schoolers and worried parents around unfamiliar grounds par­ticularly appeals to me. it’s certainly not the walking backwards or being exposed to the elements. my mom asserts that it has ev­erything to do with my southern heritage. since i couldn’t join a sorority, she reasons, i settled for the frosh-o and admissions staffs — the closest to rush chair i’ll ever come. 
it may have something to do with my love of talking and let’s be honest, who doesn’t love talking about herself? (Just me? oh. oops.) admissions counselors stress during training that personal experiences add a priceless authenticity and a unique flavor to every tour, but it’s definitely more than that. 
a tour guide has to become an every­man, in the sense that her experiences have to extend beyond herself. her knowledge must relate and appeal to hundreds of the bright-eyed and bushy-tailed youngsters who traipse up the main building stairs in blissful ignorance, ready for a glimpse into the real life of a notre dame student. 
That’s a daunting concept. as students at this remarkable university, we know that notre dame is one of a kind. but it’s true too that each so-called notre dame experi­ence is also one of a kind, not to mention the fact that most visitors cite something indescribable about campus that draws them in. while it’s an honor to represent that legendary history, how can a tour guide do justice to it all? 
The key will be not so much doing it justice with words as it will be channeling that indescribable feeling and representing to the best of my ability, what it’s all about. it’s showing my undying passion for this incredible place, a passion that made me inexplicably burst into tears when i turned onto st. Joseph’s drive and laid eyes on breen-phillips hall for the first time this semester. That’s not a feeling i can justify. it just is. and that’s what i hope my future tour-takers will see. notre dame isn’t a place that needs justification. it is what it is and that’s so much better than enough. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Carter Boyd 
viewpoint columnist 
while cheering for the irish at the season opener versus Temple, i was surprised and disappointed during the game to hear the greatest and oldest of all american marching bands playing the infamous and distastefully disgraceful song “blurred lines” by robin Thicke. 
for those unfamiliar with the song, the crass melodies tell a tale which is com­monly agreed to describe the dilemma or “blurred lines” surrounding rape. i leave further details of the matter the song de­scribes for the reader to discover for him­self or herself. while i choose not to go any further into the specifics of the song, i will advocate that this song not be played in the future at our home football games. 
if students, faculty and staff recognize it or not, like it or hate it, notre dame has been a catholic school of the utmost integrity and tradition since 1842. many hold this university to be the greatest catholic school of higher education in the united states and furthermore one of the top academic institutions of any kind in the nation. Thus as a catholic school, it gives a poor impression of the moral and ethical integrity of the students, faculty, staff and athletic departments at notre dame if we promote such vulgar vanities and insensitive ravings of the american popular culture. 
The catholic church with the love of god through the example of Jesus and guidance of the holy spirit has clearly defined the sanctity and holiness of the 
Christian Nofziger 
ask the greenman 
fellow Tree huggers, 
as you all know, september’s en­ergy championship theme is light­ing which, i’m sure, made most of you feel like you could take the month off. 
i picture you all sitting in your dorm rooms swathed in compact fluorescent lighting thinking, “This can’t apply to me. i already changed my lights,” and that is where you are wrong my friends. i need you to step things up a notch. 
most dorms on campus have the lighting infrastructure to be sus­tainable. if you take a walk around campus, compact fluorescent lights and motion detectors are about as universal as the squirrels and con­fused-looking freshmen. That’s not the problem. sometimes i feel like our campus is a modern 13-year-old in disguise. 
most 13-year-olds today are spoiled by technology. They don’t human person composed of the mind, body and soul. our new-age 21st century culture begins to further and further cross the line of disrespecting and dis­regarding these beliefs and exploiting human sexuality in numerous ways. The objectification of women and the degra­dation of the sanctity of marriage are just two of the numerous ways our society has turned to evil ways. under the teach­ings and commandments of god and the church, in no way can the playing of a song containing these sexually explicit and derogatory messages be justified and reconciled. as a school named after our lady, mary mother of god, how do we al­low these mixed messages to exist in such vanity? 

The situation of rape as robin Thicke entreats us to sing along to is perversely insulting to the catholic tradition and integrity of the university. There are peo­ple who have been deeply affected and traumatized by various forms of sexual harassment, sexual assault and rape here on our campus, in the country and in our world. mocking or jeering at the pains, the sufferings and the hurt these victimized individuals are left to cope with by play­ing a heinous song such as “blurred lines” is horribly wrong. if the band continues to play this song, how many people will be reminded of a time where they were abused or taken advantage of? 
i wish this particular song is the only singular element of our culture that de­rides and degrades the morality of the masses, god and his just and holy com­mandments, but this is just one example of a plethora of illustrations that exist 
Green light 
know what it was like to have a flip 
phone or cd player. all they know 
are their iphones, which they only 
use to post bad twerking videos to 
vine. like america’s 13-year-olds, 
we already have the technology, we 
just need an attitude adjustment. 
Twelve percent of a typical home’s 
electric bill can be attributed to 
fending off the dark. since most 
of our dorms lack appliances like 
ovens, large refrigerators and air 
conditioning, you could save extra 
energy just living to three simple 
steps. 

first, use task lighting (think of 
the pixar lamp). why use your over­
head light to read a book when you 
could just use a cool clip-on book 
light? The overhead lighting in your 
room uses much more energy than 
your book light or even your desk 
light. 

your overhead light is best 
used only to avoid tripping on 
your roommate’s backpack that’s 
left thoughtfully in the middle 
of the room while you were out 
“studying”. 

within the fast paced, instant gratifica­tion society we live in today.  while it may be hard living within this culture, if we step back and observe the movies, music, books, magazines and shows that we immerse ourselves in, we see that we are addicted to the images and sounds of vio­lence, drugs, sex, alcohol, profanity and swears which permeate our lives through the various forms both obvious and subtle that we experience. 
nothing really has changed since the days when christianity was founded amidst the height of the roman civiliza­tion that had its fair share of ungodly behaviors, practices and transgressions. as believers in christ inspired to live fruitful lives witnessing the gospel, we do not have to begin a countercultural movement. we are called to continue the countercultural movement of the church founded by Jesus himself to move towards the truth and goodness of god through love, compassion and service. 
The answer to our question then be­comes a direct line that is crystal clear. let’s not send blurred messages from the university of our lady. rather, we should take direction from the conclusion of our mission statements “in all dimensions of the university, notre dame pursues its objectives through the formation of an authentic human community graced by the spirit of christ.” 
Carter Boyd  can be contacted at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
second, use more natural light. This idea is not only good for the environment, but also good for you. studies have shown natural light can actually make you happier, so enjoy these last few days of bear­able weather in “The bend” and study outside. 
open those blinds and let the sunlight shine in because as my good friend ned stark used to say, “winter is coming.” 
finally, shut off the lights when you leave a public space, even if it has a motion detector. motion de­tectors are like the rumble strips on the side of the highway, they are designed to prevent big problems before they happen. 
They are for less enlightened peo­ple than you and some have unsus­tainably long wait times. Trust me, it is worth flicking the switch. 
Christian Nofziger can be reached at cnofzige@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

I’m sorry sir, but you’re wrong 
adam newman wrote an article (‘striking down a bad argument,’ sept. 11) that i believe misrepresented the role of biblical exegesis in society. 
now before i begin, there is a precept that must be stated, i believe the bible is the word of god and is meant to be interpreted. This is my belief and this is the frame for which i will be arguing. now, geronimo! 
newman cites leviticus 18:22 as the reason what he calls “anti-gay groups” take the posi­tions they do. but this is not true. The catholic church’s opposition of gay marriage is linked to beliefs on sexuality. 
it’s in the act of sexual intercourse that we as human beings are allowed into the creative work of god. as such the church believes sex should be sacred and the act itself be treated with respect. 
Thus the church teaches that this act should only occur between two people who have reached a certain level of connection with one another and who are ready to give themselves to each other represent through the act of sex. The church condemns any sex outside of marriage and even condemns sex within marriage that is not open to this creative act. 
i agree with newman’s statement of the main message of the bible, god’s love for creation, but not his understanding of it. 
it seems to me, the basis of mr. newman’s understanding is that god approves gay mar­riage because god loves us. and it’s true that god loves all of us. but this love does not lead to license. we all do immoral things, things that harm each other and even ourselves, but god still loves us. This love though does not condone our misbehavior. 
a mother does not hurt us when we do some­thing wrong, but she also doesn’t tell us to just keep doing what we’re doing. she stops, inter­venes and most importantly loves us. she loves the child, but rejects the wrongdoing. 
as to the statement that the bible is just a col­lection of stories. we’re all stories in the end. Just make it a good one, eh? 
John McMackin 
sophomore Keenan hall sept. 17 

notes from the peace house 
Jon Schommer 
viewpoint columnist 

one of the most strikingly glum memories of my childhood was the day my family moved into our new rental house in plainfield, ind. 
we spent five days driving in a u-haul rental from temperate san ramon, calif., only to be greeted by the stale dead air of a hoosier december. 
prior to the trip, my school friends and i thumbed through one of those large, colorful maps most second grade teachers have in the classroom. in each state, there was a cartoon “spirit animal” meant to consolidate all the peo­ple and history of a place into a solitary image. 
much to my surprise, when we arrived in indianapolis, we were not greeted by slick-wheeled indycars revving their engines at us as we anticipated a green light. 
instead we were welcomed by the road­slickening, ice-rain familiar to anyone that has dared to make the venture across south Quad in february. 
This wasn’t the most favorable first impression. 
however, thanks to my parents’ boredom-es­caping efforts, my outlook on the midwest slowly began to change. They always made it a point to explore the different gems of the state in which we were living. we would take weekend trips to amish country, canoe in the local river, hike in the hills of brown county or spend a weekend at the dunes. 
fast forward to college. 

on campus i was met by an exodus of people from all over the world, people that found them­selves in the hoosier state sporting the same disappointment that i experienced way back in second grade. 
i began to spend many conversations defending this place i once loved to bash. and i also found myself, true to my parents’ example, trying to explore the gems in the community that surrounded me. 
now i know that it can be strangely effortless to gripe about how during most of the school year, campus looks nothing like the brochures, or complain that south bend is the most boring, dangerous, dirty city in which a french priest could choose to build a school. 
but from my experience, i’ve found much more joy and made much better memories trying to recognize the goodness of this place than by sar­castically putting it down. 
i’m not going to give you a new “spirit animal” for indiana, but for what it’s worth, here is a list of 10 gems i’ve found during my four years and one summer in south bend. i invite you all to check out these places, add them to your notre dame bucket list or email me for more informa­tion about them: 
no. one: The south bend farmer’s market. The grocery of your childhood dreams filled with awesomeness in the forms of premium coffee, organic produce, free samples of sautéed mush­rooms, thickly-cut bacon, homemade soap and knife-sharpening services. 
no. Two: The st. peter claver catholic worker: a great community of folks that work with those down on their luck. drop by the our lady of the road laundromat-cafe to serve breakfast or to attend the “first friday” mass, potluck dinner and discussion every month. expect good con­versation and music. 
no. Three: contra dancing in goshen. This is for those of you who enjoy moving your bod­ies to live fiddles, upright bass, guitars and folk music. no prior experience necessary (they give lessons) and no need to bring a partner. There are plenty of people willing and ready to dance there. 
no. four: The pool. located in a high school-converted-to-apartment complex (central high apartments), this is one of the best music venues i’ve ever been to. imagine a carpeted pool floor, comfy couches, art on the walls and wonderful acoustics filling the room with great music from the best local musicians. 

no. five: girasol. situated a few blocks south of campus on eddy street, this family-run salvadoran restaurant will fill up your stomach with tasty pupusas (el salvador’s national food) or handmade tamales. 
no. six: monroe park grocery co-op. organic food from local farmers and incredibly low pric­es. need i say more? 
no. seven: erasmus books. a cozy bookstore located in a historic frank lloyd wright-inspired prairie house. i found a handful of books for my classes there for less than the typical cost of shipping. 
no. eight: The peace house. This is a shame­less plug for my house. we organize gatherings that invite professors, students and south bend residents to come together for food, conversation and music. 
no. nine: la rosita ice cream parlor. it’s the best ice cream in town. seriously. 
no. Ten: langlab. an artist co-op based on a sustainable business model. They put on plays, poetry readings, book signings, house artist stu­dios and co-ops and organize concerts. 
Jon Schommer is in his fifth-year studying Civil Engineering and the Program of Liberal Studies. He lives off campus in an intentional community made up of Notre Dame students called the Peace House. He has three couches on which to crash, two ears with which to listen, and much food to share if you find yourself in need of anything. He can be contacted at jschomme@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CHRIS REICHE 
scene writer 

as the skyscrapers towered over us from the chicago skyline, there we were: five notre dame students singing the iconic lyrics to the chorus of “i miss you” by blink-182. we all made a point of pronouncing the word “head” as “yead” from the line “you’re already the voice inside my head” (a reference that will imme­diately be recognized by even the most casual blink fans). however, this moment of friend­ship and entertainment was not at the riot fest festival we attended at humboldt park just miles from the chicago loop; it occurred dur­ing our drive to the concert before we had even entered the venue. 
The experience i had while watching blink perform “i miss you” during their headlining performance at riot fest on saturday was much different. a quick google search of “riot fest, blink-182” will generate articles that all discuss a dangerous mosh pit that left several injured or hospitalized. from personal experience, i observed several people lying on the ground with a variety of injuries. some had twisted an­kles; others were suffering from panic attacks. crowd surfers who wished to be carried to the front of the crowd and removed from the may­hem proved to be the cause of greater chaos. people would fall over trying to support them which would knock over a wave of bodies on the ground. 
now, i do not wish this to scare anyone away from blink or label them as a band that auto­matically initiates this type of crowd. for ju­niors and seniors who attended the Third eye blind spring concert two years ago, imagine that atmosphere with about 10,000 more people and a culture that did not let their decisions be influenced by a fear of being reslife’d (comm stand?). 
also, the security at riot fest was, to be nice, slightly above incompetent. They were so in­tent on catching people from trying to run on the stage that they left no help in the back of the crowd. Therefore, anarchy ensued and ev­eryone in the back attempted to run forward into the wall of bodies like a tidal wave crash­ing against a coastal city. halfway through the show, i decided to remove myself from the grow­ing commotion and moved back away from the stage to safety. although i was separated from my friends and the experience did not play out 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer  
as we had expected, the kings of pop-punk still  The only regrettable aspect of blink’s set  
put on a great show.  were the obvious time constraints of playing  
blink-182, comprised of guitarist and high- at a festival. being forced to strictly maintain  
pitched vocalist Tom delonge, bassist and low- a 75-minute performance, much of the set ap­ 
er-pitch vocalist mark hoppus and legendary  peared rushed. The encore was void of barker’s  
drummer Travis barker, is typically described  typical drum solo and much of hoppus’ and  
as a pop-punk band. hardcore punk fans dis­ delonge’s stage banter was lost. still, there  
pute this and may call blink bubblegum pop.  were some highlights of their conversations  
for those whose musical tastes correlates to  that had the crowd laughing out loud.  
what comprises the Top 40, they may consider  in reference to the rambunctious atmo­ 
blink a hardcore rock band. nevertheless, The  sphere, hoppus asked the crowd to take two  
new york Times stated that “no punk band [to  steps back. after that failed miserably, he said,  
come out of] the 1990s has been more influen­ “if someone’s on the ground, please don’t step  
tial than blink-182.” if you do not believe that,  on them. i shouldn’t have to tell you that.” in  
just ask pete wentz from fall out boy, the head- true blink fashion, they announced the encore  
liners from the friday set of riot fest, how influ­ before finishing their set. delonge proclaimed  
ential blink is to them.  that, “we’re going to pretend that this is our last  
blink is also widely known for their wide- song, but we’ll be back for more.” after closing  
ranging lyrics. from those that are largely vul­ with the band’s pinnacle of artistic achieve- 
gar and immature to those that touch on more  ment, the short but elegant “family reunion”  
serious topics, it is hard to argue that any other  (for those of you who are unaware, i recom­ 
band writes lyrics that are more relatable to the  mend searching for this song), hoppus uttered  
millions of teenagers stuck in suburbia. outside  the best joke of the night: “are you guys ready  
of their music, the humorous and unrefined  for the grand finale!?”  
stage banter that exists between the two vocal- at this point, blink exited the stage never to  
ists, mark and Tom, has preserved blink as one  return. eager fans stood there for 20 minutes  
of the better live bands that plays today. This  until security forced them to leave. The audi­ 
reputation did not falter on saturday.  ence patiently waited for the second encore  
after opening with an electric rendition of the  that was never going to happen. on the other  
2003 hit “feeling This” and “up all night” from  side of the curtain, blink was probably giggling  
2011, delonge and hoppus shared their first  to themselves about the prank they just pulled  
on-stage conversation. This ended up becom­ off. as the band has always said, they are just  
ing one of their more pg-13 statements. hoppus  trying to make themselves laugh and if the au­ 
said, “our solo cups do not have water in them.”  dience happens to laugh with them, then that  
delonge added: “i want all of you to know that i  works too.  
choose to drink because it makes me feel good.”  The members of blink-182 are elder statesmen  
The band immediately then broke into the 2001  of the headlining business. They are used to en- 
single, “The rock show.”  tertaining tens of thousands of people at fes- 
There were many highlights to the show that  tivals, arenas and stadiums. The comfort that  
made up for the terror that was the mosh pit.  comes with this was in full bloom on saturday.  
musically, songs like “i miss you,” “always” and  however, i would most definitely recommend  
“Josie” were their best. barker never ceases to  seeing them at their own show at a venue that  
amaze a crowd with his ridiculous drumming;  has actual seats you have paid for.  
“always” showcased his talent more than any  even though the conditions were less than  
other song. even some of blink’s deeper album  ideal, the show they performed was still amaz­ 
cuts, like the song “violence,” and their newer  ing. each song was a hit. hoppus’ and delonge’s  
songs, like “after midnight,” kept the fans inter­ on-stage exchanges, while infrequent, were hi­ 
ested and singing along. however, the riot fest  larious. barker lived up to his high reputation.  
crowd reacted the most recklessly to blink’s  overall, blink did not disappoint, and they  
more iconic fast, punk songs. for instance, even  showed why they have become one of the most,  
all the females in the audience were shouting  if not the most, iconic rock band of our young  
the lyrics, “i need a girl that i can train,” at the  generation.  
end of the chorus of “dumpweed,” from the  
multi-platinum album “enema of the state.”  Contact Chris Reiche at creiche@nd.edu  

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

it’s huge. it’s “a thing.” “reflektor” is not just a single — it’s an event. 
indie rock band arcade fire announced over the summer the release date of their highly anticipated new album to be oct. 29.  eagerly awaiting fans finally have something to tide them over for their last month of waiting — the release of the album’s first single. 
The title of the song, along with its sept. 9 release date, first cropped up in august via puzzling chalk-drawn lo­gos spread through a mysterious instagram account. The strange image contained a square inside a circle, with the letters of the single and album title scrambled inside. after weeks of speculation, the canadian band claimed the images, confirming “reflektor” as the title of their new album and first single — via a huge chalk mu­ral in downtown new york. when the date finally came around, arcade fire dropped not only the single but also two new music videos (go to http://www.justareflektor. com/ to experience the better of the two). 
it’s clear a lot of heart (and money) went into “reflektor.” but does it matter if the song itself is 

Miko Malabute 
scene writer 

The absolute worst thing ever. such a superlative war­rants years of anger, frustration and — if you’re man enough to admit it — tears. anything else that’s less­than-qualified should in no way, shape, or form have to bear such an awful title. but what i am about to discuss with you, my astute brothers and sisters, is a topic that i know each of you deep down may relate to, and will penultimately feel similar pangs of disgust and hurt the moment you realize that, why, yes, indeed, it is the worst thing ever. 
what is it, you may ask? 

no, no ... see, the question is not necessarily what the worst thing ever is; it is, in fact, who the worst person ever is. namely, who the worst Tv character is. 
who, you may ask again? 

ladies and gentlemen, may i present to you, walter white of the hit Tv show, “breaking bad.” 
now, now, before we all are quick to take a side and begin to tear me down as a “hater” or humiliate me with labels such as “not-a-fan-of-breaking-bad,” allow me to establish myself as an authority in this field. i am the one who knocks, whenever “breaking bad” is on and i want nothing special? 
Thankfully, we don’t have to ask that question. arcade fire has always been a musical giant, crafting massive anthems out of soaring choruses and driving verses. on “reflektor,” they team up with James murphy, the songwriter and producer behind lcd soundsystem, and longtime-fan david bowie to deliver a straight-up jam fest that simply rocks. 
it’s all here — dance-y disco vibes, funky bass grooves and a fist pumping chorus with a killer guitar riff. The song rollercoasters brilliantly, driving, build­ing, collapsing only to drive, build and collapse again. The lyrics, meanwhile, follow the energy perfectly. at the heart of the song is the idea that we find in art only what we want to see — that it is “just a reflector.” The deep messages and meanings in which we “find a way to enter” the world on a deeper level are in actuality simply reflections of what we already believe. lead vo­calist and songwriter win butler recalls his blind love and dedication to art during the brooding verse, and on the chorus he builds it up before harshly breaking it down. 
but what keeps the song from sinking into melan­cholia is a resistance to that idea. butler sings with 
to come inside to catch the premiere. and perhaps if you think even for a second that i don’t love and appreciate the character that is walter white, than maybe your best course of action would be to tread lightly. 
but wait, you ask me, didn’t you just publicly proclaim walter white as the worst thing ever? yes, i did. and it is precisely because of my mixed emotions towards his character that i must leave him left-for-dead with such an absolute title. walter has become such a complex, desperate and unreachable man that it is absolutely ter­rifying to ponder what he would and would not do nowa­days. a simple look at last sunday’s episode confirms how far walter has progressed — or, more accurately, digressed — as the beginning of the episode shows how light-hearted and innocent he spoke, even when he was already hell-bent on lying his way into the methamphet­amine business. This stood in stark contrast to the way he spoke and addressed anyone — be it his family or his foes — with the same dark, dangerous, maniacal yet cal­culated snarl that beautifully depicts the character of a man constantly tiptoeing the line between standing for his own values and committing ruthless crimes to save his own skin. 
walter has done some despicable things, and with ev­ery successive episode, it becomes increasingly difficult to root for him to succeed, if you even find yourself still 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

defiance — he’s scared of the possibility that art is a re­flector, but it’s what he loves, and he’s going to contin­ue being an artist until that passion is gone. “reflektor” calls us to be aware of our own weaknesses and to be suspicious of what we feel a deep connection to, but it also calls us to never give up what we love or who we are in the face of uncertainty. 
if this song is any indictor, arcade fire’s new album to be released in just over a month is going to be well worth the wait. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Reflektor” 
Arcade Fire 

Label: Merge Records If you like: The Strokes, MGMT 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer doing so this late into the series. however, what creator vince gilligan so masterfully and wretchedly achieves is a constant angle on walter, concocting a story arc and camera angle that allows us as the viewers a clear view of the type of monster that walter has become. yet simul­taneously, gilligan allows us to see the “method behind the madness,” as well as some of the reasons as to why he’s committing some of the horrors that he’s been doing. 
The absolute worst thing that gilligan could have done was not just to see what walter’s been capable of doing and the kind of atrocities he has been responsible for, but also to understand exactly why he’s been doing them. and when we do understand, they are usually for the same reasons that we do what we do, whether legal or il­legally — for our family, for their and our health, security and happiness. we see the heart that beats behind “the devil,” as Jesse pinkman refers to walter white, and the complexities and torn emotions that accompany such conflict and set walter white, far and away — as far and away as belize, where walter has been known to send a few people here or there to — as the uncontested worst thing ever. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Two games do not make a season 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
calm down. step away from the keyboard. Take a deep breath. 
i’m talking to you redskins fans, giants fans and vikings fans. all is not lost. it’s only two games into the season, which means your 0-2 squad has 14 more opportunities to show the league what it is truly made of. 
as for you dolphins fans, chiefs fans and bears fans, don’t quite pencil your name in as super bowl champions. in fact, don’t even book your flights and hotels for playoff games. all is not won. it’s only two games into the sea­son, which means your 2-0 squad has 14 more opportuni­ties to show the league what it is truly made of. 
as surprising as some of the results from the first two weeks have been, they are hardly indicative of the way the rest of the season is going to shake out, right? well, if you believe that the past is a predictor of the future, then the first two weeks are indic­ative of the rest of the season. all we have to do is look to last season. 
in 2012, six teams started out 0-2 and all six of them finished the season under the .500 mark. in fact, four of them finished in last place. but most importantly, none of them made the playoffs. 
last season, six teams also started out 2-0 and half of them won their division. The other three squads — san diego, philadelphia and arizona — managed a com­bined 10 wins the remainder of the season on their way to early vacations and no playoff berths. 
historically, since 1990, when the playoffs expanded to 12 teams, only 11.6 percent of teams that started 0-2 have gone on to make the playoffs. 
so maybe 2013 is not the year of the panthers, browns or buccaneers. but that does not mean all hope for next year is lost already (yeah, that’s right, i’m already talk­ing about next year). 
a year after starting 0-2, Kansas city and new orleans have turned it around to start this season 2-0. okay, so maybe those two teams’ fortune can be attributed to new (or old, in the saints’ case) coaching regimes and tight week two wins, but 2-0 starts in the nfl are always welcome. 
The moral of the story is if you want to start 2-0 after starting 0-2, you need to get a new coach. sounds easy enough to do. 
as for the undefeated teams still left standing, four of them made the playoffs last year and one team — houston — is boasting back-to-back 2-0 starts (pop the champagne already!). while the Texans are clearly des­tined to win the lombardi Trophy, the most impres­sive 2-0 start may belong to miami. 
The dolphins have dis­patched of the lowly browns and then the colts, so it was not the toughest slate in the league (that would belong to san francisco, who has faced green bay and seattle), but both contests were on the road. 
miami owns a plus-three turnover margin and has held opponents to 90 rushing yards per game. last season, the dolphins finished minus-nine and allowed 108 yards per game on the ground. but don’t expect miami to go undefeated again — the dolphins play four playoff teams in their next six games. 
don’t expect any of these teams to go undefeated. don’t even expect all of them to make the playoffs. 
you should expect some to make the playoffs and some to miss them. so not really much has changed after two games. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

49ers lose Williams to injury for the season 
Associated Press 
sanTa clara, calif. — “i am not distracted from my appointed rounds and duties, simply put,” miles said. 
The san francisco 49ers are reeling in more ways than the obvious one: a rash of injuries to key players. 

while the nfc west champions sustained sev­eral injuries during sunday night’s 29-3 road defeat at the hands of division ri­val seattle, including the expected season-ending ankle injury for nose tackle ian williams, the 49ers’ offense is left with many questions after quarter­back colin Kaepernick’s worst performance yet as a pro. 
“They got nothing done. what were their numbers? what did anquan (boldin) do tonight?” seahawks coach pete carroll said afterward. “Their quarterback threw for (412) last week. he threw for 

(127) tonight.” 

The team had five turn­overs and no touchdowns for just the third time since 1979, and had more turnovers than points for the first time since former quarterback alex smith’s first start as the no. 1 over­all pick in 2005 — a 28-3 loss to the colts on oct. 9 that year. 
arizona and Tampa bay were the only teams last year to have five turnovers and no Tds. 

Jim harbaugh was asked monday whether he felt disbelief after taking such a lopsided loss a week after such an impressive season-opening victory against green bay. 
“not to stack up any, compare any other game in all the years that we’ve played or watched foot­ball,” harbaugh said. “we were there, we had some chances. There were some missed opportunities and some momentum plays that went against us. now, that’s on us as coaches, players. That’s also a credit to seattle.” 
williams is expected to be sidelined for the re­mainder of the season with a broken left ankle. he was undergoing surgery monday. 
“looks like he’s go­ing to be out for the year,” harbaugh said. “disappointing, and he’ll have surgery today.” 
williams was injured in the first quarter of his first career start. 
The third-year pro earned the job as the re­placement for the departed isaac sopoaga with a strong offseason and train­ing camp. 
williams was cut block by J.r. sweezy near the left knee during a 2-yard run by marshawn lynch and williams flew up upon impact. 
NCAA 

NCAA will not pay athletes 
Associated Press 
milwauKee — The struc­ture of the ncaa could look very different by this time next year as members try to resolve the growing disparity between big-money schools and smaller institutions. 
what won’t change, how­ever, is the amateur status of the players who make col­lege athletics a billion-dollar business. 

“one thing that sets the fun­damental tone is there’s very few members and, virtually no university president, that thinks it’s a good idea to con­vert student-athletes into paid employees. literally into pro­fessionals,” ncaa president 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for 14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/text John 281-635-2019;email john.dimpel@ raymondjames.com 
FOOTBALL RENTAL: Availability for all home games. Email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
PERSONAL 

Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults. 574-256-9836 
mark emmert said monday at marquette university. “Then you have something very different from collegiate athletics. one of the guiding principles (of the ncaa) has been that this is about stu­dents who play sports.” 
emmert and the ncaa have had a turbulent year, with money the source for most of the discontent. after heisman Trophy winner Johnny manziel was investigated for allegedly receiving money for autographs — he was cleared 
— Time magazine put him on the cover along with the head­line “it’s Time to pay college athletes.” oklahoma state is investigating whether rules were broken after a series of sports illustrated stories that alleged cash payments to players and academic misconduct. 
The ncaa is also facing an antitrust lawsuit from former players who believe they’re owed millions of dollars in compensation. 
“(There’s) enormous ten­sion right now that’s growing between the collegiate model and the commercial model,” said emmert, who spoke as part of marquette’s “on the issues” forum. “and, by the way, this is nothing new. This tension has been going on forever and ever. it has gotten greater now because the mag­nitude of dollars has gotten really, really large.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
“ W ag o n  W h e e l”  Celebrities Born on September 17:  
-Old  Crow  Medicine  Show  
Phil  Jackson   (1945)  
“Headed down south to the land of  Baz  Luhrmann  (1962)  
the pines/ I’m thumbin’ my way into  James  Marsden  (1973)  
North Caroline/ Starin’ up the road/  King  Charles  III  (879)  
And pray to God I see headlights/ I  Hank  Williams  (1923)  
made it down the coast in seventeen  Ken  Kesey  (1935)  
hours/ Pickin’ me a bouquet of dog- John Ritter (1948)  
wood flowers/ And I’m a hopin’ for  
Raleigh/ I can see my baby tonight/  What  happened  in  history:  
So rock me mama like a wagon wheel/  
Rock me mama anyway you feel/ Hey  Early on this day in 1862, Confederate  
mama rock me/ Rock me mama like  and Union troops in the Civil War  
the wind and the rain/ Rock me mama  fought at the Battle of Antietam, which  
like a south-bound train/ Hey mama  is  one  of  the  bloodiest  single-day  
rock me”  battles in all of American history.  



PGA TOUR 

Johnson rallies to win tourney 
Assocated Press 
laKe foresT, ill. — Zach Johnson is having a september to remember, and there’s still one very big week to go. 
in one tournament, he made a 25-foot birdie putt on his fi­nal hole to earn the last spot on the presidents cup team. in the next one, Johnson made a bunch of big putts in the final round of the rain-delayed bmw championship for a 6-under 65 for a two-shot victory over nick watney. 
next up? 
his win monday at conway farms gave Johnson the no. 4 seed going into Tour championship, giving him a clear shot at the fedex cup and its $10 million prize. 
“it’s hard to grasp the last two weeks of golf,” Johnson said. “it’s not like you have to win every week to win that fedex cup. you’ve just got to win at the right times, or play well at the right times. and i like the momentum i have for next week.” 
Johnson’s 10th career win came at the expense of Jim furyk, who endured another dose of final-round disappoint­ment. furyk, who had a one-shot lead, has failed to win the last six times he had at least a share of the lead going into the last round. he holed a 12-foot birdie putt at no. 10 to build a two-shot lead, but played the last eight holes in 2-over and wound up with a 71 to finish alone in third. 

furyk had to settle for slice of history friday as the sixth player in pga Tour history with a 59. only three players in that exclusive club went on to win — al geiberger is the only player to win when the 59 was not in the final round. 
“i don’t know if i used them all up on friday and knocked them all in or what, but i just wasn’t able to get the putts to go,” furyk said. 
Johnson wasn’t the only player who felt like a winner monday. 
luke donald, a member at conway farms, was no. 54 in the fedex cup and was on the verge of being left out of the top 30 players who advanced to the Tour championship. he ran off four straight birdies on the back nine, atoned for a bogey on no. 16 with a birdie on the 17th, and then saved par from a bunker on the 18th hole for a 66 to tie for fourth. That moved him up to no. 29 to get him into east lake. 
paid adverTisemenT 

SMC GOLF | o’brien naTional inviTaTional 
Belles take fifth in field of nine at O’Brien Invite 

By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 

saint mary’s was un­able to overcome the tough competition at the o’brien national invitational, fin­ishing fifth out of the nine teams playing at the warren golf course this weekend. 
The belles shot 333 as a team in the first round on sunday, leaving them in 7th place heading into day two. despite shooting five strokes worse with a 338 on monday, the belles managed to jump to fifth place due to the poor play of george fox university and southwestern university. although not disappointed by the perfor­mance, belles coach Kim moore believes her team has yet to hit their ceiling. 
“i felt their performance was okay … like they could have played better,” moore said. “it’s never good when you go up on the second day, especially with better condi­tions. but i thought they hit the ball pretty decent, it was more of a short game issue.” 
sunday’s rain did little to affect no. 4 depauw’s play, as they held off no. 17 olivet by a 316-327 mar­gin. both teams shot better monday, with olivet notch­ing a 320 and depauw best­ing them again with 310, to finish with 647 and 626, respectively, for the week­end. no. 11 centre and no. 3 washington university-st. louis also bested the belles’ score to come in third and fourth. despite being un­able to overcome these top teams, moore said compet­ing against them will prove to be a boon for her squad. 
“i think it’s always good to play against good competi­tion,” moore said. “it makes you play better, it allows you to focus a bit better, and shows what it takes to get to [a championship level].” 
belles sophomore golfer sammie averill embraced the challenge, as she played her best two rounds as a collegian.  averill shot an 81, setting a new personal record and tying the sec­ond best score posted by a belle this season. her next round, she shot an 80, which pushed averill into a tie for 11th in the individual stand­ings. moore said she was impressed with the young player’s performance. 
“[averill] struck the ball better, and was able to make way better contact,” moore said. “she drove the ball a lot better, and consequent­ly was able to reach more greens in regulation, and she made some good putts too. it was a great two rounds for her … a really good perfor­mance from her, and i’m re­ally happy for her.” 
senior captain paige pollak and junior Janice heffernan who finished tied for 16th (164) and 27th (172) respectively. pollak shot an 80 on the first day to lead the belles. rounding out the belles line up was senior cap­tain alexi bown in 30th with a 174 score, and freshman ali mahoney with a score of 180. 
after a strong start with an 81 in her first college round at the olivet invitational, mahoney has not shot be­low an 89 in her last three outings. moore said she believes the freshman has more than enough talent to get back on track. 
“[mahoney] just needs to be a little more patient, she’s new to this type of compe­tition,” moore said. “it just takes some time for her. she’s definitely a great golfer, and has enormous potential.” 
The belles will look to se­cure a victory in their show­down next Tuesday at albion college. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NFL | bengals 20, sTeelers 10 
bernard’s two Tds power bengals 
Associated Press 
cincinnaTi — an elusive rookie made all the difference by darting through the steelers’ defense. 
running back giovani bernard scored his first two nfl touchdowns, one of them on a short pass that he turned into a 27-yard score, and the cincinnati bengals beat 
pittsburgh 20-10 on  monday  
night, extending the  steelers’  
early misery.  

The second-round draft pick had a 7-yard touchdown run in the first half before turning a short pass from andy dalton into a third-quarter score — a preview of what the bengals (1-1) could become with a pass-catching threat out of the backfield. 
first-round pick Tyler eifert also had a big play, making a 61­yard catch that set up bernard’s touchdown run. 
The bengals piled up 407 yards on one of the nfl’s tough­est defenses, holding the ball for more than 35 minutes. 
pittsburgh fell to 0-2 for the first time since 2002, done in by another game of self-destruc­tion on offense. The steelers had two turnovers in scoring range and couldn’t hold the ball long enough to give their defense a breather, failing to get a first down on seven of their 12 possessions. 
it was a chance for the bengals to show they’ve sup­planted the steelers in the afc north. They beat pittsburgh 13­10 at heinz field last december to reach the playoffs, and now have moved ahead of them again with a rare monday night win. 
cincinnati is 10-20 in monday night games. 
The bengals put the ball in the dalton’s hands in the first half, letting him pass away while they all but abandoned the run against one of the nfl’s top defenses. dalton had an up-and-down game, finishing 25 of 45 for 280 yards. he was one at­tempt shy of career high. 
cincinnati’s rookies provided the big plays. 
eifert got open between cor­nerback ike Taylor and safety ryan clark for his 61-yard catch. bernard finished the long drive with a 7-yard run, his first touchdown in the nfl, for the early lead. 
The steelers needed to get their offense moving after a hor­rid opener. They ran for only 32 yards and ben roethlisberger was sacked five times during a 16-9 home loss to Tennessee. worse, the steelers lost pro bowl center maurkice pouncey for the rest of the season with a torn knee ligament. fernando velasco, signed a week earlier, started in his place monday. 
They weren’t significantly better in cincinnati. 
roethlisberger got pittsburgh’s offense moving in spurts. he completed all five of his passes on a touchdown drive that pulled the steelers into a 10-all tie at halftime, in­cluding completions of 19 and 43 yards to emmanuel sanders. 
shaun suisham kicked a 44­yard field goal, and the steelers had a chance to add to the lead in the first half. but another mistake — and they’ve had a lot of those already — provided the game’s first turning point. 
pinned at their 3-yard line after a punt, the steelers drove into scoring position. roethlisberger completed a 34-yard pass to tight end david paulson, who fumbled the ball as he was tackled. adam “pacman” Jones forced the fumble and recovered it at the cincinnati 13-yard line. 
another of roethlisberger’s passes went off Jerricho cotchery’s hands and was picked off at the bengals 13­yard line in the fourth quar­ter, essentially sealing it. roethlisberger finished 20 of 37 for 251 yards. 
The most intriguing ques­tion: could steeler-turned­bengal James harrison leave a mark on pittsburgh’s mess of an offense? 
The linebacker left pittsburgh after last season when they couldn’t agree on a restricted deal. The former nfl defensive player of the year took his scowl 300 miles down the ohio river to a team that’s trying to sup­plant the steelers in the afc north. 
roethlisberger kept a safe distance from harrison. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, laKeland 2; wheaTon 3, smc 0 
Saint Mary’s splits pair of nonconference matches 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 

The belles beat lakeland 3-2 in the first match of a noncon­ference doubleheader but lost 3-0 to wheaton on saturday at the wheaton Thunder Quad Tournament. 
saint mary’s (5-5, 3-1 miaa) defeated the muskies (5-4, 1-0 nacc) in five sets on the strength of 49 kills. Junior out­side hitter Kati schneider, junior middle hitter melanie Kuczek and sophomore outside hitter Katie hecklinski supplied much of the firepower for the belles. 
some of the biggest plays, however, came from junior mid­dle hitter Taylor etzell, belles coach Toni elyea said. 
“Taylor etzell was able to take her game to the next level this weekend,” elyea said. “This was something our coaching staff has been waiting for. she was able to get into a better offen­sive rhythm with her setter and come up with big plays when they were needed.” 
sophomore defensive special­ist angela bukur sparked the belles from the back row with her defense and serving. bukur pounded four service aces out of a total of nine for saint mary’s. 
“angela bukur also did a great job this weekend coming into matches and making an im­pact,” elyea said. “her serving and defense was something that we needed to get the win.” 
big plays, cooperation and focus secured the grueling, five-match win for the belles, elyea said. 
“it takes poise, control and the willingness to want to listen to your teammates and coaches,” elyea said. 
saint mary’s fell to the Thunder (8-4, 0-0 cciw) in their second match. wheaton took three straight sets, 25-20, 25-10 and 25-15. 
The belles did not find a con­sistent offensive rhythm, and wheaton produced 38 kills to saint mary’s 29 kills. The Thunder’s dynamic offense simply outplayed the belles de­fense, elyea said. 
“They were a very fast and dominant hitting team,” elyea said. “we did not play our best defensively or transition well. we will need to get better this week moving into our confer­ence matches.” 
The belles will have a 


paid adverTisemenT 
conference opportunity Tuesday against Trine. sophomore out­side hitter Taylor rabel leads the Thunder (3-6, 0-3 miaa) in kills, but Trine has several offensive threats. sophomore outside hit­ters lauren verkamp and megan verkamp provide the Thunder with options on offense. 
“Trine has a lot of offensive weapons,” elyea said. “we will need to serve better this Tuesday to get them out of system as much as possible. we expect a very tough match as always.” 
saint mary’s will take on Trine at home Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 



SMC CROSS COUNTRY | KnighT inviTaTional 
biek, beeler pace belles at calvin 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
saint mary’s headed to grand rapids, mich., on saturday for calvin college’s Knight invitational. in the crowded 26-team field, the belles man­aged to finish the day 11th, with an average time of 19:35 for the 5-kilometer race. 
facing over 300 runners, se­nior Jessica biek and freshman brittany beeler led the way for saint mary’s, coming in 40th and 45th, respectively. biek’s time of 19:03.9 was her personal best and continued her remark­able streak of first-place team finishes, which goes back to the first race last year. biek’s time was also the fifth-fastest 5-ki­lometer in school history. Just behind biek was beeler, who posted the belles’ sixth-fastest time ever at 19:05.5 in the first 5-kilometer of her career. 
belles coach Jackie bauters said she was pleased with the performances from biek and beeler, but believes they can get even stronger. 
“it was great to see them race together,” she said. “i think we all had hoped for them to be under 19:00 but it was a great starting point for the season. i hope that they are able to push each other in workouts and help develop their weaknesses.” 
sophomore allie danhof and junior samee chittenden paced each other to achieve personal records. with times of 19:39.8 and 19:42.6, danhoff and chittenden came in 77th and 82nd, respectively. also setting a new personal best was sophomore Katelyn dunn, whose time of 20:24.2 left her in 127th place. 

less than 20 seconds apart, freshmen Kaitlyn alessi, Kathryn marshall and colleen ogren, senior sarah Thompson, and junior emily getz rounded out the belles’ top 10 finishers with times of 20:44.9, 20:47.3, 20:59.8, 21:02.2 and 21:02.7, respectively. in a field of 316, these five saint mary’s runners managed to finish within 25 places of each other, from 157th to 182nd. 
bringing up the rear for the belles were senior colette curtis, freshman maggie pacana, junior erin Knauf, and sophomore holly higdon, with times of 21:20.3, 21:54.1, 22:07.0 and 22:24.6, respectively. all four placed in the 200s, with curtis finishing in 202nd and higdon coming in last for the belles at 260th. higdon’s time was a collegiate 5-kilometer personal best. 
bauters said the performance was something the team could build off as it moves forward in its season. 
“i’m really happy with the team’s performance,” she said. “it was a stacked field and fin­ishing 11th is something for us to be proud of. we beat sev­eral miaa teams — adrian, Kalamazoo, and Trine — that were there.” 
after taking next week off, the belles will travel to adrian for the miaa Jamboree on sept. 28. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 
MLB | padres 2, piraTes 0 

cashner throws one-hitter 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — andrew cashner carried a perfect game into the seventh inning and faced the minimum 27 batters in a one-hitter that sent the san diego padres past the pittsburgh pirates 2-0 on monday night. 
cashner (10-8) retired his first 18 batters before Jose Tabata grounded a clean single into right field leading off the sev­enth. Tabata was erased when andrew mccutchen grounded into an inning-ending dou­ble play, and the right-hander cruised the rest of the way for his first complete game in 31 career starts. 
cashner struck out seven, did not walk a batter and threw 97 pitches. he also scored from second on a single, sliding home with the second run of the game, moments before giving up Tabata’s hit. 

The pirates lost for the second time in eight games after enter­ing the day tied for first place in the nl central with the st. louis cardinals, who played later at colorado. 
Kyle blanks, ronny cedeno and rene rivera each had two hits as the padres won for the ninth time in 13 games. They are 17-3 in their last 20 at pnc park. 
a.J. burnett (8-11) took a shut­out into the seventh but wound up with the loss. he allowed two runs and six hits in 6 2-3 innings, with three walks and eight strikeouts. ad won each of burnett’s previous five home starts. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Position change doesn’t faze captain McHugh 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
senior captain andrea mchugh will do anything for her teammates — includ­ing switching to a completely new, unknown position late in her college career. 
mchugh made the change from outside hitter to libero during the off-season, filling an unexpected hole in the irish offense. 
“we had a player leave who was the libero,” mchugh said. “now i’m the libero. it’s defi­nitely different, but i see it as whatever i can do that’s best for the team.” 
The difference between her two positions is vast. as an outside hitter, mchugh fo­cused on scoring points and pushing the irish offense for­ward. now her primary role is to assist her teammates in whatever way she can. 
“There’s certain things i can and cannot do,” mchugh said. “i can’t hit, which is challenging. i wear a differ­ent colored jersey and now i’m always in the back row. but whatever’s best for the team, i’m going to do it.” 
mchugh said she missed scoring points, but her new role allows her to step back and contribute to her team­mates’ success in a more sub­tle way. 
The yorba linda, calif., native looked at several california schools before originally committing to boise state. late in her senior year she made the switch to notre dame, and she’s never looked back. 
“i had committed some­where else, and the whole coaching staff left,” mchugh said. “[irish coach robin davis] was the head coach there and came here as an assistant. he kind of brought me along. as soon as i came on campus i fell in love with it and knew it was the right place for me.” 
Though she has a fam­ily full of usc fans, mchugh said her family has complete­ly supported her decision to come to notre dame. 
“They weren’t upset at all,” mchugh said. “They were really excited for me and of course they still cheer for me.” 
along with learning her new position, mchugh said she’s focusing on spend­ing her senior year trying to be a leader for the younger players. 
“i really love being able to be a role model for the girls,” mchugh said. “i want to de­velop close relationships with them so they can grow and carry it on through their time here.” 
as her final season with the irish continues, mchugh said she’s trying to embrace every moment she has left. 
“all of the people you meet here are so special,” mchugh said. “being able to be a part of a university like notre dame is a huge blessing. i’m trying to cherish every mo­ment i have left.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 




Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
minute to claim the victory. 
although michigan is led by senior midfielder fabio pereira (one goal) and sophomore for­ward James murphy (two goals and one assist), the irish look to themselves, rather than their opponents in their preparation for game time, clark said. 
“michigan has good players, but no one specific we are look­ing out for,” clark said.  “we fo­cus on ourselves more than on the opposition.” 
despite the irish controlling the game against syracuse, out-shooting the orange 17-4 with a 10-1 margin in shots on goal, clark said there is room for im­provement against michigan. 
“i think there are a few things to work on,” clark said. “each game we take something that makes us a little better.” 

The irish look to continue the cohesive relationship between their offense and defense, clark said. 
“The whole team attacks when we attack, and the whole team defends when we defend,” clark said. 
clark said this cohesion was exhibited by senior defender andrew o’malley’s first-career goal against syracuse on friday. 
“everyone is involved,” clark said. “o’malley scored one of the goals, so everyone defends and all attack to score some goals.” 
The irish return to the field for a non-conference home contest against michigan on Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
McDaniel 
conTinued from page 16 

dame’s first touchdown of the game — a one-yard dive up the middle — to tie the game at 10, then made a touchdown-saving tack­le on the ensuing kickoff. mcdaniel also had one re­ception, a nearly-intercepted screen pass that he ripped out of a defender’s arms to keep notre dame’s first scor­ing drive alive. 
“he definitely impacted the game, no question. you saw how hard he runs,” Kelly said. “he was a huge part of what we did tonight.” 
mcdaniel’s relentless mentality shows up in ev­ery carry, but was especially evident in one effort near the end of the first half. with under a minute remaining, he rushed to the 3-yard-line before getting held up by the boilermaker defense. 
a would-be tackler sepa­rated mcdaniel’s helmet from his head, but the junior continued to stretch toward the goal line, taking anoth­er hit before going down. The second blow opened up a gash above his right ear that required four stitches at halftime, but mcdaniel nev­er missed a snap. 
“i just remember having a collision with somebody and my helmet popped off,” he said. “Then somebody else came in and hit me in the back of the head.” 
being able to get in the game at all was a blessing for mcdaniel, who ran just 26 times in his first two sea­sons, mostly in mop up duty. it seemed like the coppell, Texas, native may have had a hard time seeing the field this season with the irish carrying five quality run­ning backs — including fel­low juniors george atkinson and amir carlisle — into the year. but mcdaniel’s play 


Blackhawks 
conTinued from page 16 
compton, completed in the fall of 2011, and create a place specifically for the hockey program. 
blackhawks starting goal­ie corey crawford said on Thursday experiencing the tradition of notre dame and the facilities of compton were a bonus to getting away from chicago and the expectations. 
“so far we have just had a little tour of the facilities; they are great,” crawford said. “we went to watch [notre dame football] prac­tice. … it was cool to come check out the history of the school. There is a lot of it. so it was pretty impressive to see that.” 
bowman said he sees irish coach Jeff Jackson as one of the reasons for notre dame’s recent success and rise to the top of ncaa hockey. in 2005, notre dame hired Jackson as the head coach and with Jackson came a change to the hockey program. 
“i remember back when Jeff Jackson took over and that first year, they had a lot of success, and i think it was evident that he had a good ability to orchestrate players has earned him time to show what he can do out of the backfield, a chance he isn’t taking for granted. 
“it’s always a great oppor­tunity to really get in the game and just be able to let loose,” he said. “i just praise god for the opportunity.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
that maybe didn’t have as much talent,” bowman said. “and i think what’s hap­pened over the years here, which is nice to see, is that they’ve started to attract more talent to come in and now they’ve got the facility that can rival any facility in the country. Then they’re going to start attracting even more players, so that’s great to see.” 
neither the blackhawks nor irish are unfamiliar with high expectations, and like chicago, notre dame has to compete with the popular sport of football. 
“obviously, football is king here and it was certainly fun when i was here,” bowman said. “There were some great teams. i was able to watch all that transpire. lou holtz was the coach. it was a really fun time to be a student back then, as it is right now. 
“and it’s nice to see the hockey program coming up as well, because i think they’re on the right track here with the recruits they have and there’s more and more good players each year choosing notre dame, so i expect them to be a power­house for a number of years.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: nick Jonas, 21; alexis bledel, 32; amy poehler, 42; mickey 
Happy Birthday: Take action to ensure you are in the loop where you can influence the outcome. don’t look back or give in when you have a goal to reach and a timeline set. atti­tude will lead to success, so don’t dawdle when you should be sprinting. unleash intensity and passion, and your confidence will lead you to your destination. your numbers are 5, 8, 13, 23, 13, 31, 9. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a personal overhaul will boost your confidence. Take the initiative to be current and aware of new technology or skills that can help improve your status or position. efficiency, moderation and consistency will help you win support and favors and avoid complaints.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): weigh the pros and cons. don’t believe everything you hear. an overrated point of view will take you off course. get the facts and make an accurate assessment. rely on your ability and talent, not someone else’s. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Time spent doing a good job will convince others to give you more responsibility. sharing ideas will motivate you to move faster so you can begin projects that excite you. re-evaluate your situation, and you’ll find a way to fulfill your dreams. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): uncertainty is prevalent. Try not to get into a discussion with someone looking for a commitment. you are best to keep looking at your prospects and researching the pros and cons of what’s being offered and what’s expected of you.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let a disagreement explode into a serious emotional encoun­ter. use your ability to negotiate and find a solution. changes due to added responsibili­ties will help you repair damage done to your reputation if you step up and do what’s required. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): enjoy life, friends and whatever is happening in your com­munity. Taking a diverse approach to whatever you do will lead to good fortune and help you get past any obstacles you meet along the way. work at improving important relationships.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep life simple and avoid situations that have the potential to backfire. stick to the truth and show emotional and physical support to those you care about. how you are treated now will depend on what you have done in the past.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): distractions must be avoided. protect your interests and your lifestyle. an innovative approach to improving your personal life emotionally, physically and financially will bring excellent results. don’t allow anger or resentment to stand between you and your goals. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do what you can for others without expecting anything in return. paying it forward will result in life-altering changes that will help you improve your attitude and bring about positive options that can improve your financial and domestic situation. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put partnerships first. be precise regarding what you want. don’t leave anyone guessing, or an unexpected occurrence will leave you in an awkward position. focus on accomplishing the next to impossible and leave a good impression.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): emotional issues will arise if you let jealousy or possessive­ness take over. size up your situation based on what others do and say, and make an unex­pected change based on past experience to rectify any negativity you encounter.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): secrecy or meddling will stand between you and your goals. There are profits to be made and friendships that will develop if you are open, honest and willing to make the first move. a promise could lead to love. 


Birthday Baby: you are dependable and take control. you are informative and strong-willed. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaforTe 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

The little engine that Cam 
McDaniel’s grit and determination helped secure Notre Dame’s victory over the Boilermakers 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
cam mcdaniel stands a generous 5-foot-10, has nev­er started on anything but special teams for the irish and had a stitched-up head wound in the fourth quarter at purdue on saturday. 
but clinging to a seven-point lead, it was the slight, inexperienced and banged-up junior running back that irish coach brian Kelly tapped to close out notre dame’s second win of the season. 
mcdaniel answered the call, as the irish fed him the ball on 10 of 11 plays on the game’s final drive. That drive started with 7:22 left on the clock, the boilermakers still holding all three of their timeouts, and the irish just trying to pound the ball up the middle to finish the game. 
but even knowing exactly where the ball was going was not enough for the defense to stop mcdaniel. his 42 yards rushing on that drive nearly doubled notre dame’s total for the game, and his two key third-down pickups al­lowed the irish to run the game clock dry and secure the victory. 
“we were trying to run out the game. we were in our four-minute offense,” Kelly said saturday. “[mcdaniel] was the guy that we had de­cided was going to run the football for us at the end of the game. he was the hot hand at that time.” 
in addition to his clutch running down the stretch, mcdaniel was able to shine in nearly every facet of the game. he scored notre 
see mcdaniel PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame seeks to take down Wolverines 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
after their first acc victory, the no. 4 irish return to the field for a non-conference battle against michigan on Tuesday at alumni stadium. 
The irish (2-0-2, 1-0-1 acc) shut out then-no. 25 syracuse in a 3-0 victory on friday to se­cure their first acc win as a new member of the conference. 
irish coach bobby clark said the team was excited to clinch its first acc win as they head into the rest of the season. 
“we were happy with the win because we knew that it would be a tough game after having played syracuse last year in the quarterfinals of the [big east] tournament,” clark said. 
with the team’s first confer­ence win under its belt, the irish are ready to take on the wolverines (1-1-2, 0-0-0 big Ten) on Tuesday, in what clark said will be a competitive matchup. 
“They are a very good team,” clark said. “every year we play them it is a very challenging game.” 
last season, the irish beat the wolverines in overtime on a goal scored by departed forward ryan finley. The irish look to re­peat their victory from last year, especially because of the high 


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Irish senior defender and captain Andrew O’Malley pushes the ball forward during a 1-1 draw against No. 1 North Carolina on Sept. 8. 
expectations competing against michigan heads into the game michigan, clark said. after suffering a tough 1-0 loss 
“any time notre dame plays against marquette on friday. michigan in any sport there is The wolverines held the golden always a lot at stake,” clark said. eagles at bay throughout the “we have to get a little revenge game, but marquette pulled for last week’s football game.” through with a goal in the 90th 
while the irish enter the matchup coming off of a win, see soccer PAGE 14 
HOCKEY 

hawks visit shows nd ascent 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The parallels are there. 
four years ago, the irish were establishing them­selves as a top hockey school while overcoming the struggles of playing in the outdated Joyce center and living in the shadow of a famous football program. 
four years ago, the chicago blackhawks — one of the nhl’s “original six” 
— were an organization that had been struggling for decades in a huge market but was finally on the rise. 
last weekend, the blackhawks brought pro­fessional hockey, fans and attention to notre dame’s campus and to the irish hockey team and the compton family ice arena. 
in 2004, espn named the blackhawks the worst franchise in professional sports and until the 2009­10 season, the blackhawks endured a 49-year drought without the stanley cup. in 2009, stan bowman, a 1995 notre dame graduate, took over as general man­ager for the blackhawks, and in 2010, chicago be­came an nhl powerhouse. 
in the past four years, the blackhawks have won two stanley cups, including one last season, and established an avid fan base across the country. 
and like the blackhawks, the irish have been on the rise in recent years and are 
looking  to  solidify  their  
place at the top  of  colle­ 
giate hockey.  notre  dame  

reached the frozen four for the first time in school his­tory in 2008, and again in 2011. last season, the irish earned a no. 1 seed in the ncaa Tournament for the third time since 2007. 
bowman said wednesday at a press conference that a lot has changed with the irish since his time as a stu­dent at notre dame in the early 1990s. 
“i think at that time, the varsity hockey team was going through transi­tion,” bowman said. “They weren’t having a lot of suc­cess back then and you were in a facility over at the old Joyce center that was noth­ing like this. so i think it’s come an awful long way.” 
The recent success helped propel notre dame to build 
see blacKhawKs PAGE 14 




