The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 93 | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND granted access to New York Times 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
Free online access to the new york Times is now available to notre dame students through the college readership program, an initiative funded by notre dame’s student government. students were informed they would begin to have access to this service in a Feb. 12 email announcement. 
The college readership program, which came to campus in 2005, provides 300 print cop­ies each of the new york Times and usa Today, along with a smaller number of the south bend Tribune to select locations on the notre dame campus. maxwell brown, director of the department of academic aaffairs for student government, said his department worked with repre­sentatives from the Times this year to extend the program to in­clude the online access. 
“essentially, the new york Times is now offering this [on­line] program to academic insti­tutions due to a change on their end of the subscription,” brown said. “we subscribe to the college readership program, and be­cause we have 300 copies sub­scribed to, we now get 300 online seats per day.” 
students can create an account on the Times website using their nd.edu email address, which will get them an online “seat” that lasts 24 hours. brown said while the seat expires after 24 hours, the ac­cess is renewed simply by logging on again with the same password, and so the access is constant for all intents and purposes. 
“The most important part is that you get this 24 hour online access, and the seats refresh con­stantly so as long as there aren’t 300 people using it at once, there 
see access PAGE 4 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


singer returns to smc 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
choosing a career path while in college is difficult, but before 2007 saint mary’s alumna lindsey anderson could make that deci­sion she needed to choose between her twin passions, biology and music. 
anderson said she began her time at the college believing she would one day become a neuro­surgeon with her biology degree. instead, she is now a mezzo-sopra­no opera singer with a master’s de­gree in music (vocal performance) from the cleveland institute of 
see opera PAGE 4 


Senior places in international competition 
internship during summer the needs of mothers. research, i was able to pinpoint worked on the project dur-

By MEL FLANAGAN 

news writer 2012 at Fisher-price to help her “i knew i wanted to de-a specific design direction tar-ing the second half of the 
design her product. sign something for a child’s geting the top themes i saw semester. 
senior breanna stachowski The international early eating experience,” develop.” “The research phase took placed third in an interna-housewares association stachowski said. “after inter-stachowski said she entered the longest,” stachowski said. tional competition for her student design competition viewing several moms, read-the design contest at the end of “i had to spend a lot of time design of an infant high-awarded stachowski third ing a ton of amazon reviews the fall semester as a require-benchmarking and getting an chair.  stachowski utilized place for her design of an infant and mom blogs and even do-ment for one of her industrial knowledge gained from her highchair that incorporated ing some more observational design courses. she said she see design PAGE 5 

registration opens for bookstore basketball 
for this year’s tournament are to register more teams and to improve the [tournament] at­mosphere to draw more spec­tators to the games. 
“our big goal is to eclipse that 800 number on teams. we realized that a lot of stu­dents don’t play. The faculty and staff might not even know they can play,” lynch said. “besides the teams, we just want to make sure everyone has a fun, successful tourna­ment. one of our big goals is, for the championship game, to make it more of a festival atmosphere.” 
lynch is looking to add food 
see baskeTball PAGE 4 


By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
registration is now open for notre dame’s bookstore basketball tournament, the largest five-on-five outdoor basketball tournament in the world. 
The not-for-profit tourna­ment is in its 41st year and has grown from an initial 40 teams to more than 700 teams. according to the tournament’s website, it is the largest extra­curricular event on campus and open to all notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross students, faculty and staff. 
senior matt lynch, tourna­ment president, noted much planning goes into organizing such a large event. 
“we have an eight-person executive team…each per­son has a different role. one person is making sure that all of our apparel gets in, an­other person takes care of the marketing side, and we have around 36 other commission­ers that help us do the game-by-game stuff,” lynch said. “i’ll be doing the bracket of all the teams in a couple weeks, talking to Jumpball which is our charity that we give all our money to, and any other logistical things like reserving court. i oversee our group, and our group does all of that.” 
lynch said the main goals 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is the tallest thing you have ever climbed? 

Lacy Cochran 
senior 
off campus 
“mary’s peak in oregon.” 
Linda Scheiber 
senior 
pangborn hall 


Sam Bellafiore 
sophomore 
stanford hall 
“The second branch of the tree in front of laFun.” 
Naomi Igboanugo 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“i don’t know. i’ll just say the eiffel Tower.” 
Margot Morris 
senior 
mcglinn hall 
“Zugspitze mountain in germany.” 


Audrey Eaton 
sophomore 
welsh Family hall 
“at 5-foot-2, just getting up to my loft bed is a challenge.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jill barwick sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: bridget Feeney megan Finneran sarah swiderski mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemake Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Engineering Seminar Laughter Yoga Sewing Circle Capital Campaign World Rare Diseases 
Jodi lo caroline schurz 
Geddes Hall St. Liam Hall Snite Museum of Art Launch Day 
3:30p.m.- 4:30 p.m. 1 p.m.- 2 p.m. 10 a.m.- 7:30 p.m. O’Laughlin Auditorium Geddes Hall Presentation by Part of the Wellness Artist Marie Watt 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 11 a.m.- 4 p.m. 
Corrections 

Professor Xueying Wednesdays series. hosts a day-long Features a reception, Lectures and panel 
The observer regards itself as Deng. All are welcome. sewing circle. video and Lindsey discussions. a professional publication and 
Anderson ‘07 speaking. 
strives for the highest standards 
Four:7 Catholic Bengal Bouts “Band of Sisters” “Shadows of the Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fellowship Quarterfinals DeBartolo Performing Reef” Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall Joyce Center Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:30p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m. Arts Center 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Student-led Catholic The me n’s boxing Documentary by Mary 7:30 p.m. Celebration of the 
we can correct our error. 

fellowship. tournament continues. Fishman (ND ‘82). Play by Anton Juan. Eucharist. 


Heritage Tours explore history, roots of SMC 
can learn about past women became saint mary’s college 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 

associate saint mary’s editor at the college who made a in the late 1920’s after the difference while they were construction of lemans hall, 
in between preparing for here and after they gradu-has always been “more than exams and writing papers, ated,” she said. “it is also an just a finishing school.” students at saint mary’s have opportunity to see how far “From the very begin-the opportunity this week the college has come over ning, we’ve tried to educate to explore the history of the decades and improved the whole woman,” she said. the college during heritage over the years.” “we try to incorporate the week at the college. wiedower said the college fine arts, sciences, math and 
The week is an annual event was first founded more than language. sponsored by the student 150 years ago when four sis-mother augusta served government association ters traveled from lemans, as the first headmistress (sga) and is designed to cel­
of saint mary’s academy. ebrate and educate students 
her parents loved the land about the rich traditions at 
so much, they moved to the 
“What Fr. Sorin 

area from ohio to be with the week, students, faculty saint mary’s. Throughout 
had envisioned, their daughter. according to and staff are treated to vari-
Mother Angela wiedower, the avenue, one ous presentations, dinners 
of the college’s most iconic 
built. Together, the 
features, resulted from the 
and giveaways. 
two of them built 

work of mother augusta’s by sr. veronique wiedower, 
The heritage Tours, led 

up Saint Mary’s stepfather. vice president of mission at 
and Notre Dame.” wiedower said she likes to the college and sister of the 
start the tours on the front 
Sr. Veronique Wiedower 
steps of holy cross hall be-
holy cross since 1973 con-
vice president of mission 

cause of the special view it to learn about their cam­tinually attract belles ready 
grants the participants. pus.  students visit multiple “From the front porch of halls, rooms and buildings France to notre dame, holy cross, you can see the on campus and are given a indiana. They ended up in avenue,” she said. “some of history lesson as they walk bertrand, mich. where they the sycamore trees that line throughout campus. remained until 1855 when that road are over 150 years 
senior and student body they moved to the college’s old. They’re one of our lega­president maureen parsons current home, across the cies from the early days.” statement that we strive for mother angela and Fr. said the tours are a great way street from the university of in addition to the avenue, aesthetic appreciation,” she sorin worked together to de­for students to get in touch notre dame. the college is also home to said. “That’s why on campus velop the two schools over with the roots of their educa-“when we first came many courtyards and gar-we try to incorporate beauty the years, in a legacy that tion and develop a deeper ap-here, we were a big farm,” dens. wiedower said these in a lot of ways.” wiedower said still lives on. preciation of the four years wiedower said. “There was are prevalent throughout in the early years of saint “what Fr. sorin had envi­they spend at the college. nothing here.” the campus because of the mary’s academy, wiedower sioned, mother angela built,” 
“we offer heritage week wiedower said saint college’s mission statement. said about half of the sisters she said. “Together, the two Tours so current students mary’s academy, which “it says in our mission of the holy cross left their of them built up saint mary’s education commitments and notre dame.” paid adverTisemenT 
in notre dame, indiana to wiedower said the focus of answer president abraham the college has evolved over lincoln’s call to religious the years in order to adapt to women to act as nurses dur-the changes of the times. she ing the civil war. said in the early history of 
“we were on the ship saint mary’s, the college was ‘red rover,’ which was the focused on building institu­traveling hospital on the tions. however, the sisters of mississippi river,” she said. the holy cross focus more on “after the war, we received global issues. a letter from the u.s. navy “we wan to instill values in saying we were the first na-people, like about the earth val nurses.” and climate crisis, non-vio­
wiedower said the college lence and solidarity with the has always prioritized the poor,” she said. “now, it’s not maintenance of a strong re-about adding buildings but lationship to notre dame. building people of values. we 
“back then, we saw the want students to leave saint campuses as one big cam-mary’s prepared to make a pus,” she said. “over here, difference and understand we had women. across the what is going on in the world street, we had men.” and what are the needs of it.” 
These connections and heritage Tours are avail-ties between the two schools able throughout the rest of came about as a result of the the week at 11 a.m., 2 p.m. work of Fr. sorin, founder and 4 p.m. To experience a of notre dame, and mother tour or other events through­angela, the directress of the out the week, visit the sga college from 1853 to 1870 Facebook page and sign up and again from 1886 until via the google document. her death in 1887. wiedower said she also 
“as a young girl, mother offers tours other times angela was visiting her throughout the year, in-brother, who was a student cluding during the upcom­at notre dame,” wiedower ing Junior mom’s weekend. said. “Fr. sorin spoke to her To check availability and and in the week she was here, find out about scheduling she decided to stay as a sister a tour at other times during of the holy cross. she was the year, call the office of american-born, with lots of mission. political and military con­nections and an american Contact Bridget Feeney at education.” bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

anderson said. “i just got this op-one. 
to be interested in. 
Access Opera 

era bug and i would go to moreau “i met some of my lifelong op­“They’ll have a greater under­
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
standing of what’s going on in the 

and check out almost all of the op-eratic friends there. i think it was is a seat for you,” brown said. world around them and this will 
music and a bachelor’s degree in eras that we had and just listen to a very good decision for me to The current user data shows hopefully help them have more 
music from saint mary’s. them. i loved them. i listen to op-go there. i had a great teacher,” that 300 seats seems to be the ide-informed discussions with others 
“i sang for the latter half of my era every morning while drinking anderson said. “we had what was al number for the student body, on campus.” 
senior year of high school in the my coffee. it just excites me.” called ‘opera workshop’ which providing enough spots for inter-brown said this initiative 
choir for fun. i really couldn’t read after graduation, anderson had prepares you for the business of ested students without too many fits into thesmission of the 
music, but my parents always a lot of catching up to do since she opera for music majors like how left empty each day, he said. department of academic affairn 
played classical music, so it was only had about three and a half to get auditions in the real world, students get “locked out” of the to connect with students and 
in my ear, i guess. i always had a years of vocal study under her belt getting an agent, business stuff access if more than 300 are using make it easy for them to learn and 
healthy appreciation for the clas-at the time of graduation. like that.” it at any given time. acquire information. 
sical realm of music,” anderson “The amount of vocal study i after receiving her master’s de­“The first day, we used as many “we’re always looking for 
said. “i was always a science geek, had up to that point was really gree, anderson continued on to seats as we had, but we think that ways to get to students… and we 
so that’s what i had planned to do. not much compared to the people train as a young artist with opera was just a first push,” brown said. think it’s really important that 
i had a plan. i think i was in fourth western reserve and attended “we haven’t gotten many reports people have this access to cur-
grade when i said i wanted to be 
such training programs as bay of people getting locked out, so it rent events,” brown said. “That’s 
a neurosurgeon when i grew up.” 
“You have to love area summer opera Theater in 
looks like we have enough seats why we have the collegiate 
upon arriving at the college, 
san Francisco and the american 
the art that you 

without buying more than we readership program. now, we’re 
anderson took the pre-med route, 
institute of musical studies in 
create and if 

need.” excited that students will have the 
a choice that she said she thor­
graz, austria. student body president brett access they need from all kinds of 
oughly enjoyed at first. soon after, 
you love it, other “more recently, i have worked 
rocheleau said the project’s goal different [electronic] devices.” 
anderson said she found herself 
people will too with opera Fayetteville and 
was to make it easier for students The data that student govern-
wanting to be a part of the choir at 
opera north,” anderson said. “i 
because they will 

to stay informed and updated on ment collects about the con-the college. 
have been gaining bigger roles 
sense the joy that 

current events, especially given sumption of the newspapers 
“i had wanted to try out for the 
even more recently. Just this past the widespread use of electronic across campus shows that they-
saint mary’s choir since i had 
you put into it.” two years i have been singing 
devices on campus. community values the print ac-
been in my high school’s choir,” 
leading lady roles. it takes time, 
Lindsey Anderson 

“The online access just allows ces, and every week nearly all 300 
anderson said. “it ended up be-
with the type of voice i have, to 
mezzo-soprano opera singer 

students to use different media copies of the newspaper are used, 
ing a fit after i auditioned. i credit 
mature.” than the options we’ve worked he said. 
dr. nancy menk for turning me to as for any advice she has for with in the past with the college “This initiative was a direct re-
music. she encouraged me and who have been singing since they the current music majors at saint readership program,” rocheleau sponse to student desires,” brown 
told me that i should be a music were 12,” anderson said. “i was mary’s, anderson stresses that said. “moving forward in the digi-said. “The demand has always 
major. without her, i don’t think auditioning for graduate schools singing is a personal art form and tal age, this will help connect the been there for the readership pro-
that i’d be an opera singer today. and it is so different for apply-students must always be passion-campus more.” gram in general. This is just a way 
i am so thankful for her.” ing. you don’t go and take tests ate about their singing to succeed. he said student government to expand that.” 
anderson tried being a double and write essays, you go and sing “you have to love the art that plans to pay attention to student students interested in using 
major between biology and music songs and audition at all of these you create and if you love it, other usage patterns for the online this access can create an account 
at first, however, she found it dif-schools. i was still in my major-people will  too because they will access. at nytimes.com with their notre 
ficult once her interests became stage fright phase, but i was very sense the joy that you put into it,” “i think it will be interesting to dame email address. brown said 
more music-centered rather than well prepared.” anderson said. “The biggest thing see how many students will use anyone with problems accessing 
pre-med, she said. anderson received many ac-is just to love what you do. if you this online access,” rocheleau the online content should contact 
“it did not work. it was because ceptance letters to graduate love it and you enjoy it, that’s all said. “at any time, they can log student government for help. 
i was trying to balance the two schools, however, she ended up that matters. on with their net id and get in for 
and was giving all of the energy choosing to study at the cleveland 24 hour, even if they end up just Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski 
and work to music which told me institute of music, a choice she Contact Jillian Barwick at reading one article they happen at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
that was what i wanted to do,” said she believes was the right jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT “it was an unbelievable ex-
basketball 
perience, kind of hard to put 
conTinued From page 1 
in words right away. Just to 

see how happy and excited the and entertainment to the kids are just to have a basket-games in hopes of attracting ball and dribble around and bigger crowds this year. play,” lynch said. “it’s dif­
“last year we estimated that ferent around here. everyone we had about 400 people come here cares more about win-out to watch the finals, but we ning and trophies and all definitely think we can have that, which is great, but down more,” he said. all proceeds there just the fact that they from the tournament ben-were there and doing some­efit the Jumpball basketball thing was just amazing to see. programme, which partnered it’s one of those really unique, with bookstore basketball in once-in-a-lifetime things.” 2002 to raise money for youth lynch said above all he is basketball camps in Jamaica. excited to see the tourna­
“we made it a not-for-profit ment unfold over the next tournament where we give all two months. come game-the money to Jumpball. They time, fans can see him out on run camps throughout the the courts with his own team, whole country of Jamaica for the Firm. The other members the youth, completely free of of the executive staff are each charge for them. basketball is on their own teams as well, he a really up-and-coming sport said down in Jamaica,” lynch “To be honest, i just like said. “The biggest [camp] is being out there. our execu­in kingston, and every year, tive staff is out there every two bookstore basketball rep-day, from the beginning of resentatives go down there.” the tournament to the end,” 
last year, lynch said he lynch said. had a profoundly moving ex­perience when he visited the Contact Nicole McAlee at Jumpball camp in kingston. nmcalee@nd.edu 




design 
conTinued From page 1 

idea of what parents were look­ing for when they were buying highchairs.” 
although the idea for the highchair came easily, stachowski said she struggled the most when developing a form for the highchair. 
she said her professor, ann marie conrado, was instru­mental in the process. 
“i actually ended up staying time to submit it,” she said. “i never imagined i’d place after something like that.” 
stachowski will present her idea at the international housewares association show during the first week in march. 
senior sunoh daniel choe received an honorable men­tion for his design of a towel rack, bathroom-organizer combination. 
he said his idea his and his roommates’ need for more drying space encouraged him to create his product. 
“i chose to design an elegant, hassle-free towel rack exten­sion and bathroom organizer,” choe said.  “i was motivated to design something for tow­els initially because my room­mate and i had the problem of not having enough space to dry our towels in the bathroom we shared. we had to resort to us­ing work-around alternatives to dry our towels and i thought there should be an easier way to extend a pre-existing towel rack without having to drill any new holes into an apart­ment we only rent.” 
choe said his design eventu­ally shifted towards a primar­ily female target demographic. 
“after a bunch of interviews and short surveys, i quickly found out most guys don’t care about how well their towels dry and women were frequent­ly dealing with the problem of storing their curling irons, straighteners and towels in their bathrooms,” choe said. 
choe said the weeks he spent working on their respective projects with stachowski after the 2012 fall semester ended were crucial to the successful design of their products. 
“The extra hours that [stachowski] and i put in eventually paid off as we both received recognition,” choe said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
russian adoptee found dead 
Associated Press 
dallas — russian au­thorities have blamed “in­human treatment” for the death of a 3-year-old boy ad­opted by an american fam­ily, but Texas officials say they are still investigating claims that the child was abused before his death. 
russia’s investigative committee said monday that it had questions about the death of an adoptee authorities identified as maxim kuzmin. The com­mittee is the country’s top investigative agency. 
Texas child protective services spokesman patrick crimmins confirmed the agency had received a re­port on Jan. 21 of the death of a 3-year-old named max shatto, and that the ector county sheriff’s office in west Texas was investigating. 
crimmins said cps had received allegations of physical abuse and neglect, but had not determined whether those allegations were true. sgt. gary duesler, spokesman for the ector county sheriff’s office, said no arrests have been made and authorities are waiting for autopsy results. 
an obituary for max shatto published Jan. 26 by the midland reporter-Telegram says he was born on Jan. 9, 2010, in the town of pskov, near russia’s west­ern border with estonia. The boy lived with a family in gardendale, about 350 miles west of dallas, before his death on Jan. 21, accord­ing to the obituary. 
The boy’s listed adoptive parents, alan and laura shatto, did not return a phone message monday. 
The death comes weeks after russia announced it was banning all american adoptions in retaliation for a new u.s. law targeting alleged russian human-rights violators. The ban also reflects lingering re­sentment over the 60,000 russian children adopted by americans in the past two decades, of which at least 19 have died. 
russian Foreign ministry official konstantin dolgov said in a statement that the boy’s death was “yet another case of inhuman treatment of a russian child adopted by american parents.” 

the week after school ended to finish and change some aspects of the process book before i submitted mostly be­cause i didn’t have time during the semester to put as much attention towards this being in 21 credit hours and working a freelance job,” she said. 
designing a product is an extremely lengthy project, stachowski, said. The senior was in the same industrial design course during the last academic year, and said she 
paid adverTisemenT 
nearly did not take it in the fall because of time constraints. 
“my professor convinced me to join last minute and i am glad she did,” she said. 
stachowski was notified of her third-place prize at the end of January, and she said she was shocked when she re­ceived the phone call. 
“i lost part of my file the night before it was due for the com­petition deadline, and threw together everything i could to make up for what i lost just in 



paid adverTisemenT 

innocent until proven guilty? 
Cole Schietinger 
sports writer 

irony has a remarkable way of occur­ring regularly in everyday life. most re­cently, an unfortunate nike ad campaign starring the amputated olympic hero, oscar pistorius, has showcased such irony with the tagline, “i am the bullet in the chamber.” pistorius is in the aftermath of a confusing tragedy, in which he shot his girlfriend. it is not yet clear whether the shooting was intentional or not. in the middle of this confusing tragedy, during what could possibly be an incredibly dif­ficult grieving period, pistorius, like so many stars before him, has been forced to suffer through consistent criticism. 
From even before the 1919 black sox scandal, when shoeless Joe Jackson went from a baseball great to a redacted foot­note in the game’s storied history, stars have gone from deities to villains seem­ingly overnight. such criticism is standard for athletes and celebrities, but is it right? 
in a nation which celebrates its “inno­cent until proven guilty” moniker, mass media and the public have consistently rushed to judge and attack the same megastars that they have built up. 
some might ask why these average people are built up in the first place. isn’t this what they wanted? For certain peo­ple, fame must seem incredible, but these people often disregard the negatives: Few people to relate to, even fewer friends, widespread judgement. most celebrities just have a gift and an astounding work ethic. They love the job, but don’t neces­sarily appreciate the side effects of fame. 
moreover, these celebrities are not mor­ally different from average people. in fact, the competitiveness and ego that builds up great athletes often drags them down morally. Tiger woods and michael Jordan, for example, are two of the greatest ath­letes ever, but both have cheated on their wives. They’re ultra-successful, ultra-competitive people who society has made out to be unbeatable. 
oscar pistorius is not on michael Jordan’s level, but he was celebrated as an olympic hero. pistorius worked hard to be an olympian, and with no precedent to compete on the main stage, probably had no expectations of fame. The popularity that companies such as nike gave him has turned from a blessing to a curse. not only should pistorius not be criticized for something that he hasn’t even been convicted of, but the moral standard for his behavior that he is being measured against shouldn’t exist. 
Adam Newman 
scientia potentia est 

The role of the federal government’s involvement with green technology has faced intense scrutiny in recent years due to the bankruptcy of solyndra, a manufacturer of solar panels that re­ceived a federal loan for $500 million. 
in his book “hot, Flat and crowded,” new york Times columnist Thomas Friedman explains the three trends that will make green technology a thriving industry in the future. “hot” refers to unusually high global increase in tem­perature that most scientists believe is due to the mass usage of fossil fuels. “Flat” refers to the increased globaliza­tion and technological advancement that has lifted hundreds of millions into the global middle class, increasing the demand for energy. “crowded” refers to the major increase in the global popula­tion, from roughly seven billion today to 9 billion in 2050, with most growth coming from developing countries. 
The new combination of hot, flat and crowded in the world will lead to more people requiring more energy, leading to a major strain on natural resources and a massive increase in the outputs that lead to global warming. To prevent this, america needs a “green revolu­tion,” where it invests in, produces and buys energy efficient products that uti­lize clean sources of power. working to­ward setting the conditions for a “green revolution” makes business sense and is a moral imperative. 
similar to the expansion of the rail­road industry or computer industry, government investment in green tech­nology is critical, which is why conser­vatives are wrong about solyndra. The government should not cease its invest­ment in green technology because one business failed. not all government investments will lead to profitable com­panies, but government investment can help lead to scientific breakthroughs that allow the private sector to bring products to scale (the internet is the best example). 
liberals are mistaken that govern­ment investment alone can deliver the green revolution. government investment can help lower the costs of research and development and help drive early stage innovation, but it does not have the capability to create green products or bring them to scale. only the private sector can accomplish this. however, the private sector cur­rently does not invest much in energy efficiency because of the high costs of energy efficient products relative to non-efficient products. 
if the price of dirty fuels could some­how be raised, then the private sector would have an incentive to invest more into green products because consumers would demand them in higher num­bers. This pressure would increase in­novation and help drive down the cost of green products, making them easier for consumers to purchase. 
a carbon tax can help deliver this sce­nario. by raising the price of dirty fuels, companies and individuals will have an incentive to save energy and purchase energy efficient products. innovators and businsess will then have an incen­tive to invest and spend time devising ways to increase energy efficiency using clean sources of energy. venture capi­talists and investment bankers with no concerns about the planet, climate change, clean air or future prosperity, only caring about money, will invest in green technology. This creates the best case scenario: The government setting the conditions of the marketplace and the private sector responding with in­creased investment and innovation. but this can only happen if green energy becomes more profitable, which can only happen if the price of dirty fuels is raised. 
The most important green innova­tions probably will not come from wall street, a factory in detroit, or a govern­ment office in washington, but garages (where the personal computer was cre­ated) and universities (where Facebook was created). however, without the right economic conditions these life changing innovations may never have happened, depriving the world of per­haps two of the most important techno­logical advancements ever. imagining that the “green Facebook” and “green apple” (as Friedman calls them) don’t exist today because of the current mar­ket conditions is horrifying. 
There is both a business case and a moral imperative for a green revolution led by america in a world that is hot, flat and crowded. if america can’t embrace it, then, as Friedman said, we will find ourselves buying less oil from saudi arabia and more hybrids and solar pan­els from china. so as both democrats and republicans scuttle over the bank­ruptcy of solyndra, both miss lessons that could help make america the lead­er of the most important industry of the 21st century. 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EdItOrIAl CArtOOn 

QuOtE Of thE dAy 
“if opportunity doesn’t knock, build a door.” 
Milton Berle 

American television actor and comedian 

Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Carpooling confessions 
The GreenMan 
ask the greenman 

To my weary, weatherworn readers, 
i have a tiny confession, well maybe it’s a bit bigger than that . . . i have a pretty massive friend-crush on those of you i saw cross-country skiing to class the other day. it was bold, it was daring, it was amusing and it was sustainable. please let me know next time you do such green, adventurous things. 
also, unsurprisingly, your skiing got me think­ing about transportation. i realize mid-winter isn’t the best time to lecture about taking advantage of the beautiful weather and walking whenever and wherever you can. however, winter is the perfect time for carpooling. if you live off-campus, clean­ing off your car every morning is time-intensive and just plain miserable. as is finally feeling the heat warming your frozen fingers only to park in stadium lot five seconds later. if you carpool, this happens only once or twice a week! pretty dece. 
other benefits? if you were thinking of sleep­ing through that 9:30 a.m., you feel too guilty when you know your friend is waiting outside for you. also, studebagel stops seem 10 times more legitimate. 
regardless of whether you’re living off- or on-campus, carpooling also eliminates the need for standing in the cold to pump gas.even if i’m only outside to stick the pump in my tank, it always seems 10 times colder than it actually is. or at least i imagine it would be . . . i don’t drive. carpooling also curbs your spending habits. For instance, when you go to Target, you realize from the slightly judgmental (but loving) looks on your friends’ faces that purchasing a box of 100 fruit snacks is completely unnecessary. 
what could be better than these mini memory making, roadtrip-esque carpooling experiences? 
The only thing i can think of is Transpo. no cleaning off your car, minimal shivering and sav­ing some cents for your next thrift shop sweater. also, wouldn’t it just be awesome to be on a first name basis with a Transpo bus driver? charlie’s my favorite. 
enough of my rant.  all i ask is that you give car­pooling another chance. 
#carpoolingiscozy, 
The greenman 

Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at ask­thegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
uWIrE 
Sarah Cueva 
daily Trojan 

national security threats often invoke images of bombs, guns and invading military forces, but one of the most pressing threats to the united states involves none of these things. instead, powers hostile to the united states and its interests have quietly launched domestic cyberterrorism attacks against u.s. banks and, most recently, against popular american news agencies. such subtle acts of espionage, and the likelihood that they will only become more damaging, translates into a dire need for congress to quickly pass legislation that beefs up cybersecurity defenses. 
The issue of cybersecurity came to the forefront of national discourse last wednesday, when The new york Times revealed that they had fallen vic­tim to a four-month-long network security breach that was reported to have originated in china. The initial breach occurred around oct. 25, 2012, the publication date of an article reporting on the family of the country’s prime minister. This disturbing news was followed by revelations that The wall street Journal, bloomberg news and The washington post experienced similar issues within their own networks. 
The fact that unfriendly powers are carrying out such breaches against institutions of free speech is unsettling enough, but the threats extend beyond mere invasions of privacy. large attacks were lev­eled in september against the online systems of Jp morgan chase, bank of america, wells Fargo, u.s. bank and pnc bank, resulting in at least daylong denials of service. 
such attacks indicate that much more is at stake, with some especially problematic areas being not only economic institutions and tech firms but also power grids for nuclear power plants and water pu­rification systems. “nation-state attackers will tar­get critical infrastructure networks such as power grids at an unprecedented scale in 2013 . . . These types of attacks could grow more sophisticated, and the slippery slope could lead to the loss of hu­man life,” said chiranjeev bordoloi, ceo of security company Top patch. 
according to a cnn interview with James lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the center for strategic and international studies, at least 12 of the world’s largest military powers are working to construct complicated cyberwarfare systems. 
it would be no stretch to say that the united states has the most to lose at the hands of these powers if our government continues to put cyberse­curity on the backburner. 
Though the media’s constant bombardment of the public with images of war-ravaged afghanistan would suggest otherwise, the events in a remote desert nation do not necessarily pose a greater threat to national security than seemingly less dan­gerous cyberattacks. The recent infiltrations should remind our legislators of this and prompt them to not only engage in serious discussion with other nations such as china, but also quickly pass legisla­tion that would re-allocate substantial defense re­sources to building a stronger cyberdefense system. 
chairman of the house intelligence committee rep. mike rogers (r-mich.) spoke to the imme­diacy of the situation in an interview with politico: “Foreign cyberattackers are targeting every aspect of the american economy every day and congress needs to act with urgency to protect our national security and our economy,” he said. 
with the defense budget and looming seques­tration cuts up for debate, congress needs to take advantage of an opportunity for bipartisan coop­eration. instead of continuing partisan bickering on troop withdrawals and timetables, lawmakers must work to pass serious legislation that will provide the tools necessary to combat lurking cyberthreats. 
attacks on public utilities and power plants can create not only inconvenient but dangerous situ­ations for everyday americans, and the crash of a bank’s computer system can wreak economic hav­oc. in addition, some of the nation’s most sensitive intelligence information could be discretely col­lected and used against us in unexpected attacks. 
aggression in cyberspace is unfortunately a prod­uct of our times, truly illustrating both the magic and terror that modern technology can bring. as such, our leaders must act so that we are prepared for whatever comes our way. Technological capaci­ties will only continue to grow as time passes, and as nations unfriendly to the united states develop economically and politically, the possibility of more serious attacks will only increase. constructing a stronger defense in u.s. cyberspace is of paramount importance, and waiting longer could only harm the nation — the time for action is now. 
This column originally ran in the Feb. 6 edition of Daily Trojan, serving  the University of South California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

i just thought [the book] was so inspirational, surprised. i was stunned really when i first 
By COURTNEY COX 

and i started researching the history of nuns heard of Theresa kane [addressing] the pope in 
in this country and was shocked at how much 1979 [representing the leadership conference 
mary Fishman is an alumna of notre dame who they’ve done to build this country in so many of women religious (lcwr)]. i just can’t even recently released “band of sisters,” a film about a ways. i thought i’d like to do something to change imagine anyone doing that today, and she did it variety of catholic nuns in america and how the the stereotype of sisters, in general and in popular extremely well. That was a big surprise to me, but sisters strive for social justice. The observer was culture. once i started reading the books that sisters were able to speak with Fishman before the screen-i felt that their story was a model for the rest writing in the ‘70s and ‘80s and still are [writing] ing of her film in the debartolo performing arts of us. it’s not just sisters that can be doing this about who they are, i knew what i was going to center on Thursday. here are some excerpts from kind of work, but they’ve found a way to really find. their conversation: do it as a community and to support each other it was a surprise to me, since i had contact with 
while they’re doing this great social justice work. sisters since high school, but in high school i re-What did you study while at notre dame? i thought there were a lot of things [about the sis-ally wasn’t aware of what they were doing. i studied architecture. i was an archie, and i ters] that many other people can learn from. had a second major in French. this film is coming out at a very oppor­
you had such a wide variety of individuals tune moment. did you begin your re­that’s incredible, how did you then get in this film — how did you choose whom search before the papal investigation of into filmmaking? to highlight? lCWr? 
scene editor 

well if notre dame had had a big film pro-some of it was happenstance or luck as far, as oh no, i began it well before. i started really gram the way it does now, that’s probably what i my meeting certain people or living near certain heavily researching and applying for funding in would’ve majored in at that time, because it was people. 2004. something i kind of always – well not always – but For example, pat and Joann, who are the main since high school i got the bug for movies. characters, live three blocks from me and we met that’s unbelievable — so you just came to 
but anyway, i ended up majoring in architec-on our parish peace and Justice committee. and this at the perfect moment? ture, and i really loved that and worked at that for i met them at a point when they were just at the yeah, i guess it was just meant to be. but even 20 years. beginning of their journey. then there was controversy and conflict with the 
architecture is kind of an up-and-down profes-The other people, like nancy sylvester, is a sister vatican. it’s been ongoing since the ‘60s so this, sion, especially when you’re young. i finally had of the monroe immaculate heart of mary. when i feel, is just the latest in a long unhappy chain a job where i wasn’t worried about losing it and i i told [a friend of mine] that i was focusing on so-of events where the vatican just doesn’t seem to was probably comfortable enough in my profes-cial justice then they said, ‘well you have to talk understand or want to support what the catholic sion when i thought, ‘maybe i can start thinking to nancy.’ sisters are doing and i think that’s a real shame. about becoming a filmmaker.’ nancy brought together people who became 
i started taking some classes at night. i took advisors to me, and we had some conference calls What do you think we, as notre dame stu­them at columbia college and i ended up taking and they helped me figure out about the scope of dents, should take away from this film? some at this co-op called chicago Filmmakers. the film and suggested other [possible contacts]. i think that notre dame is kind of the perfect 
The first time i was actually holding a piece of when you’re trying to decide about the indi-place for catholics to come together and be able film and did a few edits — where you tape it to-vidual stories, it’s what fits in with everything else to talk about the issues in the film. i think that gether and you hand crank it through this thing that we have, and what we have the best footage notre dame is kind of unique … it seems to me 
— something just came over me that said, ‘This of. it’s a balancing thing — trying to have people that notre dame is unique in that it runs the gam­is it.’ i had no doubt that this is what i want to do. in [the film] that are interesting in [and of] them-ut from people who are really involved in social 
selves and in the combination of women [in the justice and quite liberal to people who are more how did you come across the topic of your film.] conservative ... people who are more focused on film and decide to make it the subject of i’ve heard comments from the nuns them-the official doctrine of the church and more in your film? selves, and from people of other faiths even, that line with the last two popes and their teachings. 
i was looking for a subject, and my goal for any they really see themselves in these women – they i think at notre dame, people manage to be civ­kind of film would be something that would have recognize them. and not just that they recognize il about [religious topics] and listen to each other a deeper message. in general, i want to do things them as catholic sisters, but they also recognize so i would hope that the film will give students a that are uplifting and something that might con-something in [the sisters] that’s also in their own chance to discuss some of those issues. tribute to the common good. faith tradition or in their life experience. i think i think what we tried to do with the film was not 
my sister gave me this book called “aging with we found people that really serve the topic well. say what people should think or believe, but just grace,” which is about catholic sisters who are to give them something to think about. involved in an alzheimer’s study. The book was you chose controversial political themes about this study, but it also brought the sisters in a lot of ways (immigration reform and “band of sisters” is playing Thursday, February alive as real people. i had been educated by sisters labor issues) — were you surprised at how 21 at dpac at 7:00 p.m. mary Fishman will be in grammar school and high school, but i never involved sisters were in these issues or is present for a Q&a session after the screening. really had thought of them as having lives apart this something you knew going into it? from just being the teacher in the classroom. when i first started doing research i was Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

notre dame alumna and filmmaker mary Fishman has lifted the veil on american nuns in her new docu­mentary “band of sisters.” 
The film follows a wide variety of religious women throughout the country, but is largely centered in the midwest. 
The movie presents the women as they navigate the changing culture of american catholicism. 
one of the opening scenes focuses on sr. max, a mid­dle-aged nun who hosts her own podcast called “ask sister” — a show about her life in a religious community and how she discerned her calling. 
The movie shows sr. max responding to viewers who described being excited by what they felt was their call­ing in life, but also scared about what it might mean for their future. 
sr. max’s podcast was a very plain example of how re­ligious life is adapting to a changing world. other sisters also recalled the day they joined the convent as the film progressed. 
one nun in particular remembered her parents writ­ing her letters, which she discovered in her room when they left her that night. she elected not to read them be­cause she feared she would be too tempted to leave the convent altogether. she waited 25 years before reading the letters. 
sisters in the mid-20th century, like many of the sis­ters at the dawn of american democracy, often joined the convent because it was one of the only ways women saw the possibility of serving the less fortunate in the world. 
sisters today still maintain that commitment, but Fishman’s documentary highlights how they often have been criticized for their outspoken commitment to their faith. 
pat murphy and Joann persch are sisters based in chicago who spend much of their time dedicated to the service of illegal immigrants who come through the area. 
on the first Friday of each month they gather outside a prison in broadview, ill. where immigrants are being deported. They pray the rosary for the benefit of those being evicted from the country. 
other sisters were shown working in affordable hous­ing projects in the chicago area that allow residents the stability necessary to succeed in other facets of their lives. 
sr. carol coston was the first director of network, a group of lay and religious lobbyists who work on behalf of catholic causes in washington, d.c. she received the presidential medal of honor for her work. 
as head of the leadership of catholic women religious, sr. Theresa kane spoke in front of the pope when he visited d.c. in 1979 and advocated for the full ordination of women within the church, a bold move for any woman within the church to make. 
sr. kathleen desautels has been arrested at least six times, by her own count, for her outspoken objection to the continued training of latin american soldiers by american soldiers at the school of the americas. The accounts of her time at the school of the americas is a touching testament to her commitment to fighting hu­man rights violations. 
There were even other accounts from sisters who spend their lives working the land, in commitment to environmental justice. 
all of these varied commitments from sisters in america stemmed from the doctrine brought forth from the second vatican council. when the pope discerned that the catholic community was called to reexamine the church, rome told the catholic sisters to change and many of them took [the injunction] very seriously. wherever they saw a need in american society, they ad­dressed it. 
but at the end of the film we see the results this effort hath wrought for the sisters. congregations in america (as well as the leadership conference of women religious) in general have been under investigation for years because of their perceived liberal virtues. 
The film served as a charming survey of american sis­ters and the varied work they do to serve the whole of american citizens. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

LAUREN MATICH | The Observer 

maura Jones, president of lewis hall, was spotted near who passes us by smiles, and that’s what dot and i think lm: Finish this sentence “looking my best makes me main building sporting a stylish ensemble as she took a fashion is about — making people smile,” Jones said. feel… “ break from her executive duties to stroll down the quad 
mJ: ready to take on the day! with a friend. maura showed off a sweet cynthia rowley 
lm: accessory you can’t live without? double-button navy eyelet blazer with three-quarter 
mJ: other than dot, a pair of white-gold hoop ear-length sleeves. she kept the blazer casual by pairing it 
rings and the claddagh ring my boyfriend gave me for with a simple, white lace-embellished racer-back tank, 
christmas. american eagle blue jeans with simple monochrome 
lm: if you were going to dinner with the president, details on the back pockets and camel-colored and 
what would you wear? leather steve madden ballet flats, which are a staple in 
mJ: probably something classic but understated. it her closet. 
wouldn’t be too flashy, but really elegant. This outfit is completed by its fine details. Jones point­
lm: what’s your go-to outfit for looking put-together? ed out a thick, silver-banded ring that used to belong to 
mJ: i love a pair of dark-wash jeans and a cardigan out her grandmother. Jones explained, “To her it had no sen-Chatting with the Icon of my rainbow collection. timental value, but she wore it every day, and that gives lm: Tell me about one part of your outfit. lm: who is someone you consider your style icon? special meaning when i wear it.” mJ: The designer is cynthia rowley. it was a recent mJ: if i could look like Jackie o. every day, i would, but i 
her silver necklace, bracelet, and coordinating ear-present from my mom to help me build a professional also love a boho-chic look when i’m feeling artistic. rings are bedecked with moon and star charms, set with wardrobe for my summer internship. i think it is also a multicolored beads. she inherited the set from her aunt, great everyday piece though. Contact Lauren Matich at lmatich@nd.edu 



SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


sPOrts AuthOrIty 

hard to compare nba’s generations 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
on sunday, michael Jordan turned 50 years old. To commemorate his birthday, espn and other media sources spent the day and the days leading up to sunday replaying Jordan’s greatest plays and recalling his greatness. 
while i had seen these highlights countless times and heard his remarkable career recounted before by others, the celebration helped me realize that i don’t really know exactly how great a player michael Jordan was. 
back in high school, i read the book “playing for keeps: michael Jordan and the world he made,” a biog­raphy outlining Jordan’s life and career. however, i was only five years old when the he won his sixth champi­onship. so despite reading the biography, watching a few old playoff games and catching reruns of his top plays, i still can’t fully grasp Jordan’s greatness because i, along with most people un­der the age of 25, didn’t get to watch the mJ dominate night in and night out. 
instead, we — referring to the group without the good fortune of watching air Jordan during his playing days — have to rely on high­lights, statistics and second­hand accounts to appreciate him and the other greats of yesteryear. unfortunately, these sources don’t capture the big picture, as they are unable to convey the state of game and the zeitgeist in those years. Thus it becomes hard for the next generation to accurately evaluate the historic careers of players like Jordan. 
For example, statistics often have difficulties ex­pressing great individual performances and how those performances com­pare to other eras. similarly, the media and its analysts/ experts are prone to forget the greatness of the past players by exaggerating the players of the present. This happens in all sports, but applies especially to bas­ketball where the stars are fewer, but arguably more prominent. 
Take lebron’s recent in­credible stretch of games. The media and fans ques­tioned if such a streak — six straight games of 30 points and a shooting percentage of better than 60 percent — has occurred in the past. but michael wilbon, in a recent column on espn, points out that the answer is easy: Jordan in 1989. wilbon, who is surprisingly calm on pa­per compared to on televi­sion, explains that people have forgotten the true greatness of Jordan. because lebron has been nearly un­stoppable, wilbon writes that “people are forgetting just how mJ terrorized every player and thrilled every fan for years.” 
wilbon also points out that there are a few other greats, like wilt chamberlain, lost in the history books. but just like i can’t accurately compare michael Jordan with lebron James, neither can wilbon fully evaluate chamberlain, as he was only a toddler during wilt’s historic 1968 season. 
so am i suggesting that we cease comparing the greatest players of different generations? of course not, because that’s one thing that makes sports so enjoy­able. looking back in the record books and sizing up the current stars against those of the past usually makes for great debates. plus, these conversations allow us to reminisce about the former stars and their amazing feats. but i do be­lieve comparisons across generations need to be taken at face value and absolutes should be rare. 
i, along with most col-lege-aged kids, don’t have the authority to compare lebron or kobe with mJ. on the one hand, it’s a frus­trating fact that i did not experience the greatness of michael Jordan in his time. but on the other hand, it’s the nature of sports and the continuous cycle of great players in sports history. we can all share in the memory of lebron’s performance in game six at the garden last June. but when parents or Tv broadcasters bring up michael Jordan’s “Flu game” in 1997, those of us younger than 30 can’t totally under­stand the significance of the game. 
i guess i will just have to wait until i turn 50 years old (a scary thought) until i can accurately compare the newest stars with those from my younger years. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 
nbA 

Lakers owner Buss passes away 
Associated Press 

Jerry buss, the los angeles lakers’ playboy owner who shepherded the nba team to 10 championships from the showtime dynasty of the 1980s to the kobe bryant era, died monday. he was 80. 
he died at cedars-sinai medical center in los angeles, said bob steiner, his assistant. 
buss had been hospitalized for most of the past 18 months while undergoing cancer treatment, but the immedi­ate cause of death was kidney failure, steiner said. with his condition worsening in recent weeks, several prominent for­mer lakers visited buss to say goodbye. 
“The nba has lost a vision­ary owner whose influence on our league is incalculable and will be felt for decades to come,” nba commissioner david stern said. “more im­portantly, we have lost a dear and valued friend.” 
under  buss’  leadership  
since  1979,  the  lakers  be­ 
came  southern  california’s  

most beloved sports franchise and a worldwide extension of hollywood glamour. buss acquired, nurtured and be­friended a staggering array of talented players and bas­ketball minds during his hall of Fame tenure, from magic Johnson and kareem abdul-Jabbar to bryant, shaquille o’neal and dwight howard. 
“he was a great man and an incredible friend,” Johnson tweeted. 
Few owners in sports history can approach buss’ accom­plishments with the lakers, who made the nba finals 16 times during his nearly 34 years in charge, winning 10 titles between 1980 and 2010. with 1,786 victories, the lakers easily are the nba’s winningest franchise since he bought the club, which is now run largely by Jim buss and Jeanie buss, two of his six children. 
“we not only have lost our cherished father, but a beloved 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

man of our community and a person respected by the world basketball community,” the buss family said in a statement issued by the lakers. 
“it was our father’s often-stated desire and expectation that the lakers remain in the buss family. The lakers have been our lives as well, and we will honor his wish and do ev­erything in our power to con­tinue his unparalleled legacy.” 
buss always referred to the lakers as his extended fam­ily, and his players rewarded his fanlike excitement with devotion, friendship and two hands full of championship rings. working with front-of­fice executives Jerry west, bill sharman and mitch kupchak, buss spent lavishly to win his titles despite lacking a huge personal fortune, often run­ning the nba’s highest payroll while also paying high-profile coaches pat riley and phil Jackson. 
always an innovative busi­nessman, buss paid for the lakers through both their wild success and his own groundbreaking moves to raise revenue. he co-founded a basic-cable sports television network and sold the naming rights to the Forum at times when both now-standard strategies were unusual, fur­ther justifying his induction to the pro basketball hall of Fame in 2010. 
buss was a “cornerstone of the los angeles sports com­munity and his name will al­ways be synonymous with his beloved lakers,” los angeles mayor antonio villaraigosa said. “it was through his stewardship that the lakers brought ‘showtime’ basket­ball and numerous champi­onship rings to this great city. Today we mourn the loss and celebrate the life of a man who helped shape the modern landscape of sports in l.a.” 
Johnson and fellow hall of Famers abdul-Jabbar and worthy formed lifelong bonds with buss during the lakers’ run to five titles in nine years in the 1980s, when the lakers earned a reputation as basket­ball’s most exciting team with their flamboyant showtime style. 
The buzz extended through­out the Forum, where buss used the laker girls, a brass band and promotions to keep los angeles fans interested in all four quarters of their games. courtside seats, priced at $15 when he bought the lakers, became the hottest tickets in hollywood — and they still are, with fixture Jack nicholson and many other ce­lebrities attending every home game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Sweet Child O’ Mine” Oh sweet child o’ mine By Guns N’ Roses Oh sweet love of mine 
She’s got a smile that it seems to me She’s got eyes of the bluest skies Reminds me of childhood memories As if they thought of rain Where everything was as I hate to look into those eyes fresh as the bright blue sky And see an ounce of pain Now and then when I see her face Her hair reminds me She takes me away of a warm safe place to that special place Where as a child I’d hide And if I stared too long And pray for the thunder and the rain I’d probably break down and cry To quietly pass me by 


Club sPOrts 

Synchronized swimming closes season 
Sailing travels to Texas, New Orleans; Tennis competes in first program event 
Special to The Observer 
The irish placed second over the weekend at their last com­petition of the season, the Tri­states synchronized skating championships in bowling green, ohio. 
smaller than most of the team’s competitions this year, the notre dame skaters competed against only two other teams in their di­vision. miami (ohio) bested the irish to take home first place, while michigan state placed third. 
it was an emotional perfor­mance for those graduating, especially for graduate student amanda rahie, who has been part of the team for all of her five years at notre dame. 
although the competitive sea­son is over, the team will still pre­pare for several performances, and the skaters are excited to partici­pate in these events. 
sailing 
on Feb. 2, notre dame made the long trip to compete at the harris kempner regatta, hosted by Texas a&m university at galveston. The team consisted of freshman Jack schneider, sophomore elisabeth o’Toole, sophomore pat power and freshman christian metzler, and was the only squad from out­side the lone star state to sail. The all-day competition proved to be worth the trip..The team had plenty of fun and the conditions were nearly perfect. and at the end of the day, the irish finished high enough to take second overall. 
a week later, the irish headed south again to compete, this time to new orleans for the nelson rolsch regatta. The regatta, host­ed by Tulane at the southern yacht club on lake ponchartrain, took place on a cloudy, breezy day, but notre dame still found success. The team, made up of senior kevin condit, junior peter roehmholdt, sophomore claire lupo and soph­omore becky Jegier, finished the first day of sailing in fourth place out of a field of 11 teams. sunday’s competition was cancelled due to inclement weather, however, so the team made the trip back to south bend with a fourth place trophy. 
tennis 
This past weekend, notre dame competed in the usTa midwest Tennis on-campus sectionals in madison, wis., at the nielson Tennis center.  Teams were placed into eight pools for the start of the event.  notre dame was placed in a pool with lorrain county cc, iupui, and northwestern.  The team’s players that attended the event were sophomore ed broun, sophomore casey leary, senior stefan hogle, senior ben galloway, freshman chris Frye, senior anna 
paid adverTisemenT 
wanzek and freshman Janelle wanzek. 
in the first round of play Friday, notre dame took on bowling green. The wanzek sisters took the women’s doubles, 6-2, and hogle and galloway took the men’s doubles 6-1.  leary won the men’s singles 6-1, and anna wanzek won the women’s singles 6-1.  Finally, Janelle wanzek and ed broun de­feated bowling green 6-2 in mixed doubles to give notre dame a 30-8 victory over bowling green. 
Friday afternoon, the irish moved onto the second round against wisconsin-madison. in this round, Janelle and anna wanzek won the women’s doubles 6-3, but leary and broun dropped the men’s doubles in a tiebreaker, 5-6(4).  anna wanzek lost the women’s singles in another tight match 5-6(3).  Frye had a tough 2-6 loss in the men’s singles.  To finish the round off, Janelle wanzek and galloway came out fighting but dropped the mixed doubles 4-6. The team worked hard in some great matches, but had a frustrat­ing 27-22 game loss to the no. 1 seed. 
later that night, notre dame faced michigan Tech. Frye and broun took the doubles match to earn a win at 6-0. The wanzeks also had a great match and took the women’s doubles 6-4.  Janelle wanzek had a tight singles match and managed to come out with a 6-4 win. galloway had an inter­esting lefty versus lefty match and won 6-1. The mixed doubles was the final match of the night, and hogle and anna wanzek played to earn a 6-2 win.  This ended the night with a 30-11 game win over michigan Tech. 
notre dame fought to second place in its pool to conclude the first day of play.  The team was excited after a great first day and began to plan for the initial rounds of the gold bracket play that would start saturday.  The gold bracket was where the top two seeds from each pool were placed to have a chance at attending the usTa on-campus nationals. 
saturday morning, gold bracket play began and notre dame went into a match against northwestern after the wildcats had upset ohio state the previous day. in doubles, Team wanzek lost a close match in a tiebreaker 6-5(2) and broun and leary also had a difficult loss 6-5(4). galloway and anna wanzek played the singles and they both dropped their sets in frustrating 6-2 losses.  The team was in a tight situation as the mixed doubles went on because at this point notre dame was down by 10 games.  hogle and Janelle wanzek went out ready for a chal­lenge in an attempt to win the set and go into overtime to even the game score.  The mixed doubles had some great points but eventu­ally dropped the set 6-2.  The 30-16 
mlb 
game loss to northwestern was unfortunate for the team because it meant that notre dame was in the back draw of the bracket with no opportunity to play for a chance at nationals. 
despite the disappointing de­feat, the irish rose up and went on to play the university of michigan b team.  notre dame went into the match ready to play hard, but things didn’t end well.  in the wom­en’s doubles, the Fighting wanzeks dropped the set 6-0.  in the men’s doubles, broun and leary grabbed a close set to win 6-5(2).  notre dame also lost both the singles sets, 6-4, despite anna wanzek and hogle’s efforts to hold on in the no-ad deuce format.  To end the round, Janelle wanzek and Frye were de­feated 6-0 in the mixed doubles. michigan defeated notre dame 29-14 to move on to the next round of play, but the irish stayed strong. 
overall, the team played well and fought through all the week­end’s matches, but was unable to qualify for nationals after their 2-3 weekend.  sunday morning, the team packed up and made their way back to south bend with even more motivation to practice and work on their games in prepara­tion for upcoming meets and tour­naments.  The trip was a success as a first time event for notre dame club tennis. The team felt it was a great experience and appreci­ated the chance to become part of the usTa midwest section’s on-campus league. 

soriano returns to cubs despite fans 
Associated Press 
mesa, ariz. — when he took over as cubs manager last season, dale sveum knew the public’s perception — and one shared by many in baseball — of alfonso soriano wasn’t good. 
in fact, it was awful. 
he’s overpaid. he’s selfish. he’s unmotivated. he’s a de­fensive nightmare. 
sveum heard it all, but re­fused to listen. he wanted to see for himself, and wound up stunned that soriano turned out to be dependable and driv­en — a model player and team leader. 
“i’d seen him on the other side of the fence. i was com­pletely blown away by the kind of person he is and the work ethic he puts in,” sveum said monday after the cubs worked out under another chamber-of-commerce day of sunshine at Fitch park, their spring training complex. “i rank him as one of the top five people i’ve ever been around in the game.” 
Take that, all you cubs fans who have booed soriano, cursed him and wished he had never stepped inside wrigley Field’s ivy-covered walls. 
while the beloved cubbies slogged through a deplorable 101-loss season in 2012, failing to show much, if any, progress under a revamped front office led by president Theo epstein, soriano soared. 
The 36-year-old batted .262 with 32 homers and a career-high 108 rbis. but beyond his offensive production, soriano made significant improve­ments on defense, a turn­around he credits to hours working with cubs coach dave mckay, perhaps the first big league instructor to refine soriano’s skillset. 
soriano played in 151 games, but at one point it ap­peared his days with the cubs were over. 



The observer | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd WOmEn’s tEnnIs 

Juniors form strong pair 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
during her time at notre dame, junior britney sanders has been partnered with sever­al teammates for doubles pair­ings, but somehow she always seems to come back to fellow junior Julie sabacinski. 
The pair started to work to­gether when they were 15 years old playing in the junior league. when they were 16, sanders and sabacinski partnered and began playing doubles togeth­er. Together the pair won super nationals 18s in arizona and won gold, silver and bronze balls in the competition. 
when they came to notre dame, the friends were not originally paired together. sanders played with then-senior kristen rafael and sabacinski partnered with current senior chrissie mcgaffigan during their fresh­men years. 
in their sophomore cam­paigns, the longtime partners were given a chance to play together at the collegiate level as they entered the tail end of their seasons. The pair went 7-1 at no. 2 doubles, including two wins against doubles pairs from top-20 teams. 
sanders said she has seen vast improvement in her dou­bles game in the time they’ve been playing together. 
“i think we have improved significantly since we first started,” sanders said. “we know each other’s strengths and weaknesses. i think our different game styles comple­ment each other very well.” 
The pair was ranked no 36 in the iTa preseason rankings during the 2012 fall season. They went 8-2 in doubles, in­cluding a 4-0 record at the hoosier classic. 

despite the success they have achieved through­out their years as partners, sanders said no moment stood out to her. 
“i just like playing doubles with her all the time,” sanders said. “it’s always fun compet­ing with your best friend on the court.” 
Though sanders and sabacinski dropped their first doubles match of the 2013 season sunday against northwestern, they will have more opportunities to be on the court together. 
sanders said if given a choice between playing singles or doubles, she would opt for the camaraderie of partner play. 
“doubles and singles are two completely different things,” sanders said. “i like playing both for different reasons, but if i had to choose i would pick doubles. i like having someone there beside me on the court.” 
The irish are next in action Friday when they host baylor at 5 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
smC sWImmInG 

Belles finish conference contest 
By RICHARD HIDY 
spors writer 
after four months of training and competing, saint mary’s ended its season with strong individual performances in the marathon-like miaa cham­
pionships  last  wednesday  
through saturday.  
The  four-day  conference  

tournament included multiple races that can weigh heav­ily on the energy levels of the competitors, but the belles stayed together with their small, tight-knit group, even though they finished last out of the seven teams in the miaa conference. 
The tournament, held in Jenison, mich., was won by calvin college with a score of 802.5, followed by hope college and kalamazoo college at 
764.5 points and 569.5 points, respectively. saint mary’s tal­lied 224.5 points after notable performances by senior ellie watson, freshman carolyn neville and sophomore anna nolan. 
“The team held strong all the way through,” belles coach mark benishek said. “we are one of the smallest teams out of all the competitors here so we feel like we were able to perform at a high level.” 
watson earned seventh place in her second session of the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 2:17.03, after recording the event’s third fastest time in saint mary’s history of 2:14.56 earlier in the day. 
neville and nolan finished ninth and 14th, respectively, in the 100-yard freestyle, and neville’s time of 54.72 was less than three-tenths of a sec­ond away from breaking the school’s record for that event. 
Freshman andrea canacci became the first belle diver in three years to earn points in the miaa championships, fin­ishing 14th in the 1-meter div­ing event. 
“ninety percent of our team 
“The team held strong all the way through ... We are one of the smallest teams out of all the competitors here so we feel like we were able to perform at a high level.” 
Mark Benishek 
Belles coach 
made it back to these finals which was great,” benishek said. “with our quality times throughout the long weekend, we were able to stay motivated and get amped up heading into the next round of events.” 
not only was the meet a great swimming experience for young athletes like neville and nolan, among others, but it was also a memorable way to cap off the collegiate careers of seniors such as watson and liz palmer. 
The program returns nine swimmers to its roster next season after this year’s team featured seven freshmen. 
Contact Richard Hidy  at rhidy@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


nCAA 

NCAA investigates Miami case 


Associated Press 
indianapolis — The ncaa’s home-grown scandal is hitting hard at headquarters. 
president mark emmert an­nounced monday that Julie roe lach, the vice president of en­forcement, is leaving and will soon be replaced by private at­torney Jonathan duncan after her role in the botched investiga­tion at the university of miami. he even suggested the ncaa’s board of directors and executive committee could hold him ac­countable for this mess, and it’s not over yet. 
after releasing a 55-page re­port detailing how the ncaa violated its own practices and policies by paying the attorney for convicted ponzi-schemer nevin shapiro thousands of dollars to help with the miami case, emmert spent more than an hour doing damage control on the latest black eye to hit the organization. 
“i think the damage is, first of all, for those people who were already skeptical or cynics, this feeds into their cynicism,” emmert told The associated press after a conference call with other reporters. “For those of us who have great confidence in all the people around this building, it’s painful to have to deal with an issue that fails to live up to our standards and expectations. i think that’s the challenge for all of us that work here.” 
The report, written by attorney kenneth l. wainstein, details how now-former ncaa investi­gator ameen najjar appeared to manipulate the process by hiring maria elena perez, shapiro’s at­torney, to help the ncaa obtain 


paid adverTisemenT 
information from a bankruptcy proceeding — information that would have otherwise been un­available. shapiro has said that it provided improper benefits to dozens of football and basketball players at miami. 
according to the report, lach obtained clearance for paying perez, but the ncaa’s legal staff nixed the idea. najjar then con­tacted perez himself with what the report describes as a “way around” the road block. 
The report said najjar, who left the ncaa last spring, assured lach and Tom hosty, the man­aging director of enforcement, that the legal staff had approved the deal when it had not. najjar did not return phone messages monday night. 
The ncaa didn’t figure out what happened, the report said, until perez billed the ncaa $57,115 for hours in august. by that time, the ncaa had already paid out approximately $10,500 to perez in expenses. 
wainstein called lach coop­erative and said nothing the ex­ternal investigators found called her integrity into question. lach did not immediately respond to a message left by The associated press on her cellphone. 
“The actions we are taking to­day are clearly consistent with holding people accountable for their behavior,” emmert said. “if the executive committee be­lieves some disciplinary action needs to be taken toward me, then i’m sure they will.” 
The incident has been an em­barrassing blow to the ncaa, which is fending off a number of lawsuits and is the target of sharp criticism in some quar­ters for the penalties it handed to penn state following the Jerry sandusky child sex-abuse scan­dal. and wainstein will now embark on the second part of the investigation, which could include looking into previous ncaa infractions cases and sug­gesting ways to prevent another rogue case. 
“i don’t have any specific rec­ommendations now,” wainstein said. “but as president emmert said, i’m a former prosecutor and i’ve managed prosecutions and investigations for the better part of 20 years, so i’m going to suggest some ideas that i import from that context.” 
emmert already has two new ideas. 
he suggested putting togeth­er a committee to hear what amounts to a preliminary case before moving forward, and perhaps adding an ombudsman to the ncaa staff. emmert later said he’s not sure how that would work though he acknowledged an ombudsman would need some power. 
There are more immediate concerns, too. 


The observer | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Panthers 
conTinued From page 16 
bigger in the first half, but the irish defense managed to contain the panthers on the of­fensive end. pittsburgh shot just 
34.8 percent from the field on the night. 
“well when we started 1-for­19, it could have been [down] triple figures,” brey said. “i love our toughness defensively be­cause we weren’t very good of­fensively — and they were good defensively, give them credit. They’ve got a very good defen­sive team. but our defense let us hang around a little bit and we got at least a spurt before the end of the half. you felt like you had a shot.” 
notre dame rebounded with a much-needed road win after an ugly 71-54 loss at providence on saturday, a loss in which the irish struggled mightily in the second half. 
“For [the coaches] it was a matter of, ‘let’s teach. let’s help us offensively.’ of course it sure didn’t look that way the first couple minutes, but it was, ‘let’s challenge them to be physical,’” brey said. “They were probably embarrassed that they didn’t have more energy and fight saturday against providence. it’s a good group of guys we have, i thought they themselves moti­vated themselves to really com­pete again tonight.” 
The irish now face a nearly weeklong layoff before entering the homestretch of their confer­ence schedule: just two home and two away games. notre dame currently sits at no. 5 in the conference, with three teams — syracuse, georgetown and marquette — deadlocked at the top of the league. brey said the victory gave his squad much-needed momentum heading into the break. 
“i think you take away great confidence,” brey said. “you take away a reinforcement of your identity.” 
The irish next host cincinnati on Feb. 24 at 2 p.m. in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
monaghan 
conTinued From page 16 
teammates, most recently took down michigan sopho­more alex petrone at no. 2 singles on saturday, 6-4, 1-6, 6-2. his victory was crucial in no. 29 notre dame’s 4-3 upset of the no. 21 wolverines at the eck pavilion. 
“i felt good. i was pretty nervous going in,” monaghan said. “i have been playing mostly no. 3 singles this year and stuck to my game and played a good third set and was able to win. 
“This is the first huge win i’ve been here for and i couldn’t be happier. it’s much better winning as a team than 
mcGrath 
conTinued From page 16 
to fence, wanting to have fun,” mcgrath said. “i ended up doing a lot better than i have been doing recently at individual tournaments … it was a good day for me … i didn’t have any goals about achieving anything going in, i just wanted to fence.” 
mcgrath’s strong showing 
“I ended up doing a lot better than I have been doing recently at individual tournaments ... It was a good day for me.” 
Garrett McGrath 
freshman epee 
this weekend was especially important in terms of set­ting him back on the right track for the rest of the sea­son. mcgrath was sick with the flu and did not compete in notre dame’s last tourna­ment at duke. going into the Junior olympics, mcgrath said he was still recovering just individually.” 
after taking the first set 6-4 on saturday, monaghan encountered some chal­lenges in the second set. The chatham, n.J., native eventu­ally dropped the second set 1-6 — just the second set he’s lost in nearly a month — but recovered to take the third set 6-2. 
“i got off to a pretty quick start and then lost it a little bit, but i focused on my serve and playing aggressive and i felt like i controlled the match,” monaghan said. 
while his win over michigan was particularly special be­cause the team took the over­all match, monaghan has found success against the top teams all spring season. 
and hadn’t practiced for more than a week. 
“i was really just moti­vated to go out there and have good, exciting bouts,” mcgrath said. “i’d never had a mindset like that going into a tournament, and after the tournament i realized i’d never had as much fun as i did [on Friday].” 
mcgrath credited notre dame sports psychologist dr. miguel Franco for help­ing him develop this more relaxed approach toward competition. mcgrath also said that this mindset that enabled him to be successful last Friday is something he’ll take with him as the season continues. 
“after talking to [dr. Franco] and listening to his advice, this is the first tour­nament i showed up to and i did so much better than i have the past few months,” mcgrath said. “i really think i’m going to try to recreate that… i have a lot of motiva­tion because i know this is the year this team can win an ncaa championship.” 
notre dame will continue its quest towards a national championship on saturday, when they host the notre dame duals. 
Contact John Sandberg at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
leading up to saturday, he had already defeated players from no. 7 kentucky, no. 31 memphis and no. 28 harvard. 
“i think a mindset [i have is] that on every point that i’m going to battle for each point and try not to think about what spot [i’m playing] and fo­cus on the match,” monaghan said. 
monaghan found lots of success before collegiate ten­nis, but bayliss said he has developed his game [at notre dame] much further this year by improving in all areas. 
“i would call Quentin an all-court player,” bayliss said. “i think he came to notre dame with more of a counter puncher’s mentality and has developed his offensive skills to a very high level. he is re­ally hitting both forehands and backhands with great authority. 
“his serve has gotten bet­ter and he now gets a few free points. … his willingness to come to the net and finish points has really expanded his capabilities.” 
not only has monaghan helped the irish during matches, but his work ethic has positively influenced the other players during practice, bayliss said. 
“i think any time you’re around someone who is as passionate and positive about tennis as he is, some of it is going to rub off,” bayliss said. “he’s just been a win-win for us.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
The irish are not the only ones who have benefited from monaghan’s decision to at­tend notre dame though, as he recognizes how much notre dame has helped him. 
“i came to notre dame be­cause the coaches are great and i knew that i had the chance to get a lot better if i just worked hard and listened to what the coaches have said,” monaghan said. “They have made an enormous dif­ference and given me a lot of confidence.” 
This confidence, along with his passion and determina­tion, can only help him and the irish continue to succeed. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 





CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: regina spektor, 33; molly ring­wald, 45; matt dillon, 49; John Travolta, 59 
Happy Birthday: you’ll have to draw on your uniqueness and set trends that spark people’s imagination in order to make your point or to get ahead this year. don’t limit what you can do because someone objects to your unorthodox methods. you have to be true to your beliefs, interests and desired direction. your numbers are 2, 12, 17, 20, 31, 38, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get back to ideas and goals you have left undone. exploring new ways to approach and execute your plans will lead to something extraordinary. someone you’ve worked with in the past will help you now. show off what you have to offer. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): offer help, but don’t allow someone who has taken advantage of you in the past to do so again. make sugges­tions, but focus more on doing what will get you ahead, not someone else. let your intuition be your guide. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): avoid a dispute regardless of the circum­stances. someone will spread a rumor that can damage your reputa­tion or hurt you professionally. you are best to keep your personal life private. responsible action will help you avoid criticism and ridicule. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Talk to the person in power and you will find a way to get your ideas heard. picking up information, skills or experience will lead to a better position or a new endeavor. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): stabilizing your finances is a must. you can make home improvements as long as you stick to your budget. don’t donate or bail out someone else’s debt. protect your assets and focus on the changes you can make to secure a better future. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): easy does it. don’t take on more than you can handle or you will make yourself look bad. you must keep your emotions in check and not allow anyone to bait you into a challenge or disagreement that will deter you from getting ahead. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): explore new avenues or revisit familiar places, people or plans. listen to what others have to offer and you’ll find a way to make what you are working toward even better. love is in the stars, and socializing could lead to romance. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): improve your surroundings. make altera­tions that will improve your lifestyle. Find entertainment that is cost-efficient and invite the people you enjoy spending time with to join you. develop a creative idea. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): ulterior motives are present and exaggeration will lead you down the wrong path. keep your thoughts to yourself, stick close to home, and do whatever you can to improve your domestic situation. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let anyone make you feel like you have to make an impulsive decision. Take control, state what it is you want, and make it happen. use past experience as a reference. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put greater emphasis on doing and be­ing the best that you can be. The more you do to improve, the more confidence you will have dealing with future prospects. a move or change at home will help. love is highlighted. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): avoid problems with friends, relatives or neighbors. stick to the rules and don’t push your luck when dealing with authority figures. preparation will be the key to proving your point and getting what you want. honesty is crucial. 


Birthday Baby: you are trendy, engaging and versatile. you thrive on change. 
hIGhly PunlIkEly | chrisTopher brucker 

lOWEr yOurExPECtAtIOns |lennyrago & paTrickcross 



The observer | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 19, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
mEn’s bAskEtbAll | noTre dame 51, piTTsburgh 42 
Notre Dame tops Pitt on the road 
No. 25 Irish pull forward to beat No. 20 Panthers for fifth consecutive time 
By ALLAN JOSEPH and CHRIS ALLEN 
editor-in-chief and sports editor 
Fourteen minutes into their matchup at no. 20 pittsburgh, it seemed like everything had gone wrong for the no. 25 irish. notre dame (21-6, 9-5 big east) had hit just one of its first 19 field goal attempts, and the panthers (20-7, 8-6) had a commanding 17-3 lead in front of a raucous petersen events center. 
and then irish coach mike brey earned a technical foul. 
yet rather than completely folding for its second ugly road loss in as many games, notre dame reeled off a 16-3 run to end the first half en route to an improbable 51-42 victory. 
“i was just trying to keep our guys fired up,” brey said af­ter the game. “and the climate changed in the building, the vibe changed, our body lan­guage changed.” 
Junior guard Jerian grant, who missed his first seven shots, paced the irish with 13 points, a total matched by se­nior forward Jack cooley. 
“[grant] was great, really made us go when he get’s going in the second half making plays for us. i love the fact that he shot it some behind ball screens, the 3 he hit behind a ball screen may have been the shot of the game,” brey said in a postgame radio interview with und.com. “but we had just great team effort.” 
sophomore guard/forward pat connaughton jump-started notre dame’s first-half run with a pair of 3-point shots spaced 35 seconds apart, the first of which came shortly after pittsburgh extended its lead to 19-3 with the free throws following brey’s technical foul. 
The deficit could have been 
see panThers PAGE 14 


mEn’s tEnnIs 

Freshman shines for Irish 
By PETER STEINER 

sports writer  
passion for the game and  
sheer determination.  
These two characteristics  
are not always present within  
athletes, but when they are,  
success usually follows.  
luckily for the irish, fresh­ 
man Quentin monaghan dis­ 
plays both qualities and is  
already starting to find suc­ 
cess high in the singles lineup  
this season.  
“Quentin has two terrific  
qualities that set him apart  
from a lot of college tennis  
players,” irish coach bobby  
bayliss said. “one is he abso­ 
lutely hates to lose and will  
do whatever it takes to win a  
match. secondly, he is truly  
passionate about tennis. we  
never have to suggest that he  
work harder or practice more.  
in fact, frequently we are en­ 
couraging him to leave be­ 
cause he finds tennis a lot of  
fun.”  
monaghan has already had  
his share of fun on the court  
this spring season, winning  
seven of the eight finished  
matches all at the no. 2 or no.  
3 singles slot. The freshman,  
known as ‘Q’ by his  JULIE HERDER | The Observer  
Freshman Quentin Monaghan returns a shot against Michigan on  
see monaghan PAGE 14  Feb. 16. Monaghan has won seven of eight singles matches.  

fEnCInG 

Freshmen compete at Junior olympics 
By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports writer 
Three notre dame fresh­men competed at the usFa national Junior olympics tournament in baltimore, md., this past weekend, with garrett mcgrath leading the way for the irish as he took fifth in the junior men’s epee competition on Friday. 
Fellow freshmen John poremski finished 95th out of the field of 220 fencers from around the country. in the men’s saber competition on saturday, John hallsten fin­ished 13th out of the field of 162. 
Friday’s epee action start­ed early for mcgrath and poremski, with the first fenc­ers squaring off at 8 a.m. 
a 6 a.m. wake up call wasn’t exactly what he would prefer, mcgrath said with a laugh, but he’s learned to deal with getting up and competing early in the morning. 
The Junior olympics tour­nament has implications for those fencers going onto the world championships, but the event is not affiliated with the ncaa and has no impact on the collegiate team standings. mcgrath said the individual competitions like that the Junior olympics of­fer a different dynamic than ncaa events. 
“you have 40 people on the team and every single bout counts for team wins,” mcgrath said about the ncaa team competitions. “it’s one of those things where [the competition] is bigger than yourself… [but] in the individual tourna­ments it’s all about you.” 
Though the results are list­ed in terms of individuals, mcgrath said he still takes great pride in representing notre dame no matter the type of tournament. 
mcgrath, who at just 17 years old is one of the young­est members of the irish, was the overall epee champion at the 2012 Junior olympic championships. even com­ing off such a successful ap­pearance in 2012, mcgrath said he didn’t feel pres­sure going into this year’s competition. 
“i just showed up wanting 
see mcgraTh PAGE 14 




