
The independenT newspaper serving noTre dame and sainT mary’s 


ACE celebrates 20th anniversary 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
notre dame’s alliance for catholic education (ace) will celebrate its 20th anni­versary with a cross-country bus tour, kicking off sept. 30. 
The tour will make 15 stops on its first leg, accord­ing to Fr. Timothy scully, director of the institute for educational initiatives and one of the bus’s annual rid­ers. it will be at notre dame for the navy football game on nov. 2 and will make its official stop in south bend on nov. 19. 
scully said the purpose of the tour is to “celebrate the gift of catholic education,” both within and outside of 


Alliance for Catholic Education sponsors cross-country bus tour 
catholic school systems. 
“we want to recognize the gifts [of] people who have given their life’s energy to [catholic education] and galvanize support for their efforts,” he said. 
with three weeks until the tour kicks off, scully said ace is finishing prepara­tions, training bus drivers and confirming tour stops and events. The stops, which range from indianapolis to boston and milwaukee, will each feature a celebration, a speaker, awards and a mass. The tour also will includes meetings and workshops with government and educa­tion leaders. in some cities, 
see ace PAGE 4 



landscape services completes campus projects 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news wrier 
students taking part in the mass exodus to and from classes each day have been treated to a newly beautified campus landscape. 
From south Quad and the grotto to debartolo Quad and notre dame avenue, projects were completed to accommodate students’ walking patterns and to streamline overall campus upkeep. 

sarah misener, asso­ciate vice president for campus services, said the 
project  ideas  originated  
from  reviews  conducted  
by  landscape  services  
and  Facilities  design  &  

operations. 
landscape services and Facilities design & operations review areas of campus and prioritize land­scape installation renewal projects on an annual basis,” misener said. 
misener said the landscape services team begins reviewing campus 
see landscape PAGE 5 



NDSP investigates attempted rape report 


Observer Staff Report 
notre dame security police (ndsp) is investigating an at­tempted rape reported monday, according to an email sent to stu­dentsmonday evening. 
The reported sexual assault oc­curred in a men’s residence hall on north Quad late Friday or in the early morning hourssaturday, police said. The assault was com­mitted by an acquaintance of the victie. 

ndsp said it has no evidence this case is connected with the incident described in the crime alert email it sent to the student bodysaturday. 
in the email, police warned stu­dents of the risk of sexual assault. 
“sexual assault can happen to anyone,” the email stated. “college students are more likely to be assaulted by an acquain­tance than a stranger. This means that the person perpetrating the assault could be part of the cam­puscommunity. 
“beingawareofyourownsafety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
information about sexual as­sault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault ars available online from ndsp and the committee on sexual assault prevention. 

ceolectures on corporateintegrity 
By JESSICA ROH 
news writer 
Jim hackett, chief executive officer of steelcase, inc., delivered a lecture monday night about his company’s success as part of the mendoza college hackett whose global com­pany specializes in furniture 
of  business’s 2013 John  a.  
berges  lecture  series  in  
business ethics.  

and  interior  architecture,  
said  integrity  and  career  
consciousness  allowed  his  

company to be successful for over 100 years without a single scandal. 
he said the 2001 audit fail­ure of the enron corporation 
see ceo PAGE 5 


senaTe PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your ideal celebrity boxing matchup? 

Aly Cox 
freshman 
ryan hall 
“Justin bieber versus miley cyrus.” 

Taylor Boyd 
junior 
lewis hall 
“charlie sheen versus bobby brown.” 
Anthony Faustini 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“matt damon versus Johnny depp.” 

Federico Segura 
junior 
duncan hall 
“miley cyrus versus robin Thicke.” 
Eric Peace 
junior 
dillon hall 
“eminem  versus Kirk herbstreet.” 

Bre Thomas 
junior welsh Family 
“Taylor lautner versus robert patterson.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski greg hadley Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie mccarty meri Kelly Kelly Konya conor Kelly 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Student Safety Conversion and Zen Meditation Women’s Volleyball RecSports Biatholon 
grant Tobin austin Taliaferro 
Summit Literature Workshop Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion Boat House Carey Auditorium Geddes Hall Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 10 a.m.-12 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. The Irish take on Annual half mile swim 
Corrections 

Panel with local police “Classical and Late Open to students of all Loyola Chicago in the and two mile run 
The observer regards itself as agencies. Antiquity” workshop. faiths.  Shamrock Invitational. around the lakes. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Four:7 Catholic Kaneb Center “The Angel’s Share” “Before Midnight” Women’s Volleyball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fellowship Workshop DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilian 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall DeBartolo Hall Arts Center Arts Center 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:15p.m.-9:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 9:30 p.m. The Irish take 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Student-led praise and “Using Rubrics to Part of the Nanovic A couple reflects on on Auburn in the 
we can correct our error. 

fellowship. Assess Student Work.” Institute Film Series. their life together. Shamrock Invitational. 


Saint Mary’s SGA revamps election process 

By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
campaigning for saint mary’s open student government association (sga) senate positions will begin on saturday at 5 p.m., student body president Kat sullivan said. 
The elections, which will start at midnight on sept. 16 and last 24 hours, will be ad­ministered by  sga’s election committee and the office of student involvement and multicultural services (sims). students will be able to vote via orgsync, and sims office representatives will also be in the student center atrium on election day to encourage students to participate in the election process, sullivan said. 
“elections have always been handled by just the elec­tions committee within stu­dent government,” sullivan said. “This year, we think it is important for the adminis­tration to take a more active role in the election process, and that is why the sims of­fice is offering its guidance to the election committee.” 
This change in election monitoring is one of many changes being made to the structure of the senate this year, sullivan said. 
“senate was only intro­duced into sga’s structure last year,” sullivan said. “after evaluating its success last year, [vice president maddy martin] and i wanted to make sure there was more campus-wide representation on senate.” 
currently, the senate is the only voting body in student government and is composed of two members per class, sullivan said. 
“right now, the senate’s main responsibilities are to vote and decide on our six-figure budget and to revise the constitution,” sullivan said. 
she said sga has been talk­ing over possibilities for revi­sions in the constitution and the general structure of the senate. 
“all of what we are discuss­ing are just ideas right now, but we would like to add one more voting member to the senate and would like oth­er non-voting members to have more of a presence in senate,” sullivan said. 
sullivan said she would like a belles connect leader to be the added voting mem­ber. she said she would like representatives from each of the major boards to be non­voting members, along with an international representa­tive and a sophia program chair. 
“we want the presidents of student diversity board, residence hall association and student activities board to be able to participate in senate discussions,” sullivan said. “They need to be a part of the decisions that go into the budget and constitution changes. Those decisions largely affect those main boards.” 
with an effort to make sga more transparent, sullivan said senate meetings will continue to be run in a “town hall” style and will be open to the public. 
“we want the saint mary’s campus community to know what is going on in sga,” sullivan said. 
as of now, sullivan said the proposed changes will have to be discussed and final­
ized when the  senate first  
convenes  after  the  election  
process.  

“nothing is set in stone yet,” sullivan said. “These are ideas out on the table, but we would like set an agenda and make major changes to the constitution that will last this year and hopefully for years to come.” 
she said she is excited for the changes being discussed in sga and is looking for­ward to new members join­ing the sga community. 
“it is so important to find your niche on campus and make sure your voice is being heard,” sullivan said. 
sullivan said those who wish to run for an elected senate position must submit a platform to her by Friday at 5 p.m. 
For more information on running for a senate posi­tion, contact sullivan at ksulli02@saintmarys.edu or attend an informational meeting on wednesday at 7 
p.m. in the sga office. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
smc hosts lecture on music career options 
By RACHEL RAHAL 
news writer 
on monday, saint mary’s department of music host­ed a lecture offering in­sight on “life after a music degree: Two models of ‘portfolio careers.’”
 Kathleen Keasey and sherry Klinedinst, part-time instructors in the de­partment, discussed their discernment paths in the music industry and their development as artists. Keasey said she knew from an early age that music was something she was going to pursue. her music career began when she enrolled in millikin university in decatur, ill., but she soon transferred to oberlin college to continue her studies. 
“i was a small fish in a big pond, attending oberlin college while obtaining my degree in music per­formance,” Keasey said. “during the [1960s], wom­en were supposed to work as teachers, nurses and secretaries.” 
like Keasey, sherry Klinedinst said she found her calling for music at a young age. she said she began playing the piano at age three, encouraged by her mother who also played. at 15, she began taking lessons at saint mary’s college and then at­tended indiana university, earning a degree in piano performance. 
“lessons with dr. Jacob [at saint mary’s] were a hoot,” Klinedinst said. “This was such a fun pro­cess with a very encour­aging man. he was very detail oriented just like my mother.” 
both women said life af­ter college had its ups and downs as they bounced between several jobs. Keasey said she went back to school to earn her de­gree in education and then worked as a music instruc­tor at high schools in the south bend area.
 Klinedinst said the  dif­ferent jobs she held out of college allowed her to develop new skills, but she found that her initial hope of being a concert per­former was not what she wanted. 
Today, Keasey said she 
“Lessons with Dr. Jacob [at Saint Mary’s] were a hoot. This was such a fun process with a very encouraging man. He was very detail-oriented like my mother.” 
Sherry Klinedinst 
instructor 
runs her own studio at home, where she has two pianos and teaches over 20 students. she also plays each sunday as an organist in her church’s choir. 
“i never advertised for my students, my lessons were only found out by word of mouth,” Keasey said. “it re­ally is the joy of my life. i love teaching.” 
Klinedinst said she fol­lowed up on her dream to create her own music, producing four albums sold nationwide. she also teaches students of her own as well. 
“if i didn’t have two of the best teachers, i wouldn’t be teaching students of my own,” Klinedinst said. “i am very fortunate for my well-rounded career where i am never doing the same thing twice.” 
both instructors said they were grateful for their experiences in the field of music an  encouraged stu­dents to pursue their musi­cal talents after college. 
“being a musician is something that lasts all your life and has provided me with a livelihood that i am grateful for,” Keasey said . 
Contact Rachel Rahal at rrahal@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Expert discusses impact of 1960s bombing 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
To commemorate the 50th anniversary this month of the 16th street baptist church bombing in birmingham, ala., notre dame’s multicultural student programs and services launched its “martin luther King, Jr. series for the study of race,” with a presen­tation by dr. wilson Fallin, Jr. ph.d. to speak monday night. 
Fallin, a professor of history at the university of montevallo in montevallo, ala., is the au­thor of two books and the president of birmingham­easonian baptist bible college. he began his work in the civil rights movement at moorehouse college while dr. martin luther King, Jr. was a part-time professor at the 
ACE 
conTinued From page 1 
the events will also include meeting with leaders in gov­ernment and education. 
“we have a conference at the [george w.] bush institute that the president and mrs. bush are hosting college. 
in monday’s lecture, titled “spirituality, the birmingham bombing, and the birmingham civil rights movement,” Fallin focused on the birmingham civil rights movement, which began in 1956. 
“The civil rights movement was one of the most significant movements for social and ra­cial justice in the history of the [united states],” he said. “and no campaign was more impor­tant than that in birmingham.” 
Fallin said the 1963 bombing was prompted by segregation from the 1950s and on. 
“birmingham, ala., was founded in 1871 during the reconstruction era by former plantation owners determined to uphold racial segregation,” he said. 
“by the 1950s, birmingham 
in dallas,” scully said. “it’s a workshop . . . on parental choice in school, and the val­ue of education in the inner cities.” 
in addition, the washington, d.c. stop will include meetings with mem­bers of congress involved in education policy, he said. 
was “one of the most segregat­ed and racially polarized cities in the u.s.” between 1945 and 1962, bombings of african­american businesses and homes were not infrequent, he said. although the numbers have been disputed, Fallin said historians generally agree there were between 20 and 80 racially motivated bomb­ings in birmingham during that time period, earning the city the name “bombingham.” most, if not all, incidents were never investigated. 
Fallin said the most inter­esting aspect was the role of the african-american churches in the birmingham civil rights movement be­cause in 1956, the state gov­ernment effectively outlawed the national association for the advancement of 
according to the pro­gram’s website, scully and Fr. sean mcgraw co-found­ed ace in 1993 with service Through Teaching, a cost-free masters’ in education program that sends well-qualified teachers into catholic school systems. The program has graduated more 
paid adverTisemenT 
colored people (naacp) from alabama. as a result, a group of black ministers came for­ward to create the alabama 
christian  movement  for  
human rights.  
“it  was  a  movement  of  

churches,” he said. “The church made it possible. 
The black church had a strong dose of liberation theology — and that united them.“religion, when it is be­lieved and practiced, is a pow­erful element in one’s life and in one’s society.” 
The prominence of the church in the civil rights movement, Fallin said, was the reason that on the night of sept. 14th, 1963, four members of the Ku Klux Klan broke into the 16th street baptist church and planted a time bomb, scheduled to detonate at 10:30 
than 1,200 teachers. 
since its inception, ace has expanded its programs and initiatives, which now include additional training programs for catholic edu­cators, such as the mary ann remick leadership program and the english as a new language certification, the a.m. sunday morning. 
“Ten-thirty sunday morn­ing. They knew. They knew there would be people there — they knew people would die,” Fallin said. “it was a crime committed out of sheer re­venge and hate.” 
but, Fallin said, birmingham had a lasting significance for the civil rights movement na­tionwide. The tragedy of los­ing four young girls to an act of hatred drew national attention to the city and to the issue of institutionalized racism in the united.states. 
“it took people off the fence, and galvanized more sym­pathy for the cause,” he said. “birmingham, in my view, saved the movement.” 
Contact Maragaret Hynds  at mhyndes@nd.edu 
website states. it also pro­vides services such as coach training and professional development workshops; and outreach initiatives that serve minority or at-risk populations. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconvl@nd.edu 




Landscape 
conTinued From page 1 
project possibilities in the winter months and sets com­pletion dates for the summer months. because shrubs and plants on campus require an­nual renewal, misener said, landscape services must narrow down possible new projects to a manageable list that will then be added to the summer workload. 
“summer months rep­resent the best time to do much of the planting work on campus,” misener said. “consequently, several projects are staged with com­pletion dates that are prior to or near the start of the aca­demic year.” 
major projects this sum­mer included the installa­tion of brick sidewalk trim, perennial beds planted on south Quad, the placement of mulch around trees on south library Quad and the realignment of pedestrian crosswalks near the grotto, she said. 
debartolo Quad and the gazebo on debartolo Quad, were refurbished, and visi­tor-friendly landscape was added, misener said.  notre dame avenue’s aging and damaged trees were replaced and more were planted along parts of the avenue’s gaps, she said. 
lyons hall and the morris inn also saw completed ren­ovations this summer, and work was done on the center for Flow physics and control white Field Facility, misener said. 
“[These projects] add to the students’ experience … by creating and maintaining beautiful spaces on which to study, pray, work and play,” she said. 
misener said campus land­scaping projects are funded by donations from benefac­tors, which was the case with this summer’s work on the 
“[These projects] add to the students’ experience ... by creating and maintaining beautiful spaces on which to study, work and pray.” 
Sarah Misener 
associate vice president 
campus services 
morris inn, or managed within the annual landscape budget. 
Freshman ian Flyke said he was pleased with the updates. 
“i really like the campus changes, especially the rock courtyard between debartolo [hall] and the snite [museum of art],” he said. 
Flyke said he began to follow notre dame’s land­scaping team’s Twitter han­dle, @ndgroundscrew, to see updates on their work and pictures of continuing projects. 
“i really like seeing what they’re up to now,” he said. “They have entertaining tweets.” 
senior chris ayala said he is impressed by the work done by the landscaping team. 
“i think the landscaping is nice, but i really miss being able to sit on the raised ledge outside debartolo [hall],” he said. “it’s aesthetically pleas­ing, but beyond that i don’t see any tangible benefits.” 
sophomore ethan muehlstein said he appreci­ated the improvements in front of lyons hall on south Quad. 
“in the future, i’d like to see more flowers on god Quad so you can walk along flow­er paths, and overall more lights so you can highlight the gardens at night,” he said. “nevertheless, the work the landscaping team does is phenomenal and i am proud to go here and see it daily.” 
sophomore haley van steenwyk said she is “still getting used to the changes,” especially by debartolo hall. 
“i like that they’re doing something different, but i think they should have had it all completed before we got to campus,” she said. “i like that they have more plants every­where, but i feel like we’re still waiting to see a finished product.” 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzigm@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 
CEO 
conTinued From page 1 
demonstrates how crucial it is for businesses to ask a fundamental question. 
“what are the boundar­ies that you won’t com­promise?” he said. “Trust comes with integrity. 
“There [was] illiteracy for the rules. And they’ve become a crooked organization. Most people cheat because the idea of not succeeding is too excruciating” 
Jim Hackett 
CEO of Steelcase, Inc. 
people won’t work with a business they can’t trust.” 
hackett said each em­ployee must evaluate “how [he] sees [himself] in the context of business.” his experience as the leader of steelcase for 20 years taught him that businesses should follow variable changes which could affect the whole nature and “physics of business,” he said. 
hackett also said integrity plays a key part in respond­ing to external changes. “when cheating is easier than playing by the rule, when [they] don’t believe in [themselves], people tend to believe virtues can be given up,” hackett said. “do you think everyone in enron was broke? but, there [was] too much pressure on the goal. 
“There [was] illiteracy for the rules. and they’ve become a crooked orga­nization. most people cheat because the idea 
of  not  succeeding  is  too  
excruciating.”  
hackett  said  unlike  

steelcase, enron did not choose to pursue the ethi­cal way to achieve its goal. he said ethics is the ulti­mate pillar that keeps busi­nesses going and enables people to trusts the busi­nesses they collaborate with  and corporations can remain ethical only when every member keeps his or her integrity.
 “if you make a mis­take, don’t double down.” hackett said. “There’s no softer pillar than career conscience.” 
Contact Jessica Roh at hroh1@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Is Notre Dame worth it? 

INSIDE COLUMN 

life’s journey 
Emilie Kefalas 
news writer 

if there was any doubt, there was none i could see. i saw how things worked out for those across the wayside. i was not an ocean anymore. no longer was the end in­visibly inevitable. clearly it was inevitable, yet i still saw it as the date that would never come. poets would compare such objec­tives to an approaching ship or something cliché yet appropriately analogical. 
college is like that, i suppose. The eldest child experiences everything before the rest of the brood. i lived for eighteen years as the firstborn, a hero by standards of my self-established hero’s journey. 
as with everything i do from this point, future opportunities smile and wave. i wish i could smile and wave at the new house pet, squishy the fish, without re­membering i would not be around to aim­lessly gaze at his glowing gills. before him there was chuck. 
recalling chuck is still difficult to do in terms of actually “recalling” her. despite raising a rabbit to sell to a young family, i still do not know how to care for a rabbit. i only know how to take care of chuck. i expect all bunnies to act like her, jump on the couch and chairs in the family room, chew wood when cardboard is scarce and seldom nibble her store-bought edibles in contrast for fresh cilantro and large carrots. 
The difference between when she was ours and when she moved to colorado had been a slightly amusing realization. First i thought, “chuck is just missing among the storage containers.” i still expected to hear her scurry and emerge from the dark as a phantom of fluffiness, ears pulled back in alertness and a nose speaking in sniffs. she has a look that puts you on the spot, and makes you respond, “what? what are you looking at?” That is what i anticipated upon my every descent to the basement. 
my sisters never passed up the opportu­nity to point out chuck’s adorable demean­or, often outweighing whatever complaints mom had regarding her “stinky, smelly, disgusting” cage. The rabbit never parked herself there longer than it took her to do her business or take a “muncha muncha” of her bland proccessed food. i suppose she is a metaphor for life. 
like chuck, college jitters and eighteen­year-old illusions, the metaphor is barely legible. The journey is the course of life, but what do i know about it? i am the sheltered, well-groomed white girl who likes to write whatever i think at 11:34 p.m. we could say we are all heroes in our own right. Then people could eat up this free-for-all advice from a display of self-help books sold at the shrinking number of american bookstores. or we could recreate what we have worn down. however, if we forgive ourselves for guilt, we can be rescued from the hero’s tragedy. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at              ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Alex Stembaugh 
viewpoint columnist 

lately i cannot open a newspa­per without being bombarded by articles about college. Those who are well out of college argue the system is in need of change. The price is too high. students aren’t graduating. graduates end up underemployed and why are the humanities still being studied? as students, we pay thousands in tuition at a price that continually increases and spend hundreds on books for classes to get a job that’s not guaranteed even af­ter we put ourselves through the stress and sweat of the career fair. The combined depletion of my bank account and seemingly end­less stream of news articles saying that i’m wasting my time, plant a seed of doubt in my mind about seeking a degree. 
There is a tremendous need for young adults to have degrees. The first step to being an engi­neer, doctor or mathematician is a four-year degree. in april, former united states secretary of education william bennett pub­lished a book titled, “is college worth it?” bennett examined the return of investment at different colleges and concluded that most graduates end up underemployed and saddled with tens of thou­sands in debt, meaning most col­leges are a bad investment. 
Tuition is growing, student loans are skyrocketing and job prospects don’t look particularly favorable. a lot of students find themselves going through the motions — getting a degree be­cause everyone else is, without having a clear idea of how a de­gree will personally benefit them. only 55 percent of graduates say that college actually prepared them for a job. at a time when 1 in 3 college grads acquire jobs that don’t require a degree and nearly 50 percent of students en­rolled in a four-year college never graduate, it’s hard to justify the investment. 
our country made it a goal to send more kids to college and in a sense it’s a wondrous feat that we find ourselves dealing with an is­sue of over-education. education and human capital growth is im­portant. The problem is the 25,000 dollars that the typical college graduate owes in debt. many jobs don’t require a degree and numer­ous jobs skills can be adequately taught in a trade school, so it makes more sense to redirect re­sources to these areas and to help students better discern what they want in a career. 
as i settle in for the new school year, i ask myself why i am here at notre dame. i could easily have gone to a cheaper state school, a place where boys and girls live in the same dorm and where i could skip class for a week with­out anyone noticing. yet we are among few of the students na­tionwide who did make a good choice. notre dame is ranked number ten on bennett’s list of four-year colleges that are “worth it” when comparing the return of investment.  
because we are at notre dame, most of us remove ourselves from the education discussion. we see education as an investment in ourselves. we think that sacrific­ing time and money now will lead to higher salaries and opportunity in the future. we realize we need a degree to get to where we want to be and we realize notre dame offers the best package. 

but what sets notre dame apart? we pay a lot. many say we pay too much. but we receive a great edu­cation and more importantly, an unparalleled educational experi­ence. we gain access to an exten­sive alumni network, form lasting friendships and learn the value of hard work. our diploma isn’t so much a record of our knowl­edge as it is a signaling device to employers and a testament to our work ethic. we may leave more knowledgeable about account­ing or history or biology, but what we really leave with is a sense of accomplishment and a greater awareness in life. our notre dame degree says we made it through four years of in-depth study. we learned how to be independent, how to form healthy relationships and how to be a part of something larger than ourselves. making col­lege worth it means taking advan­tage of all the opportunities this school has to offer. The benefits of this university go far beyond a higher paycheck, and i couldn’t imagine a more worthwhile place to spend four years. 
Alex Stembaugh can be reached at astembau@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Action and clarity needed on Syria 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musings 

being the biggest and strongest kid on the block can be a tough gig sometimes. 
like most americans, it’s hard for me to stomach the idea of the united states becoming involved in another conflict in the middle east. but as a realistic observer of the united states’ role as a world leader, i’m convinced the u.s. has little choice but to use force against syria. 
let’s make one thing clear from the start — there are no “good” op­tions on the table with regard to syria. innocent civilians continue to be killed in untold numbers. distinguishing the good guys from the bad in syria has proven difficult. and there’s the potential for other countries to become involved. 
at home, domestic policy priori­ties like immigration reform will inevitably be pushed aside. in some states the outcomes of the 2014 elec­tions will likely depend on how some members of congress voted on syria. 
most obviously, america is a war-weary nation, well aware it is spending too much money while solving too few of the problems within its own borders. 
but if the u.s. does not stand up for international norms against the use of chemical weapons, who will? europe and the u.n. have already said they won’t. 
if a syrian dictator can use chemi­cal weapons, what is stopping dicta­tors in other countries from doing the same? 
costly and drawn-out wars in iraq and afghanistan left americans understandably gun-shy regarding foreign involvement. it’s all too easy to adopt a default isolationist stance because of these wars. but this is not always the most responsible course of action. 
in monday’s new york Times, bill Keller summed up this idea well by asking readers to “dial down the fears and defeatist slogans of knee-jerk isolationism and conduct a seri­ous discussion of our interests and our alternatives in syria.” 
what are america’s national in­terests in syria? what are america’s specific objectives in striking syria? 
U-WIRE 

money can’t compete with passion 
Nick Harris 
The daily utah chronicle 

when i was a freshman, i had a lot of crazy ideas. i did a lot of crazy things and learned a lot of crazy stuff, but there’s one crazy idea that continues to plague me. i decided to spice things up a bit halfway through the year and couple my english degree with a business administration minor. This was mostly to appease my father, who nearly fainted dead away when he heard the words “dad, i think i’m going to major in english” come out of his only daughter’s mouth three years ago. but had i known exactly how little that ‘business educa­tion’ was going to help me, i would have resus­citated him then and risked his wrath later. 
i’m in the final throes of that horrific minor, and the only thing i’ve learned is how much business people care about one thing: money. every single session of both my information systems and accounting classes so far have been punctuated by the dollar signs i can prac­tically see popping from the professors’ eyes when they laud their degrees and sales-pitch the david eccles school of business in front of us day in and day out. 
why don’t more students major in informa­tion systems? look at all the money they make! what about accountants? They’re such happy people! and they have so much money! why does this not entice you to sell your soul to the david eccles school of business and subscribe to our ideals that everything worthwhile in life can be bought? 
if only they had been that honest. 

multiple times this past week, i’ve been told, “i don’t know how you can do this (‘this’ be­ing the managing editor) every night,” i don’t know how you do this job,” “you don’t get paid enough for what you do” and other similar 
sentiments. 

so why do i do it? it’s an easy answer, really. 
i love it. 

i work with enthusiastic, dedicated people who work their fingers to the bone to put out this magazine, wasatch magazine and The daily utah chronicle — people who under­stand that living off of a coffee can fund is an inevitability at some point but who love what they do so much that it doesn’t matter. working here has taught me something that the illustri­ous david eccles school of business, with its trumpeting capitalistic ideals and its venn diagrams screaming that the a business major is the only overlap between money, happiness and success, cannot. 
passion trumps money, plain and simple. no, i’m not rolling in the dough the way i might be had i followed my father’s advice and stud­ied management or finance or — heaven help me — accounting, but i get by. i get to do a job i love, a job i’m good at, with people who are the exact same way. i don’t have to take time off from my number-crunching day job to come to the u and tiredly teach a class of people to be like me, because look how happy i am with the money i make, and don’t you want this life because it’s filled with monetary rewards for all my hard work? 
There are better kinds of rewards. it’s about the passion, and it’s about the people and it’s about loving what you do. it’s not about the money. 
i guess i really should thank my professor on Tuesday for reminding me of that. 
The Daily Utah Chronicle is the student news­paper serving The University of Utah. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
how will these objectives result from an “unbelievably small” strike, as secretary of state John Kerry de­scribed it yesterday? 
if all goes according to plan, what can the u.s. expect to gain that it would not gain without a strike? 
These are legitimate questions president obama needs to do a bet­ter job of addressing as he makes his case for the use of force against syria. 
specifically, i’m looking for the president to do three things. 
First, clearly express to the american people what the u.s. in­terests in syria are, namely, ensur­ing international norms against the use of chemical weapons are upheld and ensuring leaders who use such weapons will be punished. remind americans that chemical warfare can never be tolerated. 
second, make clear our objec­tives, presumably the removal of bashar al-assad from power and the scope of our plans to achieve those objectives. Tell americans what the 
u.s. is going to achieve and assure them this will not be an open-ended conflict. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Third, reemphasize that the u.s. military’s involvement in syria is limited to the stated objective(s) only. This cannot be a nation-building, boots on the ground op­eration. This is not a direct attempt to impose democratic government abroad. This is neither iraq nor afghanistan. 
The future of syria rests largely in the hands of the syrian people. The 
u.s. has a role to play, but that role is limited with regards to the future of syria and its government. 
The cost of military action is great no matter how limited it is intended to be. u.s. strikes against syria will be no different. 
but if america sits idly by and tolerates the use of chemical weap­ons in syria today, it’s painful to imagine the magnitude of the costs that will be imposed on the world tomorrow. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




their growing age. season nine of “it’s always sunny in philadelphia” premiered on sept. 4 on FX’s spinoff com­edy network, FXX. The season premiere reportedly had the lowest number of viewers in the series’ history, but as more and more people become familiar with the new network, that should return to normal. and if the season continues in the same wickedly hilarious form as the pre­miere, “The gang broke dee,” in which the gang breaks dee’s spirit, repairs it and then destroys it again, this sea­son will be a must-watch yet again. 
three male roommates, nick, schmidt and winston. all of season two we saw the fluctuating budding romance between nick and Jess, which was solidified in the season two finale. For the season three premiere, we would like to see some answers to the finale’s seriously frustrating questions. For example, is schmidt going to choose between the seemingly unattainable model cece and his college ex, down-to-earth elizabeth? how serious is Jess’s relation­ship with nick going to be? where did they go at the end of the fina­le, anyway? will winston ever be anything more than an immature jokester? i hope for the sake of comic relief that the last question is a no. check out the new season of “new girl” on sept. 17. 
disney magic 
Tori Velasquez 
takes on a more dra­
scene writer 
matic form on abc’s 
“once upon a Time,” returning on sept. 29 at 8:00 p.m. although this show bor­rows its characters from familiar fairytales, its complex plot, character development and flashback-style reminis­cent of “lost” keep even devoted andersen and grimm fans on their toes. The upcoming season promises a new dark twist on a beloved fairytale. as the still-youthful show is entering a third season, its plot and writing remain fresh, so newbies can easily catch up on netflix. if three seasons of “once upon a Time” aren’t enough, oct. 10 marks the debut of the new spin-off series, “once upon a Time in wonderland.” 
“geronimo!” The 
Kenneth Harkenrider 
fans of the world’s 
scene writer 
longest-running sci­
ence fiction drama are preparing for what could be the most intense series of doctor who ever. while the eighth season does not actually begin until 2014, ex­citement in the doctor who community has been building up for a celebratory special airing this fall. The doctor, played by matt smith for the past three series, is a 953-year-old Time lord from the planet gallifrey who travels through space and time in a blue police box known as the Tardis, saving people from distress and destruction. various companions accompany him along the way, both learning about the universe and having fun with the unique character. in the eighth series, the greatest secret of the doctor will be revealed: his true name. The 50th anniversary special will air in 3d worldwide nov. 23, 2013 at 2:00 p.m. on bbc america and in select theaters. 
This modern retelling of sir 
Caelin Miltko 
arthur conan doyle’s clas­
scene writer 
sic returns to cbs on sept. 26 
at 10:00 p.m. The show fol­lows the investigations of sherlock holmes and his protégé, Joan watson, on the streets of new york city. last season left the two detectives recovering from the aftermath of defeating sherlock’s nemesis, moriarity. The season two premiere is set to feature a trip to london where two more stand-bys of sherlock tradition should appear. both mycroft holmes and inspector lestrade are featured in the episode. it should be fun to see what twists the show has for these two characters. The second season is rumored to feature further exploration of watson’s past as well as the possible return of irene adler (moriarity). watch on Thursdays at 10:00 p.m. on cbs to find out! 

Entertainment Weekly 

FanPop 

Sciencefiction.com 

amc’s “The 
Matthew Hayes 
walking dead” 
scene writer 
will be back for 

its fourth season on oct. 13. as the title suggests, the show follows a group of survivors as they contend with a world where a strange dis­ease has turned almost everyone into zombies. while this might sound like a low-budget, sci-fi gore-fest, it’s actually the most-watched basic cable drama of all time. The show spectacularly combines a well-written, always-fresh storyline with riveting action. This season, while still contending with the undead, the characters will struggle to define the line be­tween morality and pragmatism as they decide who to bring into the fold and who to hold in suspicion. The show airs at 
9:00 p.m. on sundays. 



Collider.com 
Listal.com 
Fox’s animated 
Matthew McMahon 
series returns for a 
scene writer 
fourth season com­

ing off of its biggest season yet. The consistently funny, fresh show features the vocal talents of superstar h. Jon benjamin and alternative comedians eugene mirman and dan mintz. Throughout its run, the show has succeeded on its unique rhythm of dialog between its cast and the sincerity in the portrayal of its central characters. This includes bob belcher, played by benjamin, who runs a burger joint, and his wife and three kids, who help but usually get in the way. The writers often deftly parody many classic movies, which should continue throughout this season. They also know how to put together a song, as the show features the best original soundtrack of its time. “bob’s burgers” premieres at 8:30 p.m. on sept. 29. 
due to a short-
Sarah Dieckman 
ened fourth season 
scene writer 
and the possibility 

of a series cancel­lation, the news of a renewal for season five of “parenthood” was greatly celebrated by avid fans of the show. This critically acclaimed drama revolves around the braverman family and how the four siblings and their families interact with one an­other. Think “modern Family” with more serious undertones and subject matter. each hour invokes laughter and tears, leav­ing its audience emotionally drained every week. premiering sept. 26, the upcoming season promises a new addition to the family, possible wedding bells and ray romano returning as hank. Though back at school, enjoy “family night” with the bravermans Thursdays at 10 p.m. on nbc. 

Theantbite.com TVrage.com 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 

it’s Tuesday. The horrors of monday are over, but the weekend is nowhere in sight. it’s not even hump day yet. what’s a stressed-out, careless undergrad to do to let off some steam? 
stroll down to the debartolo performing arts center (dpac) for award-winning and cheap/free movies playing all week long. 
Tonight at 8:00 p.m. feed your hunger for drama with “intolerance,” a 1916 silent epic. This film cuts across centuries and connects disparate stories, from modern crime to christ’s death to the fall of the babylonian empire, like a black-and-white “cloud atlas.” 
production for “intolerance” cost more than $2.5 million and involved more than 3,000 people — the set was more crowded than the stepan center during domerFest. better yet, this movie will cost you a grand total of $0.00, admission is free for notre dame students. 
The american Film institute (aFi) ranks “intolerance” at no. 49 out of 100 and holds a 96 per­cent approval rating on rotten Tomatoes. pretty good, considering that “intolerance” was considered a total flop when it was first released … maybe there’s still hope for “The lone ranger?” 
on Thursday at 7:00 p.m. enjoy the winner of the 2012 cannes Jury prize, “The angel’s share,” a hilari­ous tale about an ex-convict and brand new father as he evades trouble in scotland. 
Ken loach is the director, known for his stylistic realism and crafted scripts. loach has worked with the best of the best, including dustin hoffman and robert duvall. if you like malt whiskey or scottish sentimentality, this is a must-see. 
rotten Tomatoes gives “The angel’s share” an 89 
percent approval rating, and admission is $4.00 for students, $7.00 for regular tickets. looking for the perfect date night? look no further 
— “before midnight” completes richard linklater’s trilogy with gorgeous views of the greek coast and the charming ethan hawke and Julie delpy duo. 
as the somewhat mysteriously-filmed sequel to “before sunrise” and “before sunset” (delpy denied the production was happening only a few months be­fore filming started in messenia), “before midnight” was a hit at the 2013 sundance Film Festival. 
The film grossed over $20 million worldwide and currently has a 98 percent approval rating on rotten Tomatoes. 
show times this weekend are 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 
p.m. Friday and saturday. Tickets are $4.00 for stu­dents and $7.00 for regular tickets. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

“i’m sorry. i’m not a real person yet,” Frances, played by the impeccable greta gerwig, says in the beginning of “Frances ha.” Though she is apologetically telling this to a waiter to explain why her debit card isn’t work­ing, this line serves as probably the most honest and accurate description of the film’s protagonist. yet this moment is not a turning point in the film, it is instead one of the many subtle (and funny) ways that “Frances ha” tells a seemingly grown woman’s coming-of-age story. 
“Frances ha,” written by greta gerwig and noah baumbach and directed by baumbach, is a dialogue-heavy, plot-light look into the world of 27-year-old unsuccessful dancer Frances halladay as she tries to navigate through her life in new york. 
The film begins with a heartwarming and hysteri­cal look at Frances and her best friend and roommate, sophie. The two seem virtually inseparable, spending full days together, sleeping in the same bed and pick­ing each other up from work. but to Frances, the in­separability (and codependency) is real, as evidenced by her refusal to move in with her boyfriend and give up living with sophie.  
when sophie suddenly decides to move out and live with someone else, Frances is crushed and falls into a downward spiral. she begins a wild series of living ar­rangements and whirlwind trips as her friendship with sophie crumbles. all the while, Frances hilariously fumbles through social situations, displaying a perfect mix of awkward conversation and quick-wit dialogue. 
“sophie and i are the same person with different hair,” Frances lightheartedly explains to friends and acquaintances throughout the film. Though the line is repeated like a long-running joke between Frances and sophie, as the film continues and the friends drift apart, the joke turns into more of a mantra. Frances tries to convince herself and others that she and her best friend are the same, though it becomes increasing­ly evident that they are not. as she and sophie begin to live more separate lives, Frances is left to struggle with her own identity, making “Frances ha” an unexpected and occasionally uncomfortable bildungsroman. 
Though Frances can often be uncomfortable, selfish and painfully proud, she is also charming and lovable. This balance is maintained incredibly well by greta gerwig, who plays Frances so sincerely it is difficult to imagine her as anyone else. when the plot occasion­ally stalls and flounders, gerwig’s acting carries the movie. Though her supporting actors, mickey sumner and “girls” star adam driver, provide interesting dia­logue, they don’t hold a candle to gerwig. 
This may be in part because of the fact that gerwig co-wrote “Frances ha” with director and boyfriend baumbach.  Though the script is purely fiction, gerwig casted her own parents and visited her own hometown in the film. This makes gerwig’s acting appear sincere and lends to the film’s overall realistic feeling. “Frances ha” may be an unconventional coming-of-age story, but there is nothing doubtable about Frances’ life or choices, even at age 27. 
This is not gerwig’s first “late twenties coming-of­age” film either. in 2012, the same year “Frances ha” was released, gerwig also starred in “lola versus,” a romantic comedy about a single new yorker trying to find her way at age 29. but what sets “Frances ha” apart from gerwig’s other film is that “Frances ha” is not just a quirky take on the growing-up tale. baumbach and gerwig use “Frances ha” to pay homage to French new-wave cinema and baumbach’s favorite films, giv­ing the movie a creative edge and a little something extra to enjoy. shot in black and white, set in new york and paris and paired with a bold, rock soundtrack, the movie is a cinematic pleasure as much as it is an awk­ward tale of emerging adulthood.  
between the acting, cinematography and sometimes painfully familiar dialogue, “Frances ha” is certainly worth a watch. baumbach and gerwig make an in­credible team and not only expertly tell the story of one young woman, but also beautifully deliver the experi­ences of those grappling with friendship, change and becoming a “real person.” 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
“Frances Ha” 
IFC Films 
Director: Noah Baumbach 
Starring: Greta Gerwig, Mickey Sumner, Adam Driver 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The truth behind the mascot 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
if you’re anything like most american football fans, you might have caught at least a few minutes of the game between washington and philadelphia on monday night Football. like most viewers, you were probably focused on the return of robert griffin iii or chip Kelly’s first official game as the coach of the eagles. and you probably heard or saw the name “redskins” doz­ens of times, and thought noth­ing of it. 
maybe we should think a little bit harder about it. 
There are people who have been pushing for a new washington mascot for decades, but the past few months have seen a new surge of support for a name change. local politicians, including mayor vincent gray, have spoken out against the moniker that is, let’s face it, an obvious racial slur. some media organizations have publicized their decision to discontinue the use of  “redskin” in any nFl coverage, and on sunday, d.c.­area radio stations began airing a commercial sponsored by the oneida indian nation that re­quests the team find a more suit­able mascot. 
even the espn ombudsman robert lipsyte wrote an article indicating some members of the espn stats and information department are pushing to avoid using “the r-word.” 
still, washington owner daniel snyder has steadfastly refused to consider abandoning the mas­cot. nFl commissioner roger goodell is standing by snyder in this fight – in June, he wrote a letter to congress claiming the “redskins” mascot “from its origin represented a posi­tive meaning distinct from any disparagement that could be viewed in some other context.” now i’m not entirely sure why roger goodell gets to decide what native americans do and do not find offensive, and seeing as the team was first called the redskins in 1933, 26 years before his birth, we can confidently conclude that he doesn’t fully understand the context in which the name was chosen. 
regardless, he is wrong to sug­gest that the term doesn’t have an ugly past. maybe he should take a look at a cartoon or western from the 1930s – it’d be hard to argue that the same people who read books portraying native americans as backwards and violent were singing “hail to the redskins” (which, by the way, originally included broken english and scalping) with a rich appreciation for native culture and history. 
yet a June poll conducted by the washington post found that eight of 10 washington fans thought the team should remain the “redskins” (despite the fact that the majority said they would never use the term to refer to a native american in any other context, which is a good indica­tion that most people do realize the term is offensive.). 
in a lot of ways i’m not sur­prised – until recently, i was one of those people. although i’ve never been much of a redskins fan, i lived in what passes for d.c. suburbia for six years. in the fall, the hallways of my middle and high schools were seas of bur­gundy and gold. The same people passing around petitions asking the rest of the student body to swear off language that was sex­ist, homophobic or disrespectful to people with developmental disabilities thought nothing of wearing a jersey with the “redskins” stamped on the front. and i don’t blame them – they didn’t mean to offend anyone (except cowboys fans.) They just really, really liked chris cooley. 
honestly, until this year i thought there was too much fuss being made by the people who didn’t like native american mascots. surely they realized the entire washington-metro area wasn’t using the word as a racial epithet, right? we thought the logo looked cool. and apologists could always find a few people with native american heritage who said they weren’t too both­ered by the mascot. 
but in the past year, a lot of people have brought up a strik­ing question: would it be okay to name a team after an epithet for any other group of people? clearly, the answer is no. 
and, really, why is it so impor­tant to me, or snyder or goodell or d.c. fans in general, that the name stay the same? because it’s been that way for a long time? because we don’t want to buy new car decals? because we don’t want to admit we’ve been accept­ing something kind of racist for decades now? 
switching the name would be inconvenient (and, yes, expen­sive) for sports fans and snyder, who would have to replace many a logo. yes, there are fans who have fond memories associ­ated with the term. but there are plenty of people out there for whom the word “redskins” is really, truly painful. i’m not petulant enough to think they should continue to suffer for my convenience. 
now if only dan snyder felt the same way. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 
Culter and Marshall lead Bears over Bengals 
Associated Press 
chicago — Jay cutler wasn’t quite sure what to ex­pect in a new offense. 
one thing he didn’t antici­pate was perfection from the start, and the chicago bears came nowhere close to that. They did, however, find their rhythm just in time to make marc Trestman a winner in his debut. 
cutler passed to brandon marshall for the go-ahead touchdown in the fourth quarter, helping the bears ral­ly for a 24-21 victory over the sloppy cincinnati bengals on sunday and giving Trestman a victory in his first game as an nFl head coach. 
it wasn’t quite the display the bears were looking for af­ter making some big changes in the offseason. but they made the most of a hand­ful of big plays by cutler and repeated mistakes by the bengals. 
“i thought no one got frus­trated early on with us and the way we were playing,” cutler said. “we stuck to the game plan. The fourth quar­ter — that’s when you’ve got to win ballgames in this league.” 
cutler threw for 242 yards behind a line with four new starters. marshall had eight grabs for 104 yards, and the offense pulled it out after struggling most of the way. 
cincinnati’s andy dalton threw for 282 yards with two touchdowns and two in­terceptions. a.J. green had 162 yards receiving and two touchdowns, including a 45-yarder. but it was a disap­pointing opener for a team coming off back-to-back play­off appearances for the first time since 1981 and 1982. 
The bengals led by 11 in the third quarter and were up 21-17 early in the fourth when Tim Jennings jarred the ball from mohamed sanu 

FOR RENT 
FOOTBALL RENTAL: 
Availability for all home games. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
IRISH      CROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for ¿14-15 yr; 
4  bdrm/3.5  bath;  call/text  John  
281-635-2019;email  john.dimpel@  
raymondjames.com  

following a reception and made the recovery. 
chicago took over at its 19 and got an 8-yard run from matt Forte on fourth-and­inches at the bengals 27 to keep the drive going. cutler then found marshall in the front corner of the end zone for a 19-yard touchdown with 
7:58 remaining, and chicago hung on after a personal foul by rey maualuga with just over a minute left wiped out any chance of a comeback for cincinnati. 
here are five reasons the bears beat the bengals. 
1. sTrong Finish: The bears made big changes in the offseason, parting with star linebacker brian urlacher and hiring Trestman to replace the fired lovie smith with the idea that he could spark the offense and lead them to the playoffs after missing out five of the past six years. 
clearly, there’s work to do. The offense seemed stuck most of the afternoon but came through in the end, with cutler completing 21 of 33 passes. he also had two touchdowns to go with an interception. 
“There were a lot of ques­tion marks,” cutler said. “how were we going to do on offense? are the plays going to work? are we going to be able to block them? am i go­ing to complete balls? so to go out there, it wasn’t pretty, it wasn’t perfect, we didn’t think it was going to be. we made plays when we had to make plays.” 
There still are plenty of unanswered questions, none bigger than this: can Trestman get the most out of cutler? 
2. Keeping Their cool: one positive sign for the bears was that they kept their composure on offense, even after they fell behind 21-10 in the third. 
They got within four on matt Forte’s 1-yard Td run late in the third, and took advantage of a big break af­ter cutler got intercepted by vontaze burfict near midfield early in the fourth. 
cincinnati took over at the bears 40, but sanu’s fumble at the 17 led to a big swing. and marshall couldn’t believe he was 1-on-1 with reggie nelson on the go-ahead touchdown. 
“i didn’t understand it. you know?” marshall said. “Fourth quarter, put a safety on me 1-on-1? you can only ask for that and dream about that.” 
3. losing composure: clearly, bengals coach marvin lewis wasn’t thrilled with his team’s demeanor. They’d already commit­ted their share of mistakes and silly penalties. Then, maualuga got called for a per­sonal foul away from the play when cincinnati stopped michael bush after a short gain on third-and-6 at the bengals 45 with a little over a minute left. 
The unnecessary rough­ness penalty that kept the drive going and allowed cutler to take a knee twice, ending the game. 
“we had a lot of guys un­fortunately lose composure today,” lewis said. “we can’t do that.” 
4. 
lined up and ready To proTecT: get this. cutler did not get sacked. The re­vamped offensive line with four new starters and a pair rookies on the right side in guard Kyle long and tackle Jordan mills held its ground against one of the top defen­sive fronts. 

5. 
a secondary issue: one of the big question marks facing the bengals was their secondary. it still is. They held their own early, but struggled to stay with the re­ceivers, particularly when cutler was scrambling down the stretch. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Looking for a trainer/running part­ner for a local high school girl cross-country runner 2-3 times per week. Would prefer runner capable of run­ning a 5K in 21 minutes or less. Pay negotiable. Please call or text Ed at (574)309-7647. 
OKLAHOMA GAME. ND alum seeks 2 tickets. Phone Greg 319-541­2099 or 319-337-2244 
Want to make extra $$$$ with a neurotech company? Triple Domer needs a fluent Chinese-speaking stu­dent/grad student asap to assist in some translation work for a soon-to­launch company in China. Possible long term possibilities. Contact Dr. Fleming at kevin@kevinflemingphd. com 
PERSONAL 
Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults. 574-256-9836 
Music Lessons: Guitar, Bass, Mandolin, Dulcimer, Autoharp, Ukulele. 574-256-9836 



SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles welcome alumnae back for annual race 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
The saint mary’s cross coun­try team hosted their annual alumnae 5k on saturday. For the sixth year in a row, the team host­ed its signature alumnae event, which allows current and former belles to meet and run together. 
“it is a really low-key event with a small group of our alums that come back into town,” belles coach Jackie bauters said. 
unlike a conventional 5-ki­lometer, this event served as a casual tune-up for saint mary’s, which is gearing up for its first competitive 5k race, the Knight invitational, at calvin college. last year, current senior Jessica biek led the way for the belles, coming in 50th in a field of 313 runners. accordingly, bauters said that saturday’s race will be used to prepare for the upcoming competition. 
“The team will be using it as a training run and working through it in anticipation of next weekend at calvin,” bauters said. 
especially important is that the belles have not run a race since aug. 31, when the team finished fourth at the wabash hokum Karem in crawfordsville, ind. with a heavy conference schedule on the horizon, getting race ac­tion will help the belles stay sharp between competitive events. 
after this week’s 5-kilometer, saint mary’s will look to stand out in the crowded field at calvin. 
next  saturday,  the  belles  
will head out to  the  gainey  
athletic  complex  in  grand  

rapids, michigan at 10 a.m. for calvin college’s annual Knight invitational. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 

NFL 

Colts fail to protect Luck 
Associated Press 
colts owner Jim irsay and general manager ryan grigson made the offseason mission perfectly clear. 
They were going to run the ball more effectively and keep andrew luck on his feet more often in 2013. 
now, after making a big financial commitment to revamp the offense, they’re still waiting for the payoff. 
while the colts man­aged to rush for 127 yards and average 4.9 yards per carry, a positive sign for a team that has ranked among the league’s worst over the past several seasons, indy also struggled to sustain second-half drives or keep luck clean in the pocket in sunday’s 21-17 victory over oakland. 
“There’s always going to be, especially in the open­er, some things to clean up. They’d all tell you they’d be the first ones to tell you that we’ve got to play better and we will play better,” coach chuck pagano said. 
“it’s some communica­tion things, some technique things. again, it’s the first ballgame and we’ll be better 
as  far  as run-blocking  and  
protection  going  into  the  
second week.”  
Fans expected more.  

For months, colts players and coaches raved about the power-running scheme and double-tight end formations favored by new offensive co­ordinator pep hamilton. 

The fans interpreted that to mean the colts had fixed the problems that caused luck to be sacked 41 times, hit more than 100 times, complete 54.1 percent of his passes and throw 18 inter­ceptions a rookie. 
combined with luck hav­ing a full offseason to work in the system and with teammates, they figured the numbers would improve dramatically. 
some did on opening day. The second-year quarter­back completed 78.3 percent of his passes and still had the aFc’s third-highest average yards per attempt (7.74). 
luck threw two touchdown passes, no interceptions and scrambled 19 yards for the winning score with 5:20 to play. only peyton manning 
(141.1) and colin Kaepernick 
(129.4) had better first-week passer ratings than luck (127.9). 
The problem was that luck also was sacked four times, escaped a couple of others and got knocked around a handful more times by an oakland defense that had nine new starters. 
so on monday’s radio shows, fans expressed their angst. meanwhile, on the city’s west side, colts play­ers and coaches asked for patience. 
a couple of weeks ago, new left guard donald Thomas called the line a “work in progress.” on monday, he noted things were improving. 
“i feel better than when i said it the first time, and that’s progress,” Thomas said. “each week, we’ll get better and hopefully, we’ll be playing our best football in February.” 
There might not be any football in February if they can’t protect luck. 
most football insiders un­derstand it takes longer for the offensive line to coalesce and play together as a single unit, so these early weeks could be rough. 
it didn’t help the transi­tion that the colts lost right guard mike mcglynn for the last two preseason games and left tackle anthony castonzo for all but one series of the final two pre­season games because of in­juries. both were back in the lineup sunday for the first time since getting hurt. 
not all of the problems are the result of poor line play, either. as Thomas noted, there’s only five linemen and if a defense sends more, they’ll need help in blitz pickups. luck also can help getting rid of the ball quick­er or throwing it away. 
ultimately, though, the linemen understand the number of sacks and hits will determine whether they deserve credit or criticism. 
“i think sacks are always put on the offensive line, but who really knows what the situation was or where the protection broke down,” mcglynn said. “we don’t ever want to give up sacks.” 
MLB 
orioles win, gain in wild card 
Associated Press 
chris Tillman took a three-hit­ter into the eighth inning and the baltimore orioles beat the new york yankees 4-2 on monday night in a game that featured an on-field confrontation between the teams’ managers. 
with the victory, the orioles moved within 1 1-2 games of idle Tampa bay for the second al wild card. The yankees fell three games behind Tampa bay. 
Tillman (16-5) allowed two runs and four hits in seven-plus in­nings. he walked none and struck out nine, matching his career high. 
both dugouts emptied briefly after the first inning, when orioles manager buck showalter angrily exchanged words with Joe girardi after the yankees manager appar­ently said something to baltimore third base coach bobby dickerson. showalter had to be restrained by home plate umpire ed hickox. 
alex rodriguez and lyle overbay hit home runs for the yankees. rodriguez’s first-inning blast to right-center was the 652nd of his career, leaving him eight short of tying willie mays for fourth place all-time. 
cc sabathia (13-12), who came into the game with an 18-5 career record against the orioles, yielded four runs — three earned — and seven hits over 7 1-3 innings. he walked two and struck out six. 
Tommy hunter relieved Tillman and struck out the side in the eighth. Jim Johnson got the last three outs for his al-leading 43rd save. 
The orioles were 2 for 29 with runners in scoring position in their last two games, and their percent­age improved in the opener of the critical four-game series, as they went 2 for 8 in such situations. 
The orioles tied it 1-1 in the bottom of the first when nick markakis led off with a ground-rule double to center, went to third on manny machado’s sacrifice and scored on adam Jones’ sacri­fice fly. 
between the first and second innings, a red-faced showalter bolted from the first-base dugout, gesturing angrily and shouting at girardi before being held at bay by hickox. girardi followed from the third-base dugout in calmer fash­ion as players from both teams spilled onto the field. 
once order was restored, televi­sion cameras showed showalter shaking his head and glaring at girardi from the orioles dugout. 
baltimore went up 2-1 in the fifth when J.J. hardy doubled into the left-field corner and advanced to third by beating the relay from first base on michael morse’s third-to-first groundout. matt wieters’ sacrifice fly scored hardy. 
alexi casilla followed with a single past rodriguez at third, stole second and came home on markakis’ single. 
in the seventh, the orioles added an insurance run when machado’s 49th double, a two-out poke off the scoreboard. in right, scored wieters from third. 
overbay’s homer leading off the eighth chased Tillman. 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Lesiewicz, Meunier start off season right 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
patrick lesiewicz and sydni meunier entered this past weekend’s crusader invitational from very dif­ferent places. lesiewicz, a senior on the men’s team, is a cross country veteran with many races under his belt, while meunier, a sophomore for the women, has run in just four career meets. both runners, though, ended in the same position: first. 
after a third-place finish in her first-ever cross country meet at last year’s crusader invitational, meunier won the 5K this year with a time of 17:57.7. Just the sixth woman to ever win the race for the irish, meunier said she was pleased with her performance. 
“it was our first [race] of the season and we’ve all just been training really hard over the summer and the first couple weeks we’ve been here,” meunier said. “our plan going in was to just stay together, especially through the first [kilometer] and then after that just go off how you feel and bring it home.” 
meunier brought home the win in the individual race and in the overall team category and believes the race will prove to be a useful tool when preparing for up­coming meets. 
“i was happy to be able to do a race like that, where i could start out and see where i’m at and where i need to improve these next couple of weeks before we start getting into the bigger meets,” meunier said. 
as for lesiewicz, Friday was his third time running in the crusader invitational, finishing third and fourth before this year’s victory in the 6K. while acknowledg­ing that there will be more important races down the road, he said he was still happy with his run. 
“in terms of condition­ing and staying in shape it wasn’t so important, just because i want to be in my best shape for the end of the season, not the beginning,” lesiewicz said. “but in terms of confidence, winning a race like that is a big confi­dence booster.” 
he said he credits his per­formance Friday to all the work he’s put in leading up to the race. 
“i’ve just been working re­ally hard,” lesiewicz said. “all summer i’ve been train­ing, and it’s good to see it pay off like that.” 
NFL 

eagles thrash redskins 
Associated Press 
Just try to keep up with michael vick, lesean mccoy and the philadelphia eagles this season. robert griffin iii and the washington redskins sure couldn’t. 
playing at a frenetic pace that left the redskins bum­bling and stumbling, the eagles unleashed coach chip Kelly’s offense on the nFl and crammed 77 plays into 60 minutes of football. They had their share of mis­cues, of course, but they held on for a 33-27 upset of the defending nFc east champs. 
vick, running the don’t­take-a-breath attack that won 87 percent of the time during Kelly’s four years at the university of oregon, completed 15 of 25 passes for 203 yards and two touch­downs, and he ran nine times for 56 yards and a score. mccoy had 31 carries for 184 yards, including a 34-yard Td. desean Jackson piled up 104 yards on seven catches. 
vick hit Jackson for a 25­yard touchdown and brent celek for a 28-yard score, then found the end zone himself on a 3-yard run — and that was just the first half. it would have been a bigger rout if vick hadn’t missed three open receiv­ers in the first quarter, or if his sideways lateral on first-and-goal at the 4 hadn’t been tipped by linebacker ryan Kerrigan and returned 75 yards for a redskins touchdown. 
perhaps the most remark­able accomplishment by vick, mccoy, Kelly and the eagles: They managed to up­stage griffin. The game was played eight months to the day since the redskins quar­terback had major knee sur­gery, and his return monday was the culmination of a dedicated, high-profile re­hab that included a pub­lic clash with washington coach mike shanahan that barely put a dent in the fans’ fervent adoration for their franchise player. 
meunier said she cred­its her summer training as well, especially since this is only her second season running cross country. her high school, gibson city melvin-sibley (ill.), did not field a cross country team during meunier’s time there. in order to stay competitive with the rest of the runners who have been running all throughout high school, she relies on her teammates. 
“i just try to go off my teammates experience and ask them for a lot of advice,” meunier said. “This team is full of so many great run­ners so i just go off them and their knowledge and abili­ties. i worked really hard all summer since this is only my second year running cross country, so i’ve just been working on trying to get mentally tough and get a lot stronger.” 
For both lesiewicz and meunier, confidence and expectations run high after the team’s strong showing this past weekend. lesiewicz said he expects himself to continue to improve and help out the team in what he believes could turn out to be a very successful year. 
“For the team, we’d like to win our acc meet, and from there, just do well at regionals and then nation-and get my team a point or als, and hopefully get into two, that would be great.” the top ten,” lesiewicz said. “individually, if i can make Contact Alex Wilcox at it into the top five, top seven, awilcox1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 





ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 

Irish junior Peyton Vitter takes a swing on the last day of the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic on Oct. 9 at the Warren Golf Course. The Irish will return to the course on Sept. 23­24 for this year’s edition of the event after competing this weekend at the Gopher Inivational in Independence, Minn. 
paid adverTisemenT 

Golf 
conTinued From page 16 
Kubinski said. “he certainly hit the ball well. his putting though was as good as it gets. his confidence is very high, which is most important to me.” 
in fact, Kubinski wasn’t the only one who noticed platt’s stellar play with the flat stick. Kubinski added that a rival coach told him platt was “the best putter in college golf.” 
The day wasn’t entirely posi­tive for the irish though, as sophomore cory sciupider and freshman liam cox struggled to 43rd and 44th place finish­es, respectively, in the 62-man field. Kubinski didn’t seem 
“[Niall] certainly hit the ball well. His putting was as good as it gets. His confidence is very high, which is most important to me.” 
Jim Kubinski 
Irish coach 
the least bit panicked, how­ever, when talking about their performances. 
“From a team standpoint, we needed a better third and fourth score,” Kubinski said. “i know we’ll get those, though … cory will produce. he’s an ex­ceptional talent but spent the weekend pressing. i have great confidence in liam and (fresh­man) blake [barens]. They played young but they’ll give us strong play moving forward, i’m sure of that.” 
The irish next tee off at the Fighting irish gridiron classic, a two-day -tournament held at the warren golf course sept. 23 and 24. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at       agodeaux@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 16 
Kelly’s comments demon­strate a sharp departure from the defensive men­tality of last season, when the irish (1-1) rattled off an undefeated season and fin­ished the year ranked sec­ond in scoring defense. 
“last year we had to rely on our defense to win foot­ball games,” Kelly said. “i don’t want to have to do that week-in and week-out. i think there are going to be some times when our 
offense  has  to  win  some  
ballgames.”  
The  irish  defense  lost  

three starters to the nFl following last season, in­cluding heisman candidate manti Te’o, but Kelly said his desire for the offense to score more points does not reflect negatively on this year’s defensive unit. 
“in games where you have two really good football teams, we are going to have to score more points,” he said. “it doesn’t mean our defense is not as good, it’s just that we went up against a really good quarterback [against michigan] and he made a lot of plays ... 
“i just felt like this was one of those nights where our offense had to bail out our defense. but in no way of saying our defense can›t 


Andrews 
conTinued From page 16 
starting alongside senior mandy laddish and sopho­more cari roccaro in the midfield, andrews has quickly made her mark for the irish. 
“she’s such a calming ef­fect in there. she reads the game so well. she’s so skill­ful and composed on the ball,” irish coach randy waldrum said. 
“she’s not a freshman ex­cept by her grade here at notre dame,” waldrum con­tinued. “by her ability, she’s definitely a veteran player.” 
such could be expected from one of the top prep prospects in recent memo­ry in any sport. widely re­garded as the top recruit in the country for the 2013 class, andrews is a two-time gatorade national player of the year and was named the 2013 gatorade national athlete of the year for 2013. The last irish athlete to take home the latter award? skylar diggins in 2009. such are the expectations for andrews in her first year. 
as evidenced by those awards, her numerous inter­national appearances play­ing for united states national squads and her high school and conference-record 114 goals at milford (nh) high play championship de­fense. i think it can. it just wasn›t this night.” 
The head coach was also adamant, when prompted by reporters, that offensive coordinator chuck martin would continue to call plays for the irish offense. 
“chuck martin is calling plays, he will continue to call plays,” Kelly said. “he 
school, andrews is already prepared to become one of the more talented players on any field the irish play on this year. 
For now, however, she is focused on finding her role on the team and adjusting to play at the collegiate level. whether that means scoring goals, distributing the ball or controlling possession in the midfield, andrews said her goal is to help the irish score in whatever way possible. 
“it’s all about the team and what we can do to help score goals,” andrews said. “it all depends on what’s on in the moment. during the detroit game, it was the far shots. i did what had to be done. i’m definitely going to keep shooting.” 
waldrum said he agreed that after just a handful of games, andrews is settling into her role well. 
“i think she needed a few games to kind of find her way, fitting into a new team, but i think these last few weeks she’s really started to find her stride,” waldrum said. “These are the things we expected her to do for us. she’s key.” 
with the addition of andrews, notre dame has a midfield filled with excit­ing players, from 2012 fresh­man all-american roccaro called every single play. That hasn’t changed.” 
Kelly also highlighted one area where he hopes his defense can improve: dis­cipline. six irish penalties turned into 50 yards for the wolverines, who also con­verted three third downs off the visitors’ flags. with michigan clinging to a 34­30 lead and driving midway through the fourth quarter, two notre dame pass inter­ference calls allowed the wolverines to convert on third down in consecutive series.  
“we’ve got to be smart­er and more disciplined as a defense,” Kelly said. “we don’t coach penal­ties. we want to coach guys to be smarter and more disciplined on a day-to-day basis, and that falls on me. i don’t want my football team to be in a position where games have to be decided in that regard.” 
notre dame will travel to west lafayette, ind. to face purdue (1-1) this weekend. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
to laddish, who was a big east second-team selection last season. Through their first five games, the irish midfielders have dominated possession and controlled the tempo of games expertly in addition to filling the net liberally. 
“when we have them fir­ing on all cylinders togeth­er — laddish and cari and morgan — we have one of the best midfields in the country,” waldrum said. “it could be very exciting by the end of the year.” 
with notre dame about to enter acc play against north carolina state on Thursday, andrews said she is going forward with the knowledge that her best days are ahead of her and her teammates are behind her. 
“with the girls here, it’s not hard to adjust because everyone’s so welcoming. it just comes down to know­ing what your role is. my role is to get in, play with the girls and play as hard as i possibly can.” andrews said. “now i think i’m feel­ing more comfortable in the game and taking advantage of my opportunities. 
“it’s just the community feeling. everyone supports you.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: pink, 34; david arquette, 42; brooke burke charvet, 42; neko case, 43. 
Happy Birthday: Keep a close watch over your money and health issues. impulsive­ness will lead to trouble, and patience and research will lead to success. listen attentively and participate in activities and events that will broaden your awareness and your friendships. your keen sense of the big picture will encourage those you encounter to take a chance on you. your numbers are 7, 13, 15, 21, 33, 38, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t make rash decisions or push someone away without taking a closer look at the situation involving someone else. overreacting will magnify a problem that just requires a little tweaking. a good physical workout will help defuse your anger. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): consider your qualifications and look at job prospects that interest you. it never hurts to send your resume out to ensure that you are mar­ketable. a force play with a partner or your current domestic situation will prompt a change. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a timeout to take care of personal needs may not please the people who count on you, but it’s important that you do something rejuvenat­ing. a change of scenery or hanging out with someone unique will lift your spirits. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t blow an incident out of proportion. back away from anyone trying to corner you or pick a fight. concentrate on self-improvement and the hobbies that interest you. learn by observing how people from different backgrounds handle similar situations. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): make positive changes at home. do the work yourself and you will have money to spend on something or someone special. a trip will encour­age you to incorporate the information you discover into an opportunity that can lead to financial freedom. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep up with what’s going on in your community or the industry in which you work to avoid being broadsided by someone or something that can influence your position or financial security. a change of heart can lead to a costly expense. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep everything simple. being adaptable will help you slip through any upsets or confrontations you face without too much trouble. let past experience guide you. Take the day to travel to places that will occupy your mind and ease your stress. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a secret will be divulged. protect your reputation and your honor by counteracting any gossip that might incriminate you. use your imagination and concentrate on projects that allow you to be innovative. handle whatever you face uniquely and discreetly. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take an active role in your community and raise your profile. lobby to enforce rules that will improve your lifestyle. change is good, and whether it is personal, financial or physical, you will prosper from positive action. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): strategy will be required if you want to get to the bottom of a problem you have with someone you care about. Taking on too much or overreacting will stand between you and accomplishing what you set out to do. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t dismiss an idea you have. Flush out the pos­sibilities and consider how you can turn something you want to pursue into a moneymaking endeavor. love is on the rise, and sharing your feelings is encour­aged. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t overspend on luxury items or fancy products that promise the impossible. invest in your talent, skills and ideas that can help you get ahead financially. a partnership will improve your position and help you reach your goals. 

Birthday Baby: you are charming, sensitive and kind. you are practical and persis­tent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 
city      state Zip 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Offensively challenged 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
in saturday’s 41-30 loss to michigan, the respected irish defense gave up more points by halftime than any game in 2012. The irish of­fense, meanwhile, put up 23 points and produced 410 yards. after the big loss in the big house, however, irish coach brian Kelly said he placed the largest por­tion of the blame at the feet of his offense. 
“i felt that we missed some opportunities offen­sively that could have given us the opportunity to win this football game,” he said. 
“This was one of those games where our offense needed to carry the day for us. and we just came up short on a couple of key plays for us.” 
Kelly acknowledged that some portion of those missed opportunities re­flects failed execution by senior quarterback Tommy rees, who passed for 314 yards and two touchdowns in the game. rees threw an zone the 


rees tion in 
blake 
MEN’S GOLF 

Two irish golfers crack top 10 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
in its first competitive ac­tion of the season, notre dame finished seventh at the gopher invitational. hosted by minnesota at windsong Farm golf club in independence, minn., the event boasted a 12­team field. 
new mexico won the tourna­ment with a combined score of four under par while defending champion cal finished fourth, coming in at seven over at the difficult windsong course. irish coach Jim Kubinski said the setup at windsong was challenging, but also fair. 
“it was a great examination,” Kubinski said. “The greens were outstanding and you could make some putts, but the hole locations were still chal­lenging. you had to control your shots and hit the ball into the proper spots to have success.” 
Freshman matt rushton had the most success of the irish golfers on the challeng­ing course. The cape Town, south africa native shot a four-under 67 in his first ever colle­giate round sunday morning. despite notching a 73 sunday afternoon, rushton was able to rebound with a 70 on monday to tie for sixth individually. 
“To see matthew excel through the bag is exciting for us,” Kubinski said. “he was so solid, from his attitude and focus to his ball striking and putting. he just seemed com­fortable out there.” 
Kubinski also heaped praise on senior niall platt, who made seven birdies en route to a 68 monday, and finish tied for sixth with rushton. he started the day tied for tenth. 
“niall played phenomenal,” 
see golF PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Andrews thrives at ND 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
The detroit defender maintained a three-yard cushion, wary of what irish freshman midfielder morgan andrews can do with the ball at her feet. 
hoping to avoid being beaten off the dribble, the defender backed off, think­ing that andrews posed lit­tle threat to score 30 yards from the goal. instead, andrews took one dribble, teed up a shot and blasted a swerving strike into the top right corner of the detroit net, an absolute laser from distance that left alumni stadium momentarily si­lent sunday night. 
it was no ordinary goal, but andrews is no ordinary player, regardless of the fact that she has only played in five collegiate games. The goal was the second of the day for andrews and her third of the young season as the irish dispatched the a key cog for a no. 8 notre Titans 4-0. dame team about to enter its 

despite her relative inex-first season in the atlantic perience, andrews has al-coast conference (acc). ready become a fixture in the irish starting lineup and see andrews PAGE 14 




