The independenT To uncover newSpaper Serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT SainT mary’S iT accuraTely 

volume 46, iSSue 83 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | ndSmcobServer.com 
Candidates square off in debate 
Six tickets for student body president, vice president share ideas Monday night 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
in anticipation for wednesday’s election, candi­dates for student body president and vice president gathered in lafortune Student center last night to debate the issues and promote their platforms. 
in contrast to last year, in which only one ticket ran, six tickets are running this year. The candidates’ platform objec­tives range from getting student government technologically up­to-date to fostering a greater re­lationship with the South bend community. 
a common thread uniting most of the platforms was the improvement of communication between student government and the student body. Several candidates advocated online fo­rums, meetings with students, or town-hall meetings to better hear what students want from their government. 
“communication is our core issue,” presidential candidate dominic romeo said. “There is a communication gap between the government and students, and we would like to change that.” 
romeo and his running mate phillip hootsmans, both juniors, have focused their campaign on equality and inclusion on 
see debaTe PAGE 5 




Hockey player arrested Monday 
Observer Staff Report 
The South bend Tribune reported that police arrest­ed a notre dame hockey player early monday morn­ing when he allegedly at­tacked a female manager at brothers bar and grill. 
Jared beers, 22, of mishawaka, reportedly 
see arreST PAGE 5 


Student teaches yoga sculpt class at Smc 
brought her love of yoga challenge. There are also a workout. in minnesota to be able to 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 

Saint mary’s editor sculpt to South bend and now couple of cardio series to get “i loved everything about teach. i have insurance [for it] 
teaches two classes each week the heart rate up and burn it — the people, music, and as well.” 
while yoga is commonly to other students. more. it is an intense hour-an awesome workout,” she yoga sculpt, which is typi­known as a relaxing type of “yoga sculpt is intended long class, but very easy to said. “i continued to do sculpt cally practiced in a heated exercise, one Saint mary’s to tone and sculpt the major follow.” for the rest of high school room of about 90 degrees, sophomore is bringing a more muscle groups,” harvey said. harvey first tried yoga and when i came to college improves the flexibility and intense, cardio-based form of “with the use of weights, it sculpt during her sopho-i missed it so much. So, over strength of those who train yoga to the college campus. allows you to get deeper into more year of high school and this past summer i got certi-
Sophomore grace harvey poses and have an added was instantly hooked on the fied through corepower yoga see yoga PAGE 4 


Alumnae produce films 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
when sisters gita and kavita pullapilly graduated from notre dame with degrees in finance, their immediate post-graduation plans didn’t include producing award-winning films. 

“i ended up getting a job in fi­nance … but just really felt like that maybe wasn’t where i was supposed to be,” gita, a 1999 alum­na, said. “i found that journalism was an avenue to what i really ended up wanting to do, which was storytelling in a medium that was visual in particular.” 

gita’s educational journey from notre dame to northwestern university’s medill School of Journalism ultimately paved the path to her current job as executive producer of the forthcoming public television program “lifecasters,” which will have its world premiere wednesday at new york’s lincoln center. 
gita said the project, produced by her personal production com­pany, Sunny Side up films, aims to “inspire and engage the coun­try” through three short films by 
see lifecaSTerS PAGE 5 

Study finds church is ‘less generous’ 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
a recent study published by notre dame professors brian Starks and christian Smith found catholics to be less generous givers than other christians. Smith said the catholic church in the united States has great potential to ac­complish good in the church and in the world, but is often hampered by a lack of funds. 
Starks, director of notre dame’s catholic Social and pastoral research initiative (cSpri), and Smith, co-founder of the initiative, came up with the idea for the study together, Starks said. 
“we knew from the larger body of social science research that catholics giving to the church, measured as a percentage of in­come donated, had been in decline for decades,” Starks said. 
The study looked specifically at whether respondents “regularly donate at least 10 percent of their income to religious, charitable, or other good causes,” and whether they donated to “solely religious causes” in the past twelve months, Starks said. 
John cavadini, director of the institute for church life, and Smith, who is also director of the center for the Study of religion and Society, collaborated to form 
see STudy PAGE 4 


Scene PAGE 8 STudenT governmenT in-focuS men’S baSkeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 South dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: Sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.Scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and Saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 South dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices poSTmaSTer Send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 South dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What song annoys you the most? 


Cecelia Loughlin 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“‘invited’ by Ziona. it’s really weird. look it up.” 
Michael Chronert 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“everything Justin bieber.” 
Ray Gu 
junior 
pasquerilla east hall 
“gangnam Style.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Sergi Filonow 
graduate student 
fischer-o’hara 
“call me maybe.” 
Sara Ren 
sophomore 
pasquerilla west hall 
“That madonna song that peter griffin dances to after he drinks red bull.” 
Michael Russell 
sophomore 
“‘lights’ by ellie goulding.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian barwick katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
bridget feeney d.h. kim Sarah Swiderski Sam gans 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Sara Shoemake Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Engineering Seminar Workshop: Interview Zen Meditation Basilica Mass Vigil Mass 
kirby mckenna caroline Schurz 
Geddes Hall Dos and Don’ts Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred 3 p.m.- 3:30 p.m. 114 Flanner Hall Center Heart Heart Seminar by Dr. Filippo 12 p.m. - 1 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m. 5 p.m - 6 p.m. 
Corrections 

Coletti of Stanford Interviewing tips and Practice sitting and Led by Bishop Kevin Celebration of the 
The observer regards itself as Univerity. tricks from Ann Moran. walking meditation. Rhoades. Eucharist. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Four:7 Catholic Meet the Baseball Film screening: Men’s Hockey Men’s Basketball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fellowship Team Dinner “American Meat” Compton Family Ice Joyce Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall Joyce Center DeBartolo Hall Arena 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m. Notre Dame takes on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Student-led Catholic Autographs session Presented by the The Irish face Michigan. Louisville. 
we can correct our error. 

fellowship group. and dinner. Office of Sustainability. 

ndSmcobServer.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | The obServer 

SDB hosts week to increase disability awareness 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate Saint mary’s editor 
in an effort to increase knowledge about mental and learning disabilities, the Student diversity board (Sdb) is hosting a week ded­icated to raising awareness around the Saint mary’s campus among students, faculty and staff. 
disabilities awareness week, which continues to­day and ends friday, is an annual event Sdb orga­nizes in order to encourage students to educate them­selves about disabilities. 
Senior maggie galvin, Sdb president, said the week is especially impor­tant to highlight students at Saint mary’s who expe­rience different types of disabilities. 
“Student diversity board hosts disabilities awareness week to shed light on the various dis­abilities on Saint mary’s campus,” she said. “So many girls are living with unseen disabilities and struggling with them ev­
ery  day  —  from  learn­ 
ing disabilities  to  mental  
disabilities.”  

according to galvin, an­other goal of the week is to prevent the formation of stereotypes and judgments. She said people need to un­derstand that having a dis­ability is something people of all types and back­grounds experience. 
“Student diversity board would like to show that dis­abilities, whether they can be seen or not, should not be ignored and more preva­lent than one may think,” she said. “we started to fulfill this goal last year with our posters of celebri­ties and their disabilities, which will continue with this year’s week.” 


rhonda Tomenko, a 

paid adverTiSemenT 
communicative disorders professor at the college, will conduct hearing screenings today from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in the Student center atri­um as part of disabilities awareness week. 
“hearing screens are ad­ministered to children be­cause of school rules, but as we age we do not receive them anymore unless one notices a problem with their hearing,” galvin said. “with how loudly we lis­ten to our music in our ear buds, it is very important to know if you have any sort of hearing loss.” 
on wednesday, Sdb will show a movie from 8 to 10 p.m. in vander vennet Theater in the basement of the Student center. galvin said the movie choice has not been determined yet but will either be “aphasia” or “Tru confessions.”“’Tru confessions’ is a disney channel movie about a girl who makes a documentary about her brother who has a developmental disabil­ity that causes him to act like a child,” galvin said. “‘aphasia’ is a documenta­ry about one father’s strug­gle to relearn how to speak after he has a stroke.” 
on Thursday, the board will hang posters around campus that showcase different celebrities with learning and mood disabilities. 
“i love walking around campus and seeing girls reading the posters of ce­lebrities and saying ‘oh! Steve Jobs was dyslexic?’” she said. “it really sinks in that anyone can be living with a disability and you would never know.” 
galvin said disabilities awareness week is an im­portant asset to the Saint mary’s community and stu­dents have a lot to learn. 
“Students should attend the events for disabilities awareness week because they are engaging as well as educational.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


The obServer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | ndSmcobServer.com 

Yoga 
conTinued from page 1 
with it, harvey said. 
“instead of the stereotypi­cal yoga practice, this is very upbeat and high energy,” she said. “with the use of weights and various pilates moves, it makes sculpt attractive for the younger crowd. i always describe it to friends who haven’t done it as a pilates [or] cardio class with yoga moves.” 
in addition to the great workout, harvey said she en­joys being part of the yoga sculpt community. 
“it is truly a bonding experi­ence as we all go through the hard workout together,” she said. “i think with all of the craziness in our college lives it is awesome when we can take an hour break to completely unwind, have fun together and get a good workout.” 
harvey began teaching the workouts to her roommate in their dorm rooms last fall. 
“well dorm rooms are small, so i decided to expand it and make a facebook group of girls who i thought would be interested,” harvey said. “i in­
“I think with all of the craziness in our college lives it is awesome when we can take an hour break to completely unwind, have fun together and get a good workout.” 
Grace Harvey 
sophomore 
cluded friends i went to high school with and are familiar with sculpt. i am working on trying to make a yoga club at Saint mary’s so we can be of­ficial and reserve space when i teach classes.” 
harvey said she was ini­tially surprised at the amount of feedback she received from students about yoga sculpt classes on campus. 
“i am in absolute shock over how fast sculpt has spread over both campuses,” harvey said. “There is a clear de­mand for another good work­out class. my first class, i had about 20 people or so. now my classes are between 25 to 30 people. The more, the merrier.” 
The feedback was so im­mense that harvey added an additional class per week to her original one. She teaches yoga sculpt at noon on fridays in the angela athletic facility, and sometimes on monday, Tuesday or wednesday nights. 
for more information about harvey’s yoga sculpt ses­sions, follow @SmcSculpt on Twitter. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Study 
conTinued from page 1 

cSpri in 2011 at notre dame, Sparks said. he said the group strives to use social science as a tool to challenge and strengthen the catholic church.
 “we knew that resource issues are an especially important con­cern for parishes and dioceses in their efforts toward faith forma­tion, staff development, pastoral planning, etcetera,” Starks said. “So, we decided this study was especially appropriate for cSpri.” 
Starks said when comparing catholics to other christians, he and Smith mainly focused on evangelical and mainline protestants, who represented the groups with the largest number of respondents in their sample. 
The study uncovered that catholics are, on average, less gen­erous in voluntary financial giv­ing than other christian groups in the united States, Starks said. The median reported annual donation to the church was only $175 for catholics who gave, as compared to $588 for non-catho­lic givers, he said. 
Starks said it is important to un­derstand what are not key reasons for catholics being less generous. 
“it is not because they have less money to give — catholics in our sample are slightly above the national average in terms of income,” Starks said. “Second, it is not because catholics attend church less.” 
instead, Starks credits a “lack of spiritual engagement with mon­ey” when explaining the lesser giving of catholics. without this engagement, catholics tend to re­gard their use of money and mate­rial possessions as separate from matters of faith and spiritual life, he said. 
based on their belief that in­creasing the spiritual engagement with money will increase dona­tions, Starks said he and Smith explored different approaches to allow catholic pastors and others to begin the discussion about money within their parishes. 
“we found that discussions of money in catholic parishes should not center on meeting basic organizational needs, but rather on spiritual growth and personal world transformation,” Starks said. “parish culture should help catholics reflect on the dan­gers of compartmentalizing their financial dealings from their life of faith.” 
To that end, Starks said he and Smith recommend priests give homilies that discuss money while focusing on developing compas­sion or empathy and challenging materialistic values, which could then help catholics to recognize the tie between their spiritual life and how they use their money and material possessions. 
Starks said if members of the church are reminded that their donations represent something more than just helping fund the church, Starks and Smith believe giving will increase. 
“most important of all, how­ever, seems to be fostering par­ish cultures in which the use of money is not seen as a mere secu­lar or profane matter, but, as the bible teaches, a spiritual concern that god cares about, that shapes one’s personal spiritual life pro­foundly, and that can genuinely help transform the world along christian values and purposes,” Starks said. 
The study helped to make clear the sociological reasoning behind the lesser generosity of catholics, as well as uncover practical ways to increase giving, the research­ers said. Starks and Smith said if catholics can increase their giv­ing, the church will be able to succeed in thriving to their most prosperous state. 
“american catholics learning to become much more financially generous would be truly revolu­tionary,” Smith said. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 

paid adverTiSemenT ndSmcobServer.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013  | The obServer 



Lifecasters 
conTinued from page 1 
award-winning filmmakers that showcase the stories of three “amaz­ing artists who came from different backgrounds to achieve their goals and dreams.” 
“[The subjects] all had to face these enormous challenges … but took interesting routes to be able to achieve their goals … and that to us was really exciting,” gita said. “we kind of want to champion people who did these different things who have yet to be recognized for it at the national scale.” 
The success of Sunny Side up’s last film, the emmy-nominated documentary “The way we get by,” placed the production company on the radar of filmmakers across the country, gita said, and that public exposure opened doors for work­ing with well-known directors and producers on “lifecasters,” includ­ing “anchorman” director adam mckay, producer Shira piven and oscar-nominated documentary filmmakers Steven bognar and Julia reichert. 
“coming out of the gate with this project, we really wanted the best of the best filmmakers so they could set the model for what we kind of stand by,” gita said. 
in the case of mckay, who has a strong background in comedy as the creator of the humor site funny or die, gita said “lifecasters” repre­sented a unique filmmaking oppor­tunity that allowed him to explore the story of musician and former prisoner wayne kramer in “The beast and the angel.” 
“we loved the idea of giving [mckay] a creative platform to do something that wasn’t comedy but something that was very personal for [him],” she said. 

To round out the “lifecasters” lineup, bognar and reichert pro­filed one of the oldest female pro­fessional dancers in the country in “Sparkle,” and gita and her hus­band, aron gaudet, produced “The gambling man,” which tells the story of an 80-year-old retired doctor who composed an award-winning symphony. 
although the project took two years of hard work, gita said the end result of “lifecasters” made all the time and effort worthwhile. 
“for us as storytellers, our job is to engage and entertain an audience, so we’re very excited to have … these artists share their stories,” gita said. “we hope we can become a voice for people across the country to find ways to accomplish their goals.” 
That aspiration to inspire audi­ences comes from a lifelong desire to use knowledge and talents to pro­mote a worthy cause, gita said. 
“when we were at notre dame, both kavita and i would try to figure out how as domers we could give back … and we’re so fortunate and so proud that from our education we were able to develop a voice and sto­rytelling techniques … and that we were able to hone our skills at notre dame.” 
kavita said her experiences in both finance and filmmaking have demonstrated the value of a notre dame education in the real world. 
“it’s great that notre dame gave us the opportunity to explore and really develop our skills but allowed us the well-rounded education to re­ally explore what we wanted to do in life,” kavita said. “it speaks a lot to the 
paid adverTiSemenT 

notre dame experience that it goes beyond what our majors were and really [helps] us become amazing, contributing individuals.” 
although her sister and brother-in-law take creative direction of the Sunny Side up’s endeavors, kavita said she appreciates their work from the unique perspective as a produc­er and the company’s chief operat­ing officer. 
“i’ve always been kind of behind the scenes … but i loved the process of thinking and creating from an idea and developing it into an artistic endeavor that really engages people, their minds, their imaginations, their feelings,” kavita said. “i started working with gita and aron full-time in august 2011, and i’ve been loving it ever since.” even though they ended up choosing different career paths than initially intended, both pullapilly sisters still use the fundamental business knowledge they acquired as notre dame un­dergraduates in operating their pro­duction company. 
“The business side is critical through the entire process of the concept to finishing the film to get­ting it out into the world. every as­pect of what needs to happen has a huge business component behind it,” gita said. “our film company is committed to finding creative av­enues to make the films we want to make and get them out as economi­cally viably as possible.” 
“lifecasters” will premiere nation­ally feb. 7 on pbS. The second major project from Sunny Side up films, a feature film titled “blue potato,” will be released later this year. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Debate 
conTinued from page 1 
campus. They want to create a welcoming atmosphere on cam­pus, whether someone is a mi­nority, international or a member of the lgbTQ community. 
Sophomore running mates bill christy and patrick roemer advocated greater communica­tion in the dorms, as well as re­form of du lac and the office of residence life and housing in various areas. 
“we want to have a two-on­two meeting with every dorm’s 
“We believe student 
life is not limited 
to campus. We 
want to create a 
council to work 
directly with the 
mayor to clarify 
what students 
expect from South 
Bend. Students 
should be able to 
express themselves 
off-campus.” 
Austin O’Brien 
freshman 
presidential candidate 
president and vice president ev­ery two months to address each dorm’s different needs,” christy said. “we also plan to attend hall council meetings across campus.” 
Juniors alex coccia and nancy Joyce have built their platform upon student advocacy. They plan on creating a monthly town hall forum where students and administrators can converse about important issues across campus.
 “we want to submit several issues to The observer every month, and students can text in a vote about what issue they would like to see addressed in the town hall meeting,” coccia said. 
Arrest 
conTinued from page 1 
hit the manager when she asked him to leave the bar late Sunday night. he is a junior defenseman, ac ­cording to the team roster. 
The Tribune reported beers was booked at the St. Joseph county Jail on sus ­picion of battery, trespass, resisting law enforcement, disorderly conduct and public intoxication. 
according to the Tribune report, the bar manager told South bend police that she had asked beers to leave when he tried to take beer from the tables of other patrons at the eddy Street bar. beers refused to leave, she told officers, and he punched her in the face. 
beers allegedly then stepped on her head, face and neck when she fell to the ground, and then 
included in the platform of junior michael masi and sopho­more Timothy Scanlan is a social justice form, which would link notre dame students to admin­istrators and student from other universities to promote social justice. masi and Scanlan also want to create a mobile app for smartphones. 
“The mobile app will be all-encompassing,” masi said. “it will include residence life and housing, meal plans, and other things relevant to a notre dame student.” 
The platform of freshmen austin o’brien and nick boggess is centered upon improving notre dame’s relationship with South bend, as well as making South bend more a college town. 
“we believe student life is not limited to campus,” o’brien said. “we want to create a council to work directly with the mayor to clarify what students expect from South bend. Students should be able to express them­selves off-campus.” 
conveying the common sen­timent of the night’s debate, coccia said the key to improv­ing student government’s effi­cacy is to close the gap between the representatives and the represented.
 “it’s all about bringing student government down from the sec­ond floor of lafortune and en­gaging students,” coccia said. 
The one ticket not to focus on enhancing communication, Zahm freshmen kevin Salat and paul mascarenhas are more fo­cused on bridging the physical gap between notre dame and Saint mary’s. 
“we advocate improving the Stadium so that notre dame will make approximately $2 to $3 million more per home game,” Salat said. “This money would go towards building a monorail from Saint mary’s directly to Zahm on friday and Saturday nights.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
pulled her ponytail, the Tribune cited from a police report. 
beers allegedly ran away when witnesses called 911, police said. The woman reported pain to her head and neck, the Tribune re ­ported. it was unclear in the police report cited by the Tribune if she received medical treatment at a hos ­pital after the encounter. 
officers told the Tribune that beers left his wallet in the bar, and he came to the police station to retrieve it when officers called him to tell him they had located the wallet. South bend po ­lice arrested beers when he came to the station around 
2:15 a.m. for the wallet, the Tribune stated. 
The St. Joseph country prosecutor ’s office has not yet filed formal charges against beers, according to the Tribune. 



INSIDE COLUMN 

brotherly contest 

Cory Bernard 
Sports writer 

all in all, there wasn’t too much about the Super bowl to cause complaint. The game itself ended up being a great con­test. ad lovers delighted in humorous and heart-wrenching commercials. beyoncé proved during her halftime show she is still the reigning queen of show business. yet, there will always be critics. 
These sourpusses might point out the lopsided halftime score or ms. knowles’ possibly lip-synced performance. but the most ridiculous grievance i have seen is the one leveled at the harbaughs’ post-game greeting. 
many thought the brothers would show more affection when they met on the field after the game. in fact, many of these same people bet on the duration of said meeting. one day before the Super bowl, the huffington post reported the ques­tion, “how long will the postgame hug be­tween the harbaugh brothers last?” was a legitimate proposition bet for potential gamblers in nevada. as it turns out, the over/under was 7.5 seconds. 
i have no problem with betting on bi­zarre outcomes. if i want to spend money betting that alicia keys will mess up at least two words while singing the nation­al anthem, or that only one member of the ravens’ active roster will be arrested prior to kickoff (yes, these were all legiti­mate options), then so be it. i do have a problem, however, with the bettors’ belief in brotherly love, especially between the harbaughs. The general public’s expecta­tion of such affection is way off base. 
John and Jim harbaugh are two broth­ers who were born 15 months apart, who grew up playing football and who possess jaw lines strong enough to make bruce willis seem soft. The fact that they exchanged a four-second congratula­tory handshake after competing for the biggest prize in american professional sports should come as enough of a sur­prise. my brother and i were born a full three years apart and possess neither the intensity nor the athleticism of the harbaughs, but we still waged some of the fiercest backyard battles. can you imagine a brotherly contest between the harbaughs? i’m sure they were not games befitting postgame congratulations from the loser. 
i know, the brothers are mature adults, and surely they know how to control their competitive fire. but remember, this is the same Jim harbaugh who found him­self embroiled in a post-game brouhaha with lions coach Jim Schwartz last year. 
rather than bemoaning the harbaughs’ lack of postgame love, we should instead be content with Jack and Jackie harbaugh’s attendance. Their presence likely kept John and Jim on their best behavior. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Picture this . . . 
The GreenMan 
ask the greenman 

it’s 1:43 . . . about six minutes and 42 seconds are all that stand be­tween you and an angry physics pro­fessor . . . and you haven’t eaten. your only options seem to be to starve or fail the physics lab. luckily, you re­member grab ‘n go and you go on to enjoy a pb&J while excelling in ad­vanced astrophysics. 
grab ‘n go offers students a fantastic service. you’re busy, the university gets that, so they make available this awesome food option. unfortunately, i, your green reality check, am here to tell you that you’re taking advantage of their hospitality. i’m talking to you, mr. ham-sand­wich-sitting-on-your-futon. grab ‘n go is for students in a rush, not to replace the dining halls. 
as mgmT says, “control yourself, take only what you neeeeeeed.” Seven points might not feel like enough when you’re back from a 2 
p.m. exam and need comfort food, but it’s actually a lot of food. if you’re just hungry for a sandwich, don’t feel like you have to get two. it’s never fun to find a 14-day-old banana hid­den in a bag on your desk. monkeys everywhere will mourn its loss. 
on an average day, 1,400 students 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
use grab ‘n go, and my good friends at the california energy commission tell me that one tree can produce up to 700 paper bags. That means, if every student going through grab ‘n go put their food in a paper bag, we would consume two trees every day! imagine a world in which every­one put their food directly in their backpack. not only does this world liberate hands everywhere from the oppression of paper bags, but it’s also a world in which we save over 300 trees a year. 
bags aren’t the only waste associ­ated with grab ‘n go. grab ‘n go has to package everything separately, and this makes it more difficult to minimize your footprint. dumping an unpackaged pb&J in your book bag is a bad idea. we’re talking “Jack and Jill” starring adam Sandler and adam Sandler bad. personally, i do my best by getting a banana instead of chips. This might seem like a sac­rifice to the Triple cheese vintners lovers out there, but i like to think of it as an upgrade. plus, bananas fit so conveniently in the hand. 
The final step to minimize your g&g footprint is to minimize your use of it. Think about your local li­cense bureau. i know you don’t make casual trips there just to hang out. no, you avoid it like the plague un­less it’s your 16th or 21st birthday! 
The university doesn’t want you grabbing ‘n going every day either. according to marc poklinkowski, general manager of South dining hall, “students having meals togeth­er in the dining hall is an important part of their experience at notre dame.” 
grab ‘n go has always been viewed as an alternative for students to use when necessary, not as a meal re­placement.” So go be social! only two percent of students grab ‘n go for dinner. So, if you decide to skip out on the dining hall, chances are you’re going to miss out on that cute guy or gal that always eats at 5:43. who knows? you might even find me in the dining hall, especially on eggplant parmesan days, unless, of course, it’s a sunny day and i can photosynthesize. 
greenly, 
The greenman 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@ gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“it is by universal misunderstanding that all agree. for if, by ill luck, people understand each other, they would never agree.” 
Charles Baudelaire French poet 


An argument against amnesty 
Shaaya Ellis 
reason will prevail 

last week a bipartisan group of united States sen­ators unveiled an outline suggesting ways to fix our countries illegal immigration problem. 
Sen. chuck Schumer, who leads this crusade, said: “This plan introduces a tough but fair path to citi­zenship for illegal immigrants currently living in the united States that is contingent upon securing our borders, reforms our current immigration system that will better recognize the importance of charac­teristics that will help build the american economy and strengthen american families, establishes an effective employment verification system that will prevent identity theft and end the hiring of future unauthorized workers and lastly establishes an ap­proved process of admitting future worker to serve of nations workforce needs while simultaneously protecting all workers.” 
while these suggestions for immigration reform are cogent and reasonable, it is a clear contradiction to this nation’s values to grant amnesty to those who willfully and knowingly broke the law. 
firstly, all illegal immigrants are criminals in that none of them are innocent of breaking the law. all who come here illegally consciously and intentionally break the law. for our public servants to grant them citizenship undermines the oath of office they took to protect and defend our fair coun­try from enemies foreign and domestic. 
Secondly, if you are here illegally, first and fore­most you are breaking the law. This means all those here illegally are entitled to nothing: no vote, no say, no services, no opinion, no status, no right to work etc. There are provisions to seek and gain citizen­ship, legally. maybe if illegals had remained in their own country and fought for change and worked to­wards improving their own countries, maybe their native countries would be better. our founding fa­thers put their very lives on the line as do our service men and women throughout history to attain and keep the freedoms we have earned. our taxes help to support this country, and it’s services should only go to the citizens of this country. granting amnesty to those who continue to usurp the rule of law is not fair to the citizens who work and pay their taxes. 
Thirdly, it is unfair to allow those who have will­fully and intentionally broken our nation’s immigra­tion laws to, in essence, cut in front of those across the world who have been patiently and legally wait­ing their turn to become u.S. citizens. To let those who came here illegally continue to reside in our nation undermines the integrity of our country and does a disservice to those who abide by the law. 
finally, if we are serious about achieving solving our illegal immigration problem, then we must im­prison and apprehend the lawbreakers who come to this country illegally. This would send a concise and direct message to those who come here illegally. 
likewise, those here illegally can deport them­selves if they find that coming to america illegally is a serious crime and that the taxpayers will no longer foot the bill for their medical care, education and other welfare amenities. 
furthermore, if we are deeply committed to achieving real immigration reform, the border is go­ing to need much more stringent security. failing to secure our border costs the taxpayers in many ways. Schools become overcrowded, medical resources are stretched too thin, other government services are overtaxed and taxes increase further. granting amnesty to those who deliberately break the law not only is economically burdensome, but it is also an injustice. 
Shaaya Ellis is a sophomore political science ma­jor with a classics minor. He can be contacted at sellis2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Day of Man 
This wednesday, february 6, is Siegfried hall’s annual fundraiser day of man. on the day, the brave men of Siegfried hall will brave the South bend tundra in nothing but shorts, t-shirts and flip flops asking you the community for dona­tions for the South bend center for the homeless. why do we do this you may ask? we want to stand in solidarity with the homeless during this extremely cold time of the year. we believe that if the homeless go cold all of the time, why can’t we be for one day? we will be stationed outside of the dining halls, field house mall and outside of debartolo hall all day asking for any donations you the community generously bestow upon us. all of the donations will go directly to the center. Thank you again notre dame. be cold. be bold. be a man. 
Johnny Dang 
junior Siegfried hall feb. 5 
Andrew Ritter 
senior Siegfried hall feb. 5 


The obServer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | ndSmcobServer.com 

you’re actually in three classes with him Frank the Friend Zone 
Gabriela Leskur 
this semester. you receive an occasional finally, you’ve met someone you like. 
Scene writer 

mass Snapchat from him. usually it’s just he’s funny. he’s cute. he’s interested in a picture of him holding a red Solo cup you and you are actually interested in 
you’ve seen the signs posted across and a caption asking, “hey babe, whatcha him. campus. Speed dating is at legends this doin?” you never respond. he’s majoring in chemical engineering Thursday at midnight. Tonight, though, he finally knows your and philosophy. he reads plato for fun. he 
i bet you’ve chuckled to your friends and answer. has a job at the center for Social concerns. asked, “who even goes to that?” he knows fr. Jenkins, fr. monk malloy, good question. last semester, i wanted Parker the Player and fr. hesburgh and refers to them on a to find out. as he sits down across from you, you first-name basis. after he graduates from 
So after a few minutes of creating the can almost feel the cool dripping off him. notre dame, he wants to volunteer abroad perfect outfit — where you couldn’t quite he opens with a sly line, explaining why and teach english as a second language in tell if i was being serious or if i was go-he chose to sit at your table. apparently he rural china. oh, did he forget to mention ing as a joke — i made the long walk to got lost in the oceans that are your beauti-he’s fluent in mandarin chinese? legends. ful blue eyes. he’s so charming you almost Just when you feel the love well up in-
i’m glad i went. actually, i now think don’t want to tell him your eyes are brown. side of you, it’s all ruined. that everyone should go at least once dur-you decide to give him a chance and see you find out he lives in carroll. ing his or her four years at notre dame. how the rest of your few minutes together The one person you’ve met tonight 
not because i found true love, but go. whom you like. and yet, your chronic because during that hour i met a cast after he dazzles you with his finesse in laziness has forced you to put him in the of characters worthy of their own cw the art of conversation, you think perhaps friend zone. drama. you’re wrong about him. you know there must be a lyons girl out 
here’s a purely hypothetical example of That’s when he asks you for your num-there who will be able to appreciate him what you might encounter: ber. you agree. Then he lifts up his shirt, and how wonderful he is. hands you a Sharpie and asks you to sign perhaps you two will have lunch to-Greg the Grad Student his chest. you silently judge some girl gether sometime at South dining hall or 
greg is 26, sporting a well-groomed named mary who wrote “XoXo” next to will run into each other at the basilica on goatee and a plaid button-down. it’s ob-her phone number on his abs. Sundays. but if you live in pe or ryan, you vious he’s looking for a real connection. you rescind your offer. you hand him know that even true love couldn’t compel poor guy doesn’t realize the majority of back the Sharpie and don’t mind when you to go to carroll on a daily basis. the girls in here are freshmen. he’s got a he looks offended. you figure he’ll be just soulful look to him and the slight smell of fine. So should you go? cigarette smoke lingers from his jacket. yes. you can tell notre dame is going to be a Nick the Narcissist for those of you not willing to risk the huge adjustment from his freewheeling There’s a window right next to your frostbite on the walk over to legends, your days at brown. table. you catch him turning and looking loss. if frank the friend Zone can do it, so 
he’s pursuing a master’s degree in art in it multiple times when he thinks you’re can you. history and living at irish row. That’s not paying attention. he fixes his hair for those of you considering the journey really all you learn about him because every two seconds and never stops talking through the indiana tundra, i really sug­once you mention that you are 17, a look about himself. gest you try it. put on your favorite uggs, of horror spreads across his face and a minutes pass and you’ve learned a lot your thickest set of gloves, and just go. you panicked smile graces his lips. he barely about him that you didn’t really care to might meet some new friends or the love squeaks out a “nice to meet you” before know. you know where he’s from — the of your spring semester. who knows? bolting, allowing himself to find a more northeast — and you’re not surprised. you if anything, you’ll have an interesting age-appropriate date. know his favorite band, his favorite Tv topic for small talk when you go on that 
show and his favorite food. you know his actual date of yours. Danny the Drunk dorm is a long walk from most of his class-
he plops down on the seat across from es and how much he hates his ra. best of (The characters mentioned in this ar­you and leans his elbows on the table. for all, you know all about the girl from last ticle are works of fiction. any similarities a moment, you think he’s wearing some night, how she was an absolutely terrible with people living or dead are completely kind of weird cologne. Then you realize kisser as well as her first and last name. coincidental.) that the distinct aroma wafting from his you make a mental note never to hook shirt is in fact the beer he spilled on him-up with this guy. Contact Gabriela Leskur at self earlier. he explains this to you and when he asks for your phone number, gleskur@nd.edu then widens his bloodshot eyes and asks if you ask him if he knows your name. The views expressed in this column are he’s seen you before. when he doesn’t respond, neither do those of the author and not necessarily those 
he has. you. of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The obServer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | ndSmcobServer.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
Scene writer 

as the first half of Super bowl Xlvii came to a close, viewers attentively gathered around their televisions, as beyoncé knowles took the stage for her much-antici­pated performance. 
after all the introductory flash and flare set the back­drop, beyoncé’s silhouette stood in the middle of the stage, a flashing white light and fog brilliantly illumi­nating her silhouette as she belted out the first words of her performance, “baby it’s you, you’re the one i love!” The crowd cheered as beyoncé made a powerful transi­tion into her opening song, “crazy in love.” This was immediately followed by “Til The end of Time,” where her ability to truly utilize an entire stage and make her­self at home was put on the brightest of displays. 
what followed was a performance of the throwback hit “baby boy,” which featured beyoncé standing in the middle of a lit screen that showed several images of “replica” beyoncés simultaneously performing with her, in an effort that was dubbed “not even fair” by a few gentlemen fans. 
“not even fair” probably summed up beyoncé’s night, as she completely dominated her performance, one of the best and most memorable halftime performances in recent Super bowl history. 
The performance from the self-named “Sasha fierce” was every bit as fierce as the name of beyoncé’s alter ego suggests. The dancing struck a very captivating balance between dominating and just outright sexy. her stage presence was just absolutely commanding, as she seemed to exude every bit of her stage presence, and — in my best attempt to avoid sounding like brent 

musburger to katherine webb — beyoncé was simply stunning. my own reactions were validated by the loud, approving roars from a room full of Stedsmen. 
excitement flowed over the top when former (and now reunited) destiny’s child cohorts kelly rowland and michelle williams emerged from within the stage to join beyoncé, as they jumped into their 2000 hit, “independent women part i,” not missing a beat, even after all this time. Their performance peaked as all three members of destiny’s child performed beyoncé’s smash hit “Single ladies.” 
however, at the end of the day, the star was unques­tionably beyoncé, and even as destiny’s child left her for her solo finale of “halo,” she certainly filled the stage, leaving no room for doubt that she absolutely dominated her performance. 
my lone gripe was that i felt it was a universal ex­pectation for the musical power couple that is Jay-Z and beyoncé to perform live together, and i know that i was persistently waiting, half-expectantly, for him to emerge at any minute. with the heartwarming reunion of destiny’s child, i couldn’t help but feel like another guest appearance was bound to happen. 
of course, in light of beyoncé’s mild controversy over lip-syncing at the presidential inauguration, many were on the lookout to see if she would be guilty of it again. however, there was no doubt — at least, to me 
— that this performance was completely energetic and earnest, awe-inspiring and just outright entertaining. 
i liked it. i guess, by her logic, i should have put a ring on it. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene writer 

with its grand opening just over a week ago, the waka dog café is the newest addition to South bend’s deep arsenal of eateries. The waka dog café replaced the 
The best part of the menu has to be the prices. while not exactly quarter dogs, a regular hot dog for $1.79 and any two hot dogs with fries and a drink for $6.99 is tough to beat.  Still, even with the cheap prices there is no sacrifice on quality, as a dog at waka dog is remi­niscent of one you may buy from your favorite stand in 
not-so-great falafel express, right 
chicago or new york. next door to between the buns 
an interesting menu item at and Studebagels. making the move 
the waka dog is the “wakadog from its former mishawaka loca­
challenge,” which deserves a tion, waka dog should definitely be 
spot on “man vs. food.”  The on your list of places to eat off cam-
challenge starts with a half loaf pus when quarter dogs just aren’t 
of italian bread topped first with good enough. 
two half-pound foot-long dogs offering a wide range of hot dog 
prepared chicago style. Then, options, waka dog’s more popular 
the dogs are topped with three-options include the chicago dog, 
quarters of a pound of carolina with the traditional poppyseed pulled pork, a generous helping 

bun, pickles, peppers and celery salt, and their other op­tions with chili, cheese, cole slaw and more. however, their menu doesn’t stop there. pulled pork, spaghetti and meatloaf make up the home-cooked meal options along with fries, onion rings and mozzarella sticks. 
of coleslaw, fistfuls of fries, chili and cheese and pretty much anything else you could ever want on a pizza tray of hot dog awesomeness. 
living off campus, i have struggled to find a replace­ment for quarter dogs at lafun, and though waka dog is only open until 9 p.m., it definitely is a more-than-ad­equate substitute. additionally, they have a full break­fast menu with pancakes, eggs and french toast all for much less than i would have to spend on a meal at the dining hall. i have no doubt dropping by for a waka dog on your way to and from between the buns will become a game-day tradition next football season. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
Waka Dog Café 
Location: 1809 South Bend Ave, South Bend, IN 46637 Hours: 6 a.m. — 9 p.m., Tuesday through Sunday 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

ryder cup quietly triumphs 

Peter Steiner 
Sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the seventh in a 10-part series discussisng the best event in sports. In this installment, Peter Steiner argues for the Ryder Cup. 
it doesn’t get the highest tele­vision ratings or the most media attention. it doesn’t bring in the most spectators or big-name celebrities. and if you asked random sports fans, it wouldn’t cross their minds as the best event in sports. 
but all that doesn’t mean the ryder cup is not the greatest event in sports, even if the ma­jority says otherwise. and if you take a step back from the masses and the typical arguments and reevaluate the ryder cup on its substance, you may begin to recognize why it represents the greatest things we love about sports. 
To begin, you know an event deserves to be called great when the players themselves love the event, even though they aren’t paid to play and won’t take home money if they win. These players have competed on the biggest stages, yet they still tremble as they approach their first tee-shot, nervous as they get ready to play for more than just themselves. 
and that fact sets the ryder cup apart from any other golf event. The ryder cup takes per­haps the most individual sport in the world and turns it right around. Suddenly you are play­ing for your partner, your team and your country. 
you won’t see a ping visor on top of bubba watson’s flow or Tiger (and now rory) sporting the nike gear. instead, they’ll be proudly wearing their team’s ap­parel, focused solely on playing golf for their country. 
what makes the olympics and world cup so great? obviously, it’s cheering for your country and the athletes who worked so hard to compete for their home­land. The ryder cup, which oc­curs only every two years, brings this aspect to the table and the intense atmosphere along with it. 
Typically, sports fans will cheer for phil, rory or luke donald on any given Sunday. now fans get to cheer for 12 of them and watch these stars work together as partners and teammates. 
but that’s not all that makes the golf more exciting. instead of the typical stroke play for­mats and less exciting opening rounds, the ryder cup has two days of alternate shot and best ball matches before 12 singles matches on the final day. These formats assure an exciting event because a pair or player is never out of a match by the ninth hole and many matches to come down to the wire, like 2012, when six matches were decided on the 18th hole. 
The lineups and captains’ choices also add incredible in­trigue to the event as we get to see the best in the world play head-to-head on the final day of competition. Strategy becomes a major factor in the three-day competition because each day’s lineup can decide how the entire event plays out. 
plus, with each team accumu­lating points, fans know exactly where their team stands. but despite this fact, you never know when the event will be clinched because all the matches are go­ing on at the same time. The event may be over before the last two pairings even reach the 15th hole, but it could also come down to the 18th hole in the last singles match, like the ryder cup did in 2012. 
while The masters has some magical moments in its history, the ryder cup has seen plenty of thrilling finishes of its own. but without a filter for the passion of the players and fans like at most major tournaments, the mo­ments are especially memorable. Take the “battle of brookline” in 1999, for example, when the u.S. completed an epic comeback from down 10-6 to win 14.5-13.5. The europeans enacted their revenge last September though, mounting the exact same come­back to beat the americans. 
between the passion, patrio­tism and love for the game seen in players and fans alike, there isn’t much not to like about the ryder cup. 
it doesn’t need the excessive media attention, weeks long buildup of hype or million dollar commercials. 
it already has everything it needs to be the best event in sports. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 
Fans bet record $98.9M 
Associated Press 
laS vegaS — Sports fans bet a record $98.9 million at nevada casinos on the Super bowl, the nevada gaming control board said monday. 
unaudited tallies show 183 sports books made $7.2 mil­lion on the football action. 
The San francisco 49ers started out as a 5-point fa­vorite but the baltimore ravens won 34-31. 
odds makers say california fans drove the unprecedented handle, flooding las vegas and the lake Tahoe area with wa­gers on the hometown team, which hadn’t been in the Super bowl since 1995. 
“northern nevada gets swamped with 49er mon­ey,” lvh book director Jay kornegay said. 
bookmakers speculat­ed that the popularity of 49ers quarterback colin kaepernick, who played his college football at nevada, drove some of the betting among locals. 
The previous record was set in 2006, when gamblers wagered $94.5 million on the Super bowl between the Seattle Seahawks and the pittsburgh Steelers. 
book makers said they took a beating this year on proposition bets, including a long-shot on whether there would be a safety. 
ravens punter Sam koch took a safety for the final score with 4 seconds left in the game. 
casinos retained 7.3 per­cent of the millions wa­gered, slightly less than the average hold during the past decade, which has fluctu­ated from lows of negative 
2.8 percent to highs of 17 percent. 
The 65 points scored in new orleans easily exceed­ed the over/under of 49. gamblers bet the line down 1½ points before the game to give the 49ers a 3 ½ hand­icap by kickoff. 
late money poured in for the “over” wager and for 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many re­sources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 

the 49ers, who have built a reputation as a second-half team, kornegay said. 
Johnny avello, director of race and sports at wynn las vegas, said the big plays that characterized Sunday’s game and made it fun to watch proved to be gloomy news for casinos, which of­fer a growing list of propo­sition bets on everything from whether quarterbacks will throw interceptions to whether teams will score in the final two minutes of the first half. 
“everything that could’ve happened yesterday almost did,” avello said. “all the props — ‘will this guy pass by this much?’ ‘will this guy make this many receptions’ 
— all of those were, ‘yes.’” 
“The safety was awful,” he added. “when we cashed last night, it seemed like ev­eryone had a bet on a safety.” 
casinos paid out at 9-to-1 for the safety. fans who bet that the 49ers’ final score would be on a safety cashed in at 50-to-1. 
Sports books also paid out big last year when the new york giants played the new england patriots and the first score of the game was a safety. next year, avello plans to lower the odds for that outcome. 
nevada sports books have lost only twice on the Super bowl in the past 20 years, most recently in 2008, when new york beat the patriots, 
costing  casinos a record  
$2.6 million.  
odds  makers  released  

numbers for next year’s Super bowl before fans even had time to stumble back to their hotel rooms Sunday night. 
rJ bell of las vegas-based pregame.com made the patriots 7-to-1 favorites, with the 49ers and denver broncos following close be­hind at 8-to-1. 
gamblers wanted to see the odds for another Super bowl blackout, kornegay said, but even vegas can’t offer that action. 
“we have to stay on the field of play,” kornegay said. “but i’m pretty sure that some of the offshore books will have that bet next year.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Super Bowl XLVII Febuary 3, 2013;  Super  Bowl  and  Social  Media;  
If Ravens & 49ers are tied at end of  In the end, the Ravens may have won  
regulation of Super Bowl XLVII, the 2  Superbowl XLVII in New Orleans. But  
Harbaugh brothers will meet at mid- the sudden power outage during half- 
field and wrestle to see who wins.  time won its social media time slot.  
NFC  champions  San  Francisco  The power outage was an immedi­ 
49ers are 5-0 in Super Bowl ap­ ate hot   topic for   questions online.  
pearances.  They’ve  never  lost  a  There were an estimated 47.7 million  
Super Bowl game  in  NFL history.  social media posts during the game.  


ndSmcobServer.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | The obServer 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Hoosiers reclaim nation’s top spot 
Associated Press 
Tom crean’s whirlwind week got even crazier monday. 
upon returning home from the Super bowl, the indiana coach found out he’s leading america’s no. 1 college bas­ketball team. again. 
it was another crowning mo­ment in a week full of big wins for the crean clan. indiana beat no. 13 michigan State, archrival purdue and no. 1 michigan in a seven-day span, before crean headed to new orleans. There, he watched one brother-in-law beat his other brother-in-law for the Super bowl title. finally, he saw the hoosiers reclaim the top spot in The associated press poll after seven weeks. 
“our guys appreciate win­ning. They appreciate the task that it is and i think because our older guys have been through so many hard times, they appreciate it that much more,” a weary-sounding crean said during monday’s weekly big Ten conference call. “and i think our younger guys were raised on winning. guys like yogi (ferrell), cody (Zeller), remy abell, those guys were really raised on winning, and that helps.” 
it’s the fifth straight week there is a new no. 1 team. 
duke started the cur­rent streak and was followed by louisville, duke again, michigan and now indiana. The last time there were five no. 1s in as many weeks was the last five polls of 2008­09, when it was connecticut, pittsburgh, connecticut again, north carolina and louisville. 
The hoosiers, the preseason no. 1, held the top spot for the first five weeks of the regular season. They moved up two spots monday after their win over the wolverines and then-no. 2 kansas’ loss to oklahoma State. They received 58 first-place votes from the 65-mem­ber national media panel, while florida, which jumped two spots to second, got the other seven. 

NFL 
goodell praises new orleans despite blackout 
Associated Press 
new orleanS — The black­out at the Superdome will not stop the Super bowl from re­turning to new orleans. 
nfl commissioner roger goodell said that despite the electrical outage which delayed Sunday night’s game for 34 minutes, the city did a “terrific” job hosting its first pro football championship in the post-ka­trina era. 
“let me reiterate again what an extraordinary job the city of new orleans has done,” said goodell, speaking monday at a post-Super bowl media confer­ence held for the game’s most valuable player, baltimore quarterback Joe flacco, and winning coach John harbaugh. “The most important thing is to make sure people understand it was a fantastic week.” 
new orleans has hosted 10 Super bowls, including baltimore’s 34-31 victory over San francisco, tied for the most with miami. 
while serving as the site of america’s biggest sporting event and focus of an unofficial national holiday gets any place a lot of attention, this game had special meaning for new orleans. 
The city last hosted the Super bowl in 2002 and officials were hoping this would serve as the ultimate showcase — on a global scale — of how far it has come since being devastated by hurricane katrina in 2005. 

The storm winds tore holes in the roof of the Superdome and there was water damage from the rain that affected electri­cal systems and caused mold to spread. more than $330 mil­lion has been spent to upgrade the facility, which has hosted the annual Sugar bowl, Saints games, two bcS title games and a men’s final four since the storm. 

paid adverTiSemenT 


The obServer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | ndSmcobServer.com 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Moros finds success through consistency 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports writer 
of all the cheers during Sunday’s match against no. 5 duke, the loudest were for irish senior blas moros. The cheers were coming from a large cohort of fans at the eck pavilion who were there to root for the irish, but especially for the co-captain playing no. 2 singles. 
although moros lost his match to no. 23 blue devils junior fred Saba and the irish dropped the match 4-0, the senior said there were still positives to take away from the defeat. 
“it’s tough losing tight match­es, but at the same time there’s something to get from them knowing that you’re right in there with a top-five team like duke,” moros said. “i think we can take a lot of confidence from these matches.” 
confidence has always been an important aspect of moros’ tennis game, especially since the senior made the jump to no. 2 singles earlier this fall season. his confidence coupled with three prior years of singles expe­rience in the irish lineup — the majority at no. 5 and no. 6 singles 
— has certainly helped the senior this year. 
“i think a big part of [play­ing no. 2 singles] is experience, knowing what to expect and the match experience,” the boca raton, fla., native said. “and then confidence, putting in the work during the summer, and know­ing that there aren’t many people in the country that have worked as hard as i have and then having that belief going into matches.” 
This mindset worked well in the fall season, as moros fin­ished with a perfect 10-0 record in singles. in addition, moros was named to three all-tournament teams and won the Tom fallon invitational mvp on the week­end of oct. 6, 2012. 
“i was really happy with my fall season,” moros said. “i think part of it was what i was able to do over the summer. even though i had an internship, i was still able to stay in really good shape and work on a couple of key aspects of my game that i knew needed im­provement from last year to this year if i wanted to keep playing high in the singles lineup.” 
unlike some of his teammates, moros does not have a big serve or come to the net as often as oth­ers. instead, the senior utilizes consistent ground strokes and are going to be playing a good player,” moros said. “That’s part of what’s great and it’s also a challenge.” 


although the irish have a dif­ficult schedule this spring, moros will certainly have the support of his team and all his irish fans be­hind him the whole way. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL | albion 73, Smc 58 
belles drop sixth straight game 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports writer 
Saint mary’s fell behind early in what turned out to be an insurmountable deficit as the belles fell to albion 73-58 Saturday in albion, mich. 
The belles (5-17, 3-10 miaa) found themselves immediately behind in the first half as the brits (7-14, 4-8) started on a 15-2 run to open the game. 
The belles didn’t score until the 10:53 mark of the first half, when freshman forward emily page hit a jump shot. after back-to-back baskets by junior guard Shanlynn bias, the belles short­ened albion’s lead to only sev­en points. The brits, however, quickly responded with a layup and six consecutive points to gain a 23-10 lead over the belles and extended their lead to 43­27 at the half. with less than seven minutes left in the sec­ond half, Saint mary’s heated up and worked to get back in the game. field goals from fresh­man guard Sarah macius, fresh­man forward eleni Shea, senior guard kayla wolter and bias se­cured eleven straight points for the belles and shrunk the brits’ lead to 15. The belles, however, would not come any closer, as albion closed out the game to win 73-58. despite the loss, the belles found success in sev­eral facets of the game. bias led the belles with fifteen points, while wolter scored 11 points and had a career-high seven as­sists. freshman forward krista knapke had nine points and led the belles with 10 rebounds. 
Saint mary’s also improved its play in the second half. connecting on only 25 per­cent of their shots in the first half, the belles shot 48 per­cent and outscored the brits 31-30 in the second half. Saint mary’s head coach Jennifer henley said the team’s play in the second half significantly im­proved from that in the first half. 
“we were a different team in the second half,” henley said. “in the first half, we couldn’t find a way to stop albion as a team.” 
coming off another loss, the belles look to prepare for their next opponent, calvin (18-1, 11-0). 
“we need to find a way to put 40 minutes of solid basketball together,” henley said. 
Saint mary’s takes on calvin college on wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. at angela athletic facility 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

mental toughness to take down his opponents. 
“i kind of consider myself an aggressive baseliner,” moros said. “i don’t have a huge serve like a lot of guys higher up on the team do, but i am very gritty, mentally tough and i don’t give away too many errors. consistency and an all-around game are my biggest attributes.” 
besides playing no. 2 singles, the lone senior in the typical singles lineup has taken on the role of the vocal leader of a young irish roster. 
“even though [junior co-cap­tain greg andrews and i] both have some aspects of leader by example and vocal leader, i’ve tended to be more of the vocal leader,” moros said. “i tend to be the one who organizes all the events and talks to the guys and makes sure all the guys are doing everything necessary.” 
although his tennis career is not yet over, the senior recog­nizes that his tennis career at notre dame has already been remarkable. 
“it’s been an incredible four years,” moros said. “i’m kind of sad that it’s coming to an end somewhat. i think i’ve taken a lot of big steps with my tennis.” 
despite the success thus far in his senior year, moros will face many challenges this com­ing spring season, mostly in the form of top-ranked opponents at the no. 2 singles position. The irish will face off against no. 2 uSc, no. 4 ohio State and no. 9 kentucky in the next two months. 
“week in, week out, regardless of which team you’re playing, in the higher lineup positions, you 
paid adverTiSemenT ndSmcobServer.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | The obServer 




ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, iowa 3 
McGaffigan caps Irish comeback against Iowa 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports writer 
after falling behind early, the irish turned their match around with a three-point comeback and defeated iowa 4-3 on monday. 
notre dame started well, with freshman Quinn gleason and junior britney Sanders claiming victory at no. 2 doubles in an easy 8-3 win. 
from there, the team be­gan to fall apart.  Sophomore molly o’koniewski and ju­nior Julie Sabacinski were co-captain doubles team of junior Jennifer kellner and senior chrissie mcgaffigan fell behind in a close 8-6 loss, giving the hawkeyes the dou­bles point. 
crushed  in  their doubles  
match, losing  8-3.  
Shortly  after,  the  


Sanders said the irish fell behind early due to exhaus­tion from their close win over Tennessee on Sunday. 
“we were tired, but we were able to pull it out,” Sanders said. 
down 1-0, the irish looked to make a comeback in sin­gles play, but iowa quick­ly pulled further ahead. Sanders finished her match first, dropping it 6-2, 6-3 at no. 1 singles. Sabacinski brought her match to three sets, but lost 6-1, 3-6, 6-4. 
Sanders said the irish needed a change in attitude to come back from behind. 
“we were pretty down,” Sanders said. “what got us back into it was changing our attitudes. we started being more positive and we were cheering each other on like crazy.” 
with the game 3-0, o’koniewski began the rally for the irish. her 6-0, 4-6, 6-2 victory at no. 6 singles finally put the irish on the board. 
gleason shortly add­ed to the irish comeback. after dropping her first set, gleason snatched the victory 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4). not long af­ter, kellner won 6-3, 2-6, 6-3. 
with only one match left to finish, the irish had come from behind to tie the hawkeyes 3-3. 
mcgaffigan kept her com­posure in the long match against hawkeye sophomore katie Zordani and managed to clinch the win for the irish with a 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 victory at no. 4 singles. 
The final set was close, with mcgaffigan taking an early 4-2 lead. Zordani closed the gap and the score stood at 5-4 with mcgaffigan in the lead. after a long final point, mcgaffigan finally won the final set. her victory clinched notre dame’s second victory in a row. 
mcgaffigan said she was proud to win the deciding match for her team. 
“it was a great feeling being able to pull my match out for my team,” mcgaffigan said. “we all work so hard in prac­tice and fight with everything we have in matches.” 
mcgaffigan said she was proud of how her teammates were able to cheer each other on from their own individual courts and encourage the irish to fight back and win. 
The irish are back in action feb. 15 when they take on purdue at home at 4 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

paid adverTiSemenT 
paid adverTiSemenT 




Grant 
conTinued from page 16 
week.” 
coming off a sluggish over­time victory over a struggling depaul team on the road, notre dame failed to get shooting momentum going ahead of its primetime show­down with no. 11 louisville 
“We need some rest right now ... Then we’ve got a heck of  a challenge in an exciting atmosphere Saturday night.” 
Mike Brey 
Irish coach 
on Saturday. freshman for­ward cam biedscheid shot 1-for-8 from 3-point terri­tory and sophomore guard/ forward pat connaughton missed on all three of his at­tempts from behind the arc, as well. 
brey said the height of Syracuse guards michael carter-williams (6-foot-6) and brandon Triche (6-foot­
4) impacted the shooting against the zone. 
“i think you have to give Syracuse credit because they’re really long and ath­letic in that zone, and they hurry you a little bit,” brey said. “when you have a long guy flying at you, you tend to be a little sheepish on the re­lease. i just think their length bothered us. Their guards up top are bigger than last year, so even our guards didn’t get good looks.” 
brey’s squad will now take the remainder of the week to rest and practice for a marquee matchup with louisville on Saturday night at purcell pavilion. eSpn’s “college gameday” will be on campus in the lead-up to the matchup. 
“we need to get some rest right now,” brey said. “Then we’ve got a heck of a chal­lenge in an exciting atmo­sphere Saturday night.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


McGraw 
conTinued from page 16 
(20-1, 8-0 big east) defeated cincinnati 64-42 at purcell pavilion. mcbride served as the catalyst for the irish of­fense, scoring 17 points in the first half and sinking her first seven shot attempts. 
although the outcome of Saturday’s game was rarely in doubt, mcgraw said she was disappointed with the energy the team displayed in the victory. 
“i thought we looked slug­gish, i thought our pace was too slow,” she said after the game. “[cincinnati] was very deliberate on offense, and i think we got lulled into that, and we can’t do that because we play villanova next, and they’re going to do the same thing, so we’ve got to be able to set the tone with the tempo.” 
controlling the pace of the game will be critical for notre dame against villanova (16­5, 5-3), an upstart squad that is undefeated at home this season. The wildcats won 15 of their first 17 games but have dropped three of their last four games, with two of those losses coming in overtime. 
villanova senior forward laura Sweeney leads the wildcats in nearly every ma­jor statistical category and has seven double-doubles on the season. Senior guard rachel roberts sits second on the team in scoring with an average of 10.9 points per game and is the team leader in assists. 
with a difficult slate of four games in 11 days now behind them, the irish should have most of their squad at full health. Sophomore guard madison cable, who sat out the cincinnati game with a sprained ankle, is expected to play tonight. Senior guard kaila Turner, who suffered a knee injury against St. John’s on Jan. 20, scored 11 points off the bench Saturday and said her recovery is coming along. 
“being injured is not very fun,” Turner said. “i was pretty done with it after day two. i just try to ice [the knee] every day and do ther­apy when i can.” 
mcgraw will look for her 700th win, and the irish will look for their 16th consecu­tive victory, when they face villanova tonight at 7 p.m. at The pavilion in villanova, pa. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

paid adverTiSemenT ndSmcobServer.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | The obServer 



CROSSWORD | will ShorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chriSTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  lenny rago &                      paTrick croSS 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia laST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: oscar de la hoya, 40; gabrielle anwar, 43; clint black, 51; alice cooper, 65 
Happy Birthday: challenges will try your patience, but a unique approach will eventually lead to victory. emotions will be at the root of your problems and must be tempered if you want to get ahead personally and professionally. a move or change will bring you greater opportunity. do whatever you can to enhance what you have to offer. your numbers are 2, 6, 15, 27, 32, 40, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): readdress issues you have with someone from your past. make a choice regarding your direction based on what you want, not what you think someone else wants. give love a chance. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Treat partnerships with respect. Question anyone putting pressure on you. avoid mixing business with pleasure. you can offer help, but don’t let anyone take advantage of your kindness or generosity. Self-improvement projects based on past success will be beneficial. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): refuse to let things bother you. anger will not make matters better. you must focus on work and doing and being your very best. dig deep and you will discover information that will help you find the best solution. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): ponder any decisions you have to make. Time is on your side, and impulsive behavior will only make you veer off course. Take a creative approach when dealing with peers, friends or relatives who may be adverse to your direction. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a little inspiration will go a long way. you need to lighten up and enjoy life more. forget about your responsibilities for a moment and enjoy exploring new people, places and activities. love is on the rise. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t expect everyone to agree with you. disagree­ments are likely to develop, especially if you or someone else is being evasive. Solutions can be found, but only if you know what you are up against. modera­tion will be an important factor in the outcome. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): open-mindedness coupled with charm, knowledge and a peaceful approach will lead to success. Travel plans can be made that will raise your awareness, inspire you or improve your appearance. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): be prepared to jump from one thing to another if it will keep you out of trouble and help you accomplish what needs to be done. your dedication and loyalty will play a role in the outcome of a sticky situation. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): clarity may be lacking when dealing with friends or your peers. if there is something you don’t understand, ask. respond as precisely as possible so you aren’t blamed for giving out false information. Someone from your past will make an offer. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): cautious, quiet pursuit of your goals will ensure that you avoid interference from someone who is likely to cause trouble. con­centrate on precision, preparation and making sure you have taken care of any errors that could affect your reputation.       


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stick close to home and avoid individuals likely to give you a hard time. dealing with financial matters, medical issues and authority figures will be difficult. fixing up your surroundings or enjoying the comfort of your home will help ease stress. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): getting involved in someone’s private affairs will backfire. put more time and effort into your creative goals and you will find a way to translate what you know and do best into a greater earning potential. avoid overspending. 

Birthday Baby: you are a persistent adventurer. you seek wisdom, knowledge and clarity. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 


The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

address 
city State Zip 

The obServer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013 | ndSmcobServer.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | SyracuSe 63, nd 47 
Zoning out 
No. 25 Irish struggle to make shots against Syracuse zone defense 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports editor 
in a game that received pre­game attention for a matchup between brothers, no. 25 notre dame was doomed by a poor shooting night at the carrier dome in a 63-47 loss to no. 9 Syracuse on monday night. 
The orange (19-3, 7-2 big east) ended a two-game los­ing streak in front of a rowdy home crowd as the irish (18­5, 6-4) fell victim to a 6-for­20 performance from beyond the 3-point arc against the signature Syracuse 2-3 zone defense. 
“Their zone distorted us. we weren’t able to get into the gaps,” irish coach mike brey said in a postgame inter­view with und.com. “but you know, we had some looks that you’ve got to make if you’re going to beat them. when we’ve beaten them, you’ve got to shoot better than 6-for­20 from the 3-point line. even from the foul line, we had some key free throws we didn’t make.” 
Syracuse freshman forward Jerami grant prevailed in the first official matchup with his brother, notre dame ju­nior guard Jerian grant, who led the irish with 15 points on the night. Their father, former nba forward harvey grant, was in attendance at the carrier dome to watch his sons square off. Jerami grant finished with 14 points on 6-for-8 shooting. 
brey said he did not think the family ties impacted Jerian grant’s play — the ju­nior finished with a team-high four turnovers. 
“i think, if anything, [Jerian] wanted it so bad because he wanted to beat his brother,” brey said. “obviously, Jerami grant played fabulous against us. we really couldn’t defend him, we didn’t have many answers for him. he was the difference. but Jerian, in his way, tried to get us going. i think they’re very competi­tive, and i’m sure they’ll get on each other here in the next 
see granT PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

mcgraw approaches milestone near hometown 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports writer 
boasting only 17 members at the start of this season, the 700-win club remains one of women’s college basketball’s most exclusive groups. irish coach muffet mcgraw looks to become the latest mem­ber to join this group when no. 2 notre dame squares off against villanova in villanova, pa., tonight. 
mcgraw will have the chance to achieve the mile­stone in a region of the country she knows well. a pottsville, pa., native, mcgraw attended and played at Saint Joseph’s in nearby philadelphia. 
“villanova’s always a big game for me,” she said Saturday. “i’ve got 40 or 50 people coming to the game every year, and my whole family’s from there, so they’ll all be there. my teammates from Saint Joe’s will be there, as they are every year. it’s a very stressful game for me because of all the people there, so i’m going to try not to think about that part of it and play the game.” 
mcgraw started her head-coaching career at lehigh in 1982. after five years there, she came to notre dame in 1987 and has won 611 games since, compiling a resume that includes one national championship and four final fours. 
irish junior guard kayla mcbride said much of mcgraw’s success lies in her ability to get the most out of her players. 
“well for me, i love how she’s always challenging me,” mcbride said of her coach. “it’s not about what i’m do­ing right, it’s about what i can get better at and i’ve always loved that about her. i think she thinks sometimes she’s too hard on me, but i actually secretly love it.” 
mcgraw’s 699th win came Saturday when the irish 
see mcgraw PAGE 14 






