The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 73 | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘We are made for this moment’ 
Students revel in Inauguration Day atmosphere as President Obama is sworn in 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 

washingTon — on monday morn­ing, most notre dame students in south bend woke up and went to class on campus. 
on monday morning, another group of notre dame students woke up and, instead of trudging through the snow to class or the dining hall, stood in front of the u.s. capitol building to watch president barack obama publicly swear his oath of office to begin his second term. These students are members of the university’s washington program, a se­mester-long experience working, study­ing and living in washington, d.c. 
Junior wendy hatch spent her morn­ing in the crowd, squinting at the small figures in the distance on the steps of the capitol. but as she pursues her goals in politics, she might not be so far from those steps during inaugurations to come. 
“in four years, we could be one of those people sitting in one of those chairs … next to president obama,” hatch said. “we could be senators, representatives, in congress, in someone’s cabinet. we’re smart, we’re capable. if we wanted that position, if we wanted to be that person, we could be.” 
The alternative study abroad program thrusts students with interest in politics or journalism into the heart of current affairs in the nation’s capital. 
as obama resumes his work in the oval office, hatch said she appreciated the message of bipartisan cooperation she heard in his inaugural address. she has studied the ideological divide of the past congress, she said, and his words were perhaps a reminder of what the country needs most right now. 
“This is the mantra of congress right now, that we need to come together,” hatch said. “i really believe that is in­credibly true.” 
Junior mia counts, who stood with hatch in the crowd, said she felt obama’s inaugural speech was “timely,” as he addressed a range of issues like immigration, gay rights and education. 
“i thought it was very appro­priate and the fact that he ad­dressed issues that we all need to work on … they’re not democrat or republican is­sues,” she said. “They’re american 
issues.”  
b  e  f  o r  e  
counts  was  
born,  her  

grandmoth­er immigrat­ed to the united states from mexico to earn her col­lege de­gree. 



Inaugural address calls for Americans to look past partisan politics and move forward 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 

washingTon — in a moment of incredible partisan divide on capitol hill, newly reelected president barack 
obama called the united states to 
abandon conflict for compromise dur­
ing his inaugural address monday 
morning. 

“america’s possibilities are limitless, 
for we possess all the qualities that 
this world without boundaries de­
mands: youth and drive, diversity 
and openness, of endless capacity 
for risk and a gift for reinvention,” 
he said. 
“my fellow americans, we are 
made for this moment and 
we will seize it, so long as 
we seize it together.” 
much of obama’s 
rhetoric challenged 
americans to work 
beyond the im­
passe of parti­
san politics, 
a welcome 
message to 
many. he 
called his 
oath of 
offic e 
one to 
“god 
and 
countr y, 
not par-

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer ty and 
faction.” 
“for now, decisions are upon us and we cannot afford delay,” he said. “we cannot mistake absolutism for prin­ciple or substitute spectacle for poli­tics, or treat name-calling as reasoned debate.“we must act. we must act know­ing that our work will be imperfect. we must act knowing that today’s victories will only be partial, and that it will be up to those who stand here in four years and 40 years and 400 years hence to ad­vance the timeless spirit once conferred to us in a spare philadelphia hall.” 
despite this call to compromise, the president spoke with a tone that was both unapologetic for the decisions of his first four years in office and unwav­ering on the goals of his second. 
largely bypassing the economic de­bates that have thrown capitol hill into turmoil over recent weeks, the president highlighted some of the other areas he would take to bat in the future. he challenged the nation to be a leader in sustainable energy and climate change research, which were issues largely ig­nored in election debates. 
“some may still deny the overwhelm­ing judgment of science, but none can avoid the devastating impact of raging fires, and crippling drought, and more powerful storms,” obama said. “The path towards sustainable energy sourc­es will be long and sometimes difficult. but american cannot resist this transi­tion. we must lead it.” 
obama spoke directly on gay rights, which became more and more a part 
An American flag, perched on the Capital Building, waves in the see sTudenTs PAGE 7 wind on President Obama’s Inauguration Day on Monday. see address PAGE 7 


history made every minute 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 
washingTon — i remem­ber visiting washington for the first time as a little girl, staring in awe at the towering white monuments and walk­ing until my feet could fall off, only to rest with my family un­der the idyllic cherry blossoms near the potomac. i returned to washington, d.c. this weekend not as a tourist but as a student journalist, reporting on the 57th presidential inauguration for The observer with multimedia editor sarah o’connor. if you missed the ceremonies, follow my play-by-play below: 
7:07 a.m. The first snooze on my alarm goes off, and we drag ourselves out of bed to get ready for the day. i’m not a morning person, but today, adrenaline and coffee are flowing to wake me up. 
8:05 a.m. sarah and i leave our hotel at l’enfant plaza and split up when we get to the national mall. my ticket is in the red section, hers in the orange. 
8:37 a.m. as i’m snaking through the impossible se­curity lines, i see a little girl, tied to her mom with a leash, who is jumping up and down. she’s saying, “i’m going to see obama!” 
9:49 a.m. after bonding hardcore with all the other people in my security line (se­riously, they’ll all be invited to my wedding someday), i’m fi­nally through the metal detec­tors and security line. 
10:15 a.m. i’ve made it to my seat in section 16 of the red 
see Timeline PAGE 7 



supporT for Te’o PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 georgeTown 63, noTre dame 47 PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your go-to dance move? 

Amelia Bauer 
junior 
walsh hall 
“Tribal rain dance.” 

Elisabeth O’Toole 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“The wobble.” 

Hunter Monaghan 
freshman 
fisher hall 
“riding the pony.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Kevin Balhof 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“roll the dice.” 

Rachel Broghammer 
freshman 
ryan hall 
“belly dance.” 

Sophie Prellwitz 
senior 
off campus 
“stop the traffic. let them through.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian barwick cory bernard Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
bridget feeney megan finneran sarah swiderski sam Zuba 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemaker Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Exploring Career Social Concerns Fair Zen Meditation Pink Zone Spin-A-Women’s Basketball 
mackenzie sain caroline schurz 
Options Geddes Hall/Center Coleman-Morse Thon Joyce Center 114 Flanner Hall for Social Concerns Center Rockne Memorial 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Cycling Studio ND vs. Providence 
Corrections 

Part of a five-week Get involved in Sitting and walking 12 p.m.-12 p.m. Single tickets still 
in a Jan. 21 article titled “students career workshop the South Bend meditation. All faiths Cycle for 24 hours to available for purchase. experience d.c.,” junior mia counts’ 
series. community. welcome. fight breast cancer. 
name is misspelled. The observer regrets this error. 
Four:7 Catholic Alice Sebold Reading Student Film Festival Men’s Hockey Vigil Mass Fellowship and Book Signing DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Cavanaugh Hall LaFortune Ballroom Arts Center Arena Heart 
8:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 6:30 p.m., 9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Student-led fellowship. Meet the author. See student films. Game vs. Ferris State Catholic Mass. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013  | The observer 
Campus community stands by Te’o 
was manti Te’o, the former 
By ANDREW OWENS 
irish linebacker who became 
the subject of controversy and 

long Tran remembers his speculation less than a week freshman and sophomore ago when it was revealed his years when his roommate deceased girlfriend, lennay would lend him life advice, Kekua, in fact did not exist. introduce him to other people Tran, a senior, said he and decompress with video wholeheartedly believes games after a long day. Te’o’s side of the story, which 
his dillon hall roommate was revealed early saturday 
assistant managing editor 

paid adverTisemenT 

morning in an interview with espn’s Jeremy schaap. 
“i do not think he had any part in this,” Tran said. “i believe he was tricked and taken advantage of and i ful­ly believe in him. 
“whatever happens, what­ever people may say, he is still a source of inspiration to me, my roommate and for­ever my friend.” 
Tran said he was upset with some of the speculation and rumors he heard from people on campus imme­diately after the report was published. 
“i totally think it’s unfair the way campus [reacted],” he said. “if anyone ever met manti or talked to him, they would know what kind of per­son he is and what he stood for. They would know … that he is innocent.” 
support for Te’o hardly ends with Tran in dillon hall. dorm rector fr. paul doyle told The observer in an inter­view Thursday — prior to the linebacker’s first public com­ments after news of the hoax broke — that he fully trusts Te’o’s character. 
“i don’t have time to read all the stuff that’s been writ­ten about this,” doyle said. “The only thing i can say is i always found him to be a very honest and trustworthy per­son. i don’t think i misjudged him. [Jack swarbrick] chooses 



to believe manti. “i have zero reason to doubt manti Te’o.” 
notre dame graphic design professor anne berry taught Te’o in a course last semester and said she cannot envision him concocting this hoax. 
“if he says he was duped, i have no reason not to believe him,” she said. “we live in a culture where we treat a per­son like a king or queen one day and a villain the next, before we know what the full facts of a given situation are. That in and of itself is unfortunate.” 
berry said Te’o was a hard­working student in her class and that he always treated classmates with “respect, generosity and warmhearted affection.” 
“his celebrity and the re­ality of his rising stardom couldn’t be completely de­nied, however, within the context of the classroom he was simply another design student,” she said. “not once did he ever imply that he de­served special treatment or consideration, and he took his share of critical feedback just like everyone else, with­out complaint.” 
berry said she and Te’o spoke in general terms after it appeared both Te’o’s grand­mother and Kekua had died in september, although he never specifically mentioned Kekua in their conversations. 
“it was clear, however, that she and his grandmother were in his thoughts which came through via a few of the design assignments he com­pleted for my class,” berry said. 
during the fall, Te’o sent a letter of support to the family of bridget smith, a 12-year­old girl who died in october. her parents, brian and louise smith, released a statement to The observer in support of Te’o and stood behind the linebacker despite learning that Kekua never existed. 
“manti Te’o sent us a beautiful email that we re­ceived on october 5, 2012, the day our daughter bridget passed away after a three-year battle with a brain tu­mor. in that message, manti expressed his condolences, prayers and support, and re­layed these thoughts in the context of the recent loss of his grandmother and girl­friend. his message was gen­uine and poignant in every way. 
“manti’s interactions with us were always compassion­ate, humble and expressed concern for our well-being and privacy. The events of the past couple of days have been very surreal, but we continue 
“Whatever happens, whatever people may say, he is still a source of inspiration to me, my roommate and forever my friend.” 
Long Tran 
senior 
Dillon Hall 
to support and believe in this generous young man with a huge heart. he helped us to get through the most difficult days of our lives, and for that, we are very grateful. manti remains in our hearts and prayers.” 
Talk show host Katie couric will sit down with Te’o and his parents this week in their first on-camera interview since the controversy emerged. The interview will be aired on couric’s syndicated show at 4 
p.m. Thursday. 
several reports suggest that ronaiah Tuiasosopo, the supposed mastermind of the hoax, will end his silence this week. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



Former USCCB official discusses sexual abuse 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
after more than two de­cades of media scrutiny on the issue of child sexual abuse in the catholic church, dr. Kathleen mcchesney, former head of the office of child protection at the united states conference of catholic bishops, provided an assess­ment of the church’s progress in a lecture monday night. 
The talk, entitled “sexual abuse in the catholic church: where are we now?,” was part of the provost’s distinguished women’s lecture series. mcchesney offered an over­view of the history of abuse in the church, the church’s responses and possible rem­edies going forward. 
mcchesney stressed while the involvement of clergy in abuse is reprehensible, the sexual abuse of minors is a major societal issue in the united states. 
“This is not just a catholic problem. sexual abuse of chil­dren occurs in youth serving organizations, it occurs in public schools ... it occurs in other faiths, other denomina­tions,” she said. “most impor­tant, child sex abuse occurs most often within families.” 
sexual abuse is grossly un­derreported, she said, with one in four women and one in six men having suffered attempted or actual abuse by adulthood. 
The reluctance to report the abuse leaves the true number of incidents within the church difficult to pin down. church investigations have found at least 15,000 al­legations with some merit, al­though some victims’ groups estimate the number to be as high as 100,000, she said. 
“it doesn’t matter if this number is one,” she said. “The number exists and it’s a hor­rible aspect of our church.” 
while still a major con­cern, allegations have been on the decline in recent years, mcchesney said. 
“since 2004, when new cas­es have been counted ... 95 have been reported,” she said. 
This number, down from an average of approximately 600 reports a year over the decades, is partly attribut­able to measures taken by the church to prevent the abuse, mcchesney said. 
“There’s lots of programs in place, there’s been lots of training, there’s lots more screening,” she said. 
while there is a vast range of circumstances in the cases, a study done by the John Jay college of criminal Justice found a few recurring charac­teristics, including a frequent 
“All this matters because children are a gift, God’s gift to all of us ... If we don’t, as adults, do everything we can to protect them ... then shame on us. We’ve ruined that gift.” 
Dr. Kathleen McChesney 
former head of Office of Child 
Protection at the USCCB 
lag in reporting the crimes for as long as 20 years and a vast diversity of misconduct rang­ing from attempted fondling to forced sexual intercourse, mcchesney said. most of the crimes occurred between 1960 and 1984, and victims were primarily boys between the ages of 11 and 14. 
The number of reports of abuse deemed to have some merit between 1950 and 2011 identify approximately 6,000 clergy members as being in­volved, representing between four and five percent of clergy members over that period, she said. 
The response of church leaders in the early years was largely limited to three op­tions. firstly, many would at­tempt to settle the cases with families in some fashion, not necessarily involving the courts, she said. many report­ed perpetrators were also sent to undergo treatment. 
The third measure, often criticized by the public, was to move the accused clergy member. 
“after the offender came back from treatment, they would offer transfer him, which might have made some sense at the time, but ulti­mately they would put them back in the same environ­ment,” she said. 
one of the first substantial efforts was made by the archdiocese of chicago in 1992, when mcchesney said leaders initiated educational programs, brought in lay pro­fessionals on staff and ex­tended screening processes. 


The major breakthrough came in 2002 with the release of a series of articles by The boston globe criticizing the procedure of “settle, treat and transfer,” used in hundreds of cases. 
The church soon released a “charter for the protection of children and young people,” which was in large part later made canon law. since then, the church has spent $169 million on prevention efforts, including a secondary John Jay college study on possible causes. 
“in addition to wanting to know what the scope of the problem was, they also want­ed to know why it happened,” she said. “The study did not find any particular psycho­ses, neuroses or any particu­lar behavior characteristics that you could apply across the board.” 
moving forward, mcchesney pointed to a few possible avenues for improvement. 
“There’s a great need for more research into preven­tative methods and what’s working,” she said. “if you do more research in this area you can contribute not only to the church but for society in general.” 
mcchesney also empha­sized the need for continued outreach to victims and their families in an effort to help repair the damage done to the faith lives of those affected. 
ultimately, she said these efforts were crucial because of the importance of children to the church and society. 
“all this matters because children are a gift, god’s gift to all of us,” she said. “if we don’t, as adults, do everything we can to protect them ... then shame on us. we’ve ruined the gift.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Student-athletes tell their own stories 
By JOANNA LAGEDROST 
news writer 
looking to establish a per­sonal voice in the social me­dia landscape, notre dame athletes have launched a blog and Twitter account called “Through irish eyes.” 
Jaimie morrison, a senior women’s lacrosse player, co-founded “Through irish eyes” with marta stepien, a senior fencer. morrison described the blog as an easy outlet for notre dame student-athletes to express themselves.
 “plenty of athletes get inter­viewed and have other people tell their stories,” morrison said.  “’Through irish eyes’ lets them put their own spin on [their stories], but also opens the audience to different ath­letes they may not have read about otherwise.” 
frank dyer, a junior on the notre dame swim team, said the blog allows for athletes’ personal voices to emerge. 
“many of the nd fans hear from our sports writ­ers through different articles written about us and i think this blog will be for the top fans who want to hear exclu­sively what athletes are up to from their point of view,” he said. 
stepien said that the timing was right to launch such social media ventures. 
“when we brainstormed the idea, the bcs [national championship] game was right around the corner, and we realized there would be no better time to garner at­tention and followers for our posts than when notre dame was already commanding a lot of media attention,” she said. The blog, launched in early december, currently features a collection of student-athletes posing for pictures during fi­nals week and in miami for the national championship game. it also highlights a video of non-fencing athletes bonding during fencing matches and other student athlete digital contributions. 
morrison said there is no limit of what can be posted on the blog. 


Kristina nhim, a junior on the women’s golf team, crafted a post about her experiences travelling with golf clubs. 
“i was really excited about the whole idea,” she said. “[‘Through irish eyes’] is un­polished and pretty simple but it’s definitely open to the pub­lic to read.” 
nhim added that she thinks social networking sites make it easy to reach an audience in an informal way. 
“i think blogging [and] tweeting are good ideas be­cause they’re fun, easy and a personal way to say what you want,” she said. in addition, “Through irish eyes” serves as a means for student-athletes to express the uniqueness of being a student-athlete at the university. 
“There is so much more ex­pected of [student-athletes] and this blog will hopefully translate what we are going through and what we have to say about our experiences at notre dame,” dyer said. 
stepien said that she hopes to reveal to the public notre dame student-athletes’ per­spectives on campus life. 
“notre dame provides us for once in a lifetime opportuni­ties, given the events on cam­pus and the success of each of the athletic programs, that we thought it would be truly in­teresting to shine a light on it all in our own way,,” she said 
The ultimate goal of “Through irish eyes”, stepien said, is to establish an “au­thentic emotional connec­tion” with the world. 
“we wanted to humanize ourselves, so that a sports au­dience could see us for more than just players on a field, but as students and friends with personal and funny anecdotes to tell,” stepien said. 
stepien added that although they do not yet have an edi­torial board for “Through irish eyes,” all student-ath­letes, hand-in-hand with the student welfare department, have been integral in getting the blog rolling.  prompts and ideas are generated through Twitter, and products appear on the blog. 
“This is not the place for stats breakdowns, scouting reports, or behind the scenes details of last week’s gam- . it is a place for us to share what goes on at notre dame through those who fight for it,” stepien said. 
“hopefully we start some­thing that is taken up by oth­er schools in the country and we are credited for being the first,” dyer said. 
Those interested can follow “Through irish eyes” on twit­ter @ndirisheyes. The blog site can be found at http:// ndirisheyes.tumblr.com/. 
Contact Joanna Lagedrost at jlagerdro@nd.edu 

Panel celebrates first-generation students 
was not typical and he could not 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
offer me much advice in terms 
of my education. he pushed for 

in honor of dr. martin luther me to be a doctor and it became King, Jr. day, members of the a struggle for both me and him saint mary’s community gath-when i decided to step off that ered together to host a panel re-path.” membering dr. King’s message This theme of dealing with of fostering an inclusive com-friends and family after start­munity titled “first generation ing the college experience was college students.” expressed by more than one 
“we are doing this in honor of panelist. dr. King and his message to in-bettina spencer, a professor clude everybody,” Tamara Taylor, from the psychology depart-assistant director of student ment, also alluded to how dif­involvement and multicultural ferent her home in detroit felt affairs, said. “i am a first-gener-after she started her undergrad­ation college student and dur-uate degree at a small liberal level are a whole different world. central michigan university my the question, ‘is this threat or ing my time in school i often arts college in new york. i was the only non-white stu-junior year that i felt mentored a challenge?’ i decided it was felt excluded and forgotten. it is “it was a struggle,” spencer dent out of 60 students in the and included in the campus a challenge and from then on important to recognize the dif-said. “in fact, it still is a struggle. honors program and everyday community.” when i come across difficult ferent struggles individuals are i went to college and sometimes was a challenge. it was not until This idea of mentorship and situations i ask myself the same going through on campus.” felt as though i didn’t fit in there, my junior year that i met non-involvement were the two key question.” spencer said. 
in addition to Taylor, the pan-and then i would come home middle class students and truly points each panelist pinpointed The panelists agreed it was el also included other faculty and realize i no longer fully fit felt as though i found my people as a turning point in their col-these difficult moments of over-members, all of who consider in there either. i had to redo my and niche.” lege careers. coming hardships that led them themselves first-generation col-boundaries with certain family all four panelists agreed that “i had two very good men-to appreciate their undergradu­lege students. members.” the first two years of their col-tors,” davis said. “They both ate degree. 
Topics varied from financial being a first-generation col-lege experiences were the most taught me that if you are not “my advice to offer you is aid and parental support to lege student is hard enough, but difficult because they did not having fun then the major isn’t to circle the graduation date,” mentorship advice and campus stacy davis, a professor in the find a community to which they right for you.” davis said. “Keep that date right involvement, but each panelist religious studies and gender and belonged. each panelist attributed her in front of your face. once you offered her own experience. women’s studies departments, “i had a very different experi-time as being a first-generation cross that finish line it is well 
“my father eventually went to said being a scholarship student ence in the fact that i became college student to a unique per-worth it. out of all the degrees college after he served in world added to the difficulties. a teen mom and then decided spective she can now bring to hanging on my wall i am most war ii and had access to the gi “it is a very scary thing to be a to attend college,” Taylor said. the table in her job. proud of my undergraduate one.” bill,” Jan pilarski, a professor in scholarship student at a school “i struggled with the work- “after a difficult moment in the Justice education program, with a lot of money,” davis load and loans. it was not until one of my classes during my Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at said. “his college experience said. “academics at the college i became a mcnair scholar at undergrad, i had to ask myself krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
news writer 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | The observer 

Timeline 
conTinued from page 1 
ticketed area, with a good view of one big screen and a distant view of the capitol stairs. Just behind me, a protestor has climbed a tree and is scream­ing anti-obama messages out of reach of inauguration security. 
10:38 a.m. The entire united states congress, first the house of representatives and then the senate, has been seated. They must buy those black full-length wool coats in bulk and pass them out in the capitol building. 
10:45 a.m. The military band plays “yankee doodle dandy.” i remember all the words. 
10:55 a.m. former president bill clinton and secretary of state hillary rodham clinton appear on the screen as they walk through the capitol and onto the steps. “it’ll be you next time, girl,” the woman behind me yells for hillary. former president Jimmy carter and his wife rosalyn are also present. 
11:00 a.m. cell service is ac­tually worse than at a notre dame football saturday. 
11:12 a.m. my toes are really, really cold. i teach the woman next to me, who is from florida, how to use the hand warmers she has bought from a street vendor. 
11:17a.m. first lady michelle obama steps out in front of the capitol. she’s grinning from ear to ear, and her coat is de­signed by Thom browne, a 1988 notre dame graduate. 
11:19 a.m. vice president Joe biden, along with other congressional leaders, join the stage in front of the capitol. The military band plays “hail columbia.” 
11:23 a.m. obama is an­nounced and steps onto the stage to huge cheers from the crowd, which is chant­ing “obama! obama!” for someone as cold as i am in the crowd, “hail to the chief” sud­denly becomes a great tune for a little warm-up dance. 
11:24 a.m. i have lost all the feeling in my toes. 
11:25 a.m. sen. charles schumer, the master of ceremo­nies, begins the 57th presiden­tial inauguration ceremonies. 
he introduces the theme of this year’s ceremonies, which is “faith in america’s future.” when he invites the crowd to sit down, everyone in the standing sections laughs. 
11:31 a.m. historic civil rights activist myrlie evers­williams delivers the invoca­tion. “as we sing the words of belief, ‘This is my country,’ let us act upon the meaning that everyone is included,” she said. “may the inherent dignity and inalienable rights of every woman, man, boy and girl be honored. may all your people, especially the least of these, flourish in our blessed nation.” 
11:38 a.m. The brooklyn Tabernacle choir performs “The battle hymn of the republic.” i’m jealous of their coats, which seem incredibly warm, and their musical talent. 
11:43  a.m.  republican  
sen.  lamar  alexander  
from  Tennessee  praises  the  

american transition of peace­ful transition of power, saying “There is no mob, no coup, no insurrection. This is a moment when millions stop and watch.” 
11:45 a.m. biden swears his oath of office, administered by supreme court Justice sonia sotomayor. by constitutional requirement, the vice president and president actually swore this oath on sunday (Jan. 20) 
— but because that date fell on a sunday this year, the public ceremonies transpired the next day. 
11:46 a.m. singer James Taylor sings “america the beautiful.” 
11:50 a.m. obama swears his oath of office, administered by supreme court chief Justice John roberts Jr.: “i do solemnly swear that i will faithfully ex­ecute the office of president of the united states, and will to the best of my ability, pre­serve, protect and defend the constitution of the united states.” 
The crowd erupts in cheers, and two security officers near my section fist bump. 
11:52 a.m. obama begins his inaugural address. “my fellow americans, we are made for this moment and we will seize it, so long as we seize it togeth­er,” he said. 
12:13 p.m. singer Kelly clarkson sings “my country, Tis of Thee.” when she finishes, schumer says, “wow.” 
12:14 p.m. inaugural poet richard blanco read his poem composed for the occasion, ti­tled “one Today.” 
12:23 p.m. rev. luis leon delivers the benediction: “we pray for your blessing because without it, we will only see what the eye can see. but with the blessing of your blessing we will see that we are created in your image, whether brown, black or white, male or female, first generation or immigrant american, or daughter of the american revolution, gay or straight, rich or poor.” 
12:25 p.m. schumer con­cludes the inaugural ceremo­nies. singer beyoncé performs the national anthem, belting the last lines to cheers and flag waving from the crowd. after she hits the last note, the cer­emonies are over — president barack obama leaves the capitol steps, ready to officially begin his second term in office. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Students 
conTinued from page 1 
her family history has prompted her to follow issues like immi­gration closely, she said, and she hopes to see obama address that debate seriously in his second term. 
so when she heard the inau­gural address monday, she said she hopes the president’s words would motivate all members of congress and government to work together for action on im­migration and education. 
“i thought it was something that isn’t always easy to hear, that maybe we aren’t doing the best job at communicating and talking to each other and doing the things we should be doing,” she said. “so it’s a good wake-up call.” 
Junior brian vogt stepped onto the national mall for the inauguration ceremony as a mi­nority in the crowd during — in the midst of “obama” chants, he said he was a voter who had not cast his ballot for the president in november. 
“as someone who didn’t vote for president obama, it reassures me when you can hear in his voice how seriously he takes his office,” vogt said. “he’s still the president of the united states, so i support him 100 percent. maybe i disagree with his poli­tics, but i support him.” 
no matter the party allegianc­es of those in the crowd, vogt said the whole experience felt “uniting.” 
“it’s nice to see for once the politicians to take a moment, to recognize how special it is what they do and not just be all about [partisanship,]” he said. 
vogt said he was impressed with obama’s repetition of the phrase “we the people” through­out his inaugural address. 
“when you’re little, you think government is this big thing out there,” he said. “but [the govern­ment] is exactly what we are, what we want. … There’s noth­ing america can’t accomplish if we come together. 
“it gave me a lot of hope and i was just really proud to be american.” 
in the midst of obama’s call to compromise, hatch said she was disappointed to see evidence of partisan divide at the inaugura­tion. a protestor near her spot in the crowd had climbed a tree to yell anti-obama messages through the entire ceremony, and members of the crowd booed when vice presidential candidate rep. paul ryan, for­mer vice presidential candidate on the republican ticket, ap­peared on the television screens. 
hatch said she would have hoped to see more deference to the day’s purpose — the success­ful inauguration of a president — rather than party divide. 
“i thought it was a little disre­spectful,” she said. “we’re here to inaugurate a president. i know obama and [first lady michelle obama] have made statements earlier in the week that this [in­auguration] is supposed to be celebrating democracy and what it means to e american and the american dream … especially now when we need more bipar­tisanship, more cooperation in congress.” 
whatever the next four years may hold, hatch said the inau­guration reminded her that she is studying in the nation’s capital at a critical point in united states history. 
“i felt really very lucky that i got to be here as a part of the d.c. program through notre dame,” she said. “it was awesome to be a part of that.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Address 
conTinued from page 1 

of the national conversation during this election. Three more states — maryland, washington and maine — vot­ed on referendums to legalize gay marriage in november, and minnesota voters rejected a constitutional ban on gay marriage. 
“our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sis­ters are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal, as well,” he said. 
he also championed medicaid, medicare and social security, making a case for their place in government. 
“They do not make us a na­tion of takers,” he said specifi­cally of these programs. “They free us to take the risks that make this country great.” 
while the president and leg­islature turn to immigration as one of its next orders of busi­ness, obama briefly targeted his desire to see action on im­migration reform in this term. 
“our journey is not complete until we find a better way to welcome the striving, hope­ful immigrants who still see america as a land of opportuni­ty, until bright young students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than ex­pelled from our country.” 
even as the president spoke strongly on these issues, the approximately 18-minute ad­dress constantly returned to the phrase “we the people.” This idea of unity, of work­ing together, will be a critical component to obama’s suc­cesses — and failures — in the next four years. and beneath the hopeful speechwriting, his words spoke to a national de­sire to move forward as one. 
“you and i, as citizens, have the power to set this country’s course,” he said. “you and i, as citizens, have the obligation to shape the debates of our time, not only with the votes we cast, but the voices we lift in defense of our most ancient values and enduring ideas. 
“let us, each of us, now em­brace with solemn duty and awesome joy what is our last­ing birthright. with common effort and common purpose, with passion and dedication, let us answer the call of his­tory and carry into an uncer­tain future the precious light of freedom.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Have a green semester 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The butler way 

Mike Monaco 
sports writer 

with espn’s “college gameday” in hinkle fieldhouse for a primetime matchup between no. 8 gonzaga and no. 13 butler on saturday night, the bulldogs (the butler variety) didn’t disappoint. 
sophomore forward roosevelt Jones drained a floater as time expired to quiet the Zags. 
but this was more than a pandemoni­um-producing, buzzer-beating victory. it was a testament to The butler way. 
Think about the top programs in col­lege basketball. not historically, but in the past few years. Kentucky, syracuse, ohio state, duke, north carolina and Kansas come to mind. These schools have finished in the top five and garnered top seeds in the ncaa tournament. 
but butler has been just as efficient and proficient since head coach brad stevens took over the leash of the ‘dogs prior to the 2007-08 season. since then, butler has gone 30-4, 26-6, 33-5, 28-10 and 22-15 in the last five seasons. and the bulldogs are off to a sparkling 16-2 mark this year. 
what is The butler way? what makes this private university of 4,034 students so unexpectedly good at basketball? 
well, forget about one-and-dones typical of schools like Kentucky. forget about the high-profile recruits of duke and north carolina. The bulldogs sub­sist on intelligent play by veteran leaders who have been in the stevens system for years. 
for instance, senior guard rotnei clarke leads butler in scoring, averaging 
16.3 points per game. another senior, center andrew smith, is second in scor­ing at 11.7 points a night. and back dur­ing the championship appearances of 2010 and 2011, it was players like matt howard, shelvin mack and ronald nored, plus the exceptional gordon hayward, who uncharacteristically left butler for the nba after his storied soph­omore season. 
These bulldogs have won with tight defense, a slow pace, efficient shot-mak­ing and a penchant for making big plays in crunch time. it’s something for butler coach brad stevens to yawn at nowadays; he’s accustomed to these wins. 
as for stevens, need we say more than call him one of the elite coaches in col­lege basketball. stevens is a cool 155-42 in his time at butler. oh, and the guy is 36. 
butler has had more than its fair share of wins in games it probably had no business winning. but that’s exactly The butler way. and it all stems from a coach who is as even-keeled as they get. 
when Jones hit the shot to beat gonzaga, stevens didn’t flinch. he im­mediately started walking to Zags coach mark few to commence the post-game 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The GreenMan 
ask the greenman 

To my bundled-up, shivering, teeth-chattering domers, 
with the flu hitting full force, tis­sues have become a hot commodity 
— a way to make friends with that someone who caught your atten­tion on the first day of class that will make a 9:30 a.m. principles of macro more bearable . . . anyway, thinking about tissues got me think­ing about one of my other favorite topics: paper! and what better time to preach about paper consump­tion than at the beginning of the semester? 
here are a few surprising facts for you: in the u.s., we use over 70 mil­lion tons of paper and paperboard each year. That’s about 500 pounds of paper per year for each of us. 500 pounds, friends. while this number has been declining, the u.s. still uses about five times the world’s average. shucks. 
luckily, i had the forethought that you all would be upset about this, so below i’ve included some handy tips and advice. first, do you really need that many paper towels? no. one is really enough. maybe if you have super big hands, go for another, but i think you can get away with one. also, noT every finger needs a separaTe napKin. sorry, but i’ve watched too many of you go napkin crazy. second, avoid printing out lengthy readings and course packets. annotating in pdf is pretty handy and it gives you a reason to have your computer open in class. plus, if you doze off accidentally and get called on unexpectedly, the “find” feature is really convenient. Third, grab ‘n go bag usage. if you don’t want to buy a reusable bag, fine, just throw your old bag in your backpack when you’re done and whip it out the next time — whip it good.  fourth, this sounds parental i realize, but just try to stay organized. why bother print­ing out syllabi and confirmation emails if you’re only going to lose them the next day? 
There are a dozen other little things i’m sure you can come up with yourselves, but i wanted to get you thinking at least. 
here’s to a fantastic (and green) se­mester for each and every one of you! 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@ gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The wisest men follow their own direction” 


The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Newsflash: Manti Te’o is still a hero 
heroes make the world go around. They give us inspiration and a reason to become better, to overcome obstacles. however, even in movies and books, heroes are human too, prone to the same flaws. 
notre dame linebacker manti Te’o finally opened up about the hoax played on him, leading him to believe he had an online girlfriend who later died from leukemia. he found out later, devastated, that she never existed. like most of us, he didn’t want to stand on a mountaintop and shout out the embarrassment. 
The good news is, he spilled the beans in an off-camera interview with Jeremy schaap of espn. manti said he did not concoct this hoax and when he found out he was duped, he felt so awkward that he told others he met the fictional lennay Kekua in person. as he said to espn: 
“i knew that — i even knew that it was crazy that i was with somebody that i didn’t meet, and that alone people find out that this girl who died i was so invested in, and i didn’t meet her as well. ... so i kind of tailored my stories to have people think that, yeah, he met her before she passed away so people wouldn’t think i was some crazy dude.” 
his humanity has shined through, and unfortunately in a very public way. so now that we’ve seen his human side in a big way, let’s remember why he became a hero in the first place: 
as a young sophomore he gets the most tackles in a game for the irish in four years. Junior year he becomes one of 10 players in notre dame history to achieve 300 career tackles. senior year, the tackling keeps up but he also nabs seven interceptions, the most by any football bowl subdivision linebacker in more than a decade. 
now let’s get in the red zone with stanford. The cardinals are down 20-13 in over­time and so close to the end zone they can smell it. not only did manti and the irish defenders hold them back, it was their 16th straight quarter without letting the op­ponent score. 
onto the south, in the rain-drenched game against oklahoma: a ball is loose from the sooner offense, it looks like it’s going to hit the ground, then out of nowhere comes the prodigy from hawaii with a diving interception, locking in notre dame’s victory. 
when we see the hero’s humanity — the barriers they are overcoming both inter­nally and externally — their heroism becomes that much more impressive. 
before this whole debacle, when chicago television news anchor Kate sullivan asked manti about his future plans, without a pause he said: “giving back.” he said of course he wanted to go to the nfl and make money, but he would use money to help kids. he recalled a young girl he met while volunteering at the boys and girls club who could do cartwheels. he was so impressed with her he said she should go into gymnastics. she explained her parents couldn’t afford to send her to gymnastics. 
“money should never be a reason why a child can’t live a dream,” manti said. “and if i can have any hand in that, to help some kid live their dream, that’s what i want to do.” 
if there is anyone out there who made no mistakes when they were 21-years-old, then either you haven’t turned 21 yet, or your memory must be failing you. 
Joe Moody 
alumnus class of 1993 Jan. 21 

support student hockey season 
To the athletic department: 
we love notre dame hockey, but, during the first semester, we did not make many games due to football season, basketball games, one of us being an ra and class projects towards the end of the semester. as spring semes­ter began, we were excited to attend the game on Jan. 18. 
our group arrived 45 minutes before game time and sat in our usual seats, the first row of section 104 (the student section balcony). Ten min­utes before game time, we were informed that these seats, and all seats in the upper student section, were sold to the public. we moved downstairs to the already full lower student section, parts of which were also sold. since the section was full, some helpful ushers relocated us and other students to standing exactly opposite of the student section. The ushers explained that the student section was not always full for games first semester. as described earlier, it is difficult for students to attend games first semester. football takes a lot of time out of students’ weekends, and the great season made us more invested. The end of the semester is also a busy time in the classroom. it seems safe to assume more students will come to games now. it is ridiculous that you sell seats in the student section, and thus limit the seats of the students who did come (many of whom actually purchased sea­son tickets). and worse, you called it student appreciation night! we cer­tainly did not feel appreciated. 
This offense is combined with the recent $20 service fee for the bcs ticket lottery. what could you possibly use the approximately $2 million of fees for?  The lottery was computerized! (if you need, we have computer science friends who would love to design a better system for you for only $1 million.) 
we will continue to support notre dame athletics due to our love for this university and the teams, but the recent treatment of fans and the heart of the university, the students, for the sake of money has made it difficult to do so. 
Derek Wolf 
senior 
siegfried hall 
Jan. 21 
Danny Masse 
senior 
siegfried hall 
Jan. 21 
Pat Handy 
senior 
siegfried hall 
Jan. 21 
Eric Bens 
senior off campus 
UWIRE 

obama sworn in for second term 
Matthew Glowicki 
indiana daily student 

we the people, said president barack obama, more than ever, must work together as one nation, as one people. 
evoking the declaration of independence, obama called for the pursuit of the document’s ideals through collective action and cooperation. 
in his second inaugural address, obama addressed the crowd of more than 800,000. he faced the challenge of addressing his people, four years after his first inau­gural speech revealed many aspirations that remain unfulfilled. 
“faith in america’s future” was the theme of today’s inauguration. 
The theme of faith ran through the ceremony — faith in the country and its future prosperity, faith in each other to work together, and faith, ultimately, in obama. 
he addressed the deficit, saying difficult choices must be made to reduce it, as well as healthcare spending, but caution will remain. 
“…we reject the belief that america must choose be­tween caring for the generation that built this country and investing in the generation that will build its fu­ture,” he said. 
he emphasized equality throughout the speech. equal pay for women, full legal rights and benefits for homosexuals and non discrimination against the down­trodden and poor. 
“we, the people, declare today that the most evident of truths – that all of us are created equal – is the star that guides us still; just as it guided our forebears through seneca falls, and selma, and stonewall; just as it guided all those men and women, sung and unsung, who left footprints along this great mall, to hear a preacher say that we cannot walk alone.” 
he stressed the need to preserve the earth and combat climate change. 
he asserted the united states’ role as leader of the world, maintained not through war but, “through strength of arms and rule of law.” 
obama also addressed immigration, a topic largely tabled in his first administration, saying it’s time to re­form the process. 
he closed with a charge to the public and to himself. 
“with common effort and common purpose, with passion and dedication, let us answer the call of history, and carry into an uncertain future that precious light of freedom.” 
This column originially ran in the Jan. 21 edition of the Indiana Daily Student, serving Indiana University . 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

lena dunham, the 26 year-old, writer, director and star of the hbo series “girls” graduated from college five years ago. 
when an interviewer asks “where do you see yourself in five years,” do you really believe in the answer you’re giving or do you just want to seem like an ambitious go-getter? 
if lena dunham answered that question by saying she would be a four-time emmy nominee and two-time golden globe winner, it’s likely that i would’ve rolled my eyes and thought, “yeah … okay,” while politely wishing her well. 
and yet that’s exactly what dunham has done. she is one of the most accomplished women of her age, and she got that way by giving a voice to a generation of twenty-somethings who haven’t figured out their career path (let alone made any progress along that path). 
dunham stars as the aloof hannah horvath. she wants to become a writer, but spends most of her time working unpaid internships at publishing houses or working in coffee shops. 
she fails miserably at finding even a reasonably re­spectful boyfriend, and instead falls for her incredibly bizarre hookup buddy adam. 
it’s hard to sympathize with hannah at times because she makes so many self-inflicted mistakes and invests too much energy into people who don’t necessarily care about her well-being. 
she does, however, have a constant group of girlfriends who are there to either set her straight or support her, de­spite her misguided attempts at finding fulfillment. 
marnie is hannah’s friend from college who lived with her in a tiny-ish apartment. she’s the only one of the group who actually has a job — until the beginning of the second season, when her perfect life starts to fall apart. it’s just an example of how even the most polished can lose their luster after years of doing everything right. 
Jessa is the free spirit who blows back into town at the beginning of the first season to live with her cousin shoshanna in an nyu apartment. 
shoshanna is the youngest of the group and undoubt­edly the most neurotic character on the show. she is in love with the idea of living in new york and the fantasy of a “sex and the city”-style life. 
The relationship between these four girls is the lynchpin of the show, and yet you never get the impres­sion that these friends only have each other. it’s much more realistic than that. 
instead of portraying their lives as self-contained, it is open to the possibility of many layered webs of relation­ships that intersect and diverge at different times. 
if you haven’t seen “girls” yet, steal your parent’s hbo go account information and race through the 10 epi­sodes of the first season immediately. 
The show serves as a dual reminder both of how much young people can accomplish and yet how normal it is to feel as if you’ve done nothing with the first five years after you get your degree. 
it doesn’t perpetuate the idea that once you move to new york (or whatever city will serve as your post-grad playground) you’ve finally gotten it all together. it shows how messy life is, but doesn’t wallow in the fear that plagues unguided young-adults. above all the show is funny in its uncanny ability to predict the situations in which its viewers may eventually find themselves, and chalks every awkward moment up to that never-ending “finding yourself” stage. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 

lena dunham had quite the night on Jan. 13. not only did the second season of “girls” premiere on hbo, but she also won golden globes for best actress and best Television show for the program that she writes, stars in and often directs (that’s what charlie sheen would refer to as #winning.) 
“girls” has often been cited as a next-generation ver­sion of “sex and the city” in the sense it also takes a look at the professional, personal and romantic lives of four women in the big apple. “girls” subtly acknowledg­es the influence “sex and the city” had on the series, with one of the characters discussing which one of the “saTc” girls she “is” and hanging a poster of the televi­sion show in her apartment. 
but unlike the successful professional career women that carrie, samantha, miranda and charlotte are, the four main “girls” are not glamorized versions of what it’s like to be young and single in the big apple. hannah, marnie, Jessa and shoshanna are young, struggling 20-somethings, complete with all the warts that come with the challenges of post-grad life in a big city. 
That being said, all of the girls of “girls” have their unique quirks that make them lovable at times, loath-able at others. what does your favorite “girls” character say about you? more than you would know. personally, i’m a marnie with a dash of shoshanna, but not every­one is as lucky. 
Hannah Horvath 

portrayed by the television wonderkid dunham, se­ries protagonist hannah embodies much of the angst that post-grads fear (and for those of you who are se­niors, will encounter very soon). she struggles to hold down a job and has self-confidence issues, largely trig­gered by her body image and abnormal romantic life. if you’re a hannah, you care greatly about what others think about you. you also are probably in the college of arts & letters, majoring in something like english or american studies. Things you like to talk about: re­lationships, your lack of a job and the “novel” you are writing. you plan on moving to new york because that is what all young college graduates are supposed to do. most likely, two of your best friends are named “ben” and “Jerry.” 
Marnie Michaels 
played by yale grad allison williams, daughter of nbc anchor brian williams, marnie is predictably a driven, type-a individual. if you’re a marnie you are probably majoring in something practical and profes­sional (mendoza, hey!) and you always have your eyes on the metaphorical “prize.” you wear lululemon and carry smartwater in your longchamp bag, and are po­tentially in a vanilla relationship with your boyfriend/ girlfriend. you’re known as the friend who throws a per­fect pregame and you have perfected the skinny-arm pose in photographs. everything seems to come easy to you — you’re pretty, driven and intelligent — so when something goes even slightly off-script, you’re at a to­tal loss as to what to do. in season one, marnie splits up with her long-term boyfriend and in the season Two premiere, she is fired from her job at an art gallery. in both instances, marnie is thrown into a bit of a tailspin. you like when things go according to plan and like ev­erything to be perfect. 
Jessa Johansson 

Jessa is a bit of a free spirit. she treats things like re­lationships and her career fairly casually and is always up for a good time. i mean, this is the girl who threw a surprise wedding. if you’re a Jessa, you live in the mo­ment and are generally creative and carefree. you’re probably a graphic design or pls major and wear lots of interesting clothing — think feathers and lots of bracelets — that set you apart from the rest of the ge­neric notre dame crowd. you don’t know what you are doing tonight, let alone after graduation. you most defi­nitely studied abroad somewhere off the beaten path (probably somewhere like athens or chile, definitely not london). for you, the destination does not matter as much as the journey to get there. however, you can’t wait to graduate and get out of the northface- and uggs­wearing horde and move somewhere like williamsburg (that’s in brooklyn, not the colonial dress-up place). 
Shoshanna Shapiro 
last but certainly not least is neurotic shoshanna, “girls” resident worrywart. if you like shoshanna, you probably drink lots of starbucks frappuccinos and have lisa frank school supplies. you listen to a lot of Taylor swift and spend most of your time studying in the li­brary. you talk really fast and probably carry hand sani­tizer around in your backpack. personal appearance, grades and social status matter a lot to you, but some­how, you still manage to be an awkward turtle. you talk to your parents a lot on the phone and probably major in something like marketing. a crazy night out for you would include a dance floor make out at fever. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

on Jan. 16, “workaholics” returned to comedy central with “booger nights,” a thoroughly enjoyable episode. This also meant the return of the new age, desk-jockey renditions of “The Three stooges” — mainstays blake anderson, adam devine and anders “ders” holm. 
if you would have told me that, entering the final stretch of its third season, “workaholics” was going to come back in the new year from its mid-season hiatus with an absolutely hysterical new episode, i would have been skeptical. as a casual viewer, i’ve gone through a couple seasons of a series that has been — in my opin­ion — quite a hit-and-miss sitcom. The show employs the tried-and-tired (though admittedly still successful) formula of a situational comedy — it’s centered on un­derachieving office workers. 
There have certainly been many high points in the series, as i’ve found myself quietly chanting “let’s get weird!” along with adam in season 2, and i’ve been guilty of using the phrase “you’re kind of gQ” to give my nod of approval to a friend. however, i also vividly remember my days starting “workaholics” on netflix, feeling pretty disinterested in various points of the show, skating over some episodes such as “we be ballin,” “Temp-Tress” and “straight up Juggahos” in search of one that could rise above the monotony of crude jokes and the predictable brand of what i like to refer to as “loser-humor.” 
That being said, “workaholics” could have not made a bigger splash in its return than with the latest episode, “booger nights.” right off the bat, the three lovable mis­fits fire off a flurry of poor-taste jokes and learn of a fu­ture office roast for coworker bill. in the quest to be the kings of the roast — and to ultimately assert their humor to an apathetic office — the trio set off in a wildly funny search for comedic-roast gold. however, the roast proves to be too much, and the situation goes way over the top in a series of events in which “workaholics” undoubt­edly outdoes itself. as things escalated, the episode cer­tainly felt like it was larger than and unhindered by its 21-minute time cap. 
The manner that “booger nights” was handled and produced was borderline ingenious, with a consistent, high level of energy, and with timely jokes to prevent the story from feeling dull in a way that i haven’t seen out of “workaholics” in the past. The acting was really well done, especially by the supporting characters (work­mates bill, montez, waymond, Jet set and their foul­mouthed boss, alice). each brought a level of snarky humor and convincing irritability that effectively put each character’s attitude toward the main trio into perspective. 
if this episode is any foreshadowing of what’s to come, i fully expect the ending of season three to finish stron­ger than ever, and it should rightfully raise expectations as season three draws to a close in mid-march. 
This show has undeniably gotten weird, as things seemed to be a bit outlandish and outright ridiculous in this mid-season re-opener, but as “workaholics” has proven yet again, “getting weird” is the way to go. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

The third season of “downton abbey” premiered in the u.s. on January 6. we’re now three episodes deep, including a two-hour opener. speaking as a fan of the series, i am somewhat disappointed by the recycling of old storylines. The marriages and almost-marriages, impending collapse of the class system, breast-cancer scares and inclusion of a driver into the aristocracy’s so­cial gatherings are all new storylines, but they feel like they’ve been done before. 
This is partially because we spent all of last season waiting for most of these plotlines to be carried out, and because the show insists on doing the “will they or won’t they” bit with absolutely everything that hap­pens, making it all feel pretty similar. 
mary and matthew are getting married, no “downton” fan can speak these words without smiling, but the last minute call-off, and then morning-of call back on? how many times are we going to see matthew and mary together, then torn apart because of pride or honor or some other ridiculous quality? matthew and mary’s relationship is supposed to be an emotional roller coaster, but my neck hurts from plot-whiplash effect. and were any of us terribly surprised when edith got left at the altar? in true “and none for gretchen weiners”-esqe fashion, edith is the sobbing single sister once again. 
after the first two episodes of the season, i feared the show had jumped the shark. downton abbey’s im­pending sale seemed like a promising plot twist, but we all knew some ridiculous deus ex machina was go­ing to appear and save the family estate. predictably, matthew randomly inherited a bunch of money. does anyone else wonder how it could possibly been enough money to keep downton going, and when lavinia made the jump from being upper-middle class to richer-than­lord-grantham wealthy? i wouldn’t have minded matthew saving the day with his dead-girlfriend mon­ey, but the whole saga was a bit rich for my blood. 
perhaps the most bothersome aspect of the new sea­son so far was mary and sybil’s icky new hairstyles. i’m really just confused. are these supposed to reflect changing fashion trends, or is the show making some kind of statement about the effect marriage has on a woman’s hair (it just goes to crap overnight)? mary’s sticks down around her face like a helmet, and sybil’s is just the most awkward, bushy bob. i don’t understand why maggie smith hasn’t called them out for this yet. 
despite my annoyance and fear that the show is on its way down, episode three left me with a bit of hope. The advent of edith’s feminist newspaper writing, the pos­sibility for matthew to teach lord grantham a lesson about handling money and the historical context of the irish revolution are all really exciting plotlines. even the impending battle between Thomas and o’brien seems promising. servants acting incredibly petty and sabotaging each other is nothing new for the show, but we’ve never seen Thomas and o’brien face off before. in one of the best scenes of the show so far, anna and bates read each other’s letters in their respective prisons as they were meant to be sleeping. every “downton” fan could feel a tear grace their cheek and the eternal call of “free bates” cross their lips during this touching mo­ment in episode three. 
we go into this sunday’s episode with a little appre­hension that they’ll pull more of the same old trite, a little hope that they hired a new hairstylist for the show and the knowing feeling that none of it really matters anyway as long as maggie smith is still there making snide comments in her nasally old woman voice. long live downton and free baTes. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Watching tennis from Down Under 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
with the college football season over and an extra week standing between us and the superbowl, this coming week­end will be the first since sept. 9 without any football (let’s be real, the pro bowl is not actu­ally football.)Thankfully for sports fans everywhere, there is something to fill that void, but only if you give it a chance. 
The australian open men’s singles final will be shown sunday night at 7 p.m. with quarter and semifinals lead­ing up to the finale all week on espn2. and before you dismiss the idea of watching tennis, read the case for the most underrated sport to watch on television. 
storylines abound in this year’s australian open, espe­cially on the men’s side. 
will the newest member of tennis elite andy murray build off his first major victory at the u.s. open to take the australian open? can roger federer continue to add to his record 17 majors? novak djokovic has won the last two aussies, but can he hold off murray, federer and the field for a third-consecutive title? 
in fact, this current era of men’s tennis stands as possibly the best ever because of the competition between federer, djokovic, murray and the injury-plagued rafael nadal. outside of the u.s. open in 2009, one of these four players has won every one of the four grand slam tournaments since 2005. when healthy, each of the four has a legitimate shot at winning, which makes each grand slam intriguing and the quest for the no. 1 world rank­ing never ending. 
rooting for one of the “big four” or even someone more obscure is part of what makes watching tennis great. without a legitimate contender from the u.s., american fans instead cheer for an athlete based on style of play or personality. 
want to see an athlete shake his underdog label once and for all? Take murray. what about a calm, collected veteran or a flashy, young star? choose federer or djokovic, respec­tively. how about someone al­ways hustling, hoping to break past the big four? root for Jo­wilfried Tsonga from france. 
but the argument for tennis has not even extended past the incredible athletes in the game. There are many aspects of tennis itself that make it entertaining to watch. 
on the surface level, tennis is action-packed and fast-mov­ing. sure, some matches last a long time, but the match then becomes a true test of endur­ance and mental stamina. and from a fan’s perspective, even watching the last set or two of a marathon match is worthwhile. 
players also rarely take points off because they can’t allow their opponents to get an edge. and besides the admittedly strange scoring system, tennis is fairly easy to understand. 
but while it seems simple, there is also more to tennis than meets the eye, especially when it comes to strategy and tactics. every shot a player hits is designed to set up his or her next shot. The characteristics of every serve — speed, spin and location — are aimed at gaining an advantage or catch­ing an opponent off guard. The tools at players’ disposal in­clude skills like baseline posi­tioning, shot type and their net game. 
after an hour or two of watching tennis and with the help of the Tv analysts, you can pick up on the underlying facets of the game, which only make it more entertaining. 
in addition, tennis remains one of the purest sports of the modern era. many of the frus­trating aspects of other sports, like controversial refereeing or steroids, aren’t found in ten­nis. line judges and the chair umpire don’t affect the game like in the nba or nfl and dif­ficult calls or plays are handled easily with the replay system “hawkeye.” performance-enhancing drugs have not tainted the game as they have with baseball.finally, tennis has some of the best events in all of sports. The four major tournaments are all unique, well run and always bring out the highest level of play. The three different surfaces — hard court, clay and grass — played at the different major tournaments make each event distinct and prevent one player from dominating all four ma­jors. in addition, wimbledon remains one of the greatest events in all sports. 
so although the men’s final match won’t be coming live from “down under,” (you’d have to get up at 3:30 a.m.), tune in sunday night or even earlier in this week to watch the australian open. you might just be surprised how much you enjoy it.
 Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Matheny, Cardinals  remember Musial 
Associated Press 

sT. louis — mike matheny first encountered stan musial about two decades ago, watch­ing the hall of famer draw a harmonica out of his jacket with an impish grin and captivate yet another crowd. 
whichever way the st. louis cardinals decide to remember stan the man, whether they wear armbands or a patch on their uniforms, their manager expects his team to adhere to musial’s work ethic. matheny, who begins his second spring training in charge in about three weeks, believes musial’s passing will serve as perspec­tive and motivation while reminding players that the win­dow of opportunity is short. 
“i think everybody around here, young and old, gets how important mr. musial was and still is — and will be — to this organization and this commu­nity. Just everything he stood for,” matheny said monday at the end of the three-day winter warm-up fan festival. 
“whether it’s something we physically put on our sleeve or not, i’m sure there will be some­thing that will memorialize mr. musial.” 
The 92-year-old musial, a sev­en-time national league bat­ting champion and three-time mvp, died on saturday. a pub­lic visitation will be Thursday at the cathedral basilica in st. louis, with a funeral mass on saturday. 
“i think whether you grow up in st. louis or not, if you’re a fan of baseball you’re going to hear stan musial›s name re­peatedly,” said third baseman david freese, who grew up sub­urban st. louis. “he’s going to be missed, i think everybody knows that. 
“what a life he lived.” 

matheny’s on-field focus has been tested beyond the an­guish of a blown a 3-1 nlcs lead against the eventual world series champion san francisco giants last fall. he 

FOR SALE 

7 month old MacBook Pro. Very little use. $3K of software for graphic design. Magnetic charger. 15&quot; screen. $1800. Call 574-370-0801 

faces bankruptcy over a series of failed investments that the st. louis post-dispatch reported have left him more than $4 mil­lion in debt. 
matheny told the newspaper he expects to liquidate all of his investments and real estate holdings, including his dream home, which has 17 rooms on 11 acres. from all accounts, matheny was able to block out those issues when he put on the uniform. 
“you just never know any situation how you’re going to react until you get into it, but i was able to show up every day with an incredible ability to just focus and do my job,” matheny said. “stuff on the outside i was able to compartmentalize and deal with that as i had to. 
“it’s a story that doesn’t have anything to do with woes, it’s about some pretty cool things that have happened, but i’m looking forward to moving on.” 
The cardinals, meanwhile, hope to sign pitcher adam wainwright, entering the fi­nal year of his contract, to a new deal. The 31-year-old wainwright returned in less than a year from reconstructive elbow surgery last season and was 14-13 with a 3.94 era, after totaling 39 wins in 2009-10. 
“you can be sure we’ll try to sign him,” chairman bill dewitt Jr. said. “whether we’ll be able to, remains to be seen.” 
wainwright wore a T-shirt that read “Just happy to be here. hope i can help the ballclub.” 
“if they want to talk about it with my agent, they’re more then welcome to,” wainwright said. “i don’t respond well when i’m thinking about other stuff on the mound.” 
The cardinals have three remaining arbitration-eli­gible players — closer Jason motte, left-hander reliever marc rzepczynski and freese. They’re closer to deals with the two pitchers than freese, the 2011 world series and nl cham­pionship series mvp. 
The 29-year-old freese played his first full season last year, batting .293 with 20 homers and 79 rbis, and is seeking $3.75 million. The cardinals have of­fered $2.4 million. 
“publicly i’m not going to get involved with talking about where we’re at,” freese said. “it’s going to get resolved sooner or later, it kind of has to.” 
“when i don’t know, but obvi­ously we’re in the process.” 
motte submitted for $5.5 mil­lion and was offered $4.5 mil­lion and rzepczynski requested $1.3 million and was offered $900,000. 
outfielder carlos beltran, entering the second year of a two-year, $26 million contract, wasn’t looking ahead. 
“whatever happens after this year, i don’t know,” beltran said. “but i also have to find out what the organization’s plans are.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Born on this day in history: Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist 1956 - Gina Davis, American actress you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 1941- Placido Domingo, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Spanish opera singer Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 1940 - Jack Nicklaus, American actor http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | The observer 
NFL 

Falcons upset after losing opportunity 


through with plans to retire, said all along this would likely and perhaps coming up with be his final season. he sounded another front-line running back even more sure about retirement in case michael Turner doesn’t after the loss to san francisco, return. referring to his 16-year career in 
smith said it’s too soon to dis-the past tense. 
cuss specifics, and he’s always “That’s probably going to be 
close to the vest with person-the last time i wear that uni­
nel decisions anyway. but he’s form, or football pads and 
confident that general manager cleats,” gonzalez said. “i didn’t 
Thomas dimitroff will assemble want to take it off, to tell you the 
another winning roster by the truth. but all good things come 
time the falcons report to train-to an end.” 
ing camp. smith is holding out hope that 
“we need more playmakers gonzalez will reconsider, but across the board,” smith said. doesn’t plan to sit down with the “That’s the goal each and every tight end until the sting of the year, to add players. but with the nfc championship loss wears (salary-cap) system we have in off a bit. if he goes through with place, you can’t do it all across retirement, the falcons will have the board.” a big hole to fill in their offense. 
in the short term, the falcons a couple of other key spots will keep an eye on quarterback could be open, as well. left matt ryan, who sustained a tackle sam baker, a former sprained left shoulder on the fi-first-round pick who made tre­nal drive of the nfc title game. mendous strides this season, he was able to stay in the con-is a potential unrestricted free test, but threw two straight agent. Turner has another year incompletions to snuff out left on his deal, but his produc­
poised to bring home the first after the outcome we had be-atlanta’s hopes. tion tailed off dramatically as
Associated Press 

championship in the franchise’s cause of the finality of it, know-The injury won’t require sur-the falcons put less reliance 
flowery branch, ga. — 47-year history. ing we’re not going on the gery, and ryan should be fully on the running game and gave 
mike smith walked into the The falcons had an early practice field with this group recovered in three to four weeks, more carries to backup Jacquizz 
room, rubbed his white hair and 17-point lead on san francisco of men ever again,” smith said according to smith, in plenty of rodgers. 
sat down at the podium. at home in the nfc champion-monday. “but we will move on. time for the start of the offsea-Turner is due to make $5.5 mil-his grim expression told it all. ship game, but let it slip away. we have to move on — quickly.” son program in april. lion next year, but the falcons The atlanta falcons were still The 49ers preserved their 28-24 for the falcons, the offseason ryan dropped out of sunday’s could free up $3 million in cap hurting. victory with a fourth-down stop focus will likely be on upgrading pro bowl, but smith said the space if they let him go — which The season ended 10 yards shy at their own 10-yard line with the defense, figuring out a way to quarterback would’ve been seems likely after he rushed for of the super bowl, a stunning just over a minute remaining. replace tight end Tony gonzalez able to play — though certainly just 800 yards, averaging a paltry finale for a team that seemed “it’s not fun to come to work if the hall of famer-to-be goes with some discomfort — if the 3.6 per carry. rodgers showed falcons had advanced to the flashes of promise, but he’s just 
paid adverTisemenT 

super bowl, which is two weeks 5-foot-6 and unlikely to take on away. That turned out to be a the primary role in the running moot point. game. 
even with the disappointment The biggest moves of the off-of the final game, ryan became season will likely come on the the team’s undisputed leader defensive side. despite a multi-and most irreplaceable player dimensional scheme installed as the falcons shifted from a by new coordinator mike nolan, physical running game to a the falcons ranked 24th in yards wide-open passing attack. The allowed and struggled to shut fifth-year quarterback had a ca-down seattle and san francisco reer season, completing nearly in the playoffs. atlanta squan­69 percent of his passes for 4,719 dered a 20-point lead in the yards and 32 touchdowns, with fourth quarter to the seahawks, just 14 interceptions. before rallying to win, and the 
“we knew we were not going niners pulled off the biggest 
to be a team that has a running comeback in nfc champion-
back that carries the ball 300 ship game history. 
times,” smith said. “we did a abraham led the team with 10 
good job in that transition, and sacks; no one else had more than 
it starts with matt.” four. The falcons could focus on 
roddy white has another defensive ends in free agency 
big year (92 receptions, 1,351 and the draft, or they could shift 
yards, seven touchdowns) and to a 3-4 scheme in which the 
second-year receiver Julio Jones outside linebackers get more of 
(79 catches, 1,198 yards, 10 Tds) the rushing duties. 
earned his first trip to the pro The biggest potential free 
bowl. Jones closed the season agent on the defensive side is 
with 11 catches, two touch-safety william moore, who com-
downs and a franchise play-bined with Thomas decoud to 
off-record 182 yards receiving give atlanta a stout duo at the 
against the 49ers. back end of the defense. 
“Julio took a gigantic step in The falcons cleared a ma-his maturation process along jor hurdle by winning a play-with matt,” smith said. “both off game, their first postseason guys did a really nice job for us victory since ryan, smith and this year.” dimitroff joined the team in 
but, in all likelihood, ryan 2008. but clearly, they were aim­
won’t have his favorite receiver ing higher. 
next season. The 36-year-old “The next time when we get 
gonzalez had an age-defying the chance,” linebacker sean 
season (team-leading 93 recep-weatherspoon said, “we’ve got 

The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Syracuse takes narrow win over Cincinnati 

Associated Press 
syracuse, n.y. — cincinnati’s cashmere wright searched for one last opening, a victory over no. 3 syracuse within his grasp. 
but when his long shot from straight on with 2.9 seconds left bounced off the rim and away, the orange escaped with a 57-55 victory over no. 21 cincinnati on monday. 
“i love his confidence, but i would rather have thrown the ball in the high post in that sce­nario,” cincinnati coach mick cronin said. 
“it looked great,” added sean Kilpatrick, who led cincinnati with 21 points. “it just rolled right in and out. we needed him to take the shots he took. great shooters aren’t going to always make every shot.” 
c.J. fair was credited with the tipped, go-ahead basket with 
19.4 seconds left as the orange rallied from seven points down with just over 5 minutes to play. syracuse had tied it at 55 on michael carter-williams’ 3-pointer from the top of the key with 80 seconds remain­ing, and fair’s tip came after Jerami grant drove the lane and missed against 6-foot-10 cheikh mbodj. 
“They got a tip-in that we didn’t expect them to get,” said Kilpatrick, who finished 6 of 15 from 3-point range. “That’s what’s going to happen when two teams are competing like that at such a high level and ev­eryone is going after the same rebound. we all hit it at the same time, and it just rolled right in.” 
The orange outscored the bearcats 13-4 in the final min­utes as fair and brandon Triche each finished with 13 points. JaQuon parker had 11 points and six rebounds for cincinnati, which outrebounded syracuse 38-18, 16-7 on the offensive glass. 
wright, who sprained his right knee Tuesday in a win over depaul and did not play in cincinnati’s overtime victory against marquette on saturday, finished with five points on 2-for-13 shooting. he was 1 of 8 on 3s. 
“you’ve got to give their kids credit,” cronin said. “They nev­er quit. They kept playing. They got the stops down the stretch and we weren’t able to get the defensive stops that they were able to get. That’s really what it boiled down to.” 
syracuse (18-1, 6-0 big east) was coming off a 70-68 win at then-no. 1 louisville on saturday. The orange, tied for third in the rankings with Kansas, are the only big east team with an unblemished con­ference record. 
syracuse is 28-1 in regular-season play in the big east in the past two years, that lone loss coming at notre dame exactly one year ago monday. 
The bearcats (16-4, 4-3) had won three straight. They lost on the road for the first time in eight games, and two of their other setbacks this season were by one point. 
“at the end of the day, we’ve got to make sure it makes us better. That’s the key,” cronin said. “you’ve got to make sure it makes you better and makes you tougher.” 
carter-williams had 16 points and seven assists and grant had five points and seven rebounds for the orange. 
cincinnati played the shot-clock game with its deliberate half-court approach and kept the game close despite a poor shooting performance in the opening half. 
Trailing by just a basket at the break, the bearcats started the second with a 12-2 spurt keyed by consecutive 3-pointers from parker when he was left un­guarded in the right corner. 
a high-arcing 3 by Kilpatrick was the fourth make in five tries from long range for the bearcats and gave them a 36-29 lead with 
13:46 left. 
carter-williams responded with seven straight points, his 3 from the top of the key mak­ing it 36-all midway through the half. 
undaunted, the bearcats kept charging, and Kilpatrick’s last 3-pointer of the game and a la­yup by mbodj completed an 11-4 spurt that gave them a 49­42 lead with 5:44 left. 
Triche, whose 23 points helped boost syracuse at louisville, then hit two straight jumpers and fed grant for a slam dunk to draw the orange within 54-50 with 3:17 left. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Miami coaches face violation consequences 
Associated Press 
coral gables, fla. — Two miami assistant coaches have been told they will be charged with “unethical conduct” when the ncaa presents the hurricanes’ athletic department with its notice of allegations, said two people familiar with the situation. 
The people spoke to The associated press monday on condition of anonymity because neither the ncaa or miami have announced the contents of the long-awaited letter, which the hurricanes may receive at any time. The people say the coaches will be cited for violating ncaa bylaw 10.1, a broad rule that cov­ers conduct and cooperating with investigations. one of the coaches has been told to expect arrival of an actual copy of the al­legations on Tuesday, one person told the ap. 
parties who are named in the notice of allegations are entitled to a copy, though it is unclear if all will receive the letter simul­taneous to its delivery at miami. it’s unknown how many current and former coaches and staff members will be charged with wrongdoing. 
The ncaa does not com­ment on ongoing investiga­tions. miami officials have said throughout the investigation, which started in 2011, that the school is cooperating with the ncaa and will decline extensive public comment out of respect to that process. 
The people told the ap that miami still has not seen a final version of the notice of allega­tions, the arrival of which will essentially bring just the first chapter of this miami-ncaa saga to a close. several people involved with the process have either reviewed draft documents or been advised of their upcom­ing mentions in telephone calls with investigators. most of those calls took place last week. 
another individual who was interviewed during the joint in­quiry told the ap that the ncaa has not been in contact since. That suggests not everyone who at one time was thought to be under investigation will not ac­tually be mentioned in the notice of allegations. 
earlier this month, miami coach al golden said he did not expect the university to be sur­prised by the ncaa’s findings. several people involved in the investigation said miami has had representation at many inter­views the ncaa conducted with persons it found to be of interest. 
The cbssports.com report published monday said that the ncaa could not prove former booster and convicted ponzi scheme architect nevin shapiro’s claim that haith or a member of his miami staff paid $10,000 to the family of former hurricanes’ player deQuan Jones. shapiro has said that he provided that money. 
Jones was suspended by miami last season after shapiro’s claims were published in august 2011 by yahoo sports, then ultimately al­lowed to return to the team. 
cbssports.com also said haith will face the “unethical conduct” charge because of inconsisten­cies the ncaa found in his ac­count of Jones’ recruitment. cbssports.com also said haith will be charged with “failure to promote an atmosphere of com­pliance” because relatives of two players were given impermis­sible airline travel. 
one of those players, current senior reggie Johnson, was sus­pended for a game last season after miami and the ncaa found members of his family accepted what they called “impermis­sible travel benefits.” and guard durand scott, the hurricanes’ leading scorer, was for the end of last season and the start of this season after he was also found to have gotten unspecified extra benefits. 
whenever the actual letter ar­rives, miami’s receipt of the no­tice of allegations will usher in the start of the sanctions phase. 
and that could take months — meaning actual penalties may not be handed down until this summer, or later. 
Typically, schools and indi­viduals named in the notice of allegations have 90 days to file a response to the ncaa’s findings, all of which would be reviewed by the committee on infractions 
— which operates separately from the ncaa’s investigative arm. 
some of the sanctions have al­ready gone into effect, since they were self-imposed. miami’s foot­ball team has missed three post­season games — two bowl games and what would have been an ap­pearance in this season’s atlantic coast conference championship game — in response to the inves­tigation, and golden is holding back a number of scholarships from the 2013 roster as well. 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013  | The observer 
NBA 

Nets even season series with Knicks 
Associated Press 
new yorK — Joe Johnson and the nets left madison square garden for the last time this regular season, even with the Knicks in the series and right behind them in the standings. 
year one of a new rivalry for brooklyn and new york is over 
— barring a postseason match-up — and Johnson thinks it lived up to expectations. 
“you’ve got two teams in new york. They want to be the top dogs. we want to be the top dogs. it’s a battle. we split. we’ll see what happens next,” he said. 
Johnson made the go-ahead jumper with 22 seconds left and scored 25 points, leading the nets to an 88-85 victory over the Knicks on monday and a split of the four games between the city rivals. 
deron williams added 14 points and 12 assists for the nets, who cut the Knicks’ atlantic division lead to one game. brook lopez had 14 points and 11 re­bounds, and Kris humphries came off the bench for 11 points and 13 boards. 
brooklyn won the first match-up, and then new york took the next two and opened a huge lead in the standings that the nets have spent most of the last month wiping away. 
“big game tonight! The garden got really quiet on the way out!” humphries posted on Twitter. 
carmelo anthony had 29 points and seven assists for the Knicks, but missed all six shots in the fourth quarter and finished 11 of 29 for the game. 
J.r. smith scored 16 points and amare stoudemire 15. 
“it’s over. we don’t see them anymore, but it is the begin­ning of something that’s going to be here for a long, long time.” anthony said. “These games that we play against brooklyn are definitely going to be tough, hard battles and as a Knick, we definitely look forward to that challenge and look forward to playing them four times.” 
There’s still the hope of a play­off battle in the spring, both teams well positioned to reach the postseason. 
“i think it’s a good rivalry right now. it’s a very good rivalry. it’s got the potential to be even better,” nets interim coach p.J. carlesimo said. “That’s with a lot of friendships among the players and the coaching staffs. 
it’s really good for new york basketball.” 
The nets survived a pair of lengthy droughts in the second half but got 10 points in the final period from Johnson, who used to play for Knicks coach mike woodson in atlanta and has be­come the player brooklyn turns to for big shots in the clutch. 
anthony had his 26th straight 20-point game, tied with stoudemire for third-longest streak in franchise history, but the Knicks were sluggish early in their first game since play­ing in london on Thursday and lost for the third straight time on martin luther King day. 
The Knicks led by three be­fore consecutive 3-pointers by cJ watson and Johnson gave brooklyn a 78-75 lead. smith scored, but then Johnson made another 3 and a jumper to ex­tend the lead to 83-77 with 5:38 remaining before the nets went cold again. 
new york shut brooklyn out over the next 5 minutes while scoring seven in a row, regain­ing the lead on anthony’s free throws with 40 seconds to play. but the nets got the ball on the next possession to Johnson, who dribbled right toward the baseline and pulled up for the go-ahead basket. 


anthony missed badly on the next possession and the Knicks fouled williams, who made both with 8.3 seconds to play for a three-point lead. Jason Kidd made one after the nets fouled him intentionally, but the Knicks had one final chance after williams hit just one of two on his next trip, ending a streak of 52 consecutive made free throws. smith’s rushed 3-point attempt bounced off the back­board and front of the rim. 
NFL 

Cardinals hire Arians 
Associated Press 
phoeniX — new arizona cardinals coach bruce arians has brought in Tom moore and harold goodwin to help him overhaul the worst offense in the nfl. 
and as expected, he hired Todd bowles as defensive coordinator. 
The addition of the 74-year­old moore is intriguing. 
he has 34 years of experi­ence as an nfl assistant, 12 as peyton manning’s offensive co­ordinator in indianapolis. 
he will serve as arians’ as­sistant head coach/offense. goodwin, offensive line coach for the colts last season and an assistant with pittsburgh five years before that, will be arizona’s offensive coordina­tor, although arians will call the plays. 
bowles comes from philadelphia, where he was pro­moted from secondary coach to defensive coordinator with philadelphia on oct. 16. 
in arizona, he replaces ray horton, who left when arians was hired and is the defensive coordinator for the cleveland browns. 
arians, 60, was hired Thursday night to replace Ken whisenhunt, who was fired after six seasons with the cardinals. 
an nfl assistant for two de­cades, arians got his first head coaching gig after going 9-3 as interim coach in indianapolis when chuck pagano was out for treatment for leukemia, help­ing engineer a stunning turn­around as the team, behind rookie quarterback andrew luck, went 11-5 and earned a playoff berth a year after going 2-14. 

such a turnaround would be a blessing in arizona, where the cardinals went 5-11 last season, losing 11 of its last 12. unfortunately for the cardinals, arians can’t bring luck with him. 
monday’s moves came as arians headed a cardinals 
MLB 

players campaign for miller to hall 

Associated Press 
new yorK — baseball players urged that marvin miller be put in the hall of fame as they spoke monday night during a memorial for the union leader. 
in an auditorium filled with hall of famers, dozens of retired and current players, baseball offi­cials, agents and labor lawyers, 13 speakers praised the former base­ball union head, who helped play­ers gain free agency in the 1970s and created the path to multimil­lion-dollar salaries. miller died in november at 95. 
“it is a travesty he is not in the hall of fame,” former major league player and manager buck martinez said during the two-hour program. 
miller has been turned down five times by various hall of fame committees that considered base­ball executives. 
Jim bouton, who entered the majors in 1962, was critical that bowie Kuhn, baseball’s commis­sioner from 1969-84, is in the hall but miller has been kept out. 
“i think bowie Kuhn was 0 for 67” against miller, bouton said. 
miller is next eligible to appear on a hall ballot this december. 
former stars dave winfield and Joe morgan were among those who spoke before a crowd of about 450 at new york university school of law’s Tishman auditorium. reggie Jackson, Keith hernandez and mlb executive vice presi­dent rob manfred were in the audience along the head of the Japanese baseball players’ asso­ciation and george cohen, direc­tor of the federal mediation and conciliation service. 
winfield, who used free agency to sign a record-breaking contract after the 1980 season, said miller taught him life lessons he still thinks of. winfield addressed the five active players in the audience, who included andrew bailey, craig breslow and micah owings. 
“anything you do in life, know where you’ve come from, where you are and where you’re going,” winfield said. “Know how you got to where you are today.” 
a former economist for the united steelworkers union, miller spent 16 1/2 years as executive di­rector of the major league players association, starting in 1966. 
during miller’s tenure, the average major league salary in­creased from $19,000 to $241,000. it was $3.2 million last year. 
“every time somebody signs one of these wonderful contracts, and there are so many of them out there, i think before they get the first check they should have to write an essay on marvin miller,” said rusty staub, a big leaguer from 1963-85. 

contingent to scout players, pre­sumably a quarterback or two among them, at the senior bowl. 
moore’s long resume includes three super bowl wins — in 2006 as colts offensive coordi­nator and as receivers coach for the 1978 and 1979 steelers. 
after 13 seasons as a college football assistant, moore came to the nfl in 1977 as receivers coach of the steelers, then was pittsburgh offensive coordina­tor from 1983 to 1989. he was as­sistant head coach at minnesota from 1990 to 1993, offensive co­ordinator at detroit from 1994 to 1996 and running backs coach at new orleans in 1997. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | The observer 




MEN’S TENNIS 

Streaking Notre Dame to host Northwestern 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
fresh off two 7-0 sweeps this past weekend, notre dame hosts northwestern tonight in its third consecutive home match of the spring season. 
The wildcats (4-0) enter the match with the irish (2-0) with four wins already under their belt, including a 4-1 victory over three-time-defending big east champion louisville. 
“we expect this to be one of our more challenging match­es of the season,” irish coach bobby bayliss said. “They are and western illinois. Junior greg andrews and fresh­man Quentin monaghan each picked up two singles victories saturday at no. 1 and no. 3/2 singles, respectively. 
“i think all of our guys played good matches on saturday,” bayliss said. “it’s hard to know yet. we didn’t get pressed ex­cept at no. 4 and no. 5 against marquette and we were able to come out and win those.” 
while notre dame mixed up its doubles lineup between matches saturday, bayliss says the doubles lineup against northwestern will look similar to the pairings that competed against the golden eagles. 
“i think what we played against marquette looked pretty good,” bayliss said. “we need to be a little more consis­tent at no. 2 doubles, but we have a lot of firepower there. if we can get a little more consis­tency with that team, we’ll be right where we need to be. it was a brand new career for our no. 3 team and they started off pretty solidly. 
“certainly we have a lot of experience at no. 1 doubles with [greg andrews] and [senior spencer Talmadge] because they played together a lot of last year and last fall. i think our doubles is reason­ably sound, but this week will tell me a lot.” 
despite their success on saturday, bayliss and the irish understand they can still im­prove many facets of their game. 
“we have to be more consis­tent in doubles, have a higher percentage of first serves, few­er errors from the back court and more willingness to be active at the net,” bayliss said. “in singles … i think if we are just, in general, tougher off the ground.tThat will bode well for us.” 
The wildcats roster has one ranked singles player in no. 108 junior raleigh smith, who played no. 2 singles against louisville. andrews is the highest-ranked player for the irish at no. 80. 
The irish will face the wildcats at the eck Tennis pavilion today beginning at 6 p.m. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
similar to us in that they are pretty well-balanced and very well-coached. i expect us to be challenged in all positions and it will really give us an idea of where we stand.” 
The irish only dropped one set between their first two matches against marquette 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Layup 
conTinued from page 20 
lead to 40-37 with 12:01 left. 
it was the loudest the building got all night, as georgetown followed a time­out with an 18-0 run that last­ed until grant broke notre dame’s 7:26 scoreless streak with a layup. 
“it was an eerie feeling to be out of it for the last ten min­utes of the game in our home building,” brey said. “it was creepy. it was not pleasant. it was very foreign territory for all of us.” 
at one point late in the sec­ond half the hoyas led by 22, while holding notre dame to 47 points, the fewest points it has ever scored at home in a big east game. 
“we would guard them well for stretches but then they would hit a big shot,” senior forward Jack cooley said. “we didn’t brush it off and keep going like we’ve done in the past. 
“we haven’t been able to take punches as well in these last couple of games.” 
georgetown sophomore forward otto porter seemed to smother every irish run, recording 19 points including 3-for-4 shooting from 3-point range. porter, alone, knocked down more 3-pointers than the irish did as a whole. notre dame went 2-for-16 from be­yond the arc and missed its last six.
 “Tonight, clearly [porter] was the best player on the floor,” grant said. “he could definitely do it all. he was hitting his threes … he was doing it all tonight. maybe if we see him again, we’ll have a different game plan.” 
grant led the way for the irish with 13 points on 6-for­13 shooting, while cooley recorded his 12th double-double of the season with 10 points and 10 rebounds. meanwhile, freshman for­ward cameron biedscheid had a rough night shooting, going 0-for-8 from the field. 
after starting big east play with two wins, including a big road win over then-no. 21 cincinnati, the irish have fallen to 3-3, wedged into a five-way tie for fifth in the conference 
“i don’t think i could put my finger on it at all, on what’s changed [since cincinnati],” junior captain eric atkins said. “if anything, we all got a little cocky after starting the big east 2-0. we need to all come back to earth and say to ourselves that we aren’t that good right now.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Actions 
conTinued from page 20 
don’t have the added bur­den of potentially letting your team down.” 
with collegiate competi­tion beginning saturday, mcKee said the freshmen would have to get used to fencing against older competition. 
“national tournaments are a pretty broad age 
“Now [the competition] is going to be other college’s top fencers, so that’s a huge difference.” 
Nicole McKee 
Irish freshman foil 
group, so i’ve been pretty confident in that respect,” she said. “now, [the com­petition] is going to be other college’s top fencers, so that’s a huge difference. now it’s all college kids who are older.” 
mcKee and the rest of the irish will kick off their col­legiate season this week­end when they participate in the st. John’s duals on saturday in Queens, n.y. 
Contact Laura Coletti at               lcoletti@nd.edu 
Shooting 
conTinued from page 20 
from behind the arc) against georgetown was a microcosm of his recent play, as the fresh­man has scored just 20 points in six big east games. when brey can count on him to con­tribute, this team is danger­ous. when he doesn’t, it gets ugly. 
but no performance is as frustrating as that of sixth-year forward scott martin. brey rel­egated him to the bench with just under five minutes to play and the irish trailing by 21. in 19 minutes, martin attempted just two shots, and he missed both for a total of zero points and two rebounds. 
in the past four games, his point total (seven) has just barely managed to eclipse the number of years he has spent in college (six). 
right now, the big east is a jumbled puzzle once you get past syracuse, louisville and marquette, who each have one loss or fewer in conference play. eight teams, including notre dame and georgetown, have suffered three conference losses, which is where this gets interesting. 
The difference between a no. 4 seed and a no. 11 seed in the big east tournament is staggering. The fourth-seeded squad gets to watch the first two days of action, while the ninth, 10th and 11th have to play five straight days in order to win the tournament. 
it still feels early, but the irish are one-third of the way through conference play. optimists will point out that the irish were 3-3 in confer­ence play before topping no. 1 syracuse and finding their stride in what turned out to be a 13-5 big east finish last season, but this group hasn’t gelled like the 2011-12 squad. 
will they? and, if so, when? 
The irish face a critical point in their schedule start­ing saturday when they travel to south florida. They face the bulls, villanova and depaul in the next three contests before heading to syracuse on feb. 4. 
where will notre dame stand at that point? 
right now, it’s difficult to discern. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013  | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  lenny rago & paTricKcross 



SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: booboo stewart, 19; ashton eaton, 25; emma bunton, 37; geena davis, 57. 
Happy Birthday: recognize what adjustments are necessary and make your move. once you eliminate the problem, you can execute a plan that will help you stabilize your life. learn from past experiences and you will make progress that will transpire into greater opportunities. you won’t be able to please everyone, but you must strive to please yourself. your numbers are 3, 10, 14, 28, 37, 42, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take a greater interest in a humanitarian cause. The individuals you meet through such organizations and the conversations you have will help you achieve your goals. favors will be granted if you ask, so don’t be shy. work-related opportunities are heading your way. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): less talk and more action will bring better results. fix up your surroundings or update your appearance or skills and you will feel better about yourself. arguing will be a waste of time. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you can make a change that will secure your position and reputation. an opportunity will develop through someone you have worked with in the past. Taking a unique approach to an old service or skill will raise interest.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): partnerships will turn out to your lifestyle and beliefs that will suit the situation you are currently facing. showing strength, courage and discipline will help you win favors from those you least expected to help. love is on the rise. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): last-minute changes will keep everyone around you guessing. it’s important to use the element of surprise if you want someone to take notice. greater opportunity will be yours if you venture into areas of work that are humanitarian or environmentally based. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): share your thoughts, but question anyone offering information that sounds too good to be true. love is in the stars, and making special plans for two or attending a social event for singles will bring good results. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you have what it takes to get what you want. don’t settle for anything less, and refuse to give in to anyone who tries to make you feel guilty about following your own path. Travel, networking and research will all bring excellent results. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): expect someone to disagree. you have to head in a direction that best suits you. focus on unique and creative people who take an interest in what you are trying to accomplish. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): open up doors to new adventures, relation­ships and opportunities. emotional conversations can be expected. Keeping your thoughts straight and sticking to exactly what has transpired will keep you out of trouble. a change at home will turn out to be beneficial. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): protect what’s yours. listen, observe and decide who is on your side and who isn’t. spend time nurturing home, family and who­ever means the most to you. love is on the rise, and a promise or commitment should be made. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make room at home for a project you want to start. Keeping busy will help you reach your goals as well as keep you out of trouble. follow your own path even if someone tries to bully you into going in a different direction. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you’ll face controversy if you share your emotions. Take a step back and listen to the opinions being offered. you don’t have to follow someone’s suggestion, but it may help you come up with a suitable solution. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative, inventive, a humanitarian and a seeker of truth. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | georgeTown 63, noTre dame 47 
hoyas overpower irish in purcell 
Big East competitor soars past Notre Dame 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
associate sports editor 
The purcell pavilion is usually the place that solves no. 24 notre dame’s big east woes. instead, following a 63-47 beatdown at the hands of georgetown on monday, irish coach mike brey couldn’t get away any faster after dropping two of the last three at home. 
“i told [my team] after the game that i don’t really have much to say, because i don’t really know where to start,” brey said. “we’re going to need some new juice. and maybe getting away from here and going on the road will help us. i’m sure going to sell that.” 
notre dame trailed throughout the night, only leading 2-0 a minute and a half into the game. by the 10-minute mark of the first half, the irish trailed by 13 while shooting just 30 percent compared to georgetown’s 59.1 percent. notre dame went the last 
5:40 of the first half without a field goal. 
The irish (15-4, 3-3 big east) suffered through three scoring droughts of at least four minutes apiece, with the longest drought com-at the start of the second half, found sophomore forward ing after they cut the hoyas’ senior forward Tom Knight pat connaughton for a re­(13-4, 3-3) lead to three with hit a turnaround jumper fol-verse layup to cut the hoya 


12:01 left in the game. lowed by a steal from junior soon after a 10-0 irish run guard Jerian grant, who see layup PAGE 18 
Brey, squad struggle in home loss 

Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
This one was ugly. plain and simple. you won’t find any sug­ar-coating here. 
with five minutes left in notre dame’s third loss in four games 
— a 63-47 blowout home loss at the hands of georgetown — the crowd filed out of purcell pavilion to clean off their wind­shields amidst a blizzard. 
if only irish coach mike brey had a solution as simple as an ice scraper. 
notre dame earned only a smattering of applause until early in the second half when the irish narrowed what was a 13-point halftime deficit to only three points. The hoyas’ subsequent 18-0 run silenced the crowd and stifled the irish, who are now forced to examine themselves in the mirror while they stand at a crossroads. 
The irish lack a consistent outside shooter, while most of the points are garnered inside, which is very uncharacteristic for a mike brey-coached squad. 
cam biedscheid has turned cold during notre dame’s re­cent struggles. his 0-for-8 shooting performance (0-for-5 
see shooTing PAGE 18 
FENCING 

Freshmen show skill in USFA NAC 
Catherine Lee demonstrates capabilities, leadership in quest for gold in women’s foil 

By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
while the irish upperclass­men continued to practice in preparation for the start of the collegiate fencing season, several freshmen traveled to louisville, Ky., for the united 
states  fencing  association  
north  american  cup (usfa  
nac).  

fencers compete as individu­als in national Tournaments, as opposed to the collegiate sea­son, during which they com­pete for notre dame as a team. The usfa nac is a junior event, meaning only athletes under the age of 19 can compete. 
nicole mcKee and sarah followill competed in women’s foil, catherine lee competed in women’s epee, garrett mcgrath and John poremski competed in men’s epee, and John hallsten competed in men’s saber. lee turned in the best performance of the weekend, taking home the gold in her event. 
mcKee, who took home a bronze medal, said north american cup helped the un­derclassmen continue to pre­pare for their first collegiate season. she also said once the collegiate season begins, the newcomers willwould need to adjust to a few major differences. 
she said the length and in­dividualization of the national 
Tournaments  create  a more  
relaxed  atmosphere  for  the  
competitors.  

“matches are longer, so you have more time to set up your actions and think, so it’s not at rushed,” she said. “There is def­initely less pressure. you also 
see acTions PAGE 18 





