ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg ThE TRuTh NOTRE dAME ANd ANd REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCuRATELy 

VOLuME 47, ISSuE 21 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Foundation awards grant to ND team 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
News Writer 
In the summer of 2012, it made international headlines: scien­tists at the European Center for Nuclear Research (CERN) dis­covered the elusive higgs boson, a sub-atomic particle that gives matter its mass, using a particle detector called the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS). Among the researchers who discovered it were several Notre dame pro­fessors, research faculty and students of high-energy physics. 
Now, due to a three-year, $2.4 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF), that group will be able to continue its research on the higgs bo­son and other areas of particle physics. 
Notre dame physics profes­sor Colin Jessop, one of the four principal investigators of the group, said the grant represents an unusual increase in fund­ing from previous years, when funding for the NSF itself has been cut by 12 percent. 
“We’ve been quite successful recently. We’re part of the team that discovered higgs boson ... because we were successful, we were able to argue for a little bit of an increase in funds, and we were successful in doing that,” Jessop said. 

The majority of the grant, Jessop said, will go to the sala­ries of the research faculty and graduate students who design components of the CMS and an­alyze data, both at Notre dame and at CERN in Switzerland. 
The people supported by the grant have a variety of differ­ent roles in the CSM’s opera­tion, Jessop said. The principal investigators, including Jessop, dr. Michael hildreth, dr. Kevin Lannon and senior member Randy Ruchti, work with the electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL). 

The ECAL measures the ener­gy of the photons and electrons that collide in the Large hadron Collider (LhC), according to Jessop. It is made of crystals which, send a light signal to an electronic system when a parti­cle enters, allowing researchers to analyze the data produced. Notre dame researchers helped to develop a “trigger” system, which identifies significant par­ticle collisions, he said. 
The grant will also fund two research faculty members, dr. Nancy Marinelli, who designed important software for the CSM’s readout system and is currently at CERN, and dr. dan Karmgard, who works with the research laboratory QuarkNet in South Bend. 
see gRANT PAGE 5 


gallivan advisors discuss reporting 

By JACK ROONEY 
News Writer 
Members of the Advisory Committee for the John W. gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and democracy held a panel discussion Monday afternoon on the issues of modern journalism and how stu­dents can make an impact in the future of the industry. 
Panelists included Robert Costa, Washington editor of the “National Review” magazine; Bill dwyre, sports columnist for the “Los Angeles Times;” Maddie hanna, reporter for the “Philadelphia Inquirer;” daniel Leduc, editor at the Pew Charitable Trusts; John McMeel, president and chairman of Andrews McMeel universal; Anne Thompson, chief environmental af­fairs correspondent for NBC News and Kelley Tuthill, reporter and an­chor at WCVB-TV, the Boston affiliate 
see PANEL PAGE 4 


Author recalls Rockne’s legacy 
By JACK ROONEY 
News Writer 
On Friday afternoon, award-winning author and sports histo­rian Jim Lefebvre gave a lecture and held a book-signing for the launch of his new book, “Coach for a Nation: The Life and Times of Knute Rockne.” 
Lefebvre’s talk, titled, “Rockne Remembered: A Retrospective on a Life Well-Lived” was held in the Carey Auditorium of the Library prior to the book-signing. 
during the lecture, Lefebvre introduced several family mem­bers of Rockne players who came for the book launch and two of Rockne’s nieces who were in attendance. Relatives of Notre dame greats, such as Elmer Layden, don Miller, Charlie Bachman, Norman Barry, Noble Kizer, John Law and Fred Miller all attended the event. 
Lefebvre focused on the five timeless themes he saw in Rockne’s life, including fearless­ness, being a man on the move, connection, education and hav­ing a life well lived. 
Lefebvre said fearlessness was the foundation of Rockne’s life and career in football. 
“The fearlessness just plays out throughout his life. he accepted challenges and he went after it,” he said. “I attribute some of it to his ancestry . to the Viking explorer. There was something about him that said, ‘keep 
see ROCKNE PAGE 5 


Festival highlights culture 
By WEI LIN 
News Writer 
Performers showcased weeks of preparation Friday during the Chinese program’s fourth Mid-Autumn Festival Celebration, which featured song performances, dance performances and story-tell­ing in the student lounge in the Coleman-Morse Center. Students taking Chinese, in­ternational students from China and students interest­ed in the Chinese culture at­tended the celebration. 
The Chinese program, part of Notre dame’s department of East Asian Languages and Culture, has hosted the Mid-Autumn Festival Celebration in 2008, 2009 and 2010 but was not able to plan for it dur­ing the years 2011 and 2012. Chinese associate teaching 


professor Chengxu yin said  the past.  
the event was a “great suc­ “There  are two primary  
cess” with “overwhelmingly  
positive” student feedback in  see FESTIVAL PAGE 4  


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 9 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 WOMEN’S SOCCER PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: William heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Where is your favorite place to run or walk near Notre Dame? 

Sean Morrison 
sophomore 
Keenan hall 
“My favorite walk is going back and forth to the soccer stadium. I love watching the games.” 
Emily Kitchin 
junior 
Lewis hall 
“In front of the Rudy bench around St. Joseph Lake, there’s a beautiful view of the dome and Basilica.” 
Charley Berno 
senior 
Off campus 
“downtown South Bend.” 


Richard Fasani 
sophomore 
Keenan hall 
“Loftus track.” 
Kait Demchuk 
senior 
Lewis hall 
“The path in front of Carrol hall around St. Joseph Lake in the fall.” 
Tom Catalano 
senior 
Off campus 
“The tunnels. (Sometimes they’re unlocked.)” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Ann Marie Jakubowski Aaron Sant-Miller Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Kelly Konya Vicky Jacobsen haleigh Ehmsen Kit Loughran 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Samantha Coughlin Kevin Noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Writing a Mobile Blood Drive Zen Meditation Stress Buster Friday Concert on the Steps 
grant Tobin Austin Taliaferro 
Empire” Rolfs Sports Coleman-Morse St. Liam Hall Bond Hall McKenna Hall Recreation Center Center 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 2 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-7 p.m. 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Relax with afternoon Notre Dame Band 
Corrections 

Classics lecture. Give blood. Practice meditating. yoga. performs. 
In the Sept. 23 issue of The Observer, the article ‘give them a reason to 
Four:7 Catholic Laughter Yoga Annual Blue Mass Dante Now! A Divine Saturdays with the 
believe in you’ incorrectly stated that 
Fellowship St. Liam Hall Basilica of the Sacred Comedy Flash Mob Saints 
dr. Condoleezza Rice was the first 
Cavanaugh Hall 3 p.m.-4 p.m. Heart campus-wide Geddes Hall 
African American Secretary of State. 
8:15p.m.-9:30 p.m. Part of the Wellness 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 2 p.m.-5p.m. 10:30 a.m-11:30 a.m. 
Rice was the second African American 
Student-led Catholic Wednesday series Honoring police and Recitations from Part of the fall 2013 
to hold the office. The Observer regrets 
fellowship and by University Health firefighters for their Dante’s Divine series “20th Century 
this error. 

discussion. Services service. Comedy. Martyrs.” 

NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 

Second ‘Justice Friday’ addresses LGBTQ issues 
By ANGELA BAKUR 
News Writer 
Last week, the Saint Mary’s Justice Education department discussed is­sues facing LgBTQ students at its second “Justice Friday” event. 
Senior Eileen Cullina, president of the Straight and gay Alliance (SAgA), said justice is an “enormous topic” affecting members 
“I would hope for a response of awareness more than anything else.” 
Eileen Cullina 
president 
Straight and Gay Alliance 
of the LgBTQ community worldwide. 
“In 29 states ... you can still be fired for being gay. That’s more than 50 percent,” Cullina said. “In 34 states, you can be fired for being transgender, and LgBTQ youth (under the age of 18) are seven times more like­ly to attempt suicide than youth in general.” 
Cullina said sharing this information can create posi­tive change for LgBTQ stu­dents and the entire Saint Mary’s community. 
“I would hope for a re­sponse of awareness more than anything else,” she said. “There are a lot of people on campus who live in a bubble, who don’t think there are lesbians who live on cam­pus, despite the stereotypes about girls’ schools.” 
Cullina said she knows of students on campus who are afraid of coming out about their sexuality, and many members of the LgBTQ com­munity face aggressive dis­crimination from strangers. 
“There’s nothing like the feeling of knowing that someone is so angry that they want to physically hurt you, not because you said or did anything to them, but just because you exist and they have such a problem 
w ith  who  you are,”  Cullina  
said.  
Although  some  people  

want to be open-minded about different kinds of sex­uality, it can be difficult for them to be accepting when confronted with the issue face-to-face, Cullina said. 
“Something I think about every day is that the most im­portant way to handle things is to never react negatively to comments and looks, but to always think about edu­cating that person,” Cullina said. 
SAgA will participate in-National Coming Out day on Oct. 11 and will host Ally Week at the end of October, Cullina said. during Ally Week, a panel of students, al­lies and professors will talk about what it means to be a LgBTQ student and what be­ing an ally entails. 
“[Being] an ally means be­ing someone who is LgBTQ­friendly and not being afraid to speak up — being a ‘super­friend,’” Cullina said. 
Cullina said allies play an important role in spread­ing awareness and inform­ing others about the LgBTQ community, and SAgA will host ally training this school year. 
Cullina said she hopes SAgA’s events will help edu­cate the entire Saint Mary’s community, even people who are already LgBTQ-friendly. 
“Although I think Saint Mary’s has a long way to go, I’ve met so many amazing friends and allies here at Saint Mary’s,” she said. 
Contact Angela Bakur at abakur01@saintmarys.edu 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

SMC program promotes art 

By ALEX WINEGAR 
News Writer 
Applications are now open for Spark for Women Visual Arts (SPARK-Art), a 12-week program sponsored by the Saint Mary’s Women’s Entrepreneurship Initiative (WEI) that helps South Bend-area women looking to turn their artistic skills into a business. 
This program supplements WEI’s SPARK program, which is in its fifth year, WEI director Martha Smith said. 
Smith said most artists end up pursuing art as a side job and do not treat their talent as a full-fledged business. 
“SPARK-Art intends to change this situation by guid­ing these women in creating a business plan, implementing marketing [and] promotional materials, and providing them with general success strategies designed specifically for visual artists,” she said. 
Smith said SPARK was origi­nally a pilot program former-professor Susan Vance based on the San Francisco’s Women Initiative (WI). After meeting with the CEO of WI, Staci Lugar Brettin, an entrepreneur­ship expert, Smith said Vance tweaked the San Francisco curriculum to create a ver­sion that was applicable to the South Bend community. 
“Susan did not want to rein­vent the wheel and searched for the best model in the country,” Smith said. “She found it in San Francisco’s Women Initiative (WI). Thereafter, several community members joined Professor Vance’s vision and brought the program to life.” 

Sheryl Kosovki, a mentor with Artful Work, will be the one facilitators of this new pro­gram, Smith said. 
Kosovki coaches creative en­trepreneurs, artists and design­ers on becoming successful commercial artists. 
“I have been teaching entre­preneurs how to make a living for the past 20 years and re­cently started my own consult­ing business, so it was a perfect fit,” Kosovki said. 
“A huge part of it is creating support for them, both with a mentor and with ‘Rekindle the Flame.’” 
Sheryl Kosovki 
facilitator 
SPARK-Art 

Students of SPARK-Art will gain all the skills needed to suc­cesfully run their businesses, Kosovki said. That will include not only the hard skills, such as bookkeeping, but also how to manage their fears and how to visualize success, she said. 
“Some of these women have run on hard times, so imagin­ing success is quite challeng­ing,” Kosovki said. “And if they can’t see that they can succeed, they won’t.” 
SPARK-Art is open to all art­ists and designers, Kosovki said. This includes graphic designers, interior designers and fine artists. It will also in­clude some people who intend to start for-profit art galleries, Kosovki said. 
The program’s average age is 42, Smith said, but participants range in age from 24 to 70. 
By focusing on this new branch of the SPARK program, WEI will focus on women art­ists and help them to become successful independent busi­ness owners, Smith said. 
There was a need for a course that approaches the business aspect in a more creative, vi­sual manner, similar to these talented artists’ thinking pro­cesses, Smith said. 
Kosovki said mentors and the “Rekindle the Flame” program support the artists. 
“Rekindle the Flame” is a program that continues the support the entrepreneurs need after the 12 weeks are over, Kosovki said. Women meet once a month to support one another and to gainwhat­ever technical skills they still lack. 
After looking closely at South Bend in particular, Kosovki said she noticed the communi­ty was having a hard time sup­porting local artists. 
“If we can get a lot more art­ists around in the community ... then [the] community can suc­ceed in regards to arts because they’ll be out there and people can begin to understand art a little bit better and its role in the community,” she said. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 



ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

numbered slip to enter the raf-its students,” Romeo said. fle for a chance to win a prize. Chinese Program coordi-
Food was served at the end nator and associate profes­of the celebration, including sor, yongping Zhu said he moon cakes which are tradi-appreciates the support from tionally part of the Festival. the Office for undergraduate 
“The most successful part Studies, the College of Arts and of the celebration was the Letters.sthe Institute for Asia ‘edutainment’ (education-and Asian Studies, the Kellogg al entertainment), allowing Institute for International the students to understand Studies and the Center for Chinese culture and learn thf Study of Languages and facts in a fun environment,” Culture. Ma said. “Next year’s celebra­tion will most likely have a change in venue [since] the 
“The most lounge in the Coleman-Morse successful [Center] was a little too small 
part of the 
and students in the very back 
celebration was 

could not hear clearly. At the same time, we look to increase the ‘edutainment’ the variety of performances.” (educational Sophomore Christopher 
entertainment), 
Rhyne, a psychology and 
allowing the 

Chinese major, said he would attend the event again if they students to held it next year. understand “The shows and the games 
Chinese culture 
were all nice to watch and 
and learn 
provide students with an op-program, offered the stu-fun,” Rhyne said. “however, 
Festival 

portunity to get to know each dents a learning platform for I wish the host spoke a little facts in a fun CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
other and all the Chinese fac-Chinese culture and increased louder [because] it was hard environment.” goals in organizing this event. ulty and to build a larger learn-students’ focus, therefore in-to hear. I also wished they had 
Congcong Ma 

First, we take advantage of this ing community early on in the spiring eagerness to learn.” more seating.” 
assistant professional 

opportunity to introduce an academic year.” The celebration included Senior Chinese and politi­
specialist 

important Chinese cultural In an interview conducted in dance performances, includ-cal science major and poverty tradition to our language stu-Chinese, assistant profession-ing a Tibetan dance of “Love studies minor dominic Romeo dents [as] we present the histo-al specialist Congcong Ma said Song of Kangding” performed said he was impressed by the ry of the Mid-Autumn Festival the event succeeded in its goal by visiting guest lecturers commitment of those involved “I also appreciate my col-to our students,” yin said. “As of fostering student-teacher Xiaosha Wei and yuan Xiao with the event. leagues, other Chinese in-part of the celebration, we give relationships. and visiting assistant profes- “The willingness of every-structors and some students our students the opportunity “The event encouraged stu-sional specialist Wei Wang. body involved to give up their for their great efforts for this to taste moon cakes. Students dent to voluntarily showcase Chinese literature associ-Friday evenings to celebrate event,” Zhu said. “They have give some performances in their acts and it allowed teach-ate professor Liangyan ge this event speaks volumes done a lot for the event.” Chinese, thereby combining ers to discover their students’ told the audience the legend about the uniqueness of the learning with entertainment.” talents,” Ma said. “[The event of the Mid-Autumn Festival, Notre dame Chinese [pro-Contact Wei Lin at 
“Our second goal is to also] publicized the Chinese and every participant drew a gram] and the enthusiasm of wlin4@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
After the formal discussion ended, 
Panel 
panel members took questions from 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 

students in the audience. Students of ABC News. Prof. Robert Schmuhl, asked questions about the challenges chair of Notre dame’s department of of working as a young reporter and American Studies and director of the the role social media, especially plat­gallivan Program, moderated the forms like Twitter, plays in modern discussion. journalism. 
Schmuhl asked each panel mem-Costa said Twitter is an extremely ber to briefly speak about journalistic important tool and students who are lessons they learned both during their interested in journalism as a career time at Notre dame and in their pro-should utilize all social media plat­fessional lives after college. forms, and do so properly. 
hanna, who graduated in 2008, “It is so critical right now when said young reporters must have the you’re applying for a job … the first courage to “report critcally.” thing your potential new boss is going 
“It’s not just about reporting on to look at is your Twitter,” Costa said. an event. It’s asking tough questions “I find Twitter to be very empow­about that event and putting things ering because as a reporter you often into context,” hanna said. “When dif-only have so much space to write a ficult things happen, don’t shy away story and you may have a lot of color, from them or sugarcoat them.” anecdotal things in your story or 
Thompson stressed the continual notes from a meeting, and it comes process of education that occurs for back to having judgment and know journalists of all kinds and said the what to share and what not to share. best way to learn is through their “Accuracy is by far the number one mistakes. thing always, but it’s really great to 
“you never stop learning when be able to share things about a story you’re a journalist; it’s a great thing,” on Twitter beyond what you wrote in Thompson said. “you never stop your own piece.” learning about what you do. It’s also McMeel said he had great hope for very humbling because you learn students who attended the discus-everyday about how much you don’t sion and said they are the future of know.” journalism. 
Leduc said persistence is one of the “you are talent … and talent has a most important qualities for a suc-way of being able to break through cessful journalist. with what you’re doing or just al­
“you can be nice as a journalist ways keeping that new idea down,” and you should be polite, but you McMeel said. need to build a steely resolve,” he said. “don’t be afraid to push back at your Contact Jack Rooney at sources.” jrooney1@nd.edu 



NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 

SMC president volunteers as target for pie fundraiser 
By MARGARET JOHNSTON 
News Writer 
Friday afternoon, the Saint Mary’s student center was filled with pie-throwers, whipped-cream-covered pro­fessors and onlookers as the Saint Mary’s Affiliation of the American Chemical Society (SMAACS) held its first-ever Pie-your-Professor event. 
Junior Kate Bussey, SMAACS president, said the event was organized as a way to blend fun with raising support for the group. 
“Being a chapter of the American Chemical Society, SMAACS provides support to students looking to further their career in chemistry as well as community outreach to attract attention to the scienc­es … and we have tons of fun along the way,” Bussey said. 
One of the main attractions of the Pie-your-Professor event was the pie-ing of Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney. 

Mooney donned a yellow pon­cho and safety goggles and made her way behind the tarp-covered barricade as students paid for their whipped-cream­filled plates. 
Mooney said she volun­teered to show support for SMAACS. 
“It raises community spirit and it helps fund the chemis­try club for our students,” she said. 
Junior Morgan Carroll said she couldn’t believe Mooney’s willingness to participate and be smothered with pies by students. 
“I think seeing President Mooney here definitely gets a lot more people involved,” Carroll said. “Bringing such an important member of our Saint Mary’s community here is great, and it’s awesome see­ing such a fun, silly, person­able side of dr. Mooney.” 
Bussey said SMAACS was thrilled with Mooney’s in­volvement as well. 
“her participation in our event displays her support of our club, but even more so, her dedication to every aspect of our amazing college commu­nity.” Bussey said. 
Raising $400 over the course of the event, Bussey said SMAACS hopes to make 
Pie-your-Professor  an  an­ 
nual  fundraiser,  drawing  
more  excitement  and  even  

larger turnouts in the upcom­ing years.  The money raised during Friday’s event will be put toward a magic show this October. 
“Our chemistry magic show will be held when the kids come trick-or-treating on cam­pus for halloween,” Bussey said.  “This will be public outreach in hopes of instill­ing an interest of the sciences in young minds. We are very pleased with the outcome of the event.” 
Contact Margaret Johnston at mjohns01@saintmarys.edu 



PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
Rockne 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
going.’” 
The second timeless theme of Rockne’s life, being a man on the move, defined Rockne both as a person and as a football coach who revolutionized the game, Lefebvre said. 
“In a sense, this is a story of transportation,” Lefebvre said. “There are just so many ele­ments of it from [immigrating to America] to riding the street cars in Chicago. 
“This man on the move also speaks to a larger sense of look­ing for … something better. he was always looking for ways to improve the game of football to make it more entertaining for fans, and he was largely respon­sible for a wide-open game that replaced the mass grouping of bodies that had been the sport before that.” 
Lefebvre said Rockne’s abil­ity to connect to people was perhaps his most defining characteristic. 
“he had a special gift for con­necting to people, seeing the best in people and what we would call today empowering the peo­ple around him,” Lefebvre said. “Today we talk about ‘social me­dia,’ but that’s usually looking at a device. he looked people in the face and he made a connection.” 
The fourth theme Lefebvre attributed to Rockne was his dedication to education and Rockne’s role as a teacher both on and off the football field. 
“[Rockne was] always a teacher and always looking to build on what was possible with 
Grant 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
The lab, which consists of re­searchers, engineers, technicians and local high school students, develops and improves the com­ponents and readout system of the CMS’s hadron calorimeter, which measures the collisions of particles such as protons and neu­trons, according to Karmgard. 
“What we’ve been doing down at the lab for the past several years and what we continue to do is to test new materials to see if they transmit light better,” Karmgard said. ”We’re testing these new electronics to see if they work as well as we think they should, and how they [could] work better,” 
Most of the rest of the grant money will support graduate students, who split time be­tween CERN and Notre dame and do much of the data analysis that produces findings such as the higgs boson, as well as the ground work that keeps the CSM running. 
graduate student Andrew Brinkerhoff, who studies the properties of decaying higgs boson particles, said to get the data, each part of the detector must operate correctly, which re­quires the efforts of hundreds of students. 
“It kind of breaks down into two pieces. One is the design and operations of different parts of athletics,” Lefebvre said. “I think the stories of these former play­ers and what they went on to do is testament to the kind of job he did with that.”

 Lefebvre summarized these themes with Rockne’s fifth and final defining characteristic: a life well-lived. 
“he took on life everyday. he didn’t take days off. he vaca­tioned occasionally, but even then he was always thinking, he was always corresponding, he was always dreaming up ways of playing the game differently, promoting the game different­ly,” Lefebvre said. 
Lefebvre said there is no figure today who compares to Rockne and his legacy. 
“There is nobody in our soci­ety that is looked to in the same way that Rockne was. That’s how big his sphere of influence was,” Lefebvre said. “And so when he wrote something in one of his columns or one of his books, it was gospel and it was followed.” 
Lefebvre said he wrote a biog­raphy of Knute Rockne because he wanted to preserve the mem­ory of a legendary man and foot­ball coach. 
“It’s important to tell his story to newer generations who may only know of him through the speech in ‘Rudy.’ There is so much more to his life and his story,” Lefebvre said. 
“Coach for a Nation: The Life and Times of Knute Rockne” is available at the hammes Notre dame Bookstore and online at coachforanation.com 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
the detectors [such as] the day­to-day monitoring of the detector while it’s running, which requires 24-hour shifts,” Brinkerhoff said. “We all took shifts at one point or another while we were at CERN. The main reason to go over there is that you really have to be on the ground in the building, right over top of the detector while you’re monitoring everything that’s go­ing on.” 
The LhC, which runs con­tinuously for months at a time, is currently shut off and awaiting improvements that will allow it to operate at full capacity, Jessop said. This allows the different subsets of the investigation group to continue working on the other aspects of the project, such as testing new materials, finalizing data analysis and planning fu­ture investigations. 
“There are two purposes [of the continuing research],” Jessop said. “One is to precisely measure the higgs boson, because that potentially tells us even more about these other new particles, and also to search for these other new particles that we think will be there. And if we discover these particles, it might be an even big­ger discovery than the higgs bo­son, which is a big discovery in itself.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Where do we go from here? 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The NCAA argument 
Mike Ginocchio 
News Writer 

I don’t know if you have heard, but there has been an awful lot of discus­sion lately about the current state of col­lege athletics. depending on who you’re talking to, the NCAA is either a gigantic, money-guzzling and power-hungry mon­strosity that rakes in billions of dollars on the backs of its athletes, or is an aged institution that has the right intentions but just needs a little bit of tweaking. 
Whatever your opinion may be, the fact of the matter is that after years of pre­tending this isn’t happening, it has now become common to discuss the various problems within the NCAA. So naturally, that means conversation will bring forth discussion, and discussion will bring about suggestions and suggestions will turn into reform. Right? But what if it doesn’t? 
This past weekend, a couple of players for Northwestern, georgia and georgia Tech took the field having deliberately marked up their uniforms in a form of good old-fashioned exercising of their first amendment rights. Either on their wristbands or on their shoes or ankles, the players had scratched “APu,” or “All Players united.” The National College Players Association, an advocacy group that is pushing for NCAA reform, con­ceived the idea. According to the group’s website, their primary goals are showing support for players who joined concus­sion suits against the NCAA, standing behind individual players who are being “harmed by NCAA’s rules,” and to “dem­onstrate unity among college athletes and fans in favor of NCAA reform.”
 It certainly isn’t about the players.  All of this talk about college football reform is going absolutely nowhere.  I imagine that they would all be able to unite under an idea pretty easily enough. They know what it’s like to play the sport and make the choices they’ve made. It’s everyone else that makes it difficult. 
In the end, it never goes any deeper than those surface-level arguments. And that’s the biggest problem. Because the truth is there is a growing amount of evidence that the NCAA needs to start changing its ways. But that change isn’t going to be simple. It’s going to take time, nuance and the admittance that compro­mise is vital in order to make anything improve and last longer. 
If an institution that’s been around as long as the NCAA is going to make a fundamental change in its operations, it’s going to need to be convinced by a col­lective voice of people all unified in their goals and suggestions. Otherwise, we’re going to be stuck listening to talk radio and sports hosts filling up airtime with vapid arguments about the system for the next 20 years. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio  at mginocch@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Caleb Cobbin 
Viewpoint Columnist 
I opened my email to another message of sexual assault and again, I sat flabbergasted at yet an­other affront to human dignity that occurred within this Notre dame community. I must say that my heart goes out to the women and men who feel that their power was taken away from them in a horrible way. 
I dare you not to cringe when I tell you, according to the Office of Alcohol and drug Education web­site, “One out of every four-to-five woman are assaulted on campuses each year.” This, my friends, is too much. 
When discussing this with a friend, she said something that made me think hard about this is­sue. “For every one report of sexual assault,” she said, “there are prob­ably 10 or more incidents that have not been reported.” This breaks my heart. 
I do realize this is speculation and I do not have concrete evidence to support this statistic, but I do know at least three girls who have had unwanted sexual contact dur­ing my time here at Notre dame and have not reported it — one as recently as this past weekend. This, unfortunately, is a reality over­looked. But, why? 
I thought about the Notre dame “hook-up” culture, how overly hor­monal men who, because of pari­etals, have a limited amount of time to “get with” a girl they meet at a party. That somehow our system of residential life may actually be the clandestine culprit of the pain and confusion of many victims on cam­pus. But I threw this idea aside. 
The issue of sexual assault is not just a Notre dame issue, but also an issue that plagues the whole of col­lege culture, and while residential life may play a factor, ultimately, based on statistics, these things would still occur. 
We are taught that this topic is extremely relevant, that sexual assault and rape can happen to anyone and that often times the perpetrator is not some creepy guy in an alley, but acquaintances or friends, people the victim can iden­tify. yet there is some intangible factor, some disconnect. We know rape and sexual assault is bad, but where do we go from there? 
Well, this column, I hope, is a start. We have to talk about it. 
“honestly, I don’t think any pun­ishment or administrative policy is really going to change the hearts of others,” my friend who was men­tioned earlier continued. “It has to start with the students.” 

The prayer service was a great idea, but it can’t stop there. We as a student body cannot be afraid to openly talk and support the people involved in this issue. Public talks and support groups, weekly visits to the grotto, forums, classes and anything that presents the facts and shows no matter how much we ignore the signs — these things are happening everyday and more im­portantly we want change. 
Moreover, other students and wit­nesses have to be willing to respond when they see inappropriate behav­ior, for often it is our inactions that cause destruction more so than our overt actions. 
Lastly, to the victims of any sexual assault, rape or harassment, especially those within this com­munity (students of Notre dame, Saint Mary’s or holy Cross) know that even though I may not know you, I am walking with you. I am praying for you. And I refuse to be silent. 
Caleb Cobbin is a senior. He can be reached at ccobbin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




American credibility at home 
John Sandberg 
Sandman’s Musing 

There’s a reason why they don’t let writers run the 
u.S. State department. 

Thinking all diplomatic options had been exhausted, I argued two weeks ago that the u.S. had no choice but to intervene in the crisis in Syria with missile strikes against Bashar al-Assad’s regime (“Action and clarity needed on Syria,” Sept. 9). I said it was the lesser of a multitude of bad options. Without making an interven­tion, America’s credibility as a world leader would be seriously weakened. 
Just a few hours after my column had been emailed off to my editor, the news broke that the u.S. had agreed with Russia on a plan to rid Syria of its chemical weap­ons and avert an immediate u.S. strike. 
If you read that column, it should come as no surprise that I was relieved diplomacy had won out over military action. 
Still, while the u.S. has found an alternative to missile strikes in Syria, the original issue of its credibility on the world’s stage remains as great of a test as ever. And this week, as Congressional Republicans and democrats debate on increasing the debt limit and flirt with a pos­sible government shutdown, we see another critical component of that test. 
So far neither side has budged. There are still eight days left to come to a compromise on the debt limit and avert a government shutdown, an eternity in the con­text of Washington theatre. 
Some Republicans are determined to defund the Affordable Care Act and ultimately move forward with legislation to delay the implementation of Obamacare for one year in exchange for raising the debt limit for the next year. democrats are so far unwilling to concede on either the defunding or delayed implementation of the health care law. 
By now the politics of the debate are well-known. Republicans say the Affordable Care Act is a costly and unpopular law. Perhaps they’re right about this. democrats say the Affordable Care Act is the law of the land and an attempt to sabotage the budget by insisting on defunding or delaying the law is both irresponsible and impossible. Perhaps they’re right as well. 
What neither side takes into proper consideration are the wider implications of a shutdown. 
yes, the stock market will take a nasty hit. yes, Americans will bear witness to another example of a broken government. This much is obvious. 
But what does it say about a country that is the active leader in international relations, yet its leaders at home are unable to execute on the fundamental issues of government? 
Against the backdrop of instability abroad, America now faces a critical test of its credibility at home. 
It’s time for moderate, responsible leaders to take over in Washington and pass the test. Both parties share this responsibility, but on the current budget fight, I’m look­ing for leaders to rise up in the Republican Party. 
The problem so far is that moderate Republican voic­es have not been as audible or convincing as those of extremists like Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Tex. and Sen. Mike Lee, R-utah, who are calling for a government shutdown un­less a continuing resolution is passed that cuts off fund­ing for the Affordable Care Act. 

Responsible Republican senators such as Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Penn. and Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn. have laid out the issue clearly. They are no less opposed to Obamacare than are Republicans calling for its im­mediate defunding. But when your party only controls one-third of the federally-elected government (as Republicans do with the house), your party is not going to get everything it wants. 
A government shutdown on Oct. 1 is too high of a cost to pay for trying (and inevitably failing) to repeal the law now. Fund the government now, moderate Republicans say, and go to work on repealing the spe­cific, problematic provisions of the Affordable Care Act over the next couple years, a strategy that begins by gaining Republican seats in Congress in 2014. 
This is party leadership. This is what needs to be done now to maintain America’s credibility in the eyes of the world, not to mention the credibility of the Republican Party. 
Extremism does not result in effective government. It never has and it never will. In the end, it will only dam­age America’s credibility even further. 
My hope now is that it doesn’t take a government shutdown for some lawmakers to realize this. 
John Sandberg  is a senior living in Fisher Hall. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Praying for the Irish 

I have the pleasure of serving as President of Farley hall, so I participate in a lot of walkovers, dorm events, pep rallies, performances, discussions, etc. About 60 Farley hall members walked to the first Pep Rally and in April, 125 of the Finest walked to support two resi­dents as they shaved their heads for The Bald and The Beautiful. 
Sunday night, I was part of a Farley walkover to the prayer service hosted by student government to pray for healing in light of the recent sexual assaults report­ed on campus. Nine Farley residents attended. 
While this is just the example from Farley, I believe it is a phenomenon present throughout all of the un­dergraduate halls. We are all ready to dive in headfirst to the fun things going on around campus. Most of us 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
spent all Saturday tailgating and cheering for the Irish. yet, at a 30-minute prayer service addressing deep wounds in our student body, there were approximately 100 people in attendance. 
One hundred out of 8,000. Less than two percent of our student body took time to pray together for our brothers and sisters in Notre dame affected by sexual assault. As both student body vice president Nancy Joyce and Fr. Pete McCormick said at this service, as Notre dame students we hold ourselves to a higher standard. As Notre dame students, we sign on to do more than average, agreeing to be present and sup­portive of our fellow students. 
If there is another sexual assault reported on cam­pus, there will be another prayer service. Student body president Alex Coccia and Nancy have promised us this. 


I hope to see more of you there. I hope you will hold yourself to the Notre dame standard. I hope you will realize that you do have time and that the 30 minutes you might spend on a huddle Run or a round of Super Smash could be spent in prayer with and for your Notre dame family. 
you do have time. you take time to cheer for the Irish. Please, step up and take the time to pray for the Irish. 
Kathleen Clark 
junior Farley hall Sept.  24 





Kevin Noonan 
Scene Editor 
“If Aaron Carter can do it, anybody can do it.” — Kobe Bryant, shortly after the release of “That’s How I Beat Shaq, spurring his Walter White­esque spiral from supporting player on Shaquille O’Neill’s NBA champi­onship Los Angeles Lakers to his eventual blackhat fate as the one-legged anchor of the most embarrassing Lakers performances since Rick Fox’s acting career. 
There’s a little known branch of academia known as “alternate his­tory,” that contemplates the long-term effects on history if certain events, seemingly crucial or not, had turned differently. 
The most well-known example is probably the question, “What if the Allies had lost World War II?” 
But the rabbit hole of reimagination goes much deeper (and much less morose) than that. 
Aaron Carter performs at Club Fever tonight at 6 p.m., the conclu­sive end to a trail of dominos over 13 years long that began with his release of the first single off his second album and ends tonight with a roaring, likely legendary show at Club Fever. 
But what if on Aug. 1, 2000, Aaron Carter and his label, Jive Records, decided not to release the single which launched into international fame and adoration of eight-year-old girls everywhere, “Aaron’s Party (Come get It)?” What if the song never existed? 
Well, let’s start with the obvious — he probably doesn’t get famous. Sure, with that style, that flow and those moves we saw in the “Aaron’s Party (Come get It)” video, he probably still would have achieved some sort of fame. how could he not? Seriously, go watch the video; his flow makes the Notre dame Men’s Lacrosse team look like a bunch of balding mid-40s car salesmen. 
But without that song, we never get the video. And without the video, we never see him in full effect as the child star that he truly was and he never experiences the kind of explosive popularity that he had when was 13-years-old. 
The effects are more far-reaching than you might think. Take the example in italics at the top of the story that I made up. 
If Kobe never hears “Aaron’s Party,” then he never buys the album at Best Buy at midnight on the first day it’s released and never hears “That’s how I Beat Shaq,” and never realizes that boom, put it in the hoop like slam, hear the crowd scream jam and that’s how you beat Shaq. 
Kobe never develops a Macbeth complex against Shaq, and instead of forcing Shaq out after the Lakers’ loss in the 2004 NBA Finals, Kobe goes out of his way to solidify his friendship with the future hall of Fame center, and the duo go on to lead the Lakers to at least four more Finals championships and leave the league both legends and friends alike. 
That, like most friendship and happy things, however, is boring. 
More interesting is the crushing and depressing blow this deals to the city of Miami. Since the Lakers don’t trade Shaq to the Miami heat for a couple bums and Lamar Odom, dwyane Wade and the heat don’t win the 2006 NBA Finals championship. 
Lamar Odom never moves to Los Angeles, never meets Khloe Kardashian, and the most unfamous celebrity couple of our genera­
tion never hits the tabloids. 
BuT WAIT. The plot thickens. 

If Aaron Carter never hits the meteoric fame that resulted from “Aaron’s Party (Come get It),” his family never gets their very own E! Network reality show, “house of Carters,” in 2006. The show was, by most accounts, less than a resounding success, and was cancelled after one season. 
But the idea of the kooky family based reality show took off within the network itself leading to the premiere watershed series of American reality television history in 2007, “Keeping up with the Kardashians.” 
Kim Kardashian has, in addition to a few mitigating circumstances, Aaron Carter to thank for her fame. And if Kim Kardashian never gets famous — oh man, I can’t even wrap my head around that one.  But let’s take a shot at it, at least on one level. 
If Kim Kardashian never gets famous, in addition to any number of effects she’s had on the fashion, television and tabloid industries, she never enters Kanye West’s inner circle, shaping his music and inspir­ing such instant classic lyrics as … well, we can’t print any of them, but the long and short of it is Kanye’s latest album, “yeezus,” likely sounds quite a bit different. 
It may even open the gate for Kanye to release an entirely different kind of album. Maybe in the years he would have been dating Kim Kardashian he instead gets dumped by someone and his ego takes a hit. Okay, the ego thing wouldn’t have happened, but at the very least, he never releases the polarizing “yeezus,” thus depriving the world of the knowledge that he is, in fact, a god. 
But the fun doesn’t stop there either. 

Let’s take a step back for a minute. dwyane Wade and the heat don’t win the 2006 NBA championship. Therefore Miami doesn’t become the same kind of destination for every star willing to ille­gally collaborate behind the scenes to manufacture a championship contender. 
you ready for this, Cleveland? 

If Aaron Carter never releases “Aaron’s Party (Come get It),” LeBron James keeps his talents in Cleveland in 2010, and recruits fellow free agents dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh to come with him. Even bet­ter, Chris Bosh goes to some other contender on the downswing and continues his career arc into irrelevance it was on before he went to Miami, and they convince dwight howard to get out of his Orlando contract in 2011 and join them in the town that god forgot. 
And since the Cleveland Cavaliers are the best team in the NBA and perennial championship winners, the city of Cleveland benefits from new investment and business opportunities, changing the city from the butt of jokes from every sports fan and city dweller in America into one of the premiere metropolises in the world. 
America moves it’s capitol from Washington d.C. to Cleveland, and the rest of the country is forced to hear about Cleveland and its goings on on a nearly daily basis. 
So, long story short, thank god Aaron Carter got famous. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Ann Marie Jakubowski 
Scene Writer 

I hear “Aaron Carter” and the name resurrects memories of my eight-year-old self hooked into a Walkman, listening to the then-13-year-old pop star with the bleached blond hair, bopping around stage, swearing he was “tellin’ me the facts” in his chart-topping hit “That’s how I Beat Shaq.” 
The album “Aaron’s Party (Come get It)” had a couple more gems, including that unforgettably profound refrain “I want candy” in the song with the same title. Back then, I assumed it referred only to the junk-food aisle at the supermarket and not anything romantic, but I found it moving nonetheless. 
Carter is slotted to perform at South Bend’s Club Fever at 6 p.m. tonight as part of his come­back tour after eight years off. In a phone inter­view Friday, he promised fans would hear “all the good old songs,” including his personal favorite hit “Aaron’s Party.” Which, coincidentally, still has a place in my iTunes library. 
“Of course I’ll play the old stuff, oh yeah, abso­lutely,” Carter said. “yeah, that’s a given. I can’t not do that. The show will be a little bit of cover music, a little bit of old music and a bit of new stuff as well.” 
The eight years that have passed since he first smack-talked NBA legends changed his perform­ing style (and the pitch of his voice), but Carter said he’s back on tour with one main goal — re­connecting with his fans after the hiatus. 
“That’s what brings me all over right now on my tours,” he said. “you know, I haven’t been on tour in, like, eight years, so I’m just trying to get back into it and see everybody.” 
he wouldn’t say he’s spent the past eight years off the radar, though. he and his brothers starred in the 2006 E! Network reality show “house of Carters” and in 2009, he took fifth place in “dancing with the Stars.” From Oct. 2011 until Feb. 2013, he starred in the off-Broadway play “The Fantasticks” in New york City. 
“I did ‘The Fantasticks’ for, like, over 400 per­formances,” Carter said. “I was the lead and it was a love story. It was awesome; it was fun doing it. It was definitely challenging, but it strengthened my vocals and helped me as a performer overall.” 
Performing in a theater is “a much different world” than the pop concert venue, he said. 
“In Broadway plays, people go in and they sit down and they clap for you, you know? It’s not, like, screaming and throwing stuff on stage,” he said. “It was definitely something to adapt to, but I didn’t really want to become completely acclimated to it because I like performing for screaming girls too.” 
Carter said he “hopped right on tour” after his run with “The Fantasticks” ended so his fans could have the chance to see him as he is now in­stead of maintaining that image of him perform­ing as a child star. 
“I don’t want my fans to expect me to be 12 anymore, because that’s not the case, you know?” he said. “I’m not 12, I’m not 15 anymore. I’m going to be 26 at the end of the year. 
“Fortunately, I’ve always been able to transi­tion with my fans because a lot of them grew up with me too. I started performing when I was six, and then I did two albums in my teenage years and now it’s time to make a transition in my adulthood.” 
Carter at his peak was a child star at the level of Lindsay Lohan and hilary duff (both of whom he dated, coincidentally), the predecessor of today’s Justin Biebers and Miley Cyruses. he listed songs by daft Punk, Robin Thicke’s “Blurred Lines” and Bruno Mars’ “Treasure” as some of his favorite current music and said he “couldn’t wait” to per­form in South Bend tonight. 
Ironically, although some might say I’m “too old” to be an AC fan, I’m still too young to be al­lowed into Club Fever for the concert. I’ll have to live vicariously through the minions that will undoubtedly pack the club, so if nothing else, just go because you know your eight-year-old self would have. 
doors open tonight at Club Fever in South Bend at 6 p.m. Tickets can be purchased online at tick­etmaster.com or at the door tomorrow for $15. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Aaron Carter 
Club Fever 
When: Doors open at 6 p.m. 
How Much: $15 at the door 
Tracks You Might Know: “Aaron’s Party (Come Get It),” “I Want Candy,” “That’s How I Beat Shaq” 
If you like: Teen stars from the late 90s and early 2000s, also known as Aaron Carter 
AARON 
CARTER 

PLAYLIST 
You may not have heard Aaron Cater in a few (13) years, but that doesn’t mean he’s gone out of existence. It does mean that most of the hits you remember him for are what you can expect to hear tonight. 


“Aaron’s Party (Come Get It)” Aaron Carter  
02  “That’s How I Beat Shaq” Aaron Carter  
03  “Jump Jump” Aaron Carter  
04  “I Want Candy” Aaron Carter  
05  “Try to Remember” From the musical “The Fantasticks”  
06  “Help Me” Nick Carter  
07  “Dance with Me” Aaron Carter feat. Flo Rida  

SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Breaking down dress-up day 

Vicky Jacobsen 
Sports Writer 
A mature baseball fan would use this space to discuss the re­maining playoff races or the final home game for yankees leg­ends Mariano Rivera and Andy Pettitte. 
But I’m a 21-year-old whose happiness rests largely on the pitching arm of Jon Lester. I mostly subsist on a diet of Teddy grahams. In short, I’m not writ­ing about any of the important or relevant issues in Major League Baseball. 
Instead, I’ll focus on the ex­traordinarily juvenile (but let’s face it, highly entertaining) tradi­tion of Rookie dress-up day. 
This is the day when the vet­eran players on each team kick off the final road trip of the year by stealing the rookies’ clothes and replacing them with horrifying costumes. In these closing days of the regular season, even the Milwaukee residents who long ago gave up on the Brewers sea­son can share a laugh with Braves fans, who have a playoff spot locked up and most likely spent their Sunday tuned into the NFL instead. 
If you’ve ever wondered what detroit Tigers shortstop Jose Iglesias would look like if he were forced to wear a Tinker Bell costume, wonder no longer. Could Mike Trout pull off a Lady gaga get-up? The definitive an­swer: No. (That was in 2011. In September of his breakout 2012 season, he was simply made to dress up as a baby.) 
The 2012 yankees rookies each dressed as a “Star Wars” char­acter. (Judging by the quality of darth Vader and Chewbacca costumes procured for the occa­sion, it appears that the yankees not only have the highest payroll in the league, but also the high­est budget for pranks and other frivolity). 
In the absence of strong and organized veteran leadership, some classes of rookies end up in a mismatch of ill-fitting halloween costumes or brightly-colored Speedos, which is really too bad (for both the rookies and anyone who has the misfortune of spotting them while they travel to their next destination). 
But the teams that really do it right force their rookies into matching costumes. The ring­leaders of this escapade in light hazing can honor their loca­tion — the San Francisco giants decided that a visit to New york was a perfect excuse for Naked Cowboy-themed dress-up day. Last fall, Washington Nationals veterans tipped their caps to the recent London Olympics, dress­ing up Bryce harper and his fellow rookies as the gold medal-winning women’s gymnastics team for the train ride from d.C. to New york (whether their fellow Amtrak passengers were amused or not, I can’t say). 
Now, this is not a time-honored tradition. (don’t go looking for pictures of derek Jeter’s rookie dress-up day, he escaped what is now a rite of passage). 
As best I can tell, it’s the sort of thing made possible by the Internet. Really, there was little reason for forcing the new out­fielder into a woman’s halloween costume in the days before photographic evidence of the event could be posted online. Personally, I think it’s one of the more entertaining things the Internet has given us. 
There are naysayers, of course. For one thing, there are plenty of teams that do a poor job. Last year, the Red Sox had 10 rookie cheerleaders … and one dorothy from the Wizard of Oz. Will Middlebrooks looked very out of place in gingham. This year, Boston went with a shirtless-kilt look, which only confirmed that one does not need to have six-pack abs to play major league baseball. 
On a serious note, there are executives who find the antics not so funny when their teams are just a game or two from elimi­nation. I don’t really understand what they’re worried about. did Angels management truly think wearing a bib for an afternoon would hurt Mike Trout’s concen­tration at the plate the next day, as was rumored last season? 
honestly, these hijinks are part of what fans love about baseball. Winning games is the goal, but when there are 162 contests stretched over the sum­mer there’s room for levity and silliness. 
An NFL coach would never tolerate this sort of stuff, but that’s part of what makes it enjoyable. Football is a game of intensity and focus, of near maniacal at­tention to detail. All the prepara­tion completed during a week is channeled into three or four hours of ferocity and violence on Sunday afternoon. There’s no crying in baseball, but there’s not much time for laughing in football. 
Baseball, on the other hand, has time for mascot races and seventh-inning stretch songs and exchanging of pleasantries at first base. you can still go to a baseball game and get the sense that game was originally intended to be fun. 
Thank goodness baseball play­ers still remember a little fun can go a long way. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC GOLF 

Belles return to The Medalist 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will begin the heart of its schedule when it opens MIAA play against Albion today at 1 p.m. at The Medalist golf Club in Marshall, Mich. 
Though the Belles will only compete against the Britons, all nine conference schools will be at the 18-hole jamboree and will be paired to play against one or two other teams. Five golfers will take the course for each squad, with the lowest four scores counting toward the overall total. Belles coach Kim Moore said senior Paige Pollak, junior Janice heffernan, sopho­more Sammie Averill and fresh­men Courtney Carlson and Ali Mahoney will hit the links for Saint Mary’s in the conference-opening match. 
The Belles played at The Medalist on Aug. 31 and Sept. 1 in the Olivet Labor day Tee-Off, where Saint Mary’s took third place out of eight teams. 

Moore said her team’s recent trip may help but the familiar­ity does not necessarily create an advantage over Albion, who did not compete in the Olivet tournament. 
“I think we definitely have some familiarity with most of our players at that course,” Moore said. “I think the major­ity of teams in our conference have played that course, so I wouldn’t say it would be an ad­vantage. But it is nice to be able to know the layouts and know the holes.” 
The Britons played at The Medalist the weekend of Sept. 6 at the Olivet Invitational, in which the Belles did not com­pete, so this match marks the first head-to-head play between the two teams this season. 
Sophomore Celine McClimans leads Albion, which last played Friday at the Scottie Invitational in Alma, Mich., where the team finished in fourth place out of four teams. McClimans shot an 88 in that tournament, the team’s low benchmark for the season. 
With the Britons improv­ing as their season progresses, Moore said it is important for the Belles to keep getting better with each tournament as well. 
“I’m looking forward to the team playing well,” she said. “I think it’ll be definitely nice if we do win, but I’m looking for a more overall team per­formance, and if that’s a win, great, and if that’s second place, third place, fourth place, that’s great, too.” 
Saint Mary’s will take the course against Albion today in the conference-opener at 1 
p.m. at The Medalist golf Club in Marshall, Mich. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER | SMC 1, hOPE 1 

Squad battles hope to draw, preps for Albion 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s seems to have gotten the wake-up call coach Michael Joyce said it needed, playing undefeated hope to a 1-1 draw in double overtime Saturday at home. 
“I think the [4-0 loss Sept. 14 against] Alma showed us what not to do,” Joyce said. “We fo­cused in practice and were able to stick to our game against Calvin [on Wednesday in a dou­ble-overtime, 0-0 tie]. Against hope, we got even sharper. We’re headed in the right direc­tion now for sure.” 
The Flying dutch (7-0-1, 4-0­1 MIAA) had come into the matchup on a seven-game-win­ning streak to start their sea­son, having outscored their first four conference opponents 13­
2. hope got off to a quick start against the Belles, scoring in the sixth minute off a corner kick to take a 1-0 lead. 
Saint Mary’s (2-4-2, 0-2­
2) came right back, though, with multiple opportunities to equalize during the first half. In the 29th minute, junior forward Kelly Wilson had a look inside the 18-yard box, but her shot trickled by the far post. Senior captain and midfielder Mollie Valencia followed up with an­other scoring chance in the 37th minute, but her free kick from just outside the 18 sailed over the crossbar. 


Coming out of halftime, Saint Mary’s controlled possession but was unable to capitalize on any chances until the 56th min­ute when, on what was already the Belles third corner kick of the half , senior forward Kaitlin Teichman drilled a low cross into the box. Freshman defend­er Emily Rompola snuck a shot 
“Against Hope, we got even sharper. We’re headed in the right direction now for sure.” 
Michael Joyce 
Belles coach 

inside the near post to tie the match at one. 
Saint Mary’s continued to control possession for the re­mainder of the second half. Still, other than a dangerous cross from Belles sophomore forward Maggie Wenzel in the 57th minute that was left un­touched, both teams went qui­etly into overtime. 
despite facing six shots in the extra time, Belles junior goal­keeper Chanler Rosenbaum and the rest of the Saint Mary’s defensive unit held firm until the final whistle. Rosenbaum finished with only two saves — a total dwarfed by the 13 shots she stopped against Calvin on Wednesday — but Joyce was still impressed with her play in goal. 
“Chanler is on top of her game for sure,” Joyce said. “She’s been spectacular. Our defenders were outstanding, too, especial­ly [juniors] Mary Kate [hussey] and Kerry green. … We’re fi­nally back to where we were last year defensively, just took a little longer than we wanted.” 
The Belles now turn their attention to their matchup Tuesday against what Joyce called a “much improved” Albion squad. Joyce said al­though Saint Mary’s is coming off a challenging portion of the schedule and it defeated Albion twice last season by a combined score of 11-1, the Belles cannot take the Britons (2-6-0, 0-5-0) lightly. 
“It will be a challenge for our players to forget last year and be ready for a solid opponent,” Joyce said. “I expect us to come out with the same intensity we left the hope game with.” 
The Britons are coming off a 5-1 loss to Calvin on Saturday. 
Saint Mary’s and Albion take the field Tuesday at 4:00 p.m. at Albion. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | hOPE 3, SAINT MARy’S 0; CALVIN 3, SAINT MARy’S 0 
Belles fall to Hope and Calvin 
with no errors. The Belles were unable to mount a comeback. 
The second set also fea­tured hope running to an early lead, this time jumping up 8-2. however, the Belles fought back behind the play of junior middle hitter Taylor Etzell, sophomore outside hitter Katie hecklinski, and a hope error to bring the score to 11-9. however, the dutch would rally back to score seven of the next nine points on their way to taking the second set 25-16. 
The third set featured the Belles jumping to a 6-0 lead, forcing hope to burn an early timeout. The Belles extended their lead to 7-1, but hope would respond with an eight-point run to go up 9-7. Behind this turn­around, the dutch would take the set 25-20 and the match 3-0. highlights for the Belles includ­ed hecklinski and junior outside hitter Kati Schneider tallying four kills each, junior libero Meredith Mersits compiling 10 digs, and freshman setter Clare McMillan contributing 10 assists. 
Against Calvin, the Belles again found themselves in an early hole when the Knights jumped to a 9-3 lead in the first 

NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 

Golf 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 12 
par 74 in his first round and a one-above par 72 in his second round. 
Freshman Blake Barens led the Irish going into the second round with a score of 72, yet fell behind substantially after scor­ing a 10-above-par 81 in the sec­ond round. Barens had trouble on the 10th hole, shooting a double-bogey. 
“Blake [Barens] has great abil­ity,” Kubinski said. “he simply needs a little more experience, to improve his ability to stay confi­dent and positive regardless of results.” 
Although the Irish are current­ly sitting in sixth place, Kubinski said the team is not far out of the running. 
“We’re only 10 [strokes] out of second [place], so a strong round tomorrow will make for a successful week,” Kubinski said. “The Irish just need to come into the round feeling comfortable in the environment. The talent is on our roster.” 
The Irish will continue com­peting in the Fighting Irish gridiron Classic on Tuesday on Warren golf Course, starting with a tee time of 9 a.m. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 
set Saturday. Calvin had a blis­tering .462 attack percentage to the Belles’ .062, and would take the set 25-13. 
In the second set, the Belles would break a 5-5 tie with a four-point run to take an early 9-5 lead. After a Knights (14-0, 6-0) timeout, however, Calvin rattled off 10 of the next 12 points to go up 15-11. After the Belles added one more, the Knights grabbed a six-point spurt before cruising to a 25-15 split. 
In the third set, the Belles again refused to back down and took an early 4-1 lead. After the set was tied at 4-4 and again at 6-6, Calvin hit a five-point streak that ended up with them claiming the final set 25-16. 
Against the Knights, Schneider stood out with 15 kills and 10 digs for her ninth double-double of the year. McMillan added 24 assists, and Mersits chipped in 10 digs for the Belles. 
The Belles resume play Wednesday, when they host the Manchester Spartans at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles faced one of their toughest stretches of the season this weekend when they took on the two top-ranked teams in the country. 
despite a strong effort, the Belles (5-8, 3-4 MIAA) dropped both matches, first losing to the hope College dutch over three sets (25-9, 25-16, 25-20) on Friday before dropping their match to the Calvin College Knights in three sets (25-13, 25-15, 25-16) on Saturday. 

In the first set against hope (14-1, 5-1), the dutch raced to a 16-6 lead, eventually taking the first set 25-9. during this set, the dutch had 15 kills on 25 attempts 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 




MEN’S GOLF 

Irish hang in sixth 

By MEREDITH KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished a sunny first day of the Fighting Irish gridiron Classic in sixth place on their home course with a score of 585. 
houston university leads af­ter day One with a score of 565, followed by georgia Southern with a score of 575 and Michigan State with a score of 
578. Other teams participating in the Fighting Irish gridiron Classic include yale, College of Charleston and davidson College. 
Freshman Matt Rushton leads the Irish with a total score of 144. On the par-71 Warren Course, Rushton shot a three-above par 74 in his first round, and a one-below par 70 
Kelly 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
Moving forward, the Irish will match up against an Oklahoma offense averaging 490.3 yards per game, good for 24th in the nation. The following week, Notre dame squares off with Arizona State. The Sun devils are 43rd in the coun­try with 469.3 yards of offense per game. Kelly said getting consisten­cy from his defense each week now becomes a product of competition among the players. 
“Well, I think you can point and say, ‘This is the player that will play for us,’” Kelly said. “The kind of player we saw on Saturday, that guy will play for us. The other guy will stand on the sideline. you clearly have video evidence of what we ex­pect from you.  This is the way you need to play on a play in, play out basis.” 
despite the improvements Saturday, Kelly said the reliability on both sides of the ball is still not where it needs to be. 
“yeah, the team is just evolving,” he said. “What we were struggling with was playing 60 plays really well and a half-dozen plays not so well. I think we’re getting closer to playing every player and every in his second round. Rushton is currently tied for 15th place. 
“Matthew [Rushton] con­tinues to impress. he seems perfectly comfortable com­peting in a very competitive environment,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
Junior Patrick grahek and Senior Niall Platt are tied for 19th. They both shot a total score of 146. 
grahek, who is competing as an individual golfer, shot a one-below par 70 in his first round and a five-above par 76 in his second round. Because grahek is golfing as an individual, his scores will not count toward the overall Irish team score. 
Platt shot a three-above 
see gOLF PAGE 11 


play. That’s how you evolve into November, where everybody, all 11, are fitting the plays correctly each and every time.” 
Specifically, Kelly noted that ju­nior inside linebacker Jarrett grace played a strong game Saturday. grace got his first start of the sea­son against the Spartans and re­sponded with eight tackles, tied for the most on the team. graduate student inside linebacker Carlo Calabrese also finished with eight stops, and fellow graduate student inside linebacker dan Fox — who started the first three games along­side Calabrese — tallied three tackles. 
grace currently leads the Irish with 28 total tackles, one more than Fox and two more than Calabrese. 
“he’s just got natural linebacker instincts,” Kelly said of grace. “It’s a position that he’s familiar with. he just fits it very well in terms of run, ricocheted into his fits. … you can watch three or four plays and you can see that’s a natural position for him.” 
The Irish play host to the Sooners on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. at Notre dame Stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Soccer 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
just movement from our mid­field back to me and Morgan getting in and doing her job. It wasn’t a personal achieve­ment; it was about taking it to them as a team.” 
In addition to her assists, Von Rueden is also a vital cog in an Irish defense that coach Randy Waldrum has called one of his best ever. Through eight games, Notre dame has allowed only four goals and posted four shutouts. 
“We play as a team,” Von Rueden said. “We’re not a backline of individuals. If anyone messes up, there’s always someone there to cover for her. Everyone is very supportive, and we just focus on the game plan our coaches give us. Really, we move together as a line, and that’s what helps us defend well.” 
As good as Von Rueden and her teammates are on the field, they are just as close off it. One need not look further than the team Twitter and Facebook pages, which are full of their antics, for confirmation. 
“Everyone gets along great, on and off the field,” Von Rueden said. “On the field, we hold each other ac­countable, but off it, back in the locker room, everyone gets along and it’s really fun to hang out. I think that 
strong team chemistry is def­initely something you need to compete on a high level.” 
Individually, the Mequon, Wisc., native has been a regular on youth national squads since she was 14. Von Rueden’s ulti­mate goal for her soccer career is to make the women’s senior national team. 
For now, Von Rueden spends her summers playing in the Elite Clubs National League, one of the top youth club soc­cer leagues in the country. 
“It’s high competition against other clubs around the nation that have extremely good play­ers,” Von Rueden said. “It fuels me to get better and helps me to improve on things I need to work on. It’s very important so I can keep the right mindset over the summer and come into the season ready to win right away.” 

As for the season ahead, Von Rueden doesn’t care about per­sonal accolades as long as the team is playing for another title. 
“I’d like to lead the team in assists again,” Von Rueden said. “But really what we all want is to win the national champion­ship, obviously.” 
Von Rueden and the Irish next play Thursday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Stadium against Maryland. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 



Cavanaugh 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
Samantha Flores consistently finding receivers freshman Aly Anton and junior Olivia dietzel. The Chaos (0-1-0) struggled in the red zone, however, where Flores threw two interceptions, including the de­cisive pick by harmon. 
According to senior captain and linebacker Meaghan Ayers, Cavanaugh needs to work on its communication and chemistry. 
“I think it’s really just learning to play together, getting used to each other,” she said. “We have a little bit of a young team, so we’ll get there, I think, and we have a lot of strengths we’ll build upon as the season goes on.” 
Both teams play again Tuesday night, when the Chaos face Badin, and the Weasels set their sights on a second victory against rival Pasquerilla East. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Pangborn 28, Walsh 0 
By ALEXANDRA LANE 
Sports Writer 
Pangborn made a statement in its opening game against Walsh on Sunday, beating the Wild Women 28-0. 
Pangborn’s offense, starring junior quarterback Caitlin gargan, led the team to victory. The Phoxes (1-0-0) scored off of a gargan run on their first play of the game and never let up. 
“We knew what we wanted to do and we came out and executed it,” se­nior Pangborn co-captain Mary Kate Veselik said. 
gargan said the extra-point con­versions really helped to clinch the win for the Phoxes. 
“A lot of times we don’t convert af­ter the touchdown and it really comes to bite us,” gargan said. “But today we converted on all of those and it was helpful.” 
Veselik said the Phoxes’ defense was also crucial to the team’s victory, recording a shutout in the game. 
As the game progressed, Walsh (0­1-0) began to find its stride, and the team came out stronger in the sec­ond half. The defense allowed only one touchdown and the offense set up a few scoring opportunities for the Wild Women. 
however, the efforts were not enough to make up for the large defi­cit sustained in the first half. 
“I think our starting quarterback did well and our defense played great today, but we need to work on our formations and get our routes down before our next game,” Walsh junior co-captain Maggie Fisher said. 
Both teams faced quick, one-day turnarounds, as Pangborn took on Welsh Fam last night while Walsh played Ryan at the same time. 
Contact Alexandra Lane at alane2@nd.edu 
Howard 13, Welsh Family 6 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
howard started off its flag football season on a good note Sunday, de­feating Welsh Family 13-6. 
Welsh Family (0-1-0) had a quick start, forcing the ducks (1-0-0) to turn the ball over on downs at the 1-yard line in their first possession. On the first play of the Whirlwinds’ ensuing 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
possession, sophomore running back Brie Custis scored a long touch­down to put Welsh Family up 6-0. 
In the second half, howard senior quarterback Clare Robinson com­pleted a pass to junior receiver Claire Kozlowski for a touchdown, followed by a Robinson rush for the extra point. 
The ducks then added to their lead with a second Robinson touchdown run near the end of the game follow­ing two interceptions by howard defenders. 
Robinson said she attributed the win to team energy and chemistry. 
“We’ve shaped up pretty well,” she said. “Every single person on the team played. It was great just to see that there was no one position that belonged to one person. We made the offense and defense work with every­one in every position.” 
despite the loss, Welsh Family se­nior captain Steph Lobaccaro said she is optimistic about the rest of the season. 
“honestly, I think we really did very well,” she said. “We had a couple of tough breaks on offense, not con­necting with some of the passes. hopefully for next game, we’ll actu­ally get those connections and it’ll be really good.” 
Welsh Family had a quick turn­around, playing Pangborn on Monday, while howard next plays Walsh on Sunday. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
Lyons 32, Badin 6 
By MEGAN WINKEL 
Sports Writer 
In an intense, season-opening battle, Lyons defeated Badin, 32-7, on Sunday at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
The Lions (1-0-0) set the tone from the start when freshman receiver Taylor Sears scored on a 45-yard run. In total, Lyons scored 19 unanswered points in the first half. Lions senior captain Christina Bramanti said the fast start provid­ed a momentum boost. 
“We scored right away and every­one just got so excited,” Bramanti said. “The fact that we started off the game very strong was huge because we had that momentum going from the beginning and we were never in a position where we had to catch up.” 
down by 19, the Bullfrogs (0-1­
0) attempted to break Lyons’ mo­mentum with a touchdown before halftime. But the Lions answered quickly in the second half, scoring 13 more points to put away Badin. 
Sears proved to be a crucial player for the Lions with three intercep­tions and 18 total points to her name. 
“Offensively [Sears] had some great receptions and defensively she had a handful interceptions,” Bramanti said. “She went after the ball, never shying away, and took care of business.” 
While the Bullfrogs had a hard time keeping up with Sears and the rest of the Lions, Badin sophomore quarterback Kristina Techar also said the loss was a result of insuffi­cient practice time. 
“The Lions had some really tal­ented girls. We also hadn’t really practiced and a lot of the girls that were on offense hadn’t really run any of the plays before,” Techar said. 
Lyons hopes to continue its suc­cess Sunday against Pasquerilla West, while Badin attempts to recover against Cavanaugh on Tuesday at Riehle Fields at 7 p.m. 
Contact Megan Winkel at mwinkel@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla East 19, Farley 6 
By ERIC RICHELSEN 
Sports Writer 
After a evenly-matched first half, Pasquerilla East was able to pull away and secure a 19-6 victory over Farley on Sunday at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
The first half was a battle between the defenses, with both sides hold­ing each other in the red zone on multiple occasions. The Pyros (1-0­
0) and the Finest (0-1-0) exchanged drives down the field, only to be stopped by the other. 
After a scoreless first half left, Pasquerilla East was able to blow open the second half with two big runs from senior running back Kiah Schaefbauer and an interception returned for a touchdown by junior safety Elizabeth Zolper. 
“In the second half, we got into our rhythm and things started grooving,” Pyros senior captain Caroline Kuse said.  “Although the score was tied, I was overall confi­dent in our players, our strategy and that the big plays would come with time.” 
Schaefbauer was able to find holes in the defense leading to two touchdown runs of over 30 yards. 
Farley did intercept a pass, but the Finest were unable to capitalize. Zolper, meanwhile, was able to con­vert her interception off Farley soph­omore quarterback Kaitlin Smith’s pass into a touchdown, giving the Pyros a swing in momentum. 

Kuse was confident her team’s athleticism would provide an advantage. 
“We’ve got a couple of girls who can run like antelope,” Kuse said. 
Farley mounted a late rally, but the three big plays  — Schaefbauer’s touchdown runs and Zolper’s pick six — were all it took to lead Pasquerilla East to victory. The Finest managed to score a touch­down in the closing moments, but the Pyros held on for the 19-6 win. 
Pasquerilla East will look to col­lect its second victory Tuesday at 7 p.m. against Pasquerilla West at Riehle Fields, while Farley squares off with Badin on Sunday. 
Contact Eric Richelsen at erichels@nd.edu 
Ryan 40, McGlinn 0 
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
In a rivalry game, Ryan over­powered reigning champion Mcglinn from the opening kickoff and defeated the Shamrocks, 40­0, on Sunday at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
The Wildcats (1-0-0) were firing on all cylinders from the start as they intercepted the ball on Mcglinn’s first play from scrimmage. Ryan freshman defensive lineman Shawn hall returned the interception — the first of five for the Wildcat de­fense  — for a touchdown. 
While Mcglinn’s offense strug­gled to put together any sort of drive due to the interceptions, Ryan’s offense rolled behind freshman quarterback Kathleen Conaty, who said she impressed even herself in her first game by running for one and passing for another three touchdowns. 
“Although I had a few jitters at the beginning of the game, once I had a few plays under my belt I was fine and I am really pleased that we came away with the win,” Conaty said. 
Wildcats senior captain and of­fensive lineman Andrea Carlson said she was also very pleased with her team’s performance. 
“This was a huge game for us to­day as we lost to Mcglinn last year and they went on to win the cham­pionship,” Carlson said. “So we are feeling very positive about our pros­pects for the rest of the season.” 
despite the loss, Mcglinn senior co-captain and cornerback Kaitlyn Keelin said she was confident the Shamrocks (0-1-0) could bounce back next game, 
“We definitely have some stuff to practice on, but we have a really tal­ented group of girls who can play a wide variety of positions, so I’m not concerned,” Keelin said. “The tran­sition into the season will just take time.” 
Ryan hopes to build on its excel­lent start Monday against Walsh, while Mcglinn will try to return to its championship level of play Sunday against Welsh Family. 
Contact Cornelius McGrath at cmcgrath2@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Carroll offseason workouts prepared Siegfried 7, Morrissey 0 defenders draped on him. and came up with a big fourth us well and it showed in the “It was a good game,” Moore down stop to keep Keenan off 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 By ZACH KLONSINSKI second half to get the win.” Sports Writer said. “Our defense was play-the board in its first drive.  however, Carroll struggled Zahm captain and senior ing intense, was playing smart. O’Neill junior captain on the other side of the ball for linesman Joseph Rice said he Siegfried shut down Both teams fought really hard.” donghoon Lee said he was hap-the entire game as the Vermin was pleased with his team’s Morrissey on Sunday to earn Morrissey captain and ju-py with the overall defensive entered the red zone just once. performance despite not pick-an opening-week, 7-0 shutout nior offensive lineman Patrick performance of the Angry Mob They evened the score on that ing up the win. win. Valencia echoed similar (0-1-0). trip with a field goal. “We played really hard, and Siegfried (1-0-0) broke a thoughts about the Manor’s “I thought our defense was Two Carroll interceptions after losing our rector last week, scoreless tie late in the second performance. solid today,” he said. “We just thrown in the second half also we’re trying to come out here quarter when freshman run-“I’m proud of the way our got burnt on a few pass plays. hindered the Vermin from get-and give it all we’ve got to help ning back Luke Joseph capped team fought today,” Valencia Our run defense was good ting into an offensive rhythm bring the community together,” off a Ramblers drive, finding said. “We shot ourselves in though.” and scoring, with one of those Rice commented. the end zone from five yards the foot a couple of times on The O’Neill defense held turnovers occurring with less St. Edward’s will be back in out on a sweep around the left offense, but our defense kept strong through most of the first than three minutes left in the action Sunday against Carroll side. answering the call and came half before finally giving way to fourth quarter. at Riehle Fields while the “The offensive line treated through with some huge turn-a tough Keenan offense, which Fisher junior captain Zahmbies are off until Oct. 6 me well,” Joseph said after the overs for us.” first scored on a 9-yard touch-Matthew Nagy said that he was when they play Sorin. game. “If they keep treating me Morrissey will have to wait down pass. satisfied with how his defense well, I’ll have to get them steak until its Oct. 6 game against Following an interception, stopped Carroll but knows his Contact Alex Carson at at the end of the year. ... They’re duncan to try to pick up its first the Knights tacked on seven team’s offense needs to adjust acarson1@nd.edu awesome.” win, but Siegfried will go for its more points on a 40-yard touch-to compete for a championship. Morrissey (0-1-0) did not second victory Sunday at 2:15 down throw to go up 13-0. “Our defense was really Dillon 3, Stanford 0 convert a first down in the p.m. against rival Knott. The second half was a score-good,” Nagy said. “[Offensively,] first half against a smothering less defensive battle with the 
By EVAN ANDERSON I don’t think we came out ready Sports Writer Siegfried defense but did man-Contact Zach Klonsinski at Knights getting the better of to play. Next game we just need age to find some offensive suc-zklonsin@nd.edu things, intercepting an Angry to make sure we’re ready.” In a game in which yards cess in the second half. Junior Mob pass to seal the victory. Carroll senior captain were at a premium, a first-quarterback Ryan Lindquist Keenan 13, O’Neill 0 Keenan senior captain Michael Russell said he was quarter field goal from fresh-and the running game led the Jeremy Riche said he was espe-
By MITCHELL MEERSMAN 

proud of the way his team man Justin uhlenbrock and first drive of the second half Sports Writer cially happy with his team’s de­played. a dominant defensive effort to the Ramblers’ 15-yard line. fensive performance. 
“[We] did a great job stopping spearheaded by freshman however, the drive eventually With the leaves beginning to “Our defense was really good, the run and holding [Fisher] to linebacker Patrick Toole were ended on a failed quarterback change and a noticeable chill two interceptions on the day,” three points,” Russell said. “The enough to push dillon past sneak by Lindquist on fourth in the air, the stage was set on he said. “That’s not just on one two goal line stands against Stanford on Sunday, 3-0. down. Sunday for a 13-0 Keenan vic-guy but on the whole defense. Fisher’s offense was a real big Toole intercepted a pass The Manor converted a third-tory over O’Neill to kick off the Our goal as a team is to hold win for us.” from Stanford junior quarter-and-ten with 1:13 remaining interhall season. team’s under six points and we 
Both teams will look to earn back Ryan Prom, sacked him when Lindquist hit junior Tim The defending-champion did that today.” their first wins next week when twice and was in the backfield Cole for an 11-yard strike, but Knights (1-0-0) started out on O’Neill will next play Fisher plays Sorin at 3:30 p.m. early and often in his interhall on the next play Ramblers’ se-offense and got off to a quick Stanford on Sunday at 1 p.m., at Riehle Fields and Carroll debut. nior captain and defensive line-start. Keenan marched easily while Keenan will have a bye takes on St. Edward’s at the “Before the game we talked man Jack Moore came up with down the field and deep into week before taking on Keough same time. about blitzing a lot … and I like a sack of Lindquist. Lindquist O’Neill territory with the help on Oct. 6. 
to blitz,” Toole said. “The first was forced to scramble on of a 30 yard pass. Contact Manny De Jesus at sack I had might have been the fourth-and-ten and threw an however, O’Neill’s defense Contact Mitchell Meersman at mdejesus@nd.edu hardest hit I’ve ever put on a incomplete pass with Rambler proved tough in the red zone mmeersma@nd.edu 
quarterback.” PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

St. Edward’s 15, Zahm 6 Big Red (1-0-0) senior cap­tain Nathaniel Steele said he 
By ALEX CARSON 

Sports Writer was pleased with what he saw 
out of his defense but was also 

St. Edward’s came from be-optimistic that his offense hind to defeat Zahm 15-6 in would improve for next week’s both teams’ season-opening game. contests Sunday. “We only had the exact mini-
The Zahmbies (0-1-0) started mum number of guys required out the game well, possessing to play this week and lost a the ball for the entirety of the couple of guys to injury,” Steele first quarter en route to a touch-said. “It’s going to be very dif­down. Sophomore quarterback ferent next weekend, on of-Tim Coen racked up 39 pass-fense especially.” ing yards and a touchdown on The Stanford (0-1-0) defense the opening drive and finished was nearly as stout as dillon’s, with 101 yards through the air. and the offense was not with-
After a relatively quiet second out bright spots either. The quarter, the gentlemen (1-0-0) griffins got 35 tough yards on came out with all guns blazing 11 carries from sophomore in the second half, scoring 15 running back Mike grasso, and unanswered points to get the Prom linked up with freshman win. receiver Brent Jordan on two 
A 32-yard field goal from se-deep balls totaling 101 yards. nior kicker Bryce Persichetti however, turnovers, ill-put St. Edward’s on the board timed penalties and a blocked in the third quarter but the kick kept Stanford off the gentlemen won the game in scoreboard. the fourth. “The defense put us in posi-
Senior quarterback Paul tion to win, but we weren’t able Martin-Rodriguez marched the to capitalize,” griffin senior ball down the field to deliver a captain Ruben Carrion said. 19-yard touchdown pass to ju-“Losing a close game like that nior receiver Michael Ahlers be-hurts, but we’re excited about fore the gentlemen sealed the next week.” victory with a 25-yard scamper dillon will look to pick up to the end zone by senior run-its second win against Keough ning back Frank Soler. next Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle 
“It was really good to get out Fields while Stanford will aim here and play with the guys,” to rebound against O’Neill. Ahlers, who finished on the end of 56 of Martin-Rodiguez’s 105 Contact Evan Anderson at passing yards, said. “All of our eander11@nd.edu 


NdSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 

CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS | RAgO & PATRICK CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 


HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason Alexander, 54; Bruce Springsteen, 64; Mary Kay Place, 66; Mickey Rooney, 93. 
Happy Birthday: It’s time to follow your creative voice, to look inside using your talents in diverse and unusual ways and to expand your interests and your income. Take charge and stand up to anyone trying to dictate or make choices for you. Call in favors and opt to engage in friendships and work relationships with positive people who share your goals. your numbers are 8, 13, 15, 21, 28, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Think about what’s going on in your personal life and consider whether or not you are paying enough attention to what you value the most. Personal and professional partnerships are undergoing changes that must be handled carefully. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Trust your intuition. If something appears to be wrong with a relationship or group you are involved with, take care of the problem before it’s too late. Speaking overtly will clear the air so you can make a decision to stay or to leave. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep a fresh attitude and an honest approach to whatever you do or say. Spectacular opportunities can develop if you network and interact with people who are traveling down a similar path as you. Communication will bring good fortune. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you may have something good to offer, but trying to talk others into following suit will not be easy. don’t worry about what others do or say when what’s important is how you turn what you are doing into a success. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make whatever changes or adjustments necessary to ensure that you can handle what needs to be done on your own. A relationship problem will limit your productivity. Take better care of your health and emotional well­being. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Plan a vacation or begin one. Moving about or embracing new information will prove to be beneficial. A gentle nudge will get others to pitch in and help you finish whatever needs to be done. Love is in the stars. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): A financial deal, settlement or legal matter is apparent, but it will be important that you don’t let it limit your freedom or stifle your con­nection to someone who has helped you in the past. A medical issue shouldn’t be ignored. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Enjoy personal encounters that allow you to share your thoughts and make plans for the future. use your imagination and you will open up a host of new possibilities that can lead to a healthier and better lifestyle. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Visit someone who can offer you information that will help to guide you in a better direction. Take better care of your emotional and physical self. What you do to improve your image will turn out well. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you judge and initiate whatever it is you want to see happen. By taking control you prove that you have what it takes to get things done. An offer will put you at odds regarding what to do next. don’t act in haste. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stay focused on deals and money matters, along with settlements and legal issues, and you will come out on top. don’t let a personal emotional problem stand between you and success. Make choices that will improve your life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Push a little harder and you will open up doors that have been closed to you in the past. A deal will lead to prosperity and good connec­tions with people who have something to offer. Someone from your past can help you excel. 


Birthday Baby: you are determined and full of desire. you are courageous and steadfast. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


FOOTBALL 
Seeking stability 

Notre Dame defense seeks more consistent Saturday performances 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Editor 
362 to Temple. 460 to Michigan. 29362 to Temple. 460 to Michigan. 294 to Purdue. 
The Irish defense was inconsis­tent through the first three games of the season, surrendering an av­erage of 372 yards of total offense per contest. 
But Saturday, Notre dame looked different defensively, al­lowing just 254 yards to Michigan State as the Irish took down the Spartans in a 17-13 slugfest at Notre dame Stadium. 
“Who is going to show up now is really going to be what we’re ask­ing,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said Sunday during his weekly telecon­ference. “Are we going to see the group that showed itself against Michigan State consistently or the group that we saw the last couple weeks that played hot and cold? 
We’re going to look for that consis­tency now from our defense.” 
In searching for consistency, Kelly said he is seeking production and dependability at all three lev­els of the defense. The Irish were noticeably better in terms of wrap­ping up and finishing tackles, something that hampered Notre dame in its first three games. The longest pass play by an op­posing offense in each of the first three tilts was 26, 61 and 48 yards against Temple, Michigan and Purdue, respectively. Michigan also broke a long run of 35 yards against the Irish. 
yet on Saturday, Notre dame kept the Spartan offense under wraps, allowing a long rush of 11 yards and a loss pass of 19. Kelly said there had been no special recipe to improve the defense or the tackling in the practices lead­ing up to Saturday’s victory. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Von Rueden stars 

By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
Playing on the road in front of more than 3,500 fans against the No. 1 team in the country, No. 7 Notre dame needed to score early and seize the momentum against North Carolina on Sept. 15. 
Naturally, sophomore right back Brittany Von Rueden stepped up and delivered a spot-on cross that freshman midfielder Morgan Andrews headed past the Tar heel defense for the game-winning goal in the 22nd minute. 
Four days later, the Irish (7-1, 3-0­0 ACC) were again locked in a score­less tie, this time at home against Syracuse. With less than 10 seconds left, Andrews sent a free kick into the box that Orange goalkeeper Brittany Anghel punched out. Von Rueden, once again in perfect posi­tion, headed the ball to junior center back Sammy Scofield, who scored and gave the Irish the win. 
Assists from Von Rueden are a common occurrence. As a fresh­man, she led the squad with seven, and in just eight games this year, Von Rueden has amassed four help­ers, good for second on the team. 
Ask her, though, and she gives all the credit to her teammates and coaches. 
“[Against North Carolina], we had our game plan and we ex­ecuted,” Von Rueden said. “It was 
see SOCCER PAGE 12 


“This week really was about watch words, but we didn’t rein-you get what you demand and do vent any defense. We didn’t cre­your job,” Kelly said. “I know those ate any new schemes. We just sound like some pretty standard demanded more and expected 
MEN’S INTERHALL 
Week one begins 
Alumni 3, Knott 0 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI
 Sports Writer 
Alumni defeated Knott 3-0 in a season-opening matchup Sunday at Riehle fields that came down to a last-minute field goal. 
defense was crucial from the starting whistle, as Knott senior Jake Wrigley intercept­ed the ball at the beginning of the game. 
“We intercepted the first play of the game and that real­ly got the momentum going,” Alumni senior captain Jeffrey Kraemer said. 
The Juggernauts (0-1-0) and the dawgs (1-0-0) traded pos­sessions throughout the first half, but neither team was able to put points on the board. Knott’s defense finished off the half with a sack on Alumni freshman quarterback Trevor hurley shortly before the whistle blew for halftime. 
In the fourth quarter, Alumni had the chance to score the first points of the game with a field goal, but a high snap resulted in a fum­ble, which Knott recovered. 
Alumni junior kicker Ryan Buckley converted a second field goal attempt into three points with less than a min­ute left in the fourth quarter to give the dawgs the game’s only points and the win. despite the defeat, Knott senior cap­tain James hodgens said he feels confident about the po­tential his team displayed. 
“We’re a young team, but we’re going to be good down the stretch,” hodgens said. “I’d love to win, obviously, but I saw some good things out there and I’m looking forward to the rest of the season.” 
Alumni will look to contin­ue its success when the dawgs take on duncan at 2:15 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields. Knott will attempt to bounce back from defeat against its next opponent, Siegfried, at the same time and day at Riehle. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 
Fisher 3, Carroll 3 
By MANNY de JESUS 
Sports Writer 
In game that lived up to its ri­valry hype, the hard-fought de­fensive battle between Fisher and Carroll finished in a 3-3 tie. 
Fisher’s (0-0-1) offense domi­nated the game with its rush­ing attack, which featured senior quarterback Joe Paggi and junior running back Cam Roberson, who gave Carroll (0-0-1) a tough time in the first half. 
Carroll found a way to stop the run in the second half, yielding only a field goal in two Fisher trips to the red zone. 
see CARROLL PAGE 14 

more from our players, and we got it on Saturday.” 
see KELLy PAGE 12 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 
Flag football kicks off 
Pasquerilla West 6, Cavanaugh 0 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Writer 
A fourth-quarter interception on second-and-goal by senior de­fensive back Maria harmon all but sealed Pasquerilla West’s victory Sunday as the Purple Weasels beat Cavanaugh 6-0. 
The game remained scoreless for most of the first half, with the teams trading fruitless possessions. Pasquerilla West (1-0) went three-and-out on its first two possessions before reaching the end zone on the third on a four-yard rushing touchdown by senior captain and quarterback Rachel Rogers to go up 6-0 just before halftime. 
Weasels senior captain and line­backer Breezi Toole said her team’s win represented the culmination of hard work by both rookies and veteran players. 
“We put a lot of time in,” Toole said. “We have a lot of young play­ers, young talent, so it was really about preparing them, and I think the vets stepped up to help them out.” 
The Cavanaugh offense made plays, with junior quarterback 
see CAVANAugh PAGE 13 




