The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 72 | MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Te’o controversy moves forward 
Te’o denies involvement in girlfriend hoax 

By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
Editor’s note: A version of this story appeared on ndsmcobserver.com early Saturday morning. It has been updated with facts that have emerged since then. 
a tumultuous 48 hours of ques­tions, rumors and speculation temporarily halted early saturday morning when former irish line­backer manti Te’o ended his silence and denied any involve­ment in concocting the fake life of lennay kekua in an interview with espn’s Jeremy schaap. 
“no, never,” Te’o told schaap when asked if he was involved in the hoax. “never, not ever.” 
in fact, Te’o told schaap he was not fully convinced he had been hoaxed until roniah Tuiasosopo, the man accused of perpetrating the scheme, contacted him to ad­mit his involvement in the scheme 
see Te’o PAGE 7 




Examining our own mistakes and what went wrong 


Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 

almost as soon as news of the by now infamous lennay kekua hoax broke last week, it was clear the media would have some answering to do. rather than uncovering the truth, we all unknowingly perpetuated the false narrative. 
This is my turn to answer, and my turn to apologize. we at The observer were one of the many organizations taken in by the hoax, and we published stories mentioning kekua’s death. since wednesday, i’ve taken the time to review our coverage mention­ing the kekua story, and while the results are encouraging, we did make mistakes. 
all told, we mentioned the story in six separate articles this fall, all of which are attached to this article on our website in their original form. only one, a 
see misTakes PAGE 6 



Students experience D.C. 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 
washingTon — Junior mia courts got a new id card this se­mester — not from card services on campus, but for the pentagon building in washington d.c. 
courts is one of 10 notre dame students participating in the washington program, a semester-long experience working, study­ing and living in washington d.c. 

Students participating in Notre Dame’s Washington Program live 
The alternative study abroad pro­



usccb director lectures on abuse 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
leadership and protecting chil­dren from sexual abuse will be the focus of a pair of lectures pre­sented this week by dr. kathleen mcchesney, former executive director of the office of child lecture series, “sexual abuse in the catholic church: where are we now?” will take place monday night in mckenna hall. mcchesney said the talk would include an assessment of the prob­lem and a discussion of potential solutions. 

“i’m going to discuss the na­ture and scope of the problem of sexual abuse over time in the u.s. 

and work in the shadow of the nation’s Capitol for a semester. 
gram is designed for student with and some of the actions that can 

be taken by catholic bishops [and 
other church leaders] to respond 
to allegations of abuse,” she said. 
“i’m going to talk about, from my 
perspective, having worked on this specific interest in politics or jour-splits his or her time between there,” she said. 
nalism, and it plunges them into an internship and coursework. on sunday night, courts sat 
the heart of current affairs in the courts works more than 25 hours in one of the apartments that 
capital. each week in the pentagon with house notre dame students near 
“[The washington program] the aFpak hands program, a woodley park with some of the 
definitely thrusts you right into the middle of everything,” courts said. “we’re not in the ‘notre dame bubble,’ and you can really tell because everything is in the city. it’s a good experience.” 
each student in the program counter insurgency initiative run by the Joint chiefs of staff that works to build diplomatic rela­tionships in the middle east. 
“i’m definitely getting a differ­ent perspective on what the media tells you on what is going on over other students in the program. They cooked dinner, watched football and talked about the presidential inauguration to hap­pen the next day outside the u.s. 
see washingTon PAGE 7 
protection at the united states conference of catholic bishops (usccb). 
The first presentation in the provost’s distinguished women’s issue ... why it’s important.” 

For mcchesney, the importance of the problem is three-fold. 
“There’s no doubt that the — if you want to call it — sexual abuse 
see abuse PAGE 6 


ugandan choir PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 men’s baskeTball PAGE 20 hockey PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite class this semester? 

Connor Barth 
junior 
dillon hall 
“Foresight.” 
Diana Vazquez 
freshman 
pangborn hall 

“introduction to philosophy.” 
Nathan Troscinski 
freshman morrissey manor 
“chinese.” 


Erin Richards 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“underwater basket weaving.” 
Tommy Schneeman 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“microeconomics.” 
Kristin Hillgamyer 
sophomore pangborn hall 
“irish in us.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel Flanagan Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: ann marie Jakubowski vicky Jacobsen nicole mcalee brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

MLK Jr. Day Prayer Exploring Career Social Concerns Fair Zen Meditation Pink Zone Spin-A­
suzanna pratt dan brombach 
Service Options Geddes Hall/Center Coleman-Morse Thon Main Building 114 Flanner Hall for Social Concerns Center Rockne Memorial 
11:45a.m.-12:15 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Cycling Studio 
Corrections 

Prayer service to Part of a five-week Get involved in Sitting and walking 12 pm.-12 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as honor the legacy of Dr. career workshop the  South Bend meditation. All faiths Cycle for 24 hours to a professional publication and 
Martin Luther King Jr. series. community. welcome. fight breast cancer. 
strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, 
Men’s Basketball Four:7 Catholic Alice Sebold Reading Student Film Festival Men’s Hockey 
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center Fellowship and Book Signing DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m. Cavanaugh Hall LaFortune Ballroom Arts Center Arena 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Men’s basketball plays 8:30 p.m-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 6:30 p.m., 9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Georgetown. Student-led fellowship. Meet the author. See student films. Game vs. Ferris State. 


Law professor reflects on landmark case 
Former associate justice clerk discusses Supreme Court case Roe v. Wade in light of 40th anniversary 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
The first installment of the se­mester in the professors for lunch series, “roe at 40: The supreme court, abortion and the culture war that Followed,” drew an au­dience that filled the oak room of south dining hall on Jan. 18. 
during the lunch event, law professor amy barrett dis­cussed the legacy of the land­mark supreme court case roe 
v. wade that was decided on Jan. 22, 1973. 
barrett, a 1997 graduate of notre dame law school and a former clerk for associate justice antonin scalia of the supreme court of the united states, said it was important to look at the case and its legacy in light of its com­ing 40th anniversary. 
barrett said an important question surrounding the issue of abortion is what part of the government should ultimately decide abortion policy. it makes a difference whether the issue is addressed at a state or national level, and whether it is addressed by popularly elected legislators or appointed judges, she said. 
“it brings up an issue of judicial review: does the court have the capacity to decide that women have the right to obtain an abor­tion or should it be a matter for state legislatures?” she said. “would it be better to have this battle in the state legislatures and congress rather than the supreme court?” 
barrett said one problem with the supreme court having ruled on the issue is the effect roe v. wade has had on the confirma­tion process of newly appointed supreme court justices. 
“republicans are heavily in­vested in getting judges who will overturn roe [v. wade], and democrats are heavily invested in getting judges who will pre­serve the central holding of roe 
[v. wade],” barrett said. “as a result, there have been divisive confirmation battles of a sort not seen before.” 
The 1992 case of planned parenthood v. casey modified roe but upheld its central ruling, she said. 
“planned parenthood v. casey is a case that alters roe but pre­serves the core of roe,” she said. “as of the [planned parenthood v.] casey ruling, before viability the state policy may not pose a substantial obstacle to a woman’s obtaining an abortion, but the state can regulate in the interest of the life of the fetus. [planned parenthood v.] casey also stated that after viability the state can regulate with an exception for health of the mother.” 

after 40 years, the court is un­likely to overturn roe v. wade, she said. The political opposition to the case has for the most part changed tactics from fighting to overturn it to preventing public funding of abortions. 
“i think it is very unlikely at this point that the court is going to overturn roe [v. wade], or roe 
[v. wade] as curbed by [planned parenthood v.] casey. The funda­mental element, that the woman has a right to choose abortion, will probably stand,” she said. “The controversy right now is about funding. it’s a question of whether abortions will be pub­licly or privately funded.” 
barrett said it is important to recognize the emotional and physical difficulty of carrying an unwanted pregnancy to term. 
“motherhood is a privilege, but it comes at a price,” she said. “a woman who wants to become pregnant accepts this price, but 
paid adverTisemenT 
in an unplanned pregnancy the woman faces the difficulties of pregnancy unwillingly.” 
many women who choose to abort an unwanted pregnancy are both poor and single, barrett said, and therefore do not have the means to raise a child prop­erly. she said this ought to be an area of focus for addressing the abortion issue. 
“i think supporting poor, single mothers would be the best way to reduce the number of abortions in the u.s.,” barrett said. 
barrett also outlined the histo­ry of the roe v. wade decision and associated cases in the supreme court. 
at the time of the case, most states prohibited abortion, except in cases wherein it protected the life of the mother, she said. but there was a trend of states lib­eralizing their abortion laws to permit exceptions for incest, rape and the mother’s health. 
roe v. wade came before the supreme court after a woman filed suit against a Texas statute, one of the states with stricter abortion laws, barrett said. The decision took the abortion issue to the “national stage” and that it marked a dramatic change in public policy about abortion. 

“roe [v. wade] was a dramatic shift,” she said. “The framework of roe [v. wade] essentially per­mitted abortion on demand, and roe [v. wade] recognizes no state interest in the life of a fetus.” 
The decision led to a political backlash that legal scholars have termed “roe rage.” 
barrett said some individuals on the “pro-choice” side of the abortion issue believe the court overstepped in roe v. wade and should have instead allowed more time for states will trend toward more permissive laws. she said these people point to “roe rage” and its political conse­quences as evidence. 
The 1973 case doe v. bolton up­held roe v. wade and struck down a georgia law’s restrictions on abortion, barrett said, including the requirement that a hospital committee approve abortion pro­cedures. a few states maintain re­strictions that the supreme court has yet to rule on, barrett said, in­cluding the requirement that the mother view an ultrasound that shows the fetus’ heartbeat. 
 Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Band joins with Ugandan choir 

By ADAM LLORENS 
news writer 
when 2012 graduates brian powers and nick gunty traveled to kkindu, uganda, last summer, the pair gained much more than expected from their experience. 
powers and gunty, who com­prise the band Frances luke accord, spent 18 days recording an album with the community’s barefoot Truth children’s choir to raise money for members of the group. 
“during our stay, we were touched by the many people we met living in rural poverty, who at the same time abound in hu­man potential and an unparal­leled spiritual wealth,” powers said. “Through our interac­tion with the children and with village leaders, it became appar­ent that many of these children face hardships that none of us would ever encounter in our lives.” 
powers said one of the hard­ships for the 28 children in the choir is the lack of access to free, public education. 
“They are not prevented from attending school, but they can­not sit for the necessary exams unless they pay their school fees,” powers said. “The costs as­sociated with these school fees, including a school lunch and uniform, totals only 70 dollars 
“All the money from the sale of this CD is going directly toward paying these school fees.” 
Brian Powers 
2012 graduate 
a year. but with an average an­nual income in uganda of only 511 dollars per capita, many cannot afford even this modest amount.” 
To raise funds for the chil­dren to advance grade levels, the choir and Frances luke accord collaborated to record an album entitled “kandote,” a lugandan word meaning “i dream.” 
“all money from the sale of this cd is going directly to­wards paying these school fees,” powers said. 
kevin dugan, an operations assistant for notre dame men’s lacrosse and the former man­ager of youth and community programs for notre dame athletics, developed the idea for the project. dugan is also the founder and director of Fields of growth international, an orga­nization that uses athletics as a community and human devel­opment tool in rural villages in uganda. 
“The project was also funded in large part through grants from notre dame’s institute for scholarship in the liberal arts and the center for undergraduate scholarly engagement as well as some private donations,” powers said. “Thanks to these gener­ous grants, we had the unique opportunity to spend 18 days in the wonderful country of uganda doing what we love: 
listening  to,  writing,  per­ 
forming  and  recording  mu­ 
sic  —and  bridging  a  wide  

cultural divide along the way.” 
powers said the band sent the choir a cd before the trip so the children could learn the songs. approximately 40 takes of each song were recorded before Frances luke accord selected the best one for the album. 
kandote can be pur­chased at any online music store or at the band’s website, Franceslukeaccord.com/music 
For fans to gain further access into the production of the album, the band uploaded a youTube video entitled “kandote” that details the group’s trip to kkindu and its interaction with the barefoot Truth children’s choir. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
group plans unifying projects 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 

while students ease back into a routine of classes, studying and meetings as the semester gets un­derway, the student government association (sga) is preparing for the busy weeks ahead. 
senior student body vice presi­dent meghan casey said the upcoming weeks are full of vari­ous events and programs for the campus. she named love your body week, heritage week and women honoring women week as sga’s larger events. 
“we are most looking forward to heritage week because it gives us a chance to appreciate the opportunities we have at saint mary’s and learn about the heri­tage of the college and what past students have done while they were here,” she said. 
in addition to celebrating the rich tradition of the college, heritage week will also allow students, alumnae, parents and friends of saint mary’s to con­tribute to the capital campaign. 
“The capital campaign is a project to raise money for various things at the saint mary’s,” casey said. “This year heritage week is coinciding with the [start of the] capital campaign. They are rais­ing money to renovate angela, for scholarships and to renovate the science building.” 
casey said having the capital campaign and heritage week at the same time will be beneficial for both the students and the college. 
“we are having the capital campaign launch and heritage week the same week because the launch is raising money for the future,” she said. “during heritage week, we learn about people who have invested in saint mary’s in the past and the capital campaign is a way for us to invest for the future.” 
in addition to heritage week and raising funds for the college, sga will also focus on anti-bul­lying initiatives throughout the semester to foster positive atti­tudes amongst students. senior student body president maureen parsons said this initiative re­sulted from students who were harassed through letters. 
“(sga) is going to start a Tumblr that encourages positive messages to students,” she said. “also, we want to work with the resident advisors to do some­thing in the dorms with random acts of kindness.” 
parsons said sga is currently scheduling a speaker to discuss the issues and discuss the effects of bullying on campus. 
another important issue sga hopes to address is the continu­al use of the belle Tower, a new online network which includes the all-school events calendar and online club information. 
paid adverTisemenT 
students were encouraged to sign up and become active on the network last semester, but sga is striving to gather more student participation and familiarity with the new technology. 
“we want to promote the belle Tower and make sure students are going there for information about events and organizations at saint mary’s,” casey said. “we are hoping with promotion of the belle Tower and with other ad­vertising, people will go to more events on campus.” 
although student government elections are still months away, casey said she and parsons are already planning for new leaders and figuring out how to ensure a successful transition for new stu­dent leaders. 
“our main goal would be mak­ing sure there is a smooth transi­tion for turnover [when the new leaders assume their positions],” casey said. “we want to make sure that the new members of sga feel prepared for next year.” 
The elections for student body president and vice president will occur at the end of February. The residence hall association, student activities board, student diversity board and the class boards will elect new leaders the first week of march. Turnover is scheduled for april 1. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 





alumna founds 
clothing company 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
with multiple duties of being an entrepreneur, a wife, a mom, a daughter and a sister, courtney schultz, a 2010 graduate of saint mary’s college, is expanding her de­sign company to include collegiate wear for women across the nation. 
schultz, who began courtney bock designs (cbd) after gradua­tion and lives in south bend, discov­ered her passion for designing while she was still in school. 
“cbd originally started in 2009 when my niece was born. i was a senior at saint mary’s and living in lemans hall,” schultz said. “i had never sewed a day in my life until i was 20 years old. i started it and it was just this hidden passion and gift that i didn’t even know i had. i uncovered it and was obsessed.” 
with her sister in labor, schultz frantically tried to finish the gift she was making for her niece. 
“i was up in my room with my grandma’s sewing machine until two in the morning while my sister was in labor, and i kept telling myself that i had to make this for the baby before she came,” schultz said. “so cbd really started with baby gifts for my niece, and then it just kept tum­bling into more things.” 
schultz’s mom, also a graduate of the college, owned her own bou­tique shop called orange Tree where schultz began selling some of her creations. 
“while i was in school, i was my mom’s manager at orange Tree. i was still doing cbd on the side dur­ing that time,” schultz said. “when i got married after graduation, i moved out to arizona with my hus­band. i didn’t have a job because it was a very short-term move, so that is when i pursued cbd 100 percent.” 
schultz moved back to south bend after about five months, and she said the company has grown quickly since then. 
while schultz’s baby gifts sparked her interest in creating her own de­signs and apparel, she first learned how to sew by making an apron. 
“i always thought that cute, frilly aprons were really adorable. even to this day, cleaning and cooking and doing chores are just not some of my favorite things to do, but i always kind of felt that some of those mundane things should be made pretty,” schultz said. “i think that’s the driving force of my philosophy for what i make now. 

The entrepreneur said the aprons marked her first large, popular col­lection. although she now focuses more on children’s apparel again, she continues to form her collections around these niche populations. 
schultz, whose younger sister currently attends saint mary’s, is now launching a collegiate line that focuses on everyday apparel and monograms. she polled college girls to discover what they were looking for in clothes. 
monogrammed items have be­come a huge trend across the nation, which schultz said intrigued her when she was researching.
 “This trend of monogramming has been so huge in the south forever and it is making an appearance now in the north,” she said. “iwanted to be one of the first in the area to really grasp onto that and put my own spin on it.” 
while she can make any type of school pride item, saint mary’s prod­ucts have always been a huge piece of schultz’s lines. 
“i love doing the saint mary’s college products. it holds such a place in my heart because i went here and it’s in my hometown. i love this place,” schultz said. “i would love to kind of have a partnership with saint mary’s as far as apparel with them and having events here.” 
schultz said she is also looking to branch out to sororities and other organizations with a three-letter monogram. 
schultz said her saint mary’s edu­cation provided her with the confi­dence to begin her own company at such a young age, she said. 
“The fact that i come from a family where my mom, a saint mary’s grad, was also an entrepreneur, and there is just this empowerment where if you want to do it, then go do it,” schultz said. “i do feel very well equipped to ask all of the right questions, be a business owner, be running my own successful brand and i don’t know if i would have had that confidence had i not gone to a women’s college where they really instill that kind of confi­dence into their students.” 
using the code smcnd15, cus­tomers can take 15 percent off of any item off www.courtneybockdesigns. com now through Friday, Jan. 25. 
For more information about courtney bock designs, visit ht t p ://w w w.facebook .com/ courtneybockdesigns/ 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Abuse 
conTinued From page 1 
crisis has affected first of all the victims. even though each is af­fected in a different way, the rela­tionship between the victims and their families and the church is altered,” she said. 
“Talking about catholics in gen­eral, there is huge disappointment, there is disbelief, there is anger, there is a loss of trust and faith. There’s a range of reactions,” she said. “Then there’s society in gen­eral ... For those who didn’t like the church anyway, for some people this is reinforcement.” 
while the church is responsible for addressing these issues, it is im­portant to realize sexual abuse is the result of the actions of individu­als, she said. 
mcchesney looked to bring the discussion to the university be­cause she said catholic institutions have a role to play in tackling the problem. 
“i think notre dame, like many other catholic institutions, we look to for leadership and guidance in areas regarding ethics and moral­ity,” she said. “They need to shine a light on problems like this, they need to provide ethical and moral leadership to other components of the catholic church, they need to conduct research into the issues surrounding sexual abuse of chil­dren and vulnerable adults.” 
prior to her time at the usccb, mcchesney was the third rank­ing official at the Fbi. she said leaving was a difficult choice, but worthwhile. 
“That was a somewhat hard de­cision to leave the Fbi, because it was not that long after 9/11 and there were a lot of changes going on at the Fbi and i had a responsibility to help make them,” she said. “but i also saw that the problem of sexual abuse in the catholic church was a lot bigger than people thought. ... There’s a mission involved, what you’re doing is hopefully making things better for children.” 
The second lecture, “The privilege to serve: leadership the Fbi way,” will take place Tuesday at 
4:30 p.m. at the law school. 
while mcchesney will be speak­ing in the context of a former Fbi official, she said her advice and les­sons would be broadly applicable. 
“in many ways — not in every way — in most ways, leadership in the Fbi isn’t any different than leadership in other organizations when your workforce is made up of men and women,” she said. “men and women are motivated and in­spired by many of the same things, they bring the same personal com­plexities to the workplace.” 
mcchesney hopes the talk will give students an opportunity to assess their ability to take a leader­ship position in the future. 
“leaders need to be involved with people, they need to like people, they need to be the kind of people that seek a challenge and really value problem solving,” she said. “it is a privilege to serve others in a leadership role. it doesn’t mat­ter if it’s in the Fbi, at notre dame or John deere.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Mistakes 
conTinued From page 1 
senior day feature published in the nov. 16 irish insider focusing on manti Te’o’s rela­tionship with the student body, identified kekua’s name, or identified her as a student at stanford. Three gave a pass­ing mention to Te’o losing his grandmother and girlfriend in the same week, while one de­scribed her death as Te’o’s moti­vation to reach out to the family of a young and terminally ill irish fan. 
we should have checked if kekua in fact attended stanford. however, the story had been so widely reported in the months prior to that article that we mis­takenly took her attendance at stanford to be common knowl­edge. we should have cited reports of kekua’s death, rather than again citing it as common knowledge. as we all know now, we got those facts wrong. For that, i take responsibility and sincerely apologize. we always strive to live up to the mission statement listed on the front page of every paper and bring the truth to our readers. 

but after reading through every word of our coverage mentioning kekua, i feel safe standing by all of it. we never made that story a focal point of our coverage. we covered the community’s response to the Te’o’s pain in the form of the leis against michigan. we covered how Te’o responded to his diffi­cult days by playing some of his best football. and we covered how the football program and larger community supported Te’o in those days — and how that strengthened the bond between the linebacker and his classmates. none of those things changed when the hoax was revealed, which is why i’m still proud of the exceptional coverage we produced. as a student newspaper, we always felt the story should be about Te’o and the support he received from fellow students, and thus kekua was only a minor detail. That mindset helped us cover the story that mattered to our readers, and helped us maintain accuracy too. 
however, the lessons we learned from re-examining the Te’o story can help us as we move forward in covering the many incredible stories of the notre dame and saint mary’s communities. every article we publish goes through at least two rounds of copy editing, and our copy editors fact check on an ad hoc basis. we will be more vigilant in checking verifiable facts, and will be more comfort­able sacrificing compelling but unverifiable details in order to maintain our accuracy. we won’t stop covering the great stories that take place every day, from the triumphant to the heartbreaking. but we won’t stop striving for the truth, either. 
as always, if you see some­thing in The observer that you think might be inaccurate, please contact me. and if you have more questions about our our coverage of this story, please let me know. 
i firmly believe our coverage since the hoax was revealed has been impeccable, and i’m still incredibly proud of the work we did to cover Te’o’s season, among many other big stories, last semester. but we have learned our lessons from our mistakes — and hopefully, we’ll never have to answer for similar mistakes again. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Washington 
conTinued From page 1 
capitol building just a few metro stops from their home. 
“[The inauguration] is some­thing that only happens every four years. … i just think it’s an in­credible opportunity when you’re studying this. it’s history in the making,” courts said. 
sophomore matt mleczko will be among the crowd on the national mall today. 
“it’ll be really neat because i remember where i was four years ago, the last inauguration,” he said. “The 2008 campaign was when i started getting into politics and to think how far i’ve come in four years — i was in algebra ii class the last inauguration, and now i’m here.” 
mleczko said he hopes to see president barack obama deliver an inaugural address that ac­knowledges the need to overcome bipartisanship. 
“political speeches like this [are] breeding grounds for overly ideal­istic language, and we all celebrate speeches like that, and the next day we go back to bashing each other in congress … i hope we can go forward after this and start see­ing some action and start seeing some change after this,” he said. 
despite the political divide that characterizes washington d.c., mleczko said inauguration day is a chance to set those differences aside. 
“people are really frustrated and are tired of what’s going on in politics, but it’s neat that people can kind of come together and be excited for this event,” he said. “my friend i’m going with is probably the most opposite political ideol­ogy you can have from me, but we’re still going together.” 
Junior brian vogt received a ticket to the inauguration through his internship in the office of sen. rob portman of ohio. The experi­ence of living and working in the capital, vogt said, is an eye-open­ing look at how politics works. 
“you can learn a lot about how the government works from a textbook, but until you actually see what happens, there’s a big dif­ferent between those two things,” vogt said. 
as a new congress begins its work after an election, vogt said he found the influence of voters’ opinions and fundraising to be striking on the hill. 
“i think everyone for the most part on capitol hill has good in­tentions and wants to do good things,” he said. “but the issue is they have to get reelected every six years, every four years, and when you have that pressure … getting reelected, keeping that job, that really influences their everyday life to an unbelievable extent.” 
The washington program at­tracted vogt, a finance major, despite his lack of interest in a po­litical career. 
“i really thought [the washington program] would be a good opportunity to see what you’re going to be up against if you run your own company or if you’re in the business world,” vogt said. 
mleczko, however, said his se­mester in the district is “a test run” for the kind of career he might pur­sue in advocacy or policy work. he is currently interning with a small 
paid adverTisemenT 
advocacy group that deals with low-income programs, and his in­ternship work will closely monitor the debates on budget and spend­ing cuts. 
“speaking from someone that’s really interested and passionate about politics, you’re right in the middle of everything going on,” mleczko said. “what you’re read­ing in the papers is happening just blocks away from you, and that’s something really cool.” 
The day before the presiden­tial inauguration, junior wendy hatch was indeed standing just blocks away from the site of to­day’s events. she sat at a table in front near the national mall, passing out buttons and flyers for c-span to promote the net­work’s inauguration day election coverage. 
as an intern in the international division of c-span, hatch said she is hoping to build experience for a future career in global politics and government work. 
“it’s a great way to learn a differ­ent side of politics,” she said. “you learn things [at c-span] … that you wouldn’t necessarily learn in the classroom or interning on the hill.” 
on her way to work, hatch walks past the capitol. Today, she and her friends in the washington program will stand in front of that same building to see obama pub­licly swear his oath of office. 
“it’s cool to live through it and not have to watch it on the news,” courts said, “To actually be right in the middle of it.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Te’o 
conTinued From page 1 
wednesday, the same day a re­port from deadspin.com broke the story. 
schaap said Te’o showed him Twitter messages from Tuiasosopo from two days ago in which he apologized. 
while he maintained his full in­nocence in the interview, Te’o did admit he made mistakes along the way, including lying to his parents about meeting kekua. 
when the story of kekua’s death unfolded in the midst of an un­defeated notre dame season and heisman Trophy campaign for Te’o, the linebacker said he “kind of tailored my stories to have people think that, yeah, he met her before she passed away.” 
“That goes back to what i did with my dad,”Te’o said. “i knew that — i even knew that it was crazy that i was with somebody i didn’t meet.” 
‘when [Te’o] described her as the love of his life, he meant it 100 
“I even knew that 
it was crazy 
that I was with 
somebody I didn’t 
meet.” 
Manti Te’o 
former Irish linebacker 
percent, although they had never met,” schaap said. “he did mis­lead people by saying he met her. he did so because he knew how crazy it would sound that he felt this deeply about someone he had never met.” 
Te’o told schaap the relation­ship allegedly started on Facebook during Te’o’s sophomore year at notre dame, but that it was not until around the oct. 1, 2011 purdue game that it grew. he said the relationship started to become more intense in late april 2012, when Te’o was told kekua was in a car accident. 
Te’o told schaap that he be­gan to sleep with the phone on the line with who he believed to be kekua once she was in the hos­pital recovering from the fake car accident and leukemia. 
espn also reported Te’o suppos­edly had attempted to video-chat with kekua multiple times before she purportedly passed, but each time had been unable to see her face in the chat. 
additionally, Te’o told schaa p about a four-way text message conversation before kekua’s death involving scripture messages be­tween himself, his parents and the person he believed to have been kekua. schaap report­ed Te’o even showed him the mes­sages during their interview. 
Te’o said he never doubt­ed kekua’s existence or death un­til early december, nearly three months after he believed she had died. 
corroborating the statements made by notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick on wednesday, Te’o said he received communication from the woman whom he believed to be kekua on dec. 6, but was not initially con­vinced it was a hoax. 

“after he gets this phone call on dec. 6  he’s utterly con­fused,” schaap said. “he doesn’t know whether to believe this per­son or not. she tells some story about how she’s been hiding from drug dealers.” 
Te’o told schaap he asked the person purporting to be kekua to provide a photo with a date stamp, but even after receiving that, con­tinued to be suspicious of the con­versation. in addition, Te’o said people associated withTuiasosopo showed up at notre dame’s team hotel during preparations for the Jan. 7bcs national championship game. notre dame did not arrive in south Florida until Jan. 2. 
schaap said Te’o “wanted to get his story out there because he did know what people say to some ex­tent” after a 48-hour period dur­ing which he was criticized for his silence. 
“he disputed the theory out there that he was completely naive about romantic relation­ships,” schaap said. “he said he got sucked into this because he thought he was talking to some­one who he shared a lot with. background, samoan back­ground, she understood the cul­ture, she understood the language, spoke it better than he did. it was an intense relationship over a cou­ple months.” 
espn publicist mike humessaid on his Twitter account that espn “had no parameters on questions. while no Tv cameras were per­mitted and use of audio was lim­ited, we can use anything from the interview across our outlets.” 
schaap said he thought the no-camera setting made Te’o more comfortable, and the arrangement was at the linebacker’s request. 
on Friday, espn’s shelley smith published a report in which an unidentified woman close to ronaiah Tuiasosopo, the al­leged mastermind of the opera­tion, claimed Tuiasosopo told her that Te’o is a victim of the hoax. 
in the report, smith talk­ed to two california residents who claim Tuiasosopo duped their cousin in 2008. The two claim Tuiasosopo supposedly used the same name and photos in that hoax. 
late Friday, usa Today re­ported that three elements of kekua’s story parallel that of the Tuiasosopo family: a case of leukemia, a car accident and a quote from Tuiasosopo’s father’s Facebook page that Te’o told the team kekua said prior to the faked death. 
The two-and-a-half­hour off-camera interview with schaap took place in bradenton, Fla., where Te’o is cur­rently training in anticipation for the nFl draft. 
This week, katie couric will con­duct the first on-camera interview of Te’o, who will be accompanied by his parents. segments will be shown during couric’s syndicated television show Thursday. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

The drive-by friend 

Rebecca O’Neil 
news writer 

as a moderately-awkward human being, i revel in the rare moments when i befriend someone new. if the conversations are more than just socially mandated, the connection becomes real and the person, spe­cial — to put it in the cheesiest terms possible. 
in high school, i found sustenance in meeting new people. i lived off of it. strangers offered a view into a life i had never been exposed to before, and that was exciting. They knew noth­ing about me, therefore every new person marked a fresh page, free to create whatever imprint i desired. i wasn’t keeping track of the number, or even the names, usually, only of the last time i had talked with some­one i didn’t know. my short attention span engaged whole-heartedly in the “friendships” for a day — maybe a week — at a time before i never spoke with them again. 
i had cooled down by the time i graduated. while my world at home still had so much left to explore, i was trying to solidify the friendships i al­ready had. Faced with endless oppor­tunities to meet new people and armed with a phone in college, i thought friendships would be easy to come by and a cinch to keep. by the end of my first semester, i was unable to identify at least a third of the new contacts in my phone as friends for longer than a night, if i could identify them at all. 
This didn’t bother me until certain people i had the privilege of meeting started to make indelible impres­sions. i still wonder about my (seem­ingly brilliant) engineering partners’ lives long after that group disbanded. i still reminisce on the conversation i had with an miT student/profes­sional gamer on my flight to o’hare in august. my mind is currently fixating on a musician from chicago i met just yesterday. These are the people who in spite of the fluid world in which i live, i never wanted to become an un­texted or un-called contact. although we exchange numbers or Facebooks or whatever the trendiest form of techno­logical communication is at the time, our interactions are never the same. 
That’s what i hate: the drive-by friendships. it’s one thing if it’s a ca­sual wave or head nod from a transient acquaintance as they mosey on down the road that is life. but the beautiful but crazy friend who waves erratically, body half-out of the moving vehicle’s window, screaming my name — that gets me. The ones i grin dumbly at as i let them drive by. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neill at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A call for leadership 
John Sandberg 
Fisherman’s musings 
in washington, d.c., some things are clearer than others. 
in the midst of red-tape tangles, soft money streams and ubiquitous questions of constitutional author­ity, other events and actions in the nation’s capital remain strikingly distinct. 
The inaugural address is one of them. 
Today the entire nation will have an unobstructed view of its figurehead. as president barack obama stands alone, high above the throngs of seated witnesses waiting to hear his message, there will be no doubt as to who bears the most responsibility for the successes and failures of america. unreasonable as it may be to assign the successes and failures of a nation to one individual, such is the reality of the presidency. 
it’s no secret national leaders have failed to create comprehensive plans on much of anything in the last four years. but as steven pearlstein accu­rately wrote in the washington post on wednesday, the problem is not the debt ceiling, economic growth nor entitlements. 
america is suffering from a crisis in leadership. 
“what [the obama administration] misunderstand[s],” pearlstein writes, “is what real leaders do when con­fronted with stubborn and unyield­ing opponents. you don’t say ‘i won’t negotiate with myself,’ as obama is fond of saying when criticized for his refusal to put forward his own version of a grand bargain. you find other, more reasonable people to ne­gotiate with who might be enticed to throw off the bonds of party loyalty and embrace a genuine bipartisan compromise.” 

Though it’s true obama has faced an uncooperative congress, any second-rate politician can dig his heels in further or simply blame the opposition. obama has been as guilty of this as anyone, and stubbornness and excuses will do nothing to benefit the country. 
The man americans elected in 2008 with the hope of bringing a new at­titude and fresh ideas to government has too often appeared unwilling to compromise, leaving much to be desired from the president in his first term. 
what we need on this inauguration day is a better leader. This, too, we see with unquestionable clarity. 
perhaps obama can start by tak­ing a lesson from recent history. both ronald reagan and bill clinton found themselves entrenched in partisan dogfights during their presidencies. instead of shrinking away from their respective budget battles, however, these men thrived on them. They relished the back and forth with their respective opposition. They took the time to pay late-night visits to the capitol, write a short letter or make an extra phone call here and there to ensure a deal got done. and the country was better off because of it. 
even if he doesn’t thrive on par­tisan battles in reaganesque or clintonese fashion, obama still needs to find a way to practice the dying art of deal making. if congressional lead­ers can’t do it, he must try. 
no more speeches. no more barn­storming the country to muster sup­port from the electorate. 
i didn’t vote for the president and i know my views on the role and scope of the federal government are fun­damentally different than his. yet i maintain a dogged faith in the insti­tution of the presidency. i believe it is an office in which the holder can do great things if he has, in equal parts, political fortitude and a willingness to hear the other side. 
i’m hopeful productive compromis­es can be achieved during obama’s second term and i do not deny that congress has a job to do as well. but before anything else the president needs to realize he is not another cog in the machine that is washington gridlock. he is the president, and he must act upon the opportunity his second term represents for him to show real leadership and not political posturing. 
after all, the difference between the two could not be any clearer. 
John Sandberg is a junior political science major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The reason why worry kills more people than work is that more people worry than work.” 
Robert Frost 
U.S. poet 




When Democrats and Republicans fight, we lose 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet. 

sadly, people of our age have not had the opportunity of seeing martin luther king Jr.’s impassioned speeches on equality, segregation and discrimination in person. we have not had the pleasure of see­ing the civil rights movement come to fruition through this hero’s civil disobedience. even more disappoint­ingly, for our entire lives we have not had any president that has truly acted on the ideology held by revolu­tionaries like mlk Jr. and mahatma gandhi — that is, the ideology of promoting freedom and upholding liberty. after the founding of this nation, society decided to ignore george washington’s advice against political parties and has generally galvanized itself into two halves. For some reason, society in america continually polarizes itself into left versus right battles on the most im­portant issues our country faces. mark Twain once wrote, “it is easier to fool people than to convince them that they have been fooled,” and the truth is, this nation has been de­ceived for decades. 
as americans, we can all agree we have the same goals: to create a na­tion promoting freedom and equality under the law, to foster a society that continually increases the standard of living for its inhabitants and, most importantly, to protect each person’s right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The main difference be­tween the two major political parties is the means of accomplishing that end. The issue with this dichotomy, though, is that american culture has changed from “pro-liberty” to “pro-democrat” or “pro-republican.” individuals find themselves voting along party lines rather than for spe­cific candidates and their respective platforms, then somehow attempt to convince themselves a majority vote will make future legislative action legitimate. aristotle wrote that pure democracy would allow mob-rule to unfold, which is why the Founding Fathers built this nation as a demo­cratic republic, not a republican-democracy. a republic appealed to the Founders because in their minds it would best uphold liberty, but as society forgot its roots, we have once again found ourselves imposing our political ideology on others, de­fending this action with the fallacy coined by alexis de Tocqueville as the [false] “majority’s wisdom.” 
coming back to my first point, this division between republicans and democrats poses a moral hazard to the american people as a whole. we are taught getting the approval of 50.1 percent of the people or ac­cepting the rhetoric of five supreme court Justices makes something warranted or justifiable, even if it blatantly infringes on the rights of the minority. we divide ourselves, close off our minds and refuse to listen to reason purely out of politi­cal stubbornness and indoctrina­tion. martin luther king Jr. stood up against racial injustices back in the 1960s, and now it is time the nation swallows its pride, abandons party allegiances and holds political “lead­ers” responsible for their failures under all circumstances. while i understand there are some excep­tions to the bifaceted nature of our political system, many people who silently disapprove of their own par­ty’s actions will jump the gun to vil­ify the poor behavior of opposition. where were the “fiscally conser­vative” republicans who so vehe­mently opposed president barack obama’s auto industry bailouts when president george bush passed the wall street Troubled asset relief program? where were the “anti-war” liberals when obama sent troops to mali, suggested extending deploy­ment in afghanistan and approved the use of drone strikes, which killed more than 3,000 innocent children in pakistan and yemen? 

while there is obviously much hy­pocrisy each party will have to come to terms with, i also believe there are many other policies both parties have got wrong. i will be discussing many of these topics in future arti­cles but will introduce a few of them now in celebration of martin luther king Jr. day, hoping the champion of civil disobedience will spark some debate about relevant issues hindering society. do guns make us less safe? is it the federal govern­ment’s position to be involved with healthcare? should we legalize mari­juana? what about same-sex mar­riage? what’s going to happen with our debt? Finally, what is with the american global policeman/hyper­interventionist complex? 
as i previously mentioned, i will be addressing all of these issues in future articles, hoping to help rid the state of apathy that seems to be tak­ing control of our country. while i do not claim to have all the answers, i am sick of the “pepsi vs. cola” false-choice society we live in and am tired of being told i have to support the lesser of two evils (which is still an evil, right?). if martin luther king Jr. were still alive today, i can prom­ise you he would not have endorsed either of the two party’s presidential nominations; he would have sup­ported the one candidate who would have voted on principle for freedom and fairness in society (we’re not talking santorum or newt here), but i’ll leave it to the readers to deter­mine whom i am alluding to. 
Connor Roth is a sophomore economics major and constitutional studies minor. He canbe reached at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The impact of a fallen legend 
my fascination with the sport of cycling began in the summer of 2003. one morning, and i can’t really recall how i came across the outdoor life network, i ended up watching a stage of the Tour de France. yes, i had heard of lance armstrong, who hadn’t? but never before had i seen him in action. an american who couldn’t lose, yellow jersey flying through unbroken fields of sunflowers, past ancient castles and over mountain passes. i was hooked. so in what became a ritual that filled many Julys to come, at 8 a.m. i would turn on our television, sit down and be amazed. lance never let me down, and after he finished racing for the day, i would dust off my mom’s 20-year-old road bike and sprint out into the country­side, reliving my hero’s exploits from the stage that morning. 
it wasn’t long before i entered my first race. wearing a lacrosse shirt, baggy shorts and a bright yellow helmet (lance’s color), i took to the line. my dad held me up, i hadn’t yet figured out how to work the straps which held my feet to the pedals. a year, and countless mowed lawns, later, i went in 50-50 with my parents on a brand new blue racing bike. livestrong band on wrist, i advanced through the ranks and today, i’m preparing for my final season on notre dame’s cycling team. one change this year though: now my wrist is bare. 
There were always rumors lance doped, and time and time again i dis­credited them, just as my hero did. “he never failed a test,” i’d say, confi­dent science had my back. my confidence began to waver a few years ago, though, when a former teammate of armstrong’s, Floyd landis, gave a firsthand account of lance’s doping regimen. but no, Floyd was a known liar. The guy raised millions of dollars and wrote a book to proclaim his own doping innocence before eventually confessing guilt. he must be at it again, right? as more and more witnesses came forward, government in­vestigations were launched and the storm brewing over my now tarnished idol culminated with a 1,000 page, fact-stuffed report, i finally threw in the towel. 
it is difficult to put into words the myriad of thoughts that passed through my head after armstrong’s public fall, but one in particular did seem to keep circling back. what does it mean that a huge portion of who i am, how i live, and what i choose to make great sacrifice preparing for seems to be founded on a lie? had there been no lance armstrong, i would not be a cyclist. what does that mean for me? 
as we all enter a new age, where through the ease of electronic com­munication our lives, and those of our idols, are placed under an ever magnifying scope, perhaps a new perspective on those we call “heroes” is warranted. in a recent nFl “play 60” commercial, a little boy inno­cently bids farewell to carolina panther’s quarterback cam newton as their exercise ends for the day. “hey cam, thanks a lot for coming to my school today ... i promise to exercise and eat right.” “don’t forget your 60 minutes of play a day, right?” cam playfully jests, before their dialogue takes a rather unexpected and comical turn. “and i’ll grow up to be big and strong like you?” the boy asks, “and play in the nFl? and be drafted no. 1? and become the starting quarterback of the panthers? you can be my backup? and make panthers’ fans forget about you? and become your mom’s favorite player?” 
laying in bed after armstrong’s doping confession to oprah winfrey last night, i was surprised when this little cam newton impersonator coupled his way into my train of thought. To the boy, cam newton was a spark of inspiration. clearly not a model the boy plans to emulate, on the contrary, he aims to take his place. but nonetheless, an important begin­ning to what may become a life long journey. and here is the lesson, and common ground, i’ve found within my own “relationship” with lance armstrong. a hero is certainly capable of influence on one’s life, but it’s important to acknowledge that influence for what it is, truly only a spark. lance will always be found at the beginning of my story, and that’s okay, because the narrative that i, and that little panthers fan, choose to fill in the remaining pages with will be an adventure all our own. 
Steven Fisher 
senior 
morrissey manor 
Jan. 18 


By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 

phillip phillips, the name so nice you have to say it twice (kind of), graced notre dame’s own legends nightclub saturday night to show a majority of the students that there’s more to his reper­toire of songs than “home.” 
This season 11 “american idol” winner wowed the audience with his unique mix brand of folk and jazz, rock and rap, prov­ing that he may just be the best thing to come out of “american idol” since Taylor hicks (just kidding). 
but in all seriousness, phillips may not be widely recognized outside of his triple platinum hit-single, but his saturday concert demonstrated to everyone in at­tendance what a true talent he is. 
drawing songs from his debut album and christmas present to mothers ev­erywhere, “The world from the side of the moon,” the audience was able to see that this “idol” star certainly has a style that strays from the pop scene. his songs may remind you in ways of artists like mumford and sons and John mayer, but phillips never seems like a rip-off of these performers who fall within this broad genre of music. 
with every original song from “man on the moon” to “gone, gone, gone” (sure to be his next radio hit), audiences would cheer for his talents both vocally and on the guitar. soon, the students close enough in the crowd to pay atten­tion would stop chanting for “home” and instead just appreciate every song that followed. 
The real treat before his finale was his occasional break out into guitar-infused rap hits. girls and guys alike screamed with glee as phillips transitioned into ten seconds of “gangster’s paradise” or played a mash-up of “lose yourself” and “all i do is win.” phillips is proof that in order to achieve success following an “american idol” win, you don’t need the biggest voice, but instead a refreshing and entertaining style. 

phillips’ group featured a few talented musicians including a guitarist making creepy faces and one awesome cellist. when the time finally came for him to perform “home,” the audience erupted into massive applause as a sea of record­ing cell phones emerged from the crowd. 
it’s easy to see why this feel-good song was extensively featured in the olympics, motion pictures and beyond: it’s enjoy­able, unique and has a universal message (despite a lack of lyrical variety). This may have not been a high-energy concert (or one that had the confetti storm like Friday’s show), but it was by all means an enjoyable experience from start to finish. 
unless this isn’t your preferred style of music, the only issue i could mention was that phillips never really made an ef­fort to address and connect with the au­dience between songs. maybe it’s just not phillips’ strong point, but it’s one aspect that could have possibly improved the experience further. 
in the end though, it’s all about the music, and he and his band certainly succeeded. i’ve listened to a few songs from his album, but they were far more enjoyable performed live. 
phillips is an artist who doesn’t blend in with the other performers of the pop scene but still has a style of music that can be appreciated just as widely. i’m confident from his performance that phillips will continue to make an impact on the music scene and will certainly exceed beyond the status of a one-hit wonder. 
phillip phillips is an outstanding mu­sician, and for those of you who didn’t have the opportunity to see him perform live on saturday, listen to his new album. you will be pleasantly surprised. 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By LIZZY SCHROFF 
scene writer 

on Friday, walk off the earth came to legends of notre dame to play a high-energy concert for a packed house. The show began with a short opening act by local guitarist and singer steve asiala. he came out armed solely with his acoustic guitar to play a five-song set. 
he played several crowd favorites including george michael’s “Faith,” nelly’s “ride wit me” and hanson’s “mmmbop.” he also showcased a couple of his original songs to which the crowd responded with enthusiasm. he actively engaged the crowd with witty and funny banter between songs, garnering plenty of laughs. 
after some more set up time (there was an incredible amount of instruments on stage), walk off the earth came on stage donning black hoodies. The intro to their opening song, “revolutions in my head,” began with a heart-pumping drum solo by Joel cassady, flashing lights and building guitar riff. all of the band mem­bers belted out the lyrics and continu­ously jumped up and down, making for an exciting show opening. 
“don’t be shy, we want to see you move around,” band member sarah blackwood exclaimed, leading right into “magic” and “corner of Queen.” during the songs, the band handed off instru­ments among each other, switching off electric guitars, bass guitars, ukuleles and a number of quirky percussion in­struments. They kept making use of the confetti by entertainingly kicking con-fetti-laden cymbals on the edge of the stage. 
next up was a string of songs from their new record, “r.e.v.o.”  “red hands” amped up the crowd and everyone was singing and clapping during the catchy chorus line. “love sponge” was intro­duced by a “tiny guitar battle” between blackwood and gianni luminati — mandolin vs. ukulele. The song had a reggae feel in which the ukulele and bongos were prominently featured. one of my favorites of the night, “speeches,” followed right after, highlighted by a pas­sionately sung chorus, trumpets and fast tempo. 
blackwood premised the next song, “Julie,” by saying, “we’re going to play a dancing number now. we like the sing­ers here, but we also like the dancers.” singer and guitarist ryan marshall made an impressive guitar switch halfway through, swapping his electric guitar for an acoustic. 

“100 proof life”, characterized by a beachy rock feel and upbeat rumba in­strumental section, followed. one of the most unique instrumental parts of the show came during “These Times.” luminati had a self-proclaimed “rock out moment” by playing on marshall’s electric guitar strings with drumsticks and the two followed with a duo by play­ing on the same guitar. 
another crowd favorite, “gang of rhythm,” came next with guitars be­ing flung across the stage, and the lyri­cally questionable “dirty picture.” other highlights of the night were a rocking and harmonious cover of The beatles’ “eleanor rigby” and a cover of fun.’s “some nights,” which had everyone in the audience belting the lyrics (in­cluding two of the band members who raised their Foster’s beers on high for the occasion). 
“backing up” (about “an old lady and her love of coffee,” declared luminati) was a definite crowd pleaser with an in­terpretive dance portion complete with butt slapping and members of the band jumping up and down interchangeably in a “black hoodie” and a “white hoodie.” 
The band concluded their regular set by leading into “summer vibe” with a soulful keyboard solo by mike Taylor and highlighting the number with a sea of balloons and audience cue cards with the lyrics “eh-oh, bob bop away-o.” 
walk off the earth didn’t disappoint the audience’s cries for an encore, play­ing four songs in response. They began with “little boxes” (complete with cigar box guitar) before performing their leg­endary five-people, one-guitar version of gotye’s “somebody That i used to know.” everyone cheered enthusiasti­cally during “beard man’s” solo on the headstock strings, but he kept his famous serious facial expression through it all. 
The band then engaged the crowd for a rendition of “happy birthday,” as it was drummer cassady’s 24th, and luminati emphatically poured a can of beer on cassady’s head on the song’s last note. They concluded the night with “man down” and “broke,” ending with a blast of confetti, flashing lights and sirens. 
all in all, the show was electric and thrilling. The band’s diversity — from luminati’s rapping lyrics to the mem­bers’ incredible multi-instrumentalist abilities to the use of lights, confetti can­nons and quirky moves — made the per­formance a definite success. 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

now that 2012 has come to a close, we can look back fondly on the top tracks of last year. we had the rise of “call me maybe,” when carly rae Jepsen’s voice boomed through campus unceasingly for weeks. 
Then came “somebody That i used To know,” and with it countless parodies, covers and guys dressed up as gotye for halloween. of course, we can’t for­get psy’s breakout hit “gangnam style.” (seriously, we can’t forget it. it is the ulti­mate earworm.) 
mumford and sons brought us “babel,” Taylor swift surprised us with dubstep and we danced our way into the new year to ke$ha. Finally, it’s 2013 and time for another year of new music. here’s a look at new tunes to come. 
Big Boi: most only know big boi as one half of the hip-hop duo outkast, but the atlanta rapper can certainly hold his own. his solo album in 2010 was impres­sive, but does not compare to his newest, “vicious lies and dangerous rumors.” 
however, while “vicious lies” is his sophomore solo effort, he is far from alone on each of the tracks. 
The lp features a variety of artists, from fellow southern rappers T.i. and ludacris to indie groups like phantogram and wavves. as a result, “vicious lies” is a collective of quality, sometimes genre-bending songs brought together by a truly talented rapper. if only we could get andre 3000 back in the mix. 
Justin Timberlake: Finally, finally, Justin Timberlake the musician is back. it’s not that acting-Justin wasn’t im­pressive — he was great in “The social network.” comedian-Justin was ex­cellent, too, and his appearances on “saturday night live” were always en­tertaining. but in case you haven’t no­ticed, Justin Timberlake has not released an album since 2006, seven long years ago. 
if you, however, did notice and wanted Timberlake to bring sexy back again, the wait is over. he will release his new al­bum, “The 20/20 experience,” later this year. Though Timberlake teased his fans for days with talk of new music, he final­ly did release his new single, “suit and Tie,” featuring Jay-Z. look out for the rest of “The 20/20 experience” later in 2013. 

Azealia Banks: Though azealia banks hit the music scene hard with her scan­dalous and intensely catchy music last year, the female rapper is scheduled to release her full-length debut album in 2013. 
The proud new york native and up­and-coming “it girl” is sure to make waves with the lp, called “broke with expensive Taste.” even if you haven’t heard of banks, you may have heard her breakout song, “212” in the movie “pitch perfect,” though banks’s sound is far from a capella. 
she is a quick and confident rap­per who could easily rise to the top of the charts. you can buy “broke with expensive Taste” this February. 
Unknown Mortal Orchestra: Fans of bon iver should check out this rock group, whose second album, “ii,” will be released this year. The band belongs to the same small label as everyone’s favorite grammy-winning indie group, bon iver, and has a similar sound. 
unknown mortal orchestra released their first single from the upcoming al­bum called “swim and sleep (like a shark),” which is a catchy, lo-fi song and a promising preview of “ii,” which will be released on Jan. 22. 
David Bowie: it’s hard to think of david bowie when previewing new mu­sic, but the seasoned musician has re­corded an all-new album to be released in march. bowie shocked fans this month by coming out of a 10-year hiatus with the online release of a new song, then surprised everyone even more by finally announcing the full-length al­bum, titled “The next day.” 
not much needs to be said about david bowie — he is a legend — so check out “The next day” this year and be happy that bowie is still releasing music, even if he’ll never top his performance in the movie “labyrinth.” 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Two teams, too much hassle 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
dear readers: assuming i one day become ridiculously, dis­gustingly rich, please remind me that i can only purchase one of my favorite sports teams. 
let’s just say i’ve learned from John henry’s mistakes. it now seems obvious that owning one dysfunctional organization full of needy young millionaires is more than enough to keep any middle-aged billionaire busy, but in 2010 i was overjoyed at the prospect of henry and red sox co-owner Tom werner tak­ing the reigns at liverpool. 
i’d grown to love boston cross-sport promotion (yes, i’m one of those people who reads the article about wes welker being spotted at a celtics game.) i had realized my reasons for supporting liverpool were tenuous at best 
— as a nine-year-old living in england, i had decided that reds star michael owen was way cuter than manchester united’s david beckham — but now Fenway sports group was bringing two of my favorite teams together. 
as it turns out, watching horrifying forced interactions between the red sox and the reds is not nearly as fun as it sounds (there’s a great clip of a clearly uncomfortable charlie adam telling cody ross that no, he never play cricket.) although the arrival of spectacular young forward daniel sturridge has held off panic in liverpool (at least for this week), the past two seasons have been rough for both clubs. Fans in Fenway and anfield have found the same scapegoat: the owners and the attention paid to “that team on the other side of the pond.” 
i don’t know why supporters think their owners are skimp­ing on time and money spent on each organization. For both teams, the problem wasn’t so much an unwillingness to pay for star players, but rather splurges who weren’t worth their paycheck (see: carroll, andy and lackey, John). and if henry really is broke, as he tweeted several days ago, it likely because of problems at his financial trading firm, not because he has to pay a short­stop and a midfielder at the same time. 
and as an american who is familiar with the exploits of nFl owners, i can guarantee that there is no correlation be­tween owner involvement and success on the field. i’m sure most of the cowboys organiza­tion wishes Jerry Jones had a hobby that required more field trips to europe. 
but the saddest part of all this, at least from my perspec­tive, is the growing resent­ment between fans of the reds and the red sox. really, they should get along pretty well: besides matching names and color schemes, both teams have glorious histories that had sputtered by the time i started following the team (the sox, of course, had a legendary 86-year title drought, while liverpool has won 18 league titles, but none in the last 23 years.) both have legions of working class supporters with irish heritage. 

“I don’t know why 
supporters think 
their owners are 
skimping  on the 
time and money 
spent on each 
organization. 
For both teams, 
the problem 
wasn’t so much 
an unwillingness 
to pay for star 
players, but rather 
splurges who 
weren’t worth 
their paycheck.” 
i feel certain that all of the Fenway Faithful will one day grow to love “sweet caroline” in the same way anfield loves “you’ll never walk alone.” (as far as i’m concerned, the neil diamond holdouts belong to a special population of new englanders who despise fun.) 
and one last thing they have in common: their troubles stretch far beyond the reach of the owners. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC SWIMMING | calvin 186, smc 54; kalamaZoo 169, smc 61 
individuals shine in loss 

By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 

st. mary’s faced off against two rivals from their own conference Friday at the rolfs aquatics center. Though the belles were defeated by both calvin and kalamazoo at the meet, the individual results were encouraging for the team.  
“The girls did great individ­ually coming off of the break,” belles coach mark benishek said. “we went through hard training for a week and really bounced back on Friday.” 
The meet was a double dual event, with the belles losing to calvin 186-54 and kalamazoo 169-61. calvin and kalamazoo also competed in the meet. Freshman emily brown set a personal best in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5:39.87. sophomore anna nolan and freshmen carolyn neville, megan knobloch and senior ellie watson finished the 200­yard freestyle relay in 1:43.30, a top-five time in st. mary’s program history. 
sophomore anna nolan posted one of the most im­pressive performances of the night by finishing third overall in both the 50-yard freestyle and the 100-yard backstroke. senior ellie watson showcased her ability at longer distances, finishing third in both the 200 and 500-yard freestyle events. 
despite the pair of losses, the belles have plenty to take away from the meet heading into next saturday’s regular season finale against olivet at notre dame. 
“we are right on pace, espe­cially out of the long layover,” benishek said. “we are setting ourselves up for conference play well. we need to continue our training to make that big push and fine tune to cut down on hundredths of seconds.” 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL | oliveT 87, smc 63 
Belles lose Olivet rematch 
Observer Staff Report 

after losing a 79-75 nail-biter to olivet back in early december, saint mary’s was looking for revenge saturday in a road conference match-up against the comets. unfortunately for the belles, this one was not nearly as close, with olivet winning comfortably 87-63 at the cutler event center in olivet, mich. 
The belles (5-13, 3-6 miaa) fell behind early, with the comets (12-6, 7-2) coming out on fire from behind the arc. olivet made three consecutive three-pointers to give them a 12-point lead just eight min­utes into the game. 

FOR SALE 

7 month old MacBook Pro. Very little use. $3K of software for graphic de­sign. Magnetic charger. 15&quot; screen. $1800. Call 574-370-0801 
The belles clawed back into the game with a 10-0 run of their own, but olivet’s dry spell was short-lived. a 13-1 run gave the comets a 46-26 lead with two minutes left in the first half, putting the game al­most out of reach. The comets would keep at least a twenty-point lead for the rest of the game, coasting to the victory. 
Junior forward katherine wabler and freshman forward krista knapke were the only belles in double figures, scor­ing 13 points apiece on com­bined 10-of-21 shooting.  The 13 points were a career high for wabler, and she also added six rebounds. 
For the second time in as many games, the belles gave up 87 points to an opponent, and turnovers and defense again showed themselves as the inexperienced belles main weaknesses, with the comets scoring 27 points off of 22 belle turnovers.  saint mary’s forced 26 turnovers, but only man­aged 20 points off of those cre­ated chances. 
The belles are now 2-8 in their last ten games, and in those eight losses they have been outscored by nearly 17 points per game. 
saint mary’s will look to pick up a win when they return home to face miaa foe adrian on wednesday.  Tip-off for that game is set for 7:30 p.m. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
needs confidential support or as-
PERSONAL 
sistance, please call Ann Whitall at 

1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to as­sist you. If you or someone you love  For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu  



FENCING MEN’S SWIMMING 
Freshman fencers compete irish remain 
Observer Staff Report 
a select group of fencers from notre dame traveled as individuals in connec­tion with their club teams to compete in the Junior north american cup. The four-day event consists of different age groups and levels of competition, but so far the irish fencers have had a great impact in the tournament.  
The highlight of the event so far was freshman epee catherine lee winning the Junior women’s epee tour­nament saturday afternoon. There were 175 fencers in the field, and lee methodically defeated her opponents. in the pool play, lee placed second in her group, going 5-1 and earning 28 points. as the number of fencers dwindled down, lee contin­ued to pick up momentum up to the final bout, where she defeated audrey yun in the championship 15-10. 
it was a great moment for lee, as she was able to fence near her hometown of elizabethtown, ky., where the event was held and where her club team, the louisville Fencing center, resides. 
The irish were also represented in louisville by two male fencers with the epee weapon. Freshmen epee John poremski and garrett mcgrath placed in the top fourth of the field for the Junior men’s event on saturday. poremski was able to place 53rd out of more than 250 competitors. not far behind was mcgrath, who placed in 65th. overall, the men and women have gained valuable experience that will be useful when 


paid adverTisemenT 

undefeated 

they begin to compete in school tournaments against top programs. 
monday morning at 8 a.m., freshman saber John hallsten will compete in the Junior men’s saber tourna­ment. hallsten is the last of the notre dame fencers to compete before getting back to prepare for the upcoming saint John’s and new york university invitationals on January 26 and January 27, respectively. 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish jump-started the season Friday by de­feating cleveland state 131­112 in the first dual meet of the spring season. notre dame (6-0) increased its record against cleveland state to 28-10, continuing its longstanding competi­tion against the school that first came to rolfs aquatics center in 1985. 
The vikings won first place in seven of the 13 events, but the irish gathered points in other areas to take the over­all win. 
“This meet first and fore­most is a great example of our depth,” senior chris Johnson said. “in the events that we didn’t win, we had guys still placing high, and a bunch of them. That helps us make up the point different between first and second or third.” 
senior bill bass guided the irish through the after­noon, winning two individ­ual events. he finished the 200-yard individual medley in 1:50.59, joined by junior teammates colin babcock and bertie nel in second and third with times of 1:51.39 and 1:56.32, respectively. 
bass also took first in the 100-yard butterfly in 50.58. sophomore teammates John williamson and broderick kelley came close behind, finishing the race in 51.25 and 51.66, respectively to se­cure the top three for notre dame. 
other top finishes for the squad came in the 200-yard medley relay, where fresh­man bogac ayhan, Johnson, bass and senior kevin overholt edged out the vikings quartet. Freshman michael hudspith took the top spot in the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 1:40.29, closely followed by sophomore teammate kevin hughes who took second in 1:40.98. 

hughes then earned his own top finish in the 500­yard freestyle with a time of 
4:33.04. babcock earned the sixth top finish for the irish, winning the 100-yard breast­stroke at 56.11. 
a deep roster enabled notre dame to overpower vikings seniors berry Thompson and mark de swardt, who togeth­er gathered four first-place finishes. 
sophomore brennan Jacobsen added a second place in the 1650-yard free­style and a third place in the 500-yard freestyle, while overholt notched a second place in the 100-yard free­style and ayhan and nel took two and three in the 100-yard backstroke. 
on the diving side, cleveland state won both the one-meter and three-meter dive, but notre dame’s sec­ond and third places in both events sealed the irish victo­ry. The one-meter dive high­lighted senior ryan koter in second with 307.04 points and sophomore Ted wagner in third with 288.82 points. The three-meter saw sophomore John andrade in second with 
284.55 points and wagner in third with 278.25 points. 
“This was a great last dual meet of the season as we start looking forward to our final invites and conference be­cause it shows we don’t need to win every event to win overall,” Johnson said. 
The irish next welcome harvard and Towson Jan. 25 and 26 for the shamrock invitational in the rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




TRACK | women, FirsT place; nd men, second place 
irish win 12 events at home 

By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 
The irish had a field day in the notre dame invitational on saturday at the loftus center, as the men’s team finished sec­ond in the tournament and the women won the event. 
The irish competed against three other teams: south Florida, depaul and michigan state. The main purpose of the meet was to identify qualifiers for the big east championships, as notre dame’s top athletes looked to beat the standards needed to secure a spot in next month’s title meet. 
The irish women scored 193 points, outscoring the second-place finishers by 36 points. Junior michelle brown won the 400 meter race and senior rebecca Tracy won the 3,000 meter event, bringing in big point totals for notre dame on their way to victory. 
The men’s team finished with 175 total points, missing out on first at the hands of michigan state by seven points. Freshman michael clevenger won the mile on the men’s side. Junior patrick Feeney also won the 400 meter race and junior Jerrod buchanon won the 60 meter hurdles. both of buchanon’s vic­tories qualified for the big east championships. sophomore chris giesting had the best in­dividual performance, taking first in the 200 meter, 500 meter and 1600-meter relay. 
bolstered by strong finishes at the invitational, both teams have a very positive outlook on the season as they advance into 
paid adverTisemenT 
the meat of their schedules. 
“This is a good start to a rela­tively short season,” freshman sprinter Josh o’brien said. “The goal is to run in the big east and then hopefully at nationals, and we seemed to take the right step to accomplish that goal today.” 
The irish will be on the road next weekend in bloomington, ind., when they take on a mul­titude of different schools in the indiana relays. 
“next week is huge for us. This will be the second away compe­tition at iu,” senior pole vaulter chrissy Finkel said. “it was a great meet overall but we need improved performances from everyone and we all have to be on our ‘a-game.’” 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 7, bowling green 0; nd 4, ill. 3 
Squad holds off late Illini surge 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
it took a late win from senior chrissie mcgaffigan on an op­posing court, but the irish made it through their first weekend of dual play undefeated, sweep­ing bowling green 7-0 at home Friday and beating illinois 4-3 on sunday. 
after securing the doubles point with wins by freshman Quinn gleason and junior britney sanders and sopho­more molly o’koniewski and junior Julie sabacinski, the no. 19 irish (2-0) and illini split the first four singles matches at illinois’s atkins Tennis center on sunday. but with the out­come of the match in the bal­ance, mcgaffigan beat senior breann smutko in the third set, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2, securing the fourth point and the irish win. she also beat bowling green senior mary hill, 6-3, 6-2, on Friday. 
o’koniewski, competing in her first weekend of dual meets for notre dame, held off illinois freshman audrey o’connor 6-2, 6-3 on sunday afternoon, earn­ing her second straight singles win. she beat bowling green freshman katie brozovich, 4-6, 6-4, 1-0 (10-8) on Friday. 
Junior Jennifer kellner was also undefeated on the week­end, beating Falcons’ senior nikki chiricosta 6-4, 6-3, and junior no. 59 allison Falkin 6-3, 6-0. 

Junior britney sanders, who is no. 58 in the nation and played in the no. 1 spot, defeated bowling green junior emily reuland 6-1, 7-6 (7-5) on Friday but fell to sophomore melissa kopinski 6-3, 6-3. 
“i was sick this weekend, so i didn’t play my best,” sanders said. 
despite feeling under the weather, sanders said she was glad to get back to competing as a team. 
“it was exciting to finally get back into the dual season,” sanders said. “The fall season was fun, but it was all individual stuff. having teammates play­ing beside you and competing as a team is much more exciting.” 
gleason and sabacinski also picked up singles wins against the Falcons, beating seniors maddy eccleston and Jade Johnson, respectively. 
next weekend the irish head to lincoln, neb., for the iTa kick-off weekend, where the 
cornhuskers  will  host notre  
dame,  georgia  Tech  and  
Tennessee.  

“i want to work on my aggres­sive game,” sanders said. “next weekend we’ll be playing tough teams so we have to work hard this week.” 
The irish will take on georgia Tech at the nebraska Tennis center at 3 p.m. on Jan. 26. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
MLB 

cardinals fans remember musial 
Associated Press 
st. louis — stan the man was the dominant topic at the st. louis cardinals’ annual fan festival. outside busch stadium, it was totally about paying tribute, too. 
all day sunday, fans ignored near-freezing temperatures and gathered around the larger of the two musial statues at the ballpark, remembering the hall of Famer and franchise icon who died saturday at 92. Team flags were at half-staff. 
among the tributes was a state­ment from president barack obama saying he was “saddened to learn of the passing of baseball legend stan musial.” 
missouri gov. Jay nixon called musial “a great american hero who 
— with the utmost humility — in­spired us all to aim high and dream big. The world is emptier today with­out him, but far better to have known him.” 
The team was awaiting word from musial’s family on arrangements for a formal tribute. weather could pre­clude a home-plate ceremony and casket viewing for fans such as was done when broadcaster Jack buck died in 2002. 

“it’s the end of an incredible era,” team chairman bill dewitt Jr. said. “we’ve told them whatever they would like to do, we would certainly be there for them. 
“stan epitomized everything that’s great about cardinal baseball in ev­ery way.” 
despite the weather there was a game-day feel at the ballpark. dozens at a time congregated around the statue, often blocking a lane of traffic to get the perfect photo. many fans dropped off mementoes, including miniature bats, balls inscribed with messages, hats, flowers and flags at the base. 
a tear rolling down one eye, 65-year-old gene sandrowski of st. louis remembered attending a 1954 doubleheader when musial hit five homers against the new york giants at sportsman’s park. 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S TENNIS | nd 7, marQueTTe 0; nd 7, wesTern ill. 0 
Irish drop just one set during the weekend 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
The irish began their spring season in dominating fashion, sweeping both big east opponent marquette and western illinois 7-0. 
in its first match against marquette (0-1), notre dame (2­
0) took little time to grab a com­manding lead, dropping just one closely contested first set in the six singles matches. 
“we were all really excited,” irish senior blas moros said. “we came back a little bit early from christmas break for two-a-days and put in the hard work, and i think it’s paying off. we started off really well today.” 
moros was the first irish player off the courts, defeating sopho­more vukasin Teofanovic 6-2, 6-2. Junior greg andrews and fresh­man Quentin monaghan quickly followed suit, defeating their op­ponents at no. 1 and no. 3 singles, respectively. 
“i think i played pretty well to­day,” moros said. “There are always areas to improve, but it’s a good start. and i think the team is closer than it’s ever been while i’ve been here and we are playing at a really high level.” 
with the 7-0 victory over the golden eagles, the irish notched their first win over a big east foe this season. notre dame has now defeated marquette in each of its last three seasons. 

“marquette is a good school, and they always have a good lineup and we expected a tough battle, and they gave that to us,” moros said. “it’s nice to get the victory and a conference victory is always good.” 
after defeating the golden eagles, the irish moved onto to face western illinois, whose coach chris kane served as a senior cap­tain for the notre dame tennis team in 1975. 
while the irish rearranged its lineup for the leathernecks, the result remained the same. notre dame took the doubles point with victories from the no. 1 and no. 3 doubles teams, composed of senior spencer Talmadge and sophomore dougie barnard, and freshmen kenneth sabacinski and nicolas montoya, respectively. The irish then swept the six singles matches without dropping a set. 
moros and the irish were espe­cially pleased to finish saturday with two convincing victories as he says the team is now on the right track. 
“First matches are about getting the jitters out and getting your feel for the court,” moros said. “matches are always different than practice so especially for our freshmen, just getting out there and getting a win 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 

is big for confidence. we have a lot  on Tuesday night at the eck Tennis  
of tough matches going forward.  pavilion at 6 p.m.  
we have northwestern in three  
days already so we are into it.”  Contact Peter Steiner at  
The irish will host the wildcats  psteiner@nd.edu  





ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING | indiana 175, nd 125 
Hoosiers win nine of 16 events against Irish 

By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
notre dame fell to indiana, 175­125 saturday at the counsilman­billingsley aquatic center in bloomington, ind. 
indiana won nine of 16 events, including both relays. sophomore emma reaney was a bright spot as a triple-winner for the irish, winning the 100 and 200 breaststroke and the 200 im. senior Jenny chiang swept the diving competition, winning both the one- and three-meter dives. other irish victors were se­nior kim holden and sophomore bridget casey, winners of the 100 and 200 fly, respectively. 
en route to victory, the hoosiers swept the relays, and recorded victories in every disci­pline of freestyle and backstroke. 
paid adverTisemenT 


despite the loss, reaney was impressed with the way her teammates stepped up when asked. 
“we had a couple girls sick or injured, and others stepped up and swam events, so it showed how were gaining depth and be­coming more versatile as we head into the championship season.” 
indiana was able to jump out on the irish in several events, sweeping the top two spots in the 1,000 free, 200 free, and 50 free. reaney said that the irish had to not only contend with the hoosier swimmers, but also a quick turnaround coming back from winter break. 
“i think it was hard having a meet right after a first week back to school. everyone was tired, it was kind of a shock,” reaney said, “i forgot we were there for a meet until after the first event. we swam as well as we could have under the circumstances.” 
despite the loss, reaney is still confident in her team and doesn’t believe they are in need of any major changes as they prepare for the postseason, even with just two meets remaining before next month’s big east championships in indianapolis. 
“if we just stick with what we’re doing and stay focused we’ll be good,” she said. “as the practices become shorter and easier, it’s easy for the girls to lose focus, so we just need to stay on track.” 
on an individual level, reaney continued her impressive season with three more wins. while she has been dominating the pool all season long, she credits her suc­cess to sheer enjoyment. 
“i’ve never taken swimming too seriously, the most impor­tant thing is just to make sure i’m having fun,” reaney said. “i re­ally love my team and sometimes swimming can be really hard but i just try to stay lose, goof around, and have a good time.” 
The irish will look to rebound this weekend, when they’ll finish out their home season against Towson in the shamrock invitational. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Martin Lucia 
conTinued From page 20 conTinued From page 20 
to the irish with just two sec-of cooley. after playing just 18 defenseman stephen Johns. onds remaining. Junior guard minutes — none of which came but while quick counter goals eric atkins drained both free down the stretch — against the by alaska killed notre dame’s throws at the other end to give red storm, cooley rebounded momentum Friday, the mo­notre dame the 69-66 lead. to power the irish with 19 points mentum changer saturday took 
“i figured that they were going and 10 rebounds. the form of a five-minute major to try to get to the rim,” martin “it was all about focusing,” penalty. Freshman left winger said. “my man was just stand-cooley said of his improved per-Thomas dipauli delivered a hit ing in the corner, i hope. That is formance. “i needed to just get from behind on nanooks fresh-where he was the last time i saw back out there and keep doing man defenseman Josh atkinson him. i tried to get to the spot. i what i do. i watched some film and received a five-minute major was able to get there just in time. from last year. last year i had a penalty and game misconduct. i knew that was a charge. i have pretty good game against these “i thought we were playing real taken a lot of them in my day.” guys, so i wanted to see how i well, then a five minute major, 
cooley said that’s exactly what could improve from that.” especially to one of our top pen-the sixth-year man does for the sophomore guard/forward alty killers … was a little bit too irish. pat connaughton added 17 much,” Jackson said. “That’s how 
“scott is the best at getting in points on four three-pointers a lot of our games have gone in re-there and taking charges,” cooley while defending carter. Junior cent games. something happens, said. “if he sets it, it is going to be guards eric atkins and Jerian it changes the momentum of the a charge. it was just a great play, grant scored a combined 23 game and [saturday night] it was and it won us the game.” points, while grant dished out the five-minute major and it was injuries kept junior right and have scored the first goal, only 
notre dame held a 38-1 lead 10 assists. hard for us to get back.” left wingers mike voran and to lose the game. despite losing at halftime and quickly sped out The irish will look to make it alaska took advantage of the Jeff costello out of both games. its first home series this year, to a 13-point advantage to start back-to-back wins when they opportunity and scored two when dipauli received the game notre dame is still tied with the second half. but the scarlet square off with georgetown quick back-to-back goals in the misconduct in saturday’s game, western michigan for first place knights stormed back and cut the tonight. The hoyas started the 16th minute of the first period. the irish were left without any in the ccha with 33 points. lead to 52-48 with 9:58 remain-season 10-1 and were ranked as down 2-1 at the end of the first other available forwards. The The irish will finally have a ing in the second half. rutgers high as no. 15 in the nation. but period, the irish were never able irish felt the impact on its penal-full week of practice and a nor-deployed full-court pressure that since the calendars have flipped to regain momentum. notre ty-killing unit, whose members mal routine after finishing its forced four notre dame turn-to 2013, georgetown is 2-3, in-dame had four power play op-were fatigued by the third period, sixth game in 12 days. overs in a span of five possessions. cluding saturday’s 61-58 loss to portunities after losing the lead, Jackson said. “we have a good week of 
The irish led 66-58 with 2:48 to south Florida. including a nearly four-minute “The tough thing is when you practice,” Jackson said. “rest, play after a bucket from cooley, despite their recent struggles, one-man advantage, but the irish got those guys, because of the back into a normal routine with but carter, rutgers’ leading scor-brey said he is not taking any big were unable to score. short-handedness of our penal-school and practice. Then we er, willed the scarlet knights back east opponent lightly. “our power play hasn’t had the ty kill, and you got [Tynan, lee just have to wait until we get with six of the next eight rutgers “when you have 14 [big east] same chemistry since we lost two and rust] out there killing pen-some guys healthy and hopeful-points to cut the irish lead 67-66 teams in the top 100 of the rpi, guys from our top two units, one alties, by the third period they ly we get that chemistry back.” before martin took the charge. there’s no easy one,” brey said. from each unit,” Jackson said. are exhausted,” Jackson said. The irish will face Ferris state 
“you almost need to win one “everybody can play. … other “we’re trying to reunite Tynan “when we need to score a goal, this upcoming weekend at the like that tonight,” brey said. “i than [louisville and syracuse] and lee and [junior right winger our top guys are tired from kill-compton Family ice arena. thought we really defended well the rest of us are fighting for our bryan rust] and trying to find ing penalties.” and defended at key times. it was lives.” that chemistry to get something saturday’s loss represented Contact Peter Steiner at great to see Jack cooley back in notre dame battles anoth-going again.” the third game in a row the irish psteiner@nd.edu gear, scott martin taking that er big east foe when it tips off charge — that would be the guy against the hoyas tonight at 7:30 
paid adverTisemenT 

to make a play like that at the p.m. at purcell pavilion. end.” martin scored just four points Contact Mike Monaco at but was picked up by the likes jmonaco@nd.edu 
Cable 
conTinued From page 20 

forward] markisha wright got behind her.” double-teamed and kicked it out, on the other end, st. John’s so they did the hard part. i was received a team-high 15 points just open and shot it.” and seven assists from junior 
overall, the irish were sev-guard keylantra langley. st. en-for-11 from the three-point John’s coach Joe Tartamella range, a mark well above their said the irish took advantage season average. of the red storm’s mistakes on 
“seven-for-11 is just phenom-both ends. enal,” mcgraw said. “i think the “notre dame does a lot of guards got us great looks; the things well and has a lot of drive and kick was there. That depth,” he said. “i thought makes us really hard to guard. if there were times where we had you think about trying to double some good runs and some oth­team inside on [achonwa}, you er times when we failed to ex-have to worry about the shooters ecute, and they made us pay.” on the perimeter.” notre dame senior guard 
notre dame received strong kaila Turner went down with guard play from diggins, who a knee injury after hitting a finished with 18 points and six three-pointer with 5:38 re-assists, and loyd, who con-maining in the second half. tributed seven points and six Turner is expected to have an rebounds. mri on monday morning. 
achonwa said she attri-The victory marks notre butes the strong guard play dame’s eleventh consecutive to improved communication win and boosts the irish to 5-0 among team members. in big east play. The irish will 
“we’re gelling, and i think return to action wednesday we just know where each oth-when they travel to pittsburgh er are on the court,” she said. to battle the panthers. “skylar sees everyone on the court and even if you’re be-Contact Brian Hartnett at hind her, she still knows you’re bhartnet@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | rago & paTrick cross 
The Observer apologizes for the absence of 
Lower Your Expectations 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: stacey dash, 46; rainn wilson, 47; bill maher, 57; david lynch, 67. 
Happy Birthday: make lifestyle or home improvement alterations that will set you in a positive direction for the upcoming year. you mustn’t waste time mulling over the past when recognizing what works for you and what works against you is all that’s required. get moving in a positive direction, not one that limits you or costs you emotionally and financially. your numbers are 8, 11, 20, 22, 31, 37, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): lend a helping hand and you will get something in return. a greater interest in a cause you come across will open doors to new adven­tures and people you enjoy keeping company with. voice your opinion and gain confidence and respect. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make travel plans. enjoy a quiet day with someone you think is special. do your best to enhance an important relationship. listen to what’s being said and you will discover something that will help you with a project. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t share too much information. you will be misinter­preted if you aren’t careful, causing uncertainty that can hurt an important relation­ship. be very direct and don’t make promises unless you plan to honor your word. greater effort will be required to succeed. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22):don’t make an impulsive decision regarding your professional or personal position. now is not the time to make changes or to jump to conclusions. bide your time until you have more knowledge, facts and figures pertaining to your situation. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): keep your emotions in check when dealing with personal matters or people you feel responsible for. don’t let demands be put on you or agree to something you feel may damage your reputation. a change of scenery will do you good. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take part in activities that interest you or get together with friends you find inspiring. love is in the stars and planning a romantic encoun­ter will lead to a better future with plenty of personal planning. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put greater emphasis on intellectual pursuits, learning and participating in events that will introduce you to different cultures. don’t let someone threatened by your desire to explore new avenues hold you back or ruin 
your day SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): head in whatever direction best suits your needs, and don’t worry about what others do, think or say. you have to satisfy your own needs and utilize your skills to get the best results. rely on your intuition -- it won’t lead you astray. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll miss out on a fortunate opportunity if you are overindulgent or take on too much. rethink what it is you want to accomplish and downsize so you can reach your goals. The only way to win your battle is by being realistic. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Fix up your digs, but make sure you don’t infringe on anyone’s privacy or space. getting the go-ahead from family or a neighbor will also result in additional help you didn’t expect. get the job done fast and enjoy downtime with friends. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): entertain friends or move things around to make room for a hobby you want to start. spending time at home will help you avoid people looking for trouble. make the changes that will ensure your happiness and comfort. discipline will be needed. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): et your intuition help determine what you should or shouldn’t do. set a budget that will allow you to live more comfortably in the near future. an idea will spark interest, and help and suggestions will be offered. 


Birthday Baby: you are adventuresome, experimental and unpredictable. you are emotional and supportive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 69, ruTgers 66 HOCKEY | alaska 5, nd 4; alaska 2, nd 1 
Back on track 
Cooley helps Irish hold on against Scarlet Knights 
irish drop pair of games at home 

By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
rebound. 
irish senior forward Jackcooley snatched a defensive rebound 19 seconds into the game, buried a baseline jumper at the other end, scored 19 points and led the no. 20 irish in a 69-66 rebound win over rutgers on saturday night at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (16-3, 3-2 big east) downed the scarlet knights (12­5, 3-3) after dropping their last two games. notre dame fell 67­63 to st. John’s on Tuesday after losing to connecticut 65-58 on saturday. 
“great game for us today,” irish coach mike brey said of the bounce-back win. “i am thrilled. 
“i told them, it’s going to be hard in this league. Things are going to be hard … but you have to fight [rutgers] off after turning it over a little bit, missed some free throws, but we have to make some plays to steal a win.” 
The irish were forced to do just that. with notre dame leading 67-64 with 12 seconds remain­ing, rutgers sophomore guard eli carter drove the length of the court and scored to cut the lead to one. Then the scarlet knights forced a jump ball on the ensuing inbounds pass. The possession arrow favored rutgers. 

carter then drove the lane past his defender but irish graduate student forward scott martin took a charge to give the ball back 
see marTin PAGE 18 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 

in a weekend marked as an opportunity to return to form, notre dame fell further into its slump, losing a 5-4 heartbreaker Friday followed by a 2-1 defeat saturday at the hands of alaska. 
The irish returned to the compton Family ice arena this weekend hopeful after losing three games on their four-game road trip. but playing at home didn’t cure the irish struggles as they finished the weekend stuck in a four-game losing streak. 
Friday’s game particularly stung for the irish as they fought back twice in the third period, only to allow two alaska goals soon after. down 3-2 midway through the third period and facing a penalty kill situation, the irish tied the game when se­nior defenseman sam calabrese connected with streaking junior center T.J. Tynan, who finished the breakaway against nanook freshman goalkeeper John keeney. 
but alaska countered less than a minute later when senior left winger Jarret granberg tipped in a pass from senior right winger nik yaremchuk to retake the lead, 4-3. 
“when T.J. scored that ty­ing goal, we were flying,” lee said. “Then they came back and popped one to take the lead again and it just kills you.” 
The irish had new life though with four minutes remaining in the third period when freshman left winger mario lucia netted the equalizer with a wrist shot from the left circle. 
but with three seconds left in the game, the nanooks struck again when an irish turnover gave the puck to the nanooks in the irish zone. Junior goalkeeper steven summerhays saved the initial shot, but granberg rushed the net and put in the rebound to win the game, 5-4. 
“all we needed to do was just gap up and let the clock kill,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“it’s tough when we fight back, fight back and then we make poor decisions with the puck and it ends up in our net.” 
lee finished the game with one goal and two assists, giving him his 100th point in his career. but that was little consolation in a game where the irish fought the whole game, only to lose in the last seconds. 
“we battled back. we were down most of the game and we put ourselves in position,” lee said. “but at the same time we did put ourselves in that position to be down at the end.” 
with an added significance to saturday’s game, the irish came out strong, taking the 1-0 lead again on a rebound goal by lucia after a shot by junior 
see lucia PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL| nd 74, sT. John’s 50 
Achonwa helps squad weather Red Storm 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
despite holding a command­ing edge in the series history, no. 2 notre dame has not typically delighted in meeting st. John’s, as the red storm have pulled off three upsets of ranked irish squads since 2006. on sunday, however, the irish (16-1, 5-0 big east) made sure history did not repeat itself, dominating the red storm (9-7, 3-1) en route to a 74-50 victory at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame controlled the boards, outrebounding st. John’s 48-22. bolstered by 19 offensive rebounds, the irish scored 38 points in the paint and 17 second chance points. 
Junior forward natalie achonwa facilitated much of notre dame’s efforts down low, as she scored 16 points and snared 12 rebounds. 
“ace [achonwa] played only 23 minutes … and is really ca­pable of doing that often,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “it’s so fun to watch her because she really dominates on the back­board. The guards help, but really ace is the reason we are outrebounding people.” 
notre dame also excelled on the defensive end, limiting st. John’s to 35 percent shooting from the field. The irish held red storm senior guard shenneika smith, the team’s leading scor­er, to only three points on one­of-15 shooting. 
“i was really pleased with our defense,” mcgraw said. “[Freshman guard] Jewell loyd did a phenomenal job once again on their best player, hold­ing smith to her season low. [Junior guard] kayla mcbride also guarded her, and the two of them really did a great job.” 

after st. John’s sophomore forward amber Thompson scored the game’s first basket, notre dame went on a 17-2 run. behind senior guard skylar diggins’ 12 first-half points and achonwa’s 10 first-half points, the irish went into halftime with a 39-25 lead. 
although notre dame didn’t score its first points until the 
16:14 mark of the second half, the irish soon heated up, as they went on a 19-6 run to put the game away. sophomore guard madison cable came off the bench to help spark the irish in the second half, as she scored 13 points and was three-for-three from beyond the arc. 
“i got some pretty open looks,” cable said. “[sophomore guard] whitney holloway found me a couple times, [sophomore 
see cable PAGE 18 

MIKE KRAMM | The Observer 

Junior guard Kayla McBride drives against a pair of Georgetown defenders in Notre Dame’s 79-64 win on Jan. 15. 




