TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 98 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

HER LOYAL DAUGHTERS

Finding common ground

First female undergraduates recall fall of 1972

First female rector, former admin describe transition



By JOHN CAMERON
News Editor
Editor’s note: This is the next installment in a five-day series discussing the role of women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, in honor of the 40th anni­versary of coeducation at the University this year.
Class of 1976 alumna Diane Bourke didn’t know what to ex­pect when her parents dropped her off at Notre Dame in the fall of 1972. Not only had she en­rolled at the University sight-unseen, but she would be a member of the first freshman class to include women.
“I was very naïve,” Bourke said. “I was the first person in my family to go to college. I kind of walked in with no precon­ceived notions and no clue what this was supposed to be.”
Bourke arrived on campus in the wake of failed discus­sions to merge Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, which led to the University’s decision to admit women directly. Adapting cam­pus to house female newcomers did lead to some tension with the male students, Bourke said. 
“At the beginning it was a little awkward ... especially among the men who had been displaced,” she said. 
Men from Badin and Walsh Halls were required to switch dorms or move off campus to open up campus housing for the newly admitted women, which left some existing male students feeling dejected, she said.
“I think for a lot of the men, this is not what they bought into,” she said. “The dorm system at Notre Dame is really important as far as your social network.”
Much as it is today, Bourke said eventually groups within certain residence halls developed into social circles.
“As it evolved, groups of wom­en became friends with men in different dorms,” she said. “I got connected with Holy Cross Hall because my good friend’s broth­er was there, so I became friends with the Holy Cross Hogs.”
But female students generally tended to keep to themselves in those early years, Bourke said, as a little more than 300 women integrated with approximately 5,000 male students. 
“There weren’t a lot of women, so I think that kept a lot of the women close,” Bourke said. “For example, no one wanted to go to the dining hall alone. I think ev­eryone thought we were dating every weekend, but in a lot of cas­es we hung out with each other.”
Bourke was a member of the first class of women to attend Notre Dame for four years, but she was not the first female stu­dent to receive an undergraduate degree.
Under unique circumstances, Mary Davey Bliley was allowed to graduate from Notre Dame in the spring of 1972, the semester prior to the official beginning of coeducation. 
Bliley, initially a history ma­jor at Saint Mary’s, changed to the business program under the pretense of a pending merger be­tween Notre Dame and its sister school.
“My junior year was when the merger talks started, and I de­cided I wanted to be a business major and wanted to get a Notre Dame degree,” she said. 
When the two schools called off the merger, the Saint Mary’s administration told her she could not graduate, as the College did not offer the degree she had been qualified to receive at Notre Dame. While she had completed all her major courses at Notre Dame, the University would not be accepting female students in time for her to transfer.
“I was basically a day student, I went to Notre Dame all day and came back to Saint Mary’s at night,” she said. “In April, [Dean Vincent Raymond of the College of Business] called me into his office and said, ‘Mary, we’re go­ing to let you graduate from Notre Dame. You’ll be the first female and the only one in the class.’”
Bliley never lived on campus and had a different Notre Dame experience than the women to follow in her path, but she said she never had a negative vibe from male students or professors due to her gender. 
“I didn’t feel animosity,” she said. “All my friends were dying to have the school merge. They wanted more girls to choose from.”
Bliley, who went on to a career in investment banking in New York and Europe, said the will­ingness of the University to con­fer her degree before officially going coed was essential to her success.
“I’m really fortunate to be the first one, that I got a Notre Dame degree,” she said. “Coming from Columbus, Mont., I nev­er thought I’d be working in London.”
Like Bliley, Ann Cisle Murray started her college career at Saint Mary’s but today holds a Notre Dame degree. While Murray was also pursuing a business degree under the planned merger, she was only a sophomore when it fell through. She was given a choice.
“I could apply to Notre Dame and keep my major, I could stay at Saint Mary’s or I could transfer out,” Murray said. 
With many Belles facing this decision at the time, Murray said this was the most difficult part of the transfer process.
“The hardest part was leaving most of my friends back at Saint Mary’s,” she said. “It split our class. Most of my friends didn’t even apply [to transfer]. They were happy in their majors and I think they were, truth be told, probably a little disappointed [the merger failed].”
Once she transferred, Murray coincidentally followed in the footsteps of her father, a for­mer resident in her new home, Walsh Hall. Due to the rushed transition, the building had not changed much since her father’s time there, and the new residents didn’t do much to modify it.
“They didn’t really have a whole lot of time to modify the dorms,” she said. “As I recall they just boarded up the urinals. Not much else changed. The women when we arrived would put up curtains and that sort of thing.”
While the female residents dis­place the men formerly living in Walsh Hall, Murray said their re­sentment was minimal. 
“I thought they were very gra­cious about it,” she said. “When we arrived the first there, there were a lot of them who helped up move in. To this day I’m still in contact with some of those guys from Walsh Hall. They welcomed us as the first women.”
Murray quickly engaged the Notre Dame tradition, joining the cheerleading squad in time for the Irish’s defeat of Alabama at the Orange Bowl and the men’s basketball team ending UCLA’s 88-game winning streak. 
“It was kind of a charmed year,” she said.
Traveling to away games gave Murray the opportunity to meet a number of alumni, many of whom were opposed to the idea of coeducation at Notre Dame.
“There were a few people who weren’t really happy about it and they let me know it,” she said. “I felt it was sort of my job to be a good representative of the University.”
Alumna Betsy Brosnan, a member of the Class of 1976, said the experience of being a woman at Notre Dame changed substan­tially over her four years.
“When we came as freshmen, we had never experienced col­lege life before, so as it might have been awkward sometimes, that seemed normal,” Brosnan said. “Certainly by the time I got to senior year, I would expect there might have been 1,000 or 1,200 women by that time. Looking back, we kind of laugh. We thought freshman year was normal ... but things were differ­ent back then. So often we were the only female in class.”
While the women of the first classes at Notre Dame had differ­ent experiences along their paths to graduation, their stories bore one common thread — gratitude to University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, the im­petus of coeducation. 
“It was his vision that brought coeducation to Notre Dame,” Brosnan said. “The Air Force Academy went coed a few years after us. ... This was an era when a lot of this was happening, but we owe him a great debt.”
Bliley, who was the first graduate to receive a kiss from Hesburgh at graduation, said the entire Notre Dame community owes the former president for his transformative decision.
“Every student ought to thank Fr. Ted for not only the vision he had, but when he had it,” she said. “I walk around today, and campus is vibrant and exciting. ... The school’s a better place for it.”
Contact John Cameron at
jcamero2@nd.edu

By MEGAN DOYLE
Managing Editor
Editor’s note: This is the next installment in a five-day series discussing the role of women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, in honor of the 40th anniversary of coeducation at the University this year.
As a first-year law student in 1970, Kathleen Cekanski-Farrand was one of 12 women out of 250 in her class, part of only the third coeducational graduate class in the Law School.
Two years later, Cekanski-Farrand was mailing letters to welcome 119 women of the first female undergraduate class into her care in Badin Hall. In 1972, she was a third-year law student and the dorm’s first rector in be­ginning days of coeducation. 
“I thought some of the chal­lenges that we had probably would be similar at the under­graduate level that we had at the Law School level,” Cekanski-Farrand said. “So I thought I could share some of those ex­periences and turn them into positives.”
Cekanski-Farrand earned the job when she interviewed with then-vice president of student affairs Fr. Tom Blantz. Blantz, who stepped into that position in 1971, had been part of the ad­ministrators who determined the University would directly admit women to its under­graduate student body follow­ing failed discussions to merge Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s.
“We wanted women on the campus because having an all-male school was maybe less attractive to some of the peo­ple out there who were com­ing from coed high schools,” Blantz said. “[Men and women] should study together so they could work together later on, and there should be places for young Catholic women to go to Catholic schools. … When the merger was called off, I think it was a logical expected step that we would admit undergraduate women ourselves.
“It was pretty much around the Thanksgiving weekend [of 1971] that I got a call from the provost … that they had decid­ed to admit about 325 women for next year, in the fall of 1972.”
Approximately 125 freshmen women joined that incoming group of undergraduates, while 200 female students trans­ferred to Notre Dame from Saint Mary’s and other schools, Blantz said. 
Blantz reviewed the dorms and decided to place the in­coming women in Badin and Walsh Halls, and when Notre Dame admitted 500 more women the following year, he opened Breen-Phillips Hall and Farley Hall as well. 
“The first group of women, they had to put up with a lot,” Blantz said. “You had 300 wom­en and 5,000 men roughly, so the odds, you are a minority. In the seminar, it’s quite probably you are the only woman in the class and that could be a little bit uncomfortable.”
Some of the women were qui­et in their courses at first upon entering these male-dominat­ed classrooms, Blantz said. 
“I remember teaching a University seminar, a fresh­man seminar with 16 in the class, two women in the class and 14 fellas,” he said. “And the women rarely said anything but when they handed in their written papers, I could tell the two women were extremely bright. So it was just a question of trying to get them to open up and talk more. I think now you don’t have that problem at all.”
As her residents became more comfortable with Notre Dame life, Cekanski-Farrand said she worked to build a “Badin Hall family.”
“A family is what holds you together, is what keeps you to­gether so that you feel comfort­able sharing your concerns, both the good days and all the bad days too, and that they felt comfortable sharing if they had a problem in the classroom,” she said. “The more you share, the more you communicate, the better the adventure is go­ing to be.”
There were challenges to life in Badin Hall that first year, she said, from a cockroach problem to “panty raids” when male stu­dents would run through the hallways for women’s under­wear. But Cekanski-Farrand worked to develop a dorm iden­tity and support her resident by promoting a Badin Hall T-shirt and visiting classes to see for herself how her students were being treated. 
“We had to find some com­mon ground,” she said. 
Even as that common ground became sturdier through the first months and years of co­education, many graduates protested the initial decision to admit women to their alma mater. But Blantz said he saw this as a positive. 
“I remember giving a talk once [to alumni], and there was opposition to coeducation,” Blantz said. “One guy apolo­gized, and I said, ‘No, no, I’m happy to hear this. If you guys were happy that we were going coed, then I think we wanted too long to do it. That you were happy and satisfied with your education and the way we gave it to you back then when it was an all-male school, now we simply have to demonstrate that we can do the same thing with men and women here. 
“‘But if you people were all happy that we were finally ad­mitting women and changing, then we would have to think, boy, we should have done it 20 years ago and they weren’t hap­py here.’”
Blantz returned to teach­ing in the fall of 1973 after two years in student affairs, and Cekanski-Farrand served as a rector in Breen-Phillips Hall before leaving Notre Dame and eventually beginning the first all-female law firm in Indiana. But she said Blantz and University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh re­mained by her side through those years as a rector and re­main close friends today. 
Hesburgh himself only vis­ited the dorm on a handful of occasions, Cekanski-Farrand said, but he did gift the women the first Badin Hall mascot — a small Snoopy statue that would represent the dorm for years. He judged a door-decorating competition at Christmastime, and Cekanski-Farrand said Hesburgh would often call her to make sure everything in the women’s hall was running smoothly.
He shared her commitment, she said, to integrating wom­en into the student body and bringing Notre Dame to the place it is today.
“[Hesburgh] took the time to do that,” she said. “I couldn’t have asked for a more gracious individual who was wanting to make this a positive for the University.
“Whatever it took to make it work, extra hours, we would do it.”
Contact Megan Doyle at 
mdoyle11@nd.edu



Photos courtesy of University Archives
Top left: A woman looks through a broken window at the Rockne Memorial Gym during the early days of coeducation before female students could use the facility. Top right: A young woman cheers during a 
football game in the 1972 season. Middle right: Two female students walk across campus in the early 1970s. Bottom: A banner on South Dining Hall welcomes female students to campus in the fall of 1972.

see RECTOR PAGE 4

see COED PAGE 5

Alumnae offer career advice

ND recognizes eating disorders

BY HILLARY MANGIAFORTE and REBECCA O’NEIL
News Writers
Four Saint Mary’s alumnae visited their alma mater Monday to talk about professional net­working and social media at a panel discussion in the Student Center.
The panelists were Janelle Schenher, a 2000 alumna, Angela Rupchok-Shafer, a 2003 alumna, Meaghan Veselik, a 2011 alumna and Corrie Mieszczak, a 1997 alumna. The  Career Crossings Office sponsored the discussion. 
Mieszczak, owner of Soaring Winds Marketing and a market­ing manager for Chicago-based consulting firm Aptude, recalled her college years without some forms of modern communica­tion and social media.
“I didn’t have email when I was in school,” Mieszczak said. “I didn’t make one until grad school.” 
Compelled to reenter the job hunt after having her first child in 2011, Mieszczak said she real­ized she needed to acquaint her­self with the modern job search.
“People were finding work in an entirely new way,” she said. “These days, companies use technology as a recruiting tool.”
Mieszczak explained the im­portance of using potential em­ployers’ websites to determine if they reflect personal values like social responsibility. She reminded students networking is key in cultivating new rela­tionships and encouraged uti­lizing social media outlets like LinkedIn and Twitter.
Schenher, an account man­ager at Chicago-based mar­keting firm the Weinstein Organization, said as members of a younger generation, current college students have an in­credible advantage once hired.
“You guys can teach your el­ders,” she said. “You have no idea how lucky you are. This stuff is free. There’s no excuse to not use it to your advantage.”
Veselik, a communications assistant at Notre Dame’s School of Architecture, said for those born into the Internet generation, “using LinkedIn or Twitter comes pretty easy. It’s almost intuitive.”
Even a basic knowledge of Facebook makes a person em­ployable, Veselik said.
“Half of what I do for my job is on my iPhone,” she said. 
Veselik said she was ini­tially unsure how effective es­tablishing a Twitter account for the University’s School of Architecture would be, but she deemed it successful after an influx of alumni began follow­ing it.
“Social media allows poten­tial employees to hear about you and look for you,” Veselik, whose boss found her through LinkedIn, said. “My boss was a Saint Mary’s alumna and she wanted someone with the same education background and val­ues as she.”
Rupchok-Schafer, a social media and constituent en­gagement manager at Church World Services in Elkhart, Ind., said social media aptitude is a necessity in the current job market.
“If someone doesn’t have a Twitter handle, I won’t even consider employing them,” she said.
Contact Hillary Mangiaforte at
hmangi01@saintmarys.edu 

By KATIE McCARTY
News Writer
In observance of National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, the University Counseling Center is promot­ing awareness of the danger­ous effects of the pressure to look perfect.
“Students can feel like a lot of aspects of their life are out of control, and food is one aspect that they can control,” Maureen Lafferty, assistant director of the University Counseling Center, said. “An eating dis­order can develop from this mentality.” The theme of this year’s national campaign to promote awareness of eat­ing disorders is “Everybody Knows Somebody,” which re­flects that the number of eat­ing disorders in the United States is on the rise. The cam­paign also focuses on how to reach out to people with these disorders.
Lafferty said although people commonly associate eating disorders with wom­en, men can also suffer from thems.
“Women are certainly af­fected more, but eating disorders are not limited ex­clusively to women,” she said.
Signs of an eating disor­der include a restricted diet, mood swings, compulsive and obsessive exercise and low self-esteem. However, Lafferty said any radical change in behavior is a cause for concern.
“If you notice a significant drop in weight or a change in eating behavior, it may indi­cate an eating disorder,” she said. “If you have a concern, it should be expressed in the spirit of care and compassion. 
“It is a sensitive subject, so express your concern in a caring way rather than being accusator.”
Lafferty also said turning to professionals can be a smart way to address concerns. They can provide additional information and helphde­velop a plan for whether and how to approach the persot.
“Eating disorders are way more complex than we think, and in some cases we need professional input to figure out the best way to approach the situation,” Lafferty said. 
If a student notices a friend engaging in harmful behav­ior, he or she should turn to a rector or a member of the University Counseling Center, Lafferty said.
“Do not feel like you alone need to be responsible in the situation,” she said. 
“If you notice a change in a person’s behavior, do not act like a detective. Approach them with an attitude of com­passio, rather than anything accusatory.”
Contact Katie McCarty at
kmccar16@nd.edu

see DISORDERS PAGE 5

see SOCIAL MEDIA PAGE 4






BENGAL BOUTS PAGE 16

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16

VIEWPOINT PAGE 6

SCENE PAGE 8

RELAY FOR LIFE PAGE 3

2

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

TODAY

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email obsphoto@gmail.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Allan Joseph
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle                              Jeff Liptak
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Andrew Owens
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Sam Stryker
	News Editor:	John Cameron
	News Editor:	Kristen Durbin
	Viewpoint Editor:	Dan Brombach
	Sports Editor:	Chris Allen
	Scene Editor:	Courtney Cox
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Jillian Barwick
	Photo Editor:	Suzanna Pratt
	Graphics Editor:	Brandon Keelean
	Multimedia Editor:	Sarah O’Connor
	Advertising Manager:	Monica McCormack
	Ad Design Manager:	Sara Hilstrom
	Controller:	Peter Woo
	Systems Administrator:	William Heineman
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu
sstryke1@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

What movie always makes you cry?



Maureen Gavin
freshman
Lyons Hall
“P.S. I Love You.”

Eric Wilde
senior
Siegfried Hall
“Armageddon.”



Abby Bartels
freshman
Badin Hall
“A Walk to Remember.”

Chris Schleckser
freshman
Morrisey Manor
“Remember the Titans.”



Thomas Mack
sophomore
Dillon Hall
“The Fox and the Hound.”

Maria Rigby
senior
Lewis Hall
“Titanic.”


OE KENESEY | The Observer
Saint Mary’s freshman Bridget Enright stretches before a run around St. Joseph’s Lake on Monday afternoon.  Recent warm 
temperatures provided optimal running weather, but more snow is expected later this week in South Bend.

Today’s Staff

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com

News
Jillian Barwick
Bridget Feeney
Sarah Swiderski
Graphics
Brandon Keelean
Photo
Lily Kang
Sports
Sam Gans
Megan Finneran
Alex Wilcox
Scene
Troy Mathew
Viewpoint
Caroline Schurz

Tuesday
Bengal Bouts
Semifinals
Joyce Center
6 p.m.-10 p.m.
The men’s boxing tournament continues.
Smart Girls Guide
SMC Student Lounge
7 p.m
Love Your Body Week: Smart Girls Group founder Emily Raleigh.
Wednesday
Women’s Lacrosse
Arlotta Stadium
6 p.m.-8 p.m.
The Irish face off against the Ohio State Buckeyes.
“Miss Representation”
Room 155, DeBartolo Hall
6:30 p.m.
First 100 people receive free Chipotle.
Thursday
Women’s Tennis
Eck Center Pavilion
5 p.m.-7 p.m.
Notre Dame takes on the Western Michigan Broncos.
“Prayers in Islam”
Coleman-Morse Center
7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Discussion led by Dr. A. Rashied Omar.
Friday
“The Problem with Stereotypes”
Flanner Hall
3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m.
Irish Studies lecture by professor Clai Willis.
Bengal Bouts Final
Purcell Pavilion
6 p.m.-10 p.m.
The men’s boxing tournament crowns its champions.
Saturday
“Rabbit Hole”
Little Theatre Moreau Center for the Arts
7:30 p.m.
SMC spring production.
Loyal Sons and Daughters
Hesburgh Carey Auditorium
7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
$3-5

Corrections
A Feb. 22 article, “Week educates students on body image,” included an incorrect schedule of events for Love Your Body Week. A correct schedule can be found www.saintmarys.edu/news-events/news-releases/love-your-body-week-2013 on the College website. The Observer regrets this error. 

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Students promote awareness for Relay for Life

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI
News Writer
Purple hair extensions, purple clothing and purple desserts in the dining halls will flood campus this week to promote fundraising and awareness for the Notre Dame Relay for Life, which will take place Apr. 12 and 13. 
Freshman Teresa Kennedy, honorary student chairper­son for Notre Dame’s Relay for Life this year, the Relay com­mittee is hosting Purple Week 2013 through Friday to engage students in its larger mission on campus. The funds raised through Notre Dame’s Relay for Life in April will go to­ward cancer research at the American Cancer Society, Kennedy said. 
“[Purple Week] really has a dual purpose because first, all the funds raised go to the Relay and the money we col­lect there,” Kennedy said. “It’s also a way to get people inter­ested in the Relay and make it interactive, since all of these events are so public and hard to ignore.”
Notre Dame Relay for Life chairperson Jessica Brookshire said the commit­tee’s 2013 fundraising goal is $175,000. 
One of the most visible Purple Week activities is the sale of paper cutout feet, which can be purchased at locations all over campus for $1 each. Last year, paper feet sales raised $6,082 for the Relay, Brookshire said.
“It was a great fundraiser as far as dollars raised, but also [for] the awareness it brought about for the event,” Brookshire said.
Marc Burdell, an Alumni Association director and this year’s honorary faculty chair­person for the Relay for Life, said the paper feet have both symbolic and monetary value for the project.
“Many of the buildings on campus sell these purple feet for $1 and they’re put up all over campus to build a kind of path that leads to the Relay for Life in April,” Burdell said. “For the first time this year, students can purchase feet with Domer Dollars at the Huddle and Reckers.”
Kennedy said she is looking forward to “Wear Purple” day on Thursday, when commu­nity members are encouraged to dress in purple clothes to show support for the project.
“It will be interesting to see how many people there are that day who are willing to back up this cause and really get behind it,” Kennedy said. “It’s two months ahead of the Relay still, but it will be great to see the purple as a visible sign of support.” 
Purple is “the identify­ing color for [cancer] surivi­vors,” Kennedy said, and she can include both herself and Burdell in that category. Kennedy survived a rare form of tissue cancer and Burdell overcame a serious lympho­ma diagnosis. 
Burdell said he thinks of his position as honorary chairperson as an opportuni­ty to connect with others who are affected by cancer.
“I was diagnosed about three-and-a-half years ago, and before that, I was healthy,” Burdell said. “I had never even been in the hospital. I went from being unaware and unaffected to being a pretty severe cancer patient.
“Now, I can talk about pa­tient advocacy and what peo­ple can do to support each other. I find myself today leading a normal life, and as chairperson, I hope to help others understand what I’ve gone through and let them know that they can be em­powered to get through it too,” Burdell said. 
Kennedy said she was in­volved with the national Relay for Life in high school and that she’s pleased to have the opportunity to partici­pate in the Notre Dame ver­sion of the event.
“I’m glad I get to share my experience about what I went through with other people here, and I hope people will be able to come to me for sup­port if they or someone they know has cancer,” Kennedy said. “I’m an example that you can lead a totally normal life after a cancer diagnosis.” 
Purple hair extensions will be sold in the Coleman Morse center on Friday, and purple feet will be sold all week across campus. Notre Dame’s Relay for Life will take place from Apr. 12 to 13 at the Compton Family Ice Arena. Information about the event can be found at relay.org/NDin. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observe

“I find myself today leading a normal life, and as chairperson, I hope to help others understand what I’ve gone through and let them know that they can be empowered to get through it too.”
Marc Burdell
honorary faculty chairperson Relay for Life

Alumna kicks off Love Your Body Week at SMC

By MEAGHAN DALY
News Writer
To mark the beginning of Love Your Body Week (LYBW) at Saint Mary’s, Whitney Werner, creator of the BeYOUtiful self-esteem program, talked about body image Monday in Vander Vennet Theatre in the Student Center.
“If a person has one other person in their life to trust and be there for them, that can save them,” Werner said. “It is in small groups and small moments that big things can happen. The mo­ments that you have with in­dividual people can impact a person’s life.”
Werner, a 2010 alumna of the College, developed BeYOUtiful three years ago to promote confidence in middle-school girls in South Bend. The program allows the girls to inter­act in a discussion format in which leaders guide the conversations. 
Sophomore Samantha Moorhead, co-chair of LYBW, said she thought Werner had a great story to tell Saint Mary’s. 
“Seeing the impact the program can have on those girls is so important for such a vulnerable age group,” Moorhead said. “Learning about how I can help and sharing with Saint Mary’s girls how they can help is important, [Werner] has such a powerful story that translates over to why she is so passionate about it.”
Werner recounted her own experiences with bullying and self-harm. “Many of our physical issues we hate about our bodies make us look to fix our internal prob­lems by trying to ‘fix’ exter­nal features,” Werner said. 
“Healing starts with us. … We can only take people as far as we have been willing to go with ourselves. By be­ing willing to take care of ourselves, we become more empowered to help others.”
Werner said one of the first steps to appreciating one’s body is to love who he or she is on the inside. “When people know they matter, it’s amazing how you can im­pact their life,” she said.
Werner said low self-es­teem affects how people treat others. 
“You have to have pride in things that you do,” she said. 
Werner suggested writ­ing compliments on the bathroom mirror. “Write the truths you need to hear about yourself and tell your­self that every day,” she said. “Give yourself compliments. It does not have to be seen as an arrogant thing.” Women tend to compare their fea­tures to those thought to be ideal, Werner said. This makes women feel like they have failed. “A big part of it is realizing comparing isn’t healthy. I’m me and that’s okay,” Werner said. 
Junior Katherine Kautz said students at an all-wom­en’s college like Saint Mary’s have a greater chance of comparing themselves to other women.
“It stresses the fact that you need to start with re­specting and loving yourself first,” Kautz said. 
Werner said women should focus on growing from the inside, out. 
“If you work on yourself, it develops beauty from a whole new way and spills onto other people,” she said. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at
mdaly01@saintmarys.edu


“If you work on yourself, it develops beauty from a whole new way and spills onto other people.”
Whitney Werner
founder of BeYOUtiful
2010 alumna

JULIE HERDER | The Observer
Whitney Werner, a 2010 alumna of Saint Mary’s, speaks Monday 
evening about her program BeYOUtiful as part of Love Your Body Week.

4

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

College offers new languages

Rector
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observe

By MEG HANDELMAN
News Writer
Beginning this fall, students enrolled in the international economics major will be able to choose five additional lan­guages in their course of study, a change that will better position these students for careers in for­eign operations, a press release stated Friday. 
“Beginning this fall, University of Notre Dame undergraduate students in­terested in pursuing interna­tional economics as a major can choose from among five new language options: Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, German and Russian,” the release stated.
These languages will be of­fered in addition to French, Italian and Spanish, which are already available to students. 
Established in the summer of 2012, international econom­ics is the newest major in the College of Arts and Letters. The program “combines substantial coursework in the Department of Economics with advanced training in language and cul­ture,” according to the release
Professor Richard Jensen, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor and Chair of Economics, said the de­partment always intended to add more languages once the University approved the pro­posal for the international eco­nomics major. 
“Nearly 30 students now have declared the major with only the romance languages as an op­tion, so it appears the demand for this new major with all lan­guages will be substantial,” Jensen said. 
Jensen said that the major was designed to prepare students for jobs in foreign operations for major firms, NGOs or govern­mental agencies. 
“It is more likely to hire a stu­dent with both expertise in eco­nomics and in language and culture of the country than a student with only expertise in economics or a student with only expertise in language and culture,” Jensen said. 
Dayle Seidenspinner-Núñez, chair of the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures, said this collaboration will ad­dress a key area of interest for students in his department. The change will be specifically valuable for students majoring in Chinese or Japanese in addi­tion to business or economics, he said. 
“We are excited to offer this opportunity for our students to pursue both fields of study in a more integrated way,” Seidenspinner-Núñez said.
German is expected to be a popular option for International economics majors as well, Denise DellaRossa, professor and director of undergraduate studies in the German program, said. 
“One just has to look at the current global economic crisis to see the leadership role that Germany is playing — and will continue to play,” DellaRossa said. “Combining the study of German language and culture with the study of economics is a natural move for the two disciplines.”
David Gasperetti, chair of the Department of German and Russian Languages and Literatures, said knowledge of Russian language and culture will be a valuable commodity as that nation seeks to once again become a major player on the international stage.
“Students who combine the study of economics with Russian will be preparing them­selves to engage with one of the most important economic de­velopments of the first half of the 21st century,” he said. 
Elizabeth Mazurek, chair of the Department of Classics, which houses the College’s Arabic language program, said this is a time of unprecedented political change in the Middle East as well. She said Arabic lan­guage and culture studies will be crucial for students seeking to understand consumer mar­kets in the region.
“An important part of the Arabic curriculum at Notre Dame is the study of Islam, which goes far beyond the Middle East and influences con­sumer markets in large parts of Africa and Asia as well,” she said.
No matter which course of language and cultural studies students choose, Jensen said the new international economics major can position them to be­come leaders in business, gov­ernment or nonprofits.
“The more languages that are involved in this major, the more Notre Dame students can ben­efit from it,” Jensen said. 
Contact Meg Handelman at
mhandelm@nd.edu

Social Media
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

5

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Coed
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Disorders
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

“If you have a concern, it should be expressed in the spirit of care and compassion.”
Maureen Lafferty
assistant director
University Counseling Center

6

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Our introduction to ‘philosophy’

INSIDE COLUMN

The Oscar goes to...

Last semester, I helped a friend with her Introduction to Philosophy course. Like many Introduction to Philosophy courses at Notre Dame, it functioned primarily as an introduction to intel­lectual history and as an introduction to certain mind games. Such courses have instilled a general sense that philosophy is largely a waste of time. This sense is confirmed by students whose only expo­sure to philosophy is: “How do you really know that you exist?” For many, philoso­phy progresses in a series of pointless questions. If a tree falls in a forest and no one is around to hear it, does it really make a sound?
Untrained introductions to these kinds of questions are largely opposed to what has driven me to philosophy. I will always carry with me one high school teacher’s definition of history: “A record of man’s interactions revealing God’s plan for the universe.” I am largely ig­norant of the academic study of history, but this definition has enabled me to see history as part of the order of things. History has a place in the meaning of the universe. Such placement and order is the highest pursuit of the philosopher. As Pope John Paul II suggests in “Fides et Ratio,” philosophy seeks “to ask radi­cal questions about the meaning and ultimate foundation of human, personal and social existence.”
The search for meaning and order in the world further enables meaning and order in the pursuit of knowledge and in our personal and communal lives. It leads to wonder, and it dispels confusion. Though limited, it seeks to overcome obscurity. It may cause un­easiness, but it rejects despair. It ignites the desire to know what is.
Yet, my friends often complete their Introduction to Philosophy courses with more confusion and less wonder. Their assignments are completed with frus­tration. Students assume that what they have studied in their philosophy courses have nothing to do with anything. This is largely at odds with at least one stated goal of the philosophy requirement at Notre Dame, which is “to learn to think in depth about the problems posed by a life of faith.”
In Nieuwland Hall, a science professor completes his lecture and accepts ques­tions from the class. A freshman raises her hand and asks, “What are the impli­cations of this theory on how we view free will?” The professor chuckles and responds simply, “That is a question for your philosophy class.”
This situation illustrates a great para­dox in the Notre Dame education: The expectation that Notre Dame students graduate more educated than their pro­fessors. Students have a variety of gen­eral requirements because Notre Dame believes that it is important that edu­cated human beings have a basic knowl­edge of the various kinds of thought and how they are related. Such knowledge partly constitutes what it is to be an educated and free human being.
If this is so, my friend’s professor can hardly be said to be educated and free. He has failed to make connections that a basic introduction to philosophy course should be intended to make. We now have a generation of scholars with few answers, except, “That is a question for your philosophy class.” While they have progressed immensely in their special­ized fields, they possess no more of a basic understanding of the world than their students. As John Paul II writes, “With a false modesty, people rest con­tent with partial and provisional truths.”
Thus, the formation of students in the philosophical discipline becomes increasingly important in the modern world. Our scientists, accountants and academics must be reminded of the highest pursuits of humanity. Pope Benedict XVI once said, “Men and wom­en are free to interpret, to give a mean­ing to reality, and it is in this freedom itself that the great dignity of the human being exists.” It is important that our philosophy professors and courses seek to promote this great dignity.
An additional task comes, then, with the introduction of graduate students who teach many of the introductory courses, including those of philosophy and theology. Should the task of intel­lectually forming the student body be placed on these graduate students, the University has a grave responsibility to ensure that these graduate students em­body and promote its unique mission. I will not further expound upon this line of thought here. This is a question for your philosophy class.
Christopher Damian is a senior study­ing philosophy. He can be contacted at cdamian1@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Christopher Damian
Ideas of a University 

Isaac Lorton
Sports Writer


Let’s talk about the Oscars.
Best director and best original screen­play goes to Oscar Wilde.
For writing and directing “The Importance of Being Earnest,” Oscar Wilde receives the best director and best original screenplay. One of the great Irish playwrights and satirists, Wilde has for­ever changed the game when it comes to all types of comedies. Whether it is a romcom, a slapstick or an action comedy, it can be traced back to Wilde’s genius in “The Importance of Being Earnest.” The story includes the classic mixup, social criticism and a plethora of emotions. Wilde was so advanced in his thinking, he came up with the original “catfishing,” which he coined as “bunburying.”       
Best actor in a lead role goes to Oscar Robertson.
Who better to lead your team than one of the greatest guards of all time? Oscar “Big O” was the only player in NBA his­tory to average a triple-double over an en­tire season in 1961-62. It was Robertson’s second year in the league and he ac­cumulated 30.8 points, 12.5 rebounds and 11.4 assists per game. Robertson was a 12-time NBA All-Star, a league MVP and brought the Milwaukee Bucks their only NBA Championship in the 1970-71 season. Robertson was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1980. For all of his contribution as a dominant player, Oscar Robertson receives the award for best ac­tor in a lead role.
Best supporting actor goes to Oscar the Grouch.
Mr. Grouch has selflessly portrayed the bad guy for 43 years and some change, without fail and without recognition. He is the perfect antagonist. How would Kermit, Miss Piggy, Elmo, Big Bird and the rest seem so happy and good at what they do, unless they had a character to offset their traits? Yet the deepness that he displays portrays his role is often over-simplified to a can full of trash. When Mr. Grouch holds up the sign telling people to SCRAM, he just wants somebody to give him a hug. Mr. Grouch provides a charac­ter to pity, to empathize with and to hope for and love.      
Best original song goes to Oscar Meyer.
Try thinking about bologna without singing what Oscar Meyer has a way with — you can’t, it’s impossible. The tune is so darn catchy, it puts Rebecca Black, Carly Rae Jepsen and PSY to shame. No one knows exactly what is in bologna, but Mr. Meyer makes everyone want to have a piece of bologna with his moving master­piece. For his work on the musical,“The Butcher: A Tale of the Invention of Bologna,” Oscar Meyer is awarded Best original song. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON


Follow us on Twitter.
@ObserverViewpnt



QUOTE OF THE DAY
“Always forgive your enemies; nothing annoys them so much.”

Oscar Wilde
Irish dramatist, novelist & poet

Contact Isaac Lorton at      
ilorton@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

7

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Study abroad deadline hits too early

One day I sat down in an info session for a minor I was interested in at the time. The Professor used the session not just to talk about the minor, but also to give some general advice for any ND student. The most memorable item was: “Get the hell away from Notre Dame. You’ve got to study abroad.” Following that advice, I scrambled this past November to fin­ish a 500-word essay on why I would be a good fit for Notre Dame’s Washington Program and why the Washington Program would be a good fit for me.
On reflection, I didn’t entirely know the answer to that question at the time and still do not. I knew the Washington Program would be a valuable experience, but then again, so would Sao Paulo. Or Santiago. Or Athens. Or Toledo. It all seemed so far off, because it was and still is. The way our University handles the study abroad application process has several negative consequences stem­ming from one ridiculous deadline.
The first of these, and one which is implicitly writ­ten off, is that students effectively cannot study abroad their sophomore year. There are no formal restrictions, sure, but what freshman is even going to think of applying to live in a foreign country for five months when they have barely settled into their dorm? Plenty of freshmen have yet to even venture off campus by Nov. 15. The expectation that any of them would have the foresight to apply for study abroad by then is absurd.
We might be inclined to think this is okay because of the model we have become accustomed to, but there would be numerous benefits associated with a greater number of sophomores doing international study. For students whose fifth or sixth semesters would be better spent in South Bend prepping for the MCAT, LSAT or GRE, or taking more upper-level classes in their major, going abroad fall or spring of sophomore year may be the most ideal time.
Another reason we should reverse the paradigm that only juniors go abroad appeals to the sort of global awareness and action that an international experience is supposed to instill. If a visit to an exotic country inspires an idea for a new service initiative or research project here at ND, that idea has a far better chance of getting implemented if the student still has four or five semesters left here when they return.
These are very real benefits, and they will con­tinue to go untapped if the deadline to apply for nearly all study abroad programs continues to fall in mid-November. Those who aren’t convinced that in­creasing the number of freshmen who apply to study abroad their sophomore year is a good thing could at least agree that applying in mid-November for a course of study you may not begin for another nine to 15 months is a ridiculous expectation. Put anoth­er way, why is it that if I wanted to study in London this June, the application was due last week, but if I want to study there next January, my application was due back in November? It does not have to be this way. At Georgetown, for example, the deadline for fall 2013 international study programs was Feb. 12. Students there who want to study next spring don’t have to apply until next fall.
Now I hate comparing us to Georgetown as much as anybody, but they have international study down to a science. Seventy-six percent of their students go abroad at some point during their college careers, and I imagine we can trace this to how convenient they seem to make it.
Ideally, a study abroad venture not only exposes one to different countries and cultures, but furthers one’s academic interests. These can take a while to form. I, for instance, didn’t declare a major until five weeks ago. Yet the application for the study abroad experience that is supposed to complement those interests was due three months back. What if I had messed up? What if the classes I took this semester led me to think I am really best suited for a semester in China or Uganda? I could go floundering to 105 Main Building and beg to be put on a wait list, but this could be at best a pain and at worst completely futile. Closing the gap between applying for a pro­gram and actually beginning it would eliminate this sort of regrettable second guessing.
The Office of International Studies does do a lot of great work. They coordinate 40 programs in 20 countries and manage to get 60 percent of us to study in other countries before we graduate. That is amazing by any standard. And while I’m sure there are some legitimate reasons for the status quo, there are also real ways to improve. A more fluid and responsive study abroad application process that pushes students abroad earlier in their college careers and shrinks the gap between applying and actually starting one’s program will increase the amount of Notre Dame students going abroad and make those who do more productive and satisfied in their programs. This is a multifaceted process, but a logical first step is removing the one-size-fits-all Nov. 15 deadline. It’s one of the parts of the study abroad process that nobody will look back on fondly.
Alex Caton is a sophomore studying political sci­ence.  He can be contacted at acanton@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Alex Canton
Modest Proposals

UWIRE

Four people you hate to see at a midterm

Massive amounts of cramming, stress and lack of sleep make midterms a guaranteed source of headaches. Once the exam actually rolls around we’re usually pretty happy just to sit down and get it over with, until we realize there’s another midterm menace: our fellow classmates. With mid­terms around the corner, the Clog compiled a list of annoying types of people that make us tick during tests.
1. The Cougher: When taking an exam, there al­ways seems to be that one person who sounds like they should be in the ER rather than taking a test. Although we can’t help feeling a bit sorry for these troopers who manage to get through the midterm ordeal while sporting a cold, we also think it’s hard enough to concentrate on getting the Progressive Amendments right without having to listen to the person behind us blowing their noise with a sound reminiscent of the Horn of Gondor.
2. The One Who Needs to Take it Easy: This is the person that literally can’t wait to take the exam. Identifiable characteristics include tapping the desk impatiently with a pen or pencil, bringing ten extra pencils, properly putting all other mate­rial underneath their chair and shushing other classmates as the test is being handed out. Once the test’s gotten started, you can pick out this per­son from the sound of their pen going to town on the paper at a speed that we suspect constitutes a serious fire hazard. To this type of test-taker, we’d only like to pass on the following message: Relax — you’re kind of scaring us.
3. The Insistent Inquirer: It’s always nice to take a moment and collect your thoughts before the trial by fire known as taking an exam begins. This person, however, isn’t going to let you do that. As you take a deep breath and try to clear your mind there’s bound to be that inevitable tap on your shoulder followed by an assault of questions. “Hey, what’s the Homestead Act again? What’s the significance of the lovers reuniting at the end of the novel?” Once the exam drops down on our desk this person’s managed to make us completely con­fused of everything from the exam material to our mother’s name. Thanks a lot.
4. The Latecomer: You’ve gotten settled in, the midterm’s been passed around and you just figured out a genius answer for the first exam question (well, some kind of answer at least). Then the un­avoidable happens. You look up to see the person that just arrived ten minutes late trying to get to the empty seat on the other side of you. Oh, you’d like to get through? Sure, we’ll just fold our stuff up, get up and awkwardly let you squeeze by, no prob­lem. Or, on second thought, how about you just get here on time like the rest of us suckers.
This column originally ran in the Feb. 25 edition of The Daily Clog, serving The University of California, Berkley.
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Corinne Platten
The Daily Clog


8

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


By KRISTEN DURBIN
Scene Writer
Passion Pit has peppered the soundtrack of my college career ever since I first heard their hit “Sleepyhead” at the end of my freshman year. Now the friends I made as a freshman while listening to the band’s 2009 full-length debut “Manners” have become fellow members of a post-graduation bridal party, and Passion Pit’s infectious fal­setto hooks and beats will forever evoke happy memories of dorm parties in 133 Duncan Hall. 
In the nearly three years since, I’ve seen Passion Pit live at two different campuses of the University of Illinois, the most recent experience last Friday at UIC Pavilion. 
Compared to Champaign’s cavernous Assembly Hall, the midsize arena was an ideal venue for the band’s dance-inspiring set and colorful backdrop, although the all-ages show attracted fans from just about every demo­graphic possible, from 14-year-old girls donning braces to middle-aged patrons of Chicago’s alternative rock ra­dio stations.  
Friday’s performance was a far more enjoyable and en­tertaining concert experience than my first Passion Pit show due in part to a more varied setlist, better seats and a group of friends who love dancing.
In typical Passion Pit fashion, singer Michael Angelakos led the sold-out crowd in rousing renditions of the band’s lyrically depressing yet sonically stimulating material, beginning with the darkly reflective but highly upbeat “I’ll Be Alright.” Throughout the show, I was reminded over and over of the band’s impeccable knack for getting people to dance along blissfully to some of the most self-analytical, gloomy music in rotation right now, but that didn’t mean I didn’t stop dancing during the entire 16-song set. 
To my satisfaction, the band split their setlist between tracks from both “Manners” and their second album, 2012’s “Gossamer,” including the crowd-pleasing (though no less emotionally dark) Taco Bell jingle “Take a Walk” and the quasi-hip-hop inflections of “The Reeling.”
Some of my favorite performances of the night were new tracks, namely a rollicking rendition of “Carried Away” that turned the crowd into a giant choir and a slightly toned-down, clap-along version of “Constant Conversations.”
Since I don’t dislike any song on either of Passion Pit’s albums, I thought I’d be hard-pressed to choose a favorite track of the night until the band began the swelling gui­tar and synth intro to “Moth’s Wings.” The moment at­tained epic proportions nearly on the level of Coldplay’s live intro to “Yellow,” albeit before a much smaller audi­ence than at the British group’s massive Lollapalooza set in 2011.
Passion Pit closed their set with arguably their two biggest hits, ending the main set on a high note with “Sleepyhead” and returning for an encore with the anthe­mic “Little Secrets.” Years of listening to those songs on repeat made the concert’s conclusion one to remember. 
But Passion Pit wasn’t the only reason for the show’s success in my book. As an avid concert-goer, I’ve seen my fair share of mediocre-at-best opening acts, but Friday’s show had easily the most stacked single-concert lineup I’ve had the opportunity to see. Swedish DJ duo Icona Pop’s brisk, beat-heavy set, concluding with the current Finny’s favorite “I Love It,” prepped the audience for the immensely fun second opener — and equally deserving headliner — Matt and Kim. The Brooklyn indie duo (and couple) delivered the most spirited set I could have imag­ined, complete with raunchy jokes, Kim’s yellow zebra-striped pants and a good deal of standing on drum sets and keyboards while somehow still managing to tear through bouncy hits like “Daylight” and “Let’s Go.” With a high-energy lineup like this, I’d have a hard time find­ing a better way to spend a Friday night.
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu


Image courtesy of livenation.com



Image courtesy of thepassionpit.com
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer

9

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


To hate-watch is to willingly watch a broadcast that you know you won’t enjoy, solely so you know exactly what to complain about. 
“Hate-watching” is a phenomenon that is only ap­propriate for a select number of shows and broadcasts. These shows motivate the viewers to watch, but their real appeals lies in the fact that they are so awful. That is, viewers feel compelled to watch these things so they can know definitively what exactly they hate about the shows. Viewers don’t go in expecting to enjoy these broadcasts. In fact, the opposite is true. They know they’re going to complain about the program but want to be able to base their complaints in concrete things that happened in said program. 
One of the most popular shows to hate-watch is “Glee.” It started out as a funny, charming TV show, but grew into something much, much worse. It abandoned its original brilliance and turned into a preachy show with some of the most asinine plot twists ever seen on television. Those “Glee” viewers who have persevered through the years are not enjoying themselves, but merely enjoy being a meaningful part of the hate-fest that ensues after each ridiculous episode. 
I hate-watched the Oscars on Sunday. 
There is just something inherently annoying about the Oscars. It’s a giant theater full of wealthy people who gather to compliment each other. They compli­ment each other on their clothes, their talents and their awe-inspiring performances. For four hours. Because, you know, movie stars don’t get quite enough attention and adoration as is. Watching the Oscars made me roll my eyes a lot. 
All of these endless compliments were interspersed with awkward and misogynistic joke attempts by Seth MacFarlane. He did an entire song-and-dance number devoted to movies in which actresses appear nude. There was really no reprieve granted from the eye rolling. 
The Oscar nominees and guests didn’t make things better either. Kristen Stewart’s unpleasant mug got more face time then I would like to think about, and Quentin Tarantino’s bizarre mannerisms and egomania were not enjoyable to watch. And yet, I know about all of these things be­cause I hate-watched. 
I think Anne Hathaway best en­capsulates the phenomenon of hate-watching. Everyone knew she was going to win for Supporting Actress, and nobody likes her. In “Les Miserables,” Hathaway sang, cried and sang while crying, all into a camera situated six inches from her face. She did so brilliantly and inspired the praise of many critics. She had the Oscar in the bag. It was inevitable that she was going to win the award and make a gasping, over-eager and annoying acceptance speech. She didn’t disap­point. I think I heard a collective “ugh” from all the hate-watchers when Hathaway walked up to get her trophy. 
That being said, there was one thing I sincerely enjoyed about the Oscars, and that thing is Jennifer Lawrence. Her witty, self-deprecating and sarcastic interviews have earned her a strong Internet fan base, and she seems grounded and relatable, which is obvi­ously a novelty in Hollywood. Lawrence won Best Actress for her role in “Silver Linings Playbook,” despite being a slight underdog to Jessica Chastain of “Zero Dark Thirty.”
On the way up to the podium, Lawrence fell down. She tripped on her absurdly long dress, and was lying on the stairs for an agonizingly long time. When she gained her footing and made her acceptance speech, she sheep­ishly acknowledged her fall be­fore continuing with her spiel. Lawrence seemed genuine, like­able and most of all, real. I tried to hate-watch this moment but I absolutely could not. 
Jennifer Lawrence spoiled my perfect night of hate-watching and I didn’t hate that. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Troy Mathew
Scene Writer


AP


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer

10

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

CLASSIFIEDS

NCAA

SPORTS AUTHORITY

The undeniable impact of Lance

Marquette upsets Syracuse

Associated Press

On Saturday, Davante Gardner was in Buzz Williams’ doghouse with the Marquette coach benching his junior center after only 11 minutes against Villanova for poor play.
What a difference two days make.
Gardner scored a career-high 26 points and No. 22 Marquette beat No. 12 Syracuse 74-71 on Monday night in a game that further tightened things at the top of the Big East.
“Against their zone he un­derstands where their gap is,” Williams said of Gardner. “He just understands space and obviously he did a really good job.”
After Marquette’s 60-56 loss at Villanova on Saturday, Williams said he benched Gardner center because “he played really bad.”
Gardner played the exact opposite against Syracuse, making all seven of his shots and converting 12 of 13 free throws in 33 minutes. He even tried to help teammate Jamil Wilson wipe up some sweat on the court in the final minutes during a timeout.
“I know I didn’t play well against Villanova,” Gardner said. “I didn’t have a good game, so I decided I’d play my best against Syracuse and try to get my team a win.”
Marquette missed nine consecutive shots in the first half and was having to settle for jumpers, falling behind 25-14. Gardner started to make his large presence felt late in the half, scoring on a rebound with 3:45 left in the first half for his first field goal.
Gardner dominated from there. When he wasn’t scor­ing, he was getting fouled and making free throws.
Williams said Gardner un­derstands how to find gaps in zone defenses, including the one run by the Orange.
“You’ve got to make that zone collapse, otherwise their length smothers you,” Williams said of Syracuse.
Marquette (20-7, 11-4 Big East) pulled into second place in the conference, one-half game behind No. 7 Georgetown.
C.J. Fair had 20 points for Syracuse (22-6, 10-5), which has lost three of five and dropped into a tie for fourth with No. 21 Notre Dame.
No. 10 Louisville is alone in third, a game behind Georgetown.
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said his team lost because it couldn’t handle Gardner and didn’t rebound well. Marquette made 29 of 35 free throws while Syracuse made only five of seven.
“We scored enough points tonight, I just think our de­fense wasn’t good enough, especially our rebounding,” Boeheim said before scolding reporters for bringing up sub­jects he felt were questioning his coaching decisions.
“You ought to know by now that if you start to ask me those questions, I’ll just laugh at you,” he said. “That’s all I’ll do. Go get your Pulitzer someplace else.”
Reserve guard Todd Mayo hit two 3-pointers during a decisive 15-2 Marquette run in the second half, and Gardner gave the Golden Eagles the lead for good at 56-55 on an 8-foot jumper in the lane with 5:05 left.
Michael Carter-Williams hit a 3-pointer with 1 second left to pull the Orange within 73-71, but Vander Blue hit a free throw with two-tenths of a second to go. Syracuse didn’t get a shot off and the game ended.
Mayo’s second 3 made it 59-55 with 3:54 to go, and Junior Cadougan was fouled while attempting a fast-break layup.
Syracuse called time out, and Gardner and Wilson didn’t immediately go to the bench. They tried to clean up sweat in the Syracuse lane. Wilson grabbed a mop with Gardner pointing out the perspiration while Marquette assistant coaches frantically waved for them to leave the cleanup for others and join the huddle.
“I was just trying to help out a teammate,” Gardner said.
Cadougan hit two free throws to extend the lead to 61-55 with 3:37 to go.
James Southerland hit two 3-pointers to keep the Orange close in the final 70 seconds, but Marquette made its free throws to hold the lead.
Marquette made 24 of 28 free throws in the second half while Syracuse was 1 of 2.
Cadougan and Wilson both scored 12 points for Marquette, which extended its home winning streak to 24 games, second-longest in the nation.
Southerland scored 15 points and Carter-Williams added 14 for the Orange.


Editor’s note: This is the second in a 12-part series discussing the defining sportsman (or woman) of this century. In this installment, Sam Gans argues for Lance Armstrong. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #DefiningSportsman.

   Sports fans love to cheer for the underdog who defies odds to become a champion. They’re also captivated when the big, bad juggernaut crashes down to earth from the mountaintop.
Rare is the athlete who does both.
Lance Armstrong is the de­fining sportsman of the 21st century partially because of his now-vacated success, but mostly because of his impact, both positive and negative, within and outside athletics. He was a hero to so many and is now a villain. And he is the poster child for what is perhaps the most defining sports story of the century up to this point.
From an athletic standpoint, no one was more dominant than Armstrong from 2001-12. Armstrong earned the title of male Associated Press Athlete of the Year four times, winning the award each year from 2002 through 2005 and tying Tiger Woods for the most since the award’s inception in 1931. And only one of Woods’ four was in this century. 
Armstrong won a record seven Tour de France titles from 1999-2005, making the latter five of those wins in the 21st century. Only four other riders have won five Tour de France championships, and just one won all five consecu­tively. Armstrong’s success was unprecedented.
The fact Armstrong’s suc­cess was in the lesser-known sport of cycling might chal­lenge his defining sportsman candidacy. But cycling is one of the most physically and men­tally demanding sports on the planet, and though teamwork is important to competition, a rider’s success is primarily individual. In fact, cycling’s obscurity shows precisely why Armstrong is the defining sportsman of the 21st century up to this point.
Ask the casual sports fan to name 20 football players, bas­ketball players or golfers and he or she could do it. But could the casual fan name 10 cyclists? Five? Two?
But Armstrong’s been a household name throughout the century. The fact he was able to achieve this recogni­tion in cycling shows just how dominant he became and how much of an impact he had be­yond cycling for the diehard sports fan, the casual sports fan and even those who don’t follow sports. 
He transcended athletics and moved into popular cul­ture, providing inspiration to the fictional Peter Lafleur in “Dodgeball” and to millions of real-life Americans — cancer survivors and otherwise — through the Lance Armstrong Foundation, which he founded in 1997 after his diagnosis, treatment and recovery from testicular cancer. The founda­tion started the famous and widely popular Livestrong wristband campaign in 2004, and the movement has raised tens of millions of dollars for cancer research and victim support.
Of course, that’s all posi­tive news. The problem is Armstrong’s name now invokes much more negative feelings. His dominant athletic success? It is debunked, because his individual accomplishments technically no longer exist after he admitted to cheating through blood doping.
This column is discussing the defining sports individual of the 21st century, but what is the defining overall sports story of this century so far? I’d argue it’s the blatant cheating that has occurred throughout athletics, as players have altered their bodies illegally to improve re­sults. This has been most no­table with PED use in baseball and football. But no individ­ual has signified it more than Armstrong through doping. 
While his success in athletics and popular culture made him the likely choice for top sports­man of the past 12 years, his shortcomings have in a twisted sense cemented it, because cheating itself has defined sports this century. And no one’s defined cheating and how it can benefit an athlete — and tarnish that athlete’s reputa­tion — more than Armstrong.
Lance Armstrong has been the most accomplished athlete in sports since 2001, one of the biggest sports names through­out the country outside athlet­ics and the prime example of what might be the top story in sports in the past 12 years due to his cheating, which ruined nearly all positive opinions of him.
How could anyone else be a more defining sportsman of the 21st century?
Contact Sam Gans at 
sgans@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Sam Gans
Sports Writer


AP
Marquette’s Todd Mayo celebrates during the Golden Eagles’  74-71 upset win over Syracuse on Monday night in Milwaukee.

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

PERSONAL
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu
“Only the Good Die Young” by Billy Joel
You might have heard I run with a dangerous crowd.

We ain’t too pretty, we ain’t too proud.

We might be laughing a bit too loud, aw, but that never hurt no one.

Only the good die young.
“Only the Good Die Young” by Billy Joel
They say there’s a heav­en for those who will wait.

Some say it’s better, but I say it ain’t.
I’d rather laugh with the sin­ners than cry with the saints, the sinners are much more fun.

You know that only the good die young.

11

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

MLB

Talks stir about increasing drug penalties

Associated Press
DUNEDIN, Fla. — Baseball union head Michael Weiner said Monday there have been talks about increasing the penalties for violating base­ball’s drug testing program.
“There are certainly some players who have expressed that,” Weiner said. “We’ve had discussions with the commis­sioner’s office. If it turns out that we have a different pen­alty structure because that’s what players are interested in, that’s what the owners are interested in, it will be for 2014.”
Weiner spoke to the media after he met with the Toronto Blue Jays as part of his annual tour of spring training camps.
“On one hand, we do have the toughest penalties of any team sport,” Weiner said. “Fifty games is more than you’d see for the first time in football and hockey and bas­ketball. More and more play­ers are vocal about the desire to have a clean game. More and More players are vocal about being willing to accept sacrifices in terms of testing in order to make sure we have a clean game.”
Changes to the drug pro­gram must be approved by both Major League Baseball and the players’ union.
“One of the strengths of our Joint Drug Testing Program is that the bargaining par­ties have an ongoing dialogue about the program and po­tential changes that can make it even more effective,” Rob Manfred, baseball’s executive vice president for econom­ics and league affairs, said in a statement. “We look for­ward to discussions with the MLBPA about changes that may be needed to respond to recent developments.”
One area where increased attention helped encourage change was in testing for hu­man growth hormone.
“The players approved this change, and it was an important change to have year around blood testing to improve the possibility of de­tection for the use of HGH,” Weiner said. “It was some­thing the players felt very strongly about. The players at this point have very little pa­tience for players that are try­ing to cheat the system, and understand that year around HGH testing is an important component.”
HGH testing began last year but was limited to spring training.
Also, Weiner says he will be speaking with the players who were named in a report by The Miami New Times as having allegedly purchased performance-enhancing drugs from a defunct Florida anti-aging clinic.
“Whether there’s anything to these stories or not, they’re (the players) sick of this is­sue,” Weiner said. “So, it’s natural for a lot of guys to say, maybe we need different pen­alties. We’ll have that discus­sion over the course of 2013.”
Weiner succeeded Donald Fehr as union head in 2009, and this tour is his first of spring training since an­nouncing in August he is be­ing treated for a brain tumor.


AP
Baseball union head Michael Weiner speaks during a news conference in New York on Nov. 28. Weiner an­nounced Monday there is active discussion about increasing penalties for drug violations.

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL

Indiana maintains No. 1 spot in AP poll 

Associated Press
SPOKANE, Wash. — Gonzaga has been in 14 NCAA tourna­ments, five of which ended with an appearance in the Round of 16. But no Gonzaga team has ever before been ranked No. 2 in The Associated Press’ Top 25, as the Zags were Monday.
Indiana remained No. 1 for the fourth straight week. Meanwhile, the little school from Spokane with the funny name moved up one spot to its highest ranking ever, surpass­ing the No. 3 position it enjoyed last week and for the final two weeks of 2003-04.
“It’s a special thing to be rec­ognized at this time of year,” guard Mike Hart said. “We’ve got 30 games under our belt. That says a lot. It’s not just a few games.”
That sentiment was echoed by coach Mark Few.
“The polls mean a lot more this time of year than they do in November, December, even January,” Few said. “All of us are being judged on the true body of work. It’s definitely rewarding.
“It establishes us as a nation­al program, which I believe we have been for the last 10 years. This group has done a great job of competing at that level, winning games at the highest level.”
While the West Coast Bulldogs made some news at the top of the poll Monday, Louisiana Tech, the Bulldogs from Down South, moved into the rankings for the first time since a 13-week run in 1984-85, their only appearance in the poll.
Louisiana Tech, which is 25th this week, was led back then to a ranking as high as No. 7 by a forward named Karl Malone. Gonzaga around that time had a point guard named John Stockton. They went on to become one of the great­est combinations in NBA his­tory with the Utah Jazz, were members of the Dream Team and both were inducted in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.
Stockton’s son, David, is a reserve guard for this year’s Gonzaga team. David Stockton said this edition of the Zags has its eye on March Madness.
“It’s March when we have been validated in the past, and that’s the next step,” Stockton said.
But he admitted the players and fans were relishing the ranking.
Guard Kevin Pangos cau­tioned that it is an ethereal honor.
“It can change in a flash in case we lose a game,” Pangos said, adding that players were well aware of the carnage at the upper reaches of the poll in recent weeks. “It makes us aware it can happen to us at any time.”
Gonzaga’s remaining regu­lar season games are at BYU on Thursday and at home against Portland on Saturday.
Louisiana Tech coach Michael White is another who has his eyes on March, even though his team cracked the poll for the first time in more than a quarter century.
“It’s not a goal we set out to accomplish,” White said. “What we’re really striving for is an NCAA tournament berth. But this is something that can’t be taken away from them, so I’m happy for them.”
The Hoosiers, who have been ranked No. 1 for a total of 10 weeks this season, received all but one first-place vote from the 65-member national media panel. Gonzaga got the other No. 1 vote.
Duke moved up three spots to third and was followed by Michigan and Miami, which dropped from second after falling to Wake Forest, the Hurricanes’ first Atlantic Coast Conference loss this season.
Kansas is sixth, followed by Georgetown, Florida, Michigan State and Louisville.
Saint Louis, which beat Butler and VCU last week, moved into 18th in the poll, the Billikens’ first ranking since being in for one week last season.
Colorado State, which was 22nd and lost twice last week, and VCU, which was 24th, dropped out.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


12

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

NFL

Brady extends contract with New England

Associated Press
Tom Brady will be a Patriot until he is 40 years old.
Brady agreed to a three-year contract extension with New England on Monday, a person familiar with the contract told The Associated Press. The ex­tension is worth about $27 million and will free up nearly $15 million in salary cap room for the team, which has sev­eral younger players it needs to re-sign or negotiate new deals with.
The person spoke on con­dition of anonymity because the extension has not been announced.
Sports Illustrated first reported the extension.
The 35-year-old two-time league MVP was signed through 2014, and has said he wants to play at least five more years.
A three-time Super Bowl champion, Brady will make far less in those three sea­sons than the going rate for star quarterbacks. Brady cur­rently has a four-year, $72 million deal with $48 million guaranteed.
Drew Brees and Peyton Manning are the NFL’s high­est-paid quarterbacks, at an average of $20 million and $18 million a year, respectively.
Brady has made it clear he wants to finish his career with the Patriots, whom he led to Super Bowl wins for the 2001, 2003 and 2004 seasons, and losses in the big game after the 2007 and 2011 seasons. By taking less money in the ex­tension and redoing his cur­rent contract, he’s hopeful New England can surround him with the parts to win more titles.
Among the Patriots’ free agents are top receiver Wes Welker and his backup, Julian Edelman; right tackle Sebastian Vollmer; cornerback Aqib Talib; and running back Danny Woodhead.
Brady has been the most suc­cessful quarterback of his era, of course, as well as one of the NFL’s best leaders. His skill at running the no-huddle offense is unsurpassed, and he’s easily adapted to the different offen­sive schemes New England has concentrated on through his 13 pro seasons.
The Patriots have gone from run-oriented in Brady’s early days to a deep passing team with Randy Moss to an offense dominated by throws to tight ends, running backs and slot receivers.
Brady holds the NFL record for touchdown passes in a sea­son with 50 in 2007, when the Patriots went 18-0 before losing the Super Bowl to the Giants. He has thrown for at least 28 touchdowns seven times and led the league three times.
Last season, Brady had 34 TD passes and eight intercep­tions as the Patriots went 12-4, leading the league with 557 points, 76 more than runner-up Denver.


AP
New England quarterback Tom Brady looks for a receiver during an NFL game against the Miami 
Dolphins on Dec. 2. Brady agreed to a three-year contract extension Monday.

NCAA BASKETBALL

Alabama and Auburn set for rematch game


Associated Press
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. — Alabama is trying to climb to the top of the Southeastern Conference while Auburn is scrambling to avoid a descent to the very bottom.
It might have seemed the other way around in the second half of their last meeting. The Crimson Tide’s shooters went frigid in a 49-37 defeat on Feb. 6 that set a standard for offensive futility in the in-state rivalry.
Alabama (18-9, 10-4 Southeastern Conference) has rebounded well enough from that humbling defeat to salvage at least some hope for a league title and NCAA tournament berth going into Tuesday night’s rematch. For the Tigers (9-18, 3-11), that still stands as their only win in a 12-game, six-week stretch.
“Regardless of what hap­pened in the first game, you get hyped up to play those guys,” Tide guard Andrew Steele said on Monday. “I don’t think we’re looking for any extra motivation.”
But just in case, that was the fewest points Alabama had scored in the first 146 meetings with Auburn. The Tide shot just 24 percent (6 of 25) and scored 14 points in the second half to blow a 10-point halftime lead.
That stands out as a tough loss even for an Alabama team com­ing off a triple-overtime defeat to LSU.
The Tide and Kentucky are tied for second in the SEC, two games behind No. 8 Florida. The Gators host Alabama on Saturday.
The Tigers’ dreadful stretch has them tied with South Carolina and only a game up on 14th-place Mississippi State in the standings.
Auburn coach Tony Barbee is still waiting for his team to re­peat that defensive performance from the Alabama game.
He’s also not sure if that win will be a confidence booster for Auburn, which is coming off an 88-55 loss to Mississippi.
“I think you can gain some confidence from that, but they’re probably a little differ­ent than when we played them a couple of weeks ago and obvi­ously we’re a little bit different and not in a good way,” Barbee said. “Hopefully that feeling of having beaten them once will bring the confidence, but that’s not necessarily what brings confidence, playing a team that you’ve beaten. It’s how you’re playing and how you feel about each other as a team and as teammates.”
Alabama has been better of­fensively since that game, but is still winning mostly with a de­fense that ranks second in the league allowing 58.7 points per game.
Trevor Releford scored a career-high 36 points in a 97-94, triple-overtime loss to LSU on Saturday that snapped Alabama’s four-game winning streak. The Tide blew a 10-point lead in the final three minutes of regulation in a game that might challenge the first meeting with Auburn as the toughest loss to swallow.
“They’ve always been one of the better defensive teams in the league and offensively they’re playing with a lot more confi­dence, putting up 94 points on the road at LSU,” Barbee said. “Even though it was triple over­time, that’s still a lot of points. They’ve become more explosive, more complete offensively.”
He has shuffled his lineup lately in search of another win.
Center Rob Chubb came off the bench against Mississippi while freshman Asauhn Dixon-Tatum started. Freshman Shaquille Johnson’s playing time has steadily increased and he’s started the past three games, scoring 18 against the Rebels when No. 2 scorer Chris Denson played only three minutes.
Even leading scorer Frankie Sullivan was lifted from the starting lineup for two games before making it back in for the past two games.
Alabama hasn’t dealt with nearly so many shakeups. Steele sat out the LSU game while nursing an ankle injury and said his status is “day to day.”
The Tide is hoping to rebound as well as it did after the Auburn game when it rattled off four straight wins.
“You try to learn from every situation,” Steele said. “I think we’ve learned from the Auburn game and (Tuesday) we’ll have a chance to prove what we learned against LSU.”

AP
Auburn’s Frankie Sullivan shoots against Scottie Wilbekin of Florida during a game in Auburn on Feb. 16.

13

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

Bouts
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16

BENGAL BOUTS

Captain Sassetti reflects on progress


By MEREDITH KELLY
Sports Writer
After a broken wrist his sopho­more year, junior Bengal Bouts captain Brett Sassetti is back in the ring and ready to fight. 
“Once you start getting back into it, it’s like a drug,” Sassetti said. “Especially when you win a spar or when you win a fight, it’s just something you want to keep doing.” 
And Sassetti has had his share of wins. He found success in the unfamiliar sport of boxing his freshman year, reaching the fi­nals in 2011. Although he lost in the 143-pound weight class to then-freshman Will Peterson, he said he was aware of how much he had achieved by making it to the finals.
Sassetti is boxing in the 176-pound weight class this year and has advanced to tonight’s semifinals. Reflecting on his jour­ney in Bengal Bouts so far, Sassetti said he believes he has grown as a fighter since his freshman year. 
“I was a really aggressive fighter freshman year and coach Kevin [Smith] has worked with me to be a better defensive fighter,” Sassetti said. “He helped me work on my technique and that kind of stuff, so he has been helping me this whole year.” 
Entering his first year of Bengal Bouts, Sassetti was not techni­cally experienced in the world of boxing as he ran cross country in high school. But while boxing and cross country are two very differ­ent sports, they are similar in the intensive training they entail. 
“It’s kind of the same training as far as endurance wise,” Sassetti said. “But cross country is boring cause all you’re doing is running. And boxing for me is way more exciting.” 
Intrigued by the sight of the boxing ring setup in the JACC on a visit during his senior year of high school, Sassetti said he decided to join Bengal Bouts his freshman year at Notre Dame. He also found a boxing companion in his fresh­man-year roommate Niels Seim. 
“My roommate Niels Seim boxed in high school, and he was going to do it,” Sassetti said. “I thought, as long as I had someone to go with, I might as well give it a shot.” 
Seim and Sassetti continued to go to practices together, watch­ing each other spar and motivat­ing each other to continue with Bengal Bouts. They also made it to the finals together as freshmen. Seim and Sassetti remain close to­day and are in each other’s corners during the bouts. 
“Being in someone’s corner is a pretty personal thing,” Sassetti said. “They talk to you in between rounds and before the fight when you’re really nervous. They just try to get your mind right and make sure you are focused.” 
Sassetti said he also finds en­couragement from his family, who are very supportive of his boxing. Sassetti’s parents — Bob and Aren — live in Elmwood Park, a western suburb of Chicago. 
“Freshman year, my parents came to all of my fights except the quarterfinals,” Sassetti said. “And for the finals freshman year, I had my sister come out and her hus­band and some of their friends. [So I had] pretty good family support.” 
Although always in the arena for support, Sassetti said his mother sometimes has a hard time watch­ing her son fight. 
“My mom and dad drive all the way here, and my mom some­times doesn’t watch the fight,” Sassetti said. “She goes and talks to the managers. She doesn’t like seeing me get hit.” 
Sassetti’s uncle, Jim Farina, also had a positive impact on Sassetti’s boxing career. After losing a hard-fought spar during prac­tice freshman year to Thomas Enzweiler, who went on to win the 154-pound weight class in 2011, Sassetti’s interest in boxing be­gan to wane. He retuned home for Christmas break wanting to quit. But he also was aware that he had a lot to consider before making his final decision.
“After the fight, I talked to my uncle and he talked me back into it. He said I should give it a shot,” Sassetti said. “He saw that deep down I wanted to do it, even though I was having some second thoughts.”  
Sassetti is now fully invested in Bengal Bouts, taking on his lead­ership duties as a junior captain. But since he was abroad this fall in Fremantle, Australia, he does not have a specific role among the captains.
It is Bengal Bouts tradition for coaches and captains to vote on the captains for the upcoming year. Even though Sassetti said he hopes to be a senior captain next year, those aspirations have been set aside for now as he mentally and physically prepares for the task at hand — tonight’s semifi­nal fight against law student Joey Stromberg. 
Regardless of the end result, Sassetti’s favorite thing about Bengal Bouts is the fighting. 
“You get into a zone that is really unlike any other sport, a focus you don’t really get anywhere else,” Sassetti said. “When you’re in the ring everything else just gets blocked out. Its pretty unique.” 
Contact Meredith Kelly at       mkelly29@nd.edu

“At this point, there isn’t any huge disparity in talent and experience between any given two boxers in the semis, so I think they’ll all be pretty good.”
Dan Yi
junior heavyweight captain

JULIE HERDER | The Observer
Junior captain Brett Sassetti, left, throws a punch at sophomore opponent Charlie Magiera, right, during the quarterfinals for the 176-pound weight class Feb. 20.

FENCING

Followill follows dream to Notre Dame

By LAURA COLETTI
Sports Writer
When freshman Sarah Followill was a sophomore in high school, she was not con­sidering the prestigious Notre Dame fencing program. 
That is, until she met Irish associate head coach Gia Kvaratskhelia while she was competing abroad. 
“I was at a World Cup in France and was staying at a friend’s house, and a coach needed a place to stay,” she said. “That coach happened to be [Kvaratskhelia]. He lived with us for about a week and got me in­terested in going to Notre Dame. Ever since then, my goal has been to come here.”
The Bellaire, Texas, native has reached that goal and beyond. She has fenced her way to a 25-4 record for the Irish, including a 13-1 showing at the Notre Dame Duals last weekend, which she competed in despite having a fever.
Followill first became interest­ed in fencing at a young age when her current hometown coach gave a demonstration at her el­ementary school. It was also at this time that Followill learned to use her current weapon, the foil.
“[My coach at home] is a foil coach, and since I was his stu­dent, I began fencing foil,” she said. 
The transition to collegiate fencing came easily for Followill and was helpful to her adjust­ment to life at Notre Dame. 
“Coming onto the fencing team at the beginning of the year was probably the most comfort I’ve felt in my entire transition to college,” she said. “I knew a lot of people on the team already, and the people I didn’t know were just as welcoming. Fencing and the fencing team is my outlet, and despite hard workouts and hard practices, it has always been the best part of my day. 
“The college transition was hard, like it is for most people, but I definitely have the best sup­port system in the world to back me up.”
Despite the ease of joining the team, there is one big difference between fencing for the Irish and fencing for her club in Texas.
“I came from a fencing club with all boys, so being on a team with girls is different and exciting for me,” Followill said. 
This weekend, Followill will earn her first monogram when she competes at the Midwest Conference Championships. She and the rest of the Irish will host the meet Saturday and Sunday in the Joyce Center.
Contact Laura Coletti at                lcoletti@nd.edu

14

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS


“[Tonight’s game] is a big game. ... [Syracuse] is ranked in the 
top 25, it has been in the top 25 all year and it’s going to be a big game.”
Muffet McGraw
Irish coach

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer
Junior guard Kayla McBride rushes toward the basket against Louisville on Feb. 11. McBride added 15 points to the 93-64 Irish victory.

Syracuse
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Diggins
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16

15

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | THE OBSERVER

DAILY

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rashida Jones, 37; Chelsea Handler, 38; Sean Astin, 42; Tea Leoni, 47
Happy Birthday: You’ve got everything going for you except a propensity to overdo it. Before making unrealistic promises or overspending, look at the possibilities and proceed with precision and a strict budget in place. This can turn out to be a fabulous year if you are vigilant in the way you go about reaching your goals. Your numbers are 2, 6, 18, 27, 29, 31, 45.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your changing attitude will influence the way your peers and colleagues treat you. Don’t hesitate to speak up regarding your goals and how you plan to move forward. Expect someone to make suggestions that have ulterior motives. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Interacting with people who can assist you will set the stage for future gains. Engage in events that help you expand your interests as well as encourage a strong alliance or partnership. 





GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Size up your situation quickly. Don’t take anything for granted or let anyone take advantage of you. Set your criteria and don’t budge even if someone tries to entice you. Empty promises are apparent. Get facts before you commit. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will gain approval for something you want to pursue if you get involved in a work-related event. Sharing plans will spark someone’s interest. An unusual connection will allow you to expand your plans and reach your goals. 




LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put more time and effort into legal, financial or medical issues that are weighing you down. An unorthodox approach will help you outsmart someone. A sudden or unexpected change will catch others off guard. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Ask and you shall receive. A partnership will help you take a project in a new and more profitable direction. Listen and collaborate, but make sure you maintain equality regarding both respon­sibilities and rewards. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Expand your interests, but don’t go overboard. A desire to overcompensate for someone else will not solve the problem you face. Get back to basics and utilize past experience in order to make the right choice now. Diplomacy will be required. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Explore your personal and professional options. The changes you make in your personal life will enable you to expand your connections to those heading in the same direction as you professionally. Focus on creativity. 




SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep your plans a secret. Sharing too much information will lead to criticism and opposition. Make the changes that are right for you at home. Do things for yourself, not others. 





CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Explore your options and consider what you have done in the past and how you can utilize your skills to help you improve your financial position. Avoid unpredictable or overly pushy people. Move forward at a pace that you find comfortable. 





AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Listen to authority and stick to the rules, but don’t allow anyone to push you around. There will be a fine line between what’s acceptable and what isn’t. Make home improvements and changes to whatever isn’t working for you anymore. 



PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Take a different approach to a job or pursuit that can affect your personal or professional life. You can stabilize your financial position if you look at investments that include elaborating on a skill you have to offer. 



Birthday Baby: You are intelligent, quick and adaptable. You are creative and a romantic.


SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER




LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNY RAGO &       					    PATRICK CROSS


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

16

16

16

16

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL

Irish push for undefeated Big East season


Milestones could pave way for championship

No. 2 Notre Dame prepares for No. 22 Syracuse

By BRIAN HARTNETT
Sports Writer
No. 2 Notre Dame has over­come injuries, inexperience and tough competition en route to an undefeated Big East record. 
But the Irish have one more major obstacle in their pursuit of regular-season conference perfection — a daunting stretch of four games in nine days, the second of which takes place to­night when they welcome No. 22 Syracuse to Purcell Pavilion.
Notre Dame (25-1, 13-0 Big East) had little difficulty in its first game of the stretch, an 84-56 win at DePaul on Sunday. Despite the quick turnaround between games, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she isn’t worried about her team’s abil­ity to prepare for Syracuse (22-4, 10-3).
“We’ve played better in stretches like this,” McGraw said. “We had the exact same week in January where we had a quick turnaround. We are anxious to get back in the gym. I think, when you’re playing well, it’s a lot easier to focus and refocus.”
The Irish have been playing well lately thanks partly to the efforts of senior guard Skylar Diggins. Diggins recorded her second career triple-double Sunday, finishing with 17 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists. 
Freshman guard Jewell Loyd and junior guard Kayla McBride also made signifi­cant contributions to Notre Dame’s victory Sunday, as they finished with 19 and 16 points, respectively. Loyd earned Big East Freshman of the Week on Monday, the fourth time this season she received the honor.
The Irish will face a Syracuse team that saw its six-game winning streak snapped in the final seconds of a 68-66 loss to South Florida on Saturday. McGraw said she believes the loss will provide the Orange with even more motivation for their trip to South Bend.
“That was a big game for [South Florida], big win for them,” she said. “Coming off a loss, you’re anxious to get back out there and prove you are still a top-25 team, so I think [Syracuse] will come in with a lot to prove.”
The Orange will look to at­tack the Irish defense with their potent offense, which is averaging 74.0 points per game and ranking third in the conference. Orange se­nior center Kayla Alexander has been the catalyst for Syracuse’s offense, as she leads the team in scoring with 16.9 points per game and rebounding with 8.3 boards per game. 
McGraw said Alexander presents a unique challenge, but the Irish will not just fo­cus on her.
“[Junior forward] Natalie Achonwa will have the as­signment [of guarding Alexander],” McGraw said. “But they’re very much a team in that different players step up in different games. I don’t think we can focus on one player because I re­ally think they have probably seven or eight people who are really capable of scoring. No matter who is in the game, I don’t think we’re going to be able to afford to double team anyone.”
Alexander may be Syracuse’s senior leader, but the Orange have also benefitted from the play of senior guards Carmen Tyson-Thomas and Elashier Hall, who both average 10.2 points per game. Most of the rest of the Orange rotation, however, is very young, as freshman guards Brittney Sykes, Brianna Butler and Cornelia Fondren have all seen significant playing time.
Although tonight will not be the last time Irish fans see senior guard Kaila Turner and South Bend na­tive Diggins take the court at Purcell Pavilion, it will mark the team’s annual senior night. Diggins, who trails only Irish associate coach Beth Cunningham on Notre Dame’s all-time scoring list, and Turner will be honored in a pregame ceremony.
“[Tonight’s game] is a big game,” McGraw said. “[Syracuse] is ranked in the top 25, it has been in the top 25 all year and it’s going to be a big game.”
Notre Dame will face Syracuse tonight at 7 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion.
Contact Brian Hartnett at      bhartnet@nd.edu

Sometimes it seems like this season has been nothing but a milestone march, a road leading from one broken record to the next. There was senior guard Skylar Diggins’s 2,000th point and coach Muffet McGraw’s 700th career win. Notre Dame’s current 20-game winning streak is the third-longest in school history, and their nine home sellouts (yes, another record) are yet another indicator the Irish are thriving. 
Diggins and fellow senior guard Kaila Turner have won more games than any other Notre Dame senior class. But they don’t have a championship to show for it. Not yet, anyway.
Maybe the football team’s appearance at the BCS National Championship has made me greedy when it comes to Notre Dame athletics. Maybe it’s because an avid Connecticut basketball fan raised me — by Husky standards, any season that doesn’t end in a champion­ship is not worth writing home about. I guess that’s the sort of attitude you can have when your team has won seven.
But after two trips to the final game in the past two seasons, this is the year for the No. 2 Irish (25-1, 13-0 Big East) to fi­nally end the season as national champions for the first time since 2001. 
Don’t think that today’s game against Syracuse (or Friday’s trip to Providence or Monday’s matchup against No. 3 Connecticut) is just busy work before tournament season gets underway. Upsets might be the name of the game when the men enter March Madness, but women’s basketball doesn’t have the kind of parity (or me­diocrity) that is engendered by the one-and-done culture. A misstep in these final regular season games or the Big East tournament could mean a drop in rank and seeding — and a matchup with No.  1 Baylor or No. 4 Stanford in a much earlier round than necessary. 
Presuming Baylor doesn’t take a tailspin in the next few weeks, they’ve got the No.1 overall seed locked up. That’s the sort of advantage you get when you’ve got a 6-foot-8 player who’s athletic to boot. But the Bears’ chances don’t rest on senior Brittney Griner alone. Junior guard Odyssey Sims was the team’s co-MVP with Griner last season, and Baylor has a 26-1 record even as Sims strug­gles with a hamstring injury.
While I won’t say the Irish can’t beat the Bears, Baylor has won by double digits in the teams’ last two meetings, win­ning by 19 in the championship game last season and 12 back in December. The Irish have gelled as a team since then, but they haven’t gotten any taller, and it’s hard to expect another matchup to end differently. 
If the Irish are going to catch a break, it is more likely to come in the form of a Baylor loss at the hands of Stanford, who handed the Bears their only loss of the season and would meet them again in the semifinals if the current rankings hold.
This is not to say a finals matchup against the Cardinal would be a cakewalk, and there’s no guarantee that Notre Dame won’t slip up in an earlier round. But their best chance at a title requires them to remain one of the top-three seeds over­all. And I think Diggins and her team would trade every record in the book to earn that championship.
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at     vjacobse@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Vicky Jacobsen
Sports Writer


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer
Senior guard Skylar Diggins dribbles down the court during a game against Louisville on Feb. 11. The Irish won 93-64. Tonight they host Syracuse in the Purcell Pavilion.

see SYRACUSE PAGE 14

see DIGGINS PAGE 14

BENGAL BOUTS

Training intensifies as semifinals arrive

Nerves increase, fighters become more private with looming competition in advanced rounds


By MARY GREEN
Sports Writer
The semifinals for Bengal Bouts have arrived, and the box­ers can feel anticipation in the air of the training pit.
There is no more sparring, lit­tle group training and, for some, no small talk with the competi­tion, junior captain and heavy­weight Dan Yi said.
“I actually know a couple peo­ple, especially in the preliminar­ies, who don’t know who they’re fighting and during the fight, it’s a pretty awkward way to intro­duce yourself, ‘Hey I’m gonna be stepping into the ring with you and I’m gonna be punching you,’” Yi said.
For most boxers, training became more serious and me­thodical as they continued winning and avoided any in­jury that would eliminate them from the tournament. Yi said the remaining competitors have narrowed their focus to main­taining their technique from fight to fight.
More nerves also play a larger role in the semifinals, and many thrive on the thrill of the com­petition. For some, a material award provides extra motivation, as the finalists in each division receive a jacket that indicates their finishing place in Bengal Bouts. Those goals increase the pressure on each boxer as they advance deeper into the tourna­ment, Yi said. 
“A lot of guys are a lot more nervous than they usually are because there’s a lot more at stake when you get to this level,” Yi said.
The logistical pressure of the new round adds to the intensity. Since there are only four fight­ers left in each weight class, the number of rings will shrink from two to one, and all eyes are on the only fight taking place. Yi, who won the 198-lb. division his freshman year and the heavyweight division last year, said the increased attention augments boxers’ pre-fight jitters.
“It’s definitely different because when you have two rings going, you have two dif­ferent bells going and a bunch of different things going on,” he said. “With the one-ring system, everyone that’s watching, everyone that’s there is definitely watching your fight because your fight’s the only one that’s going on, so it’s definitely different.”
For fans, these elements should add up to a great night of fights in determining the two remaining boxers who will compete in Friday night’s finals. But before the Bengal Bouts champions can be crowned, the stage will be set in tonight’s semis, and Yi an­ticipated strong matchups in each weight class.
“At this point, there isn’t any huge disparity in talent and experience between any given two boxers in the semis, so I think they’ll all be pretty good,” he said. “I think all of them will be fun to watch.”
The first bell of the Bengal Bouts semifinals rings tonight at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse.
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu

JULIE HERDER | The Observer
Sophomores Eric Palutsis and Bryan Cooley compete in the 176-pound ring in the Bengal Bouts 
quarterfinals Feb. 20. Semifinals competition will begin tonight in the Joyce Center.

see BOUTS PAGE 13



