The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 78 | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND encourages liberal arts education 
By MARISA IATI 
news writer 
while technology jobs domi­nate the top 10 of u.s. news’ list of the 100 Best Jobs of 2013, notre dame continues to em­phasize the value of a liberal arts education. 
notre dame requires stu­dents to complete 14 liberal arts courses in different dis­ciplines in order to graduate, according to the university website. in 2010, there were 2,333 students enrolled in the college of arts and letters. The college of engineering en­rolled 937 students the same year. 
dean peter Kilpatrick of the college of engineering said technology education and the liberal arts do not need to be mutually exclusive. he said a liberal arts background ben­efits engineers because it is important they can analyze, think creatively and develop designs. 
engineers with such skills are in a unique position to shape public policy, Kilpatrick said. 
“we should have more sena­tors and congressmen and presidents who are engineers, not just lawyers,” he said. “i think engineers very much need an appreciation for the social impact of the work that they do in terms of building infrastructure.” 
students outside the college of engineering should be ex­posed to quantitative analy­sis, Kilpatrick said. he said several departments within the college of arts and letters are starting to introduce these concepts. 
“a lot of the engineering students that go into analyt­ics jobs could just as easily be business students who are said. properly skilled in analytics or dean John mcgreevy of the even arts and letters students college of arts and letters who take coursework in quan-agreed students with liberal tifying things, data analytics, that sort of thing,” Kilpatrick see liBeral arTs PAGE 7 


Actress speaks at SMC 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
news writer 
saint mary’s welcomed Tony and grammy award winner audra mcdonald on monday evening at 7:30 p.m. at the gillespie center at the hilton garden inn. she took the stage among students, professors, faculty members and other members from the south Bend 
community.  
mcdonald  was  brought  to  
saint  mary’s  as  this  year’s  
margaret  hill  endowed  

visiting artist. This is an an­nual event made possible by 
see acTress PAGE 7 


Second fire in almost three months hits College 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
for the second time in less than three months, moreau hall on saint mary’s campus caught fire sunday night. 
saint mary’s security and notre dame fire department were alerted of a fire in the o’laughlin auditorium on sunday night at 10:59 p.m., according to a press release from director of media rela­tions gwen o’Brien. 
“security officers were the first to respond to the alarm and found the curtains at stage left on fire,” the press release stated. “The sprin­kling system above the cur­tains was working and a security officer used a fire ex­tinguisher to further contain the fire.” 
when the notre dame fire department arrived at the scene, they found the cur­tains were still on fire, ac­cording to the release. 
“clay fire Territory and the south Bend fire department also responded to the call,” the release stated. “no one was in the auditorium when security and the fire crews ar­rived. The cause of the fire is under investigation.” 
The college notified stu­dents of the fire around 7 a.m. monday via text, email and phone call with an automated voice recording. The messag­es also let students know that classes in moreau were can-celled for the day. 
senior mariah niedbalski learned of the fire through social media before she had heard from the college. 
“around midnight i saw a friends facebook status saying ‘i survived the great moreau fire, again?’” niedbalski said. “our school didn’t send out 
see fire PAGE 6 

fr. lies honored with award 
also admirable. The organi-from catholic charities usa. 
By CATHERINE OWERS 

news writer zations presented him with “i’m humbled and hon-
a “Keep the dream alive” ored to have received [the 
fr. william lies, vice presi-award in washington d.c. award], and i accepted it dent for mission engagement on Jan. 12 at holy comforter-for the center for social and church affairs, has al-st. cyprian roman catholic concerns and on behalf of ways admired the work of dr. church. notre dame,” fr. lies said, martin luther King Jr. The award honors King “especially as it was given in 
But for the catholic “by presenting awards to the name of dr. King who has charities archdiocese of contemporary heroes work-been a hero of mine and of so washington and catholic ing to keep his dream alive,” charities usa, lies himself is according to a press release see award PAGE 6 

election tickets announced 
The following tickets 

Observer Staff Report 
were announced: sopho-

The Judicial council an-mores Billy christy and nounced six tickets for the patrick roemer; juniors upcoming student govern-alex coccia and nancy ment elections for the of-Joyce; junior michael masi fices of president and vice and sophomore Timothy president, set to take place wednesday, feb. 6. see TicKeT PAGE 7 

winTer career fair PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 women’s BasKeTBall PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite TV show? 

Connor Malone 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“mad men.” 
Crystal Love 
senior 
walsh hall 

“real husbands of hollywood.” 
Emily Letkewytte 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
“The office.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Emma Kusters 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
“The mentalist.” 
Jimmy Henke 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“psych.” 
Juan Cancio 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“suits.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian Barwick mary green Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Bridget feeney mike monaco sarah swiderski sam gans 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemake Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Diversity Reception Pink Zone Dodgeball Christian Unity Ski and Snowboard Time to Write 
Kirby mcKenna caroline schurz 
Joyce Center Tournament Prayer Service Weekend Workshop 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. Rolfs Sports Keenan Hall Rockne Memorial 203 Coleman-Morse Lecture by visiting Recreation Center 6 p.m.-7 p.m. 4 p.m. Center 
Corrections 

speaker Steve Ratner. 3 p.m.-7p.m. Service in honor of Hit the slopes in 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Play to fight cancer. Christian Unity Week. Harbor Springs, Mich. All writers welcome. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Winter Career and Men’s Basketball “5 Broken Cameras” Men’s and Women’s Women’s Basketball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Internship Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing Track and Field Joyce Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center 6 p.m. Arts Center Loftus Sports Center 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m.-8 p.m. Men’s basketball 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 4 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Notre Dame takes on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Meet more than 140 takes on the Villanova For the ScreenPeace Notre Dame hosts the Cincinnati during the 
we can correct our error. 

employers. Wildcats. Film Festival. Meyo Invitational. Pink Zone Game. 


Students prepare for Winter Career Fair 

By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
suit up: The winter career fair will bring potential em­ployers to the Joyce center today to network with notre dame students. 
This event, which will last 
from 4 to 8 p.m., is open to all 
students. 
according to go irish, the university’s career center site, 146 firms will be attend­ing the event. They will rep­resent a variety of industries, from healthcare iT, financial, nonprofit, accounting, en­gineering, marketing, gov­ernment, higher education, consumer product, sales and other industries. 
Kevin monahan, assis­
tant director at the career 
center, said he is unaware of 
paid adverTisemenT 

other career fairs with such immense opportunities like the university’s. 
“i don’t know of any oth­er career fair that will offer the diversity of employment and internship opportuni­ties as the winter career and internship fair [today],” he said. 
monahan said acco Brands, cerner, liquidity services, sap, catholic charities, Jarden home Brands, lutron, nuveen and greenlee Textron are all new organizations that will be attending the fair this semester. 
Thirty-five employers will be interviewing potential stu­dent hires the day after the fair and many others will be returning later in the semes­ter, monahan said. 
prior to the winter career and internship fair will be the diversity reception from 
12:30 to 2:30 p.m. in the monogram room in the Joyce center. 
according to the career center website, the diversity reception was “created as a venue for organizations that embrace diversity to connect with students through net­working, has continued to grow in participation. 
The site also advertises the numerous participants in last year’s reception. 
“over 150 students partici­pated, along with more than 200 recruiters representing over 100 organizations,” the website stated.
 “we have a four-part blog series available at irishca­reerman.wordpress.com that provides tips on preparing for the career fair,” monahan said. “The series contains steps on how to prepare for the fair, best utilize one’s time at the fair, steps to take after the fair and common mistakes.” 
visit go irish to view the most current list of employers. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Lecture highlights morality of international law 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
steven r. ratner, the Bruno simma collegiate professor of law at the university of michigan, spoke at notre dame law school monday afternoon. his lecture fo­cused on the phrase “thin justice” and its association with the morality of interna­tional law. 
“global justice remains one of the most compelling issues of our time,” ratner said. 
he followed by explain­ing that philosophy, politi­cal science, anthropology, history and international law are among a number of disciplines central to de­
“I see global justice as about assigning rights and duties to global actors so that it is clear what each actor is entitled to require to do or to have.” 
Steven R. Ratner 
professor of law 
University of Michigan 
bates on global justice. one of the main contributors to the construction of theories on global justice stems from philosophy. 
“philosophers of global justice have more often than not stayed clear of legal insti­tutions, and i think this ne­glect is unfortunate because international law transforms policy prescriptions and ethical ideas into blinding norms and implementation processes,” ratner said. 

unfortunately modern-day lawyers, especially those involved in academia, ratner said, cast global jus­tice to the side. These law­yers exhibit a tendency to draw a parallel between global justice and those fac­ing marginalization. 
“without ethics the law of global justice is ad hoc,” ratner said. 
ratner described his proj­ect as having a twofold the­sis. The first deals with core norms of the international legal system he said he be­lieves are central to laying the foundation for a world order based on justice. 
“even if they came about as a result of political com­promise, power of politics, and historical contingen­cies, [core norms] largely already conform to an ethi­cal vision of justice, one that i term thin justice,” ratner said. 
The second aspect of ratner’s thesis surrounds present-day laws and insti­tutions. Their fatal flaw rests in their inability, in some cases, to even meet the thin standard of justice, he said. in other cases, they simply exist and function at too great a distance from the thicker standard. in order to better examine the level of morality at which these rules operate, ethical theory can be embraced. 
“i see global justice as about assigning rights and duties to global actors so that it is clear what each ac­tor is entitled to require to do or to have,” ratner said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“norms of international law are just if they assign those rights and duties in a way that meets a substantive standard of justice.” 
ratner said two pillars form the basis of global justice. The first states the qualifications international law must uphold in order to be considered just. he said this pillar calls for the ne­cessity of rules to promote or at least not to decrease peace internationally. The second pillar ensures basic human dignity is not damaged. 
“There has to be satisfac­tion of both the pillars for a norm to meet the standard of thin justice,” ratner said. 
The idea of “thin jus­tice” is based on michael walzer’s book, “Thick and Thin: moral argument at home and abroad.” Though ratner said he does not en­dorse walzer’s theories, he did gather his distinction between thick and thin mo­rality from this author. 
ratner said walzer ar­gues that thin morality is a moral minimum as well as a universal idea that reflects 
“Global justice remains one of the most compelling issues of our time.” 
Steven R. Ratner 
professor of law 
University of Michigan 

values from cultures world­wide. it is from such cultures that people can form thicker moralities within a commu­nit., he said. 
ratner, however, said he believes that society can do better than this thin justice across communities. 
“i do think that the jus­tice reflected within inter­national law is thin in the sense that it is less dense and certainly less demanding on individuals than the justice envisioned by philosophers as that needed or domestic societies,” ratner said. 
Though this thin justice is not that toward which the world should strive, it is nonetheless a very real form of justice present in the world today. an example of such thin justice, ratner said, is the self-determina­tion of core international law. 
“certainly we can and should strive for thicker jus­tice at the international lev­el, but we must first see the moral basis of what interna­tional law already has.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
event raises funds for st. Baldrick’s 

By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
in its fifth year, The Bald and The Beautiful event will attempt to shave more heads and collect more donations for cancer re­search than ever before, senior Betsy mcgovern said. 
mcgovern, who is one of five head organizers for the event, said the charity fundraiser set for april will raise awareness and funds for cancer patients. 
“The event began four years ago, when a student named sam marks came to campus,” mcgovern said. “he came as a freshman knowing he had can­cer. he left after a semester, and then later passed away. The Bald and Beautiful was started in duncan hall, sam’s residence, in memory of him.” 
a group of freshmen in marks’ class served on the freshman class council and brainstormed the event, mcgovern said, and the event has grown substan­tially from its start. 
“There are three different or­ganizations that we donate to, and depending on how you par­ticipate in the event, your money will go to a different organiza­tion,” mcgovern said. 
The first way an individual can participate in the fundrais­er by shaving his or her head, mcgovern said. Traditionally, this option is more popular among males but in years past, the number of women partici­pating has grown. last year, 10 girls shaved their heads, mcgovern said. 
“The people that shave their heads raise money in whatev­er way they want, “mcgovern said. “many contact family and friends; some even go around campus with a jar and ask stu­dents for donations.” 
all the money from the head shavings goes to the st. Baldrick’s foundation, a childhood can­cer charity dedicated to finding cures for children with cancer. 
last year, the event raised nearly $50,000 for the charity. 
students can also participate in The Bald and The Beautiful by buying hair extensions. students can buy a strand or more of hair extensions, and the proceeds are donated to memorial hospital in south Bend, mcgovern said. 
“memorial has a close con­nection with notre dame, and a lot of students volunteer there,” mcgovern said. “The funds we donate from the event help memorial to build an outpa­tient pediatric cancer treatment center.” 
The third option to participate in the event is through hair do­nation. The program requires eight inches of non-dyed hair that will be cut and donated to pantene Beautiful lengths, a charity that constructs wigs for cancer patients who have lost their hair during treatment. 
“This year, we are trying to expand the event,” mcgovern said. “for example, we are trying to have an event with memorial for the pediatric cancer patients around st. patrick’s day.” 
however, the main event — head shaving and hair exten­sions — will happen on april 16, 17 and 19. 
“we will have the front two rooms of lafortune set up for the event, “ mcgovern said. “a lot of groups come in throughout the day to participate, like sports teams. people can take initiative with regards to how they want to participate in the event. 
mcgovern said the event or­ganizers are always looking for volunteers to accommodate the donators and donations. 
“The end product is so amaz­ing,” mcgovern said. “we have raised nearly $150,000 for these organizations in the past four years, and this year we want to make the event even more amazing.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

students work together with sBpd 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
each year, about 400 men and 100 women participate in the notre dame club box­ing teams. during their off-seasons, volunteers from both teams have joined forces with the south Bend police department (sBpd) to teach the sport to local children in a biweekly after school program. 
senior rose raderstorf 
currently  serves  as  the  
program’s  president,  or­ 
ganizing  notre  dame  in­ 

volvement and working to improve the program fur­ther. The students’ work is part of a larger sBpd initia­tive to get involved with the community youth, organiz­ing camps that give kids opportunities to learn new sports and participate in structured after-school ac­tivities, raderstorf said. 
notre dame students be­gan to volunteer with the sBpd boxing club three years ago, and the program is now known as “Box like a champion Today.” 
“The program developed when the first volunteers saw a need [at the gym] to have better role models and more coaching than what was being provided at the time,” raderstorf said. “The first volunteers were from the men’s team, and those guys decided to turn it into 
Fire 
conTinued from page 1 
an ‘emergency alert’ un­til 7:45 a.m. the next day. it’s just not safe that our security doesn’t alert us when something as major as a building being on fire happens.” 
niedbalski called saint mary’s security around 2 
a.m. to see if classes would 
still be held in  moreau on  
monday.  
“They  told  me  that  

they did not know how bad the fire was but said we 

a program for both club teams to get involved with.” 
The gym, attached to the grace community Baptist church on harrison avenue in south Bend, is open monday and wednesday. raderstorf said the program serves both grade school and high school youth, of­fering cardio workouts and fundamental boxing training. 
“The gym itself is split into two segments, with the younger kids first and the older group next,” raderstorf said. “There’s a ring set up in there, and we have mitts and punching bags to practice with too.” 
most of the younger kids are just looking for a fun workout, but some of the older participants are trained boxers looking for access to equipment, raderstorf said. 
“with the grade school kids, we run laps and do a workout, and afterwards we usually do some form of boxing training, but we try to switch it up to keep them interested,” raderstorf said. “The older group has 7th and 8th grade boys and some young adults who fight in real competitions in south Bend or chicago, so this is an actual gym for them to train in. They get a much more intense workout.” 
The police officers that 

probably wouldn›t be al­lowed in the building today,” niedbalski said. “which is odd seeing that they are security and should know these things right away.” 
once niedbalski knew her classes would be cancelled for the day, she said she knew the damage was minor. 
“all my classes are in moreau on mondays but my professors didn’t seem too worried since the fire started in o’laughlin and not any of the classrooms,” niedbalski said. 
a building that houses multiple majors, moreau is run the gym know the sport and an outside coach comes in to work with the youth too, raderstorf said. 
senior ragan Todd, one of the women’s boxing team captains for this year, said she enjoys volunteering in the program and continu­ing with the sport even af­ter Baraka Bouts ends in november. 
“it seems like [boxing] is something that there’s an interest in around here, with little kids who just think it’s kind of cool and then older guys there who have won golden gloves or other titles,” Todd said. “we have [mixed martial arts] fight­ers who are focusing on the boxing aspect of their fight­ing as well as younger kids who look like they don’t do any other form of exercise beyond this.” 
Both raderstorf and Todd said one of the program’s major goals is to keep kids busy and involved in the community. 
“we’re looking to give them an opportunity out­side of school for a struc­tured program to keep them safe and give them good options to pass the time,” raderstorf said. 
“another goal is to devel­op good relationships with the south Bend police and their peers, and it’s defi­nitely a good way to keep kids out of trouble,” Todd 
a central location for many students and professors on campus. 
colleen fitzpatrick, a com­munication studies profes­sor whose office is located in the basement of moreau hall, said she fortunately did not need to enter the build­ing monday morning. 
“i was surprised that it has happened twice in only a year,” fitzpatrick said. “i was notified around 7 a.m. just like the students. The emer­gency system is up and run­ning, which is always a good sign. i’m hopeful that every­thing is okay since i have not been in the building yet.” 
senior emily caltrider, who lives in the opus apartments on campus, was still awake when she and her roommates heard sirens coming towards the college. 
“we figured there was an accident on 933, but then we saw that the fire trucks were on campus and heading to­wards holy cross,” caltrider said. “we initially thought it was holy cross on fire. we were curious as to what was happening, and since we had all lived in holy cross the past three years we hopped into the car to see if we could get on the avenue to check it out.” 
caltrider and her said. 

raderstorf said many of the children are from low-er-income families so this is a unique opportunity for them to try a sport like box­ing, which requires a lot of equipment and instruction. 
“for a lot of them, it’s hard to find something to do af­ter school, and the older kids will acknowledge that there are plenty of other things they could be getting in trouble with if they didn’t have this to do,” raderstorf said. “The one-on-one men­toring and coaching is re­ally important to them too. 
The volunteers and police officers are collaborating on plans to add a tutor­ing aspect to the program, where participants will be encouraged to bring home­work to the gym to do af­ter the boxing workout. raderstorf said this is a ma­jor goal for the upcoming semester now that the vol­unteer base is more regular. 
“some people think it’s strange to teach fighting to kids like this, but it’s taught in a very respectful manner so they know how to use the skills properly,” raderstorf said. “it’s a sport that demands great respect for your opponent, and that translates into other areas of life as well.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
roommates were able to make it to the avenue where they saw several lights. once closer to the buildings, caltrider said she realized it was moreau that had caught on fire. 
“fire trucks surrounded the building and the doors in the back were opened with smoke spilling out,” she said. “The fire in moreau is an un­fortunate event for the saint mary’s community. it is sad that this is the second fire in that building this year, and that more precautions in preventing such an inci­dent from happening weren’t taken the first time that this happened.” 
caltrider, like many other students, faculty and staff as well as the rest of the com­munity, said she is curious to find out what actually caused the fire and what cer­tain precautions could have been taken to avoid this inci­dent from occurring. 
“i feel for all the [saint mary’s] students that have made memories over the years performing on that stage,” caltrider said. “we hope that Tostal will still be able to take place this spring.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Award 
conTinued from page 1 
many who care for the poor.” 
lies said the award is fo­cused on “advocacy and pov­erty reduction.” 
“it was an opportunity to honor dr. King, primarily, by lifting up people who have fostered the dream he ex­pounded on,” he said. 
lies expressed his belief that the award is a reflection on not only his work, but also the work of the faculty, staff and students at the center for social concerns and is ultimately a reflection on the university. 
“[and] as you look at the work of the center, and the ways it tries to inculcate in our students a vision for a just and humane world,” he said. “The hope is to open our students’ eyes to some of the injustice present in our world, and have it strike them.” 
lies said King’s vision is derived from the call of christ, something the university tries to empha­size through the center for social concerns, as well as other programs on campus. 
“at some point [we want] to have the undergrads real­ize what their responsibilities 

are before god and faith,” he said, as well as their respon­sibility to their neighbors, both next door and across the globe. 
fr. lies had been a lay vol­unteer with the dominican volunteers for a year after he attended college. 
“it was there that i was awakened to that part of the gospel call, … Jesus’ walking with the poor and calling us to be with them,” he said. 
he said the passage from st. paul’s letter to the philippians about Jesus and the power of his resurrection has spoken to him throughout his work. 
“if we really knew Jesus and the power of his resurrection, we would be for others in a way that would be really im­pressive,” fr. lies said. 
“This is really about incul­cating in our students that great vision of dr. King, and some of the others, who, in christ’s image, have called folks to be with the poor and all those on the margins,” he said. “much of what we have to offer the church and the world as a catholic university is part of his vision, and that is a more just and humane society.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 




Actress 
conTinued from page 1 
the generous gift from hill, a saint mary’s  alumna and a Broadway producer. The event offers students an entire day to spend with an artist of espe­cially high quality. 
mcdonald is most recently recognized for her perfor­mance on four seasons of aBc’s “private practice” and a nine-month run of the opera “porgy and Bess,” winning her fifth Tony award over the summer for her portrayal of Bess. she is also the first person under 30 to win five Tony awards. 
The theatre, film, television and recording studio artist was introduced by saint mary’s president carol ann mooney and received an overwhelm­ing round of applause welcom­ing mcdonald as she took the stage. 
she attributes all the training she still calls upon in her work today to the first theatre she was a part of, from age nine un­til she graduated high school. 
she shared her first on-stage experience in “The King and i” where she had never seen the final run-thru until the night of the dress rehearsal. when the king died at the end, mcdonald immediately was shocked and began crying. lesson learned: read the script, she said. 
when it came time to apply to college, mcdonald said she applied to ucla, usc, nyu and carnegie mellon. after hearing a fellow classmate had auditioned at Juilliard, she de­cided to audition as well, confi­dent she could do it. 
“i loved acting and knew i wanted to be on Broadway, but i thought i better [audition] with my strongest talent, which was singing. … [Juilliard] laughed at me during my audition and my call back,” she said. 

despite facing ridicule dur­ing her audition, mcdonald was accepted to Juilliard. 
“i thought, ‘Juilliard accept­ed me, i have to go,’” mcdonald said. 
mcdonald was accepted to Juilliard’s voice program, how­ever, to her dismay, it turned out to be only voice and music while her peers had the oppor­tunity to explore acting and opera, she said.  “i do not re­gret my time at Julliard for one minute. at the time, i thought i was so far away from my road i would never get back to it,” mcdonald said. 
mcdonald said this was more than just disappointing to the eager student she was at the time. during her lecture, she explained how she had at­tempted suicide during her time at Juilliard. 
mcdonald said that after being admitted to a mental hospital and taking some time off, she auditioned for summer performances and began belt­ing out songs in english, some­thing rare among her peers. 
while she was there she met a young woman from Boston. This woman went on to work for a casting director. she called mcdonald and got her into an audition for her first major role in “The secret garden.”following that perfor­mance, she finished up her in the show and graduated from Julliard in may 1993. she was then cast in “carousel,” which opened on Broadway in the fall of 1994. 
“[carousel] is one of the most special memories i have of any show i’ve ever done because it was the first one,” mcdonald said. “This Broadway debut was conveniently located at the lincoln center, across the street from Juilliard where i felt untalented and struggled during my time there. it was the first of everything for me. it holds a really special place in my heart.” 
mcdonald explained that her drive to continue im­proving led her to spend four years as naomi on “private practice.”“with film and television, up until that point i was very afraid of the camera and fully letting myself go in front of the camera. i thought, ‘i need to get over that. let me do a television show,’” she said. as for what comes next, mcdonald said she is getting ready to record another album in three weeks, host “live from the lincoln center,” and also begin another Broadway show either this fall or next spring. 

“i continue to be curious … 
my motto is i’ll sleep when i’m dead,” mcdonald said. 
as the evening concluded, mcdonald advised the young artists in the room to continue pushing themselves. 
“aside from not putting limitations on yourself, get on stage.  anywhere. you learn something every single time you step on stage,” she sai”. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 
Liberal Arts 
conTinued from page 1 
arts majors could work in tech­nological fields. 
“a company like google is hir­ing lots of people to design pro­grams and applications coming from a liberal arts background because they want the creativ­ity or the ability to think across cultures that they associate with a liberal arts background,” mcgreevy said. 
a liberal arts background en­ables students to address life’s big questions, mcgreevy said. he said the abilities to write, speak and analyze data prepare students for leadership roles. 
“it’s not just about obtaining skills, although skills are im­portant,” he said. “it’s also what kind of society should we have, how do we think about inequal­ity, how do we think about hu­man dignity, how do we think about the environment, does god exist. we want our stu­dents who are going to become leaders to be engaged in that conversation.” 
Kilpatrick said each of the university’s academic depart­ments should interact more closely with other disciplines to enrich all programs. 
“people in civil engineering who are deeply interested in the beauty of the built infrastruc­ture might find ways to interact much more closely with archi­tecture, with industrial design,” he said. “you could do that, presumably, for virtually every discipline.” 
The nation needs more engi­neers, Kilpatrick said. he said many more college students in china major in engineering or engineering technology than do in the united states. 
“we’re going to run the risk of them out-producing the [united states] … and that could mean problems for our economy,” Kilpatrick said. “we won’t have the command over the market in technological products that maybe we enjoyed in the last part of the 20th century.” 
Kilpatrick said notre dame is working to ensure students who want to study engineering can complete the coursework. interest in engineering is also growing, he said. 
“we need to be careful that we don’t retain such a high percentage that we don’t en­able students to figure out, ‘do i really love engineering, or am i doing this for the job?” Kilpatrick said. “we really want students to discern prop­erly, ‘what’s your vocation as a person?’” 
Kilpatrick said the university should modernize its general education requirements. 
“i think we want to continue to have an emphasis on the human sciences … but i think we need to refresh it and think about how do we best equip students for the 21st century,” he said. “we live in times that are very different from even 20 years ago.” 
Kilpatrick said he suggests instituting an introduction to technology literacy course so students become informed enough to enter the public dialogue about technological issues. 
“There are really important decisions that our government is making that the majority of our country can’t weigh in on because they don’t know enough,” Kilpatrick said. 

mcgreevy said although he does not see a need for a technology literacy course, he anticipates the university will soon reexamine its core requirements. 
“our core requirements haven’t changed in quite a while … and they’re there for good reasons,” mcgreevy said. “it’s always good to be looking at them and thinking through what set of requirements make 
most  sense  at  the  current  
moment for a great  catholic  
university.”  

The university aims to pre­pare students for more than just their first jobs, mcgreevy said. 
“it’s a lifetime investment, we hope, in developing those writ­ing and reading and speaking skills,” he said. 
mcgreevy said although skepticism about the value of a liberal arts education exists, he is more convinced than ever of its value. 
“our experience at notre dame tells us that liberal arts students get jobs and they get good jobs,” he said. “But even more important, the invest­ment that our students make in becoming better writers, better speakers, better able to analyze data, prepares them for their careers over the long haul and indeed prepares them, we hope, to be better citizens, better peo­ple, better capacity to make a real contribution to society.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Ticket 
conTinued from page 1 
scanlan; freshmen austin o’Brien and nick Boggess; juniors dominic romeo and philip hootsmans; and freshmen Kevin salat and paul mascarenhas. 
The presidential and vice presidential debates are tentatively set for monday, feb. 4. should a run-off election be necessary, a second debate between the remaining candidates is set for Thursday, feb. 7, with a final election to take place on monday, feb. 11, according to the Judicial council’s website. 
The winning ticket will take office april 1, suc­
ceeding  current  student  
body  president  Brett  
rocheleau  and  current  

student body vice presi­dent Katie rose. 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
The politics of dying: part one 

INSIDE COLUMN 

honest reporting 

Alex Wilcox 
sports writer 

This past weekend i experienced my first march for life. my friends and i piled into a bus Thursday night and settled in for the 11-hour trek to washington d.c. 
The march for life covers a mile and a half stretch of land from the national mall to the steps of the supreme court, yet we were told it would take two and half hours to complete. with so much time allotted to cover so little ground, i was left with plenty of time to consider the many questions buzzing around in my head. when is a life considered a life? will our countries policy on abortion ever change? how long has it been since i could feel my toes? above all else though: why have i never heard of this? 
i soon realized the answer to this ques­tion was the attention — or lack thereof 
— dedicated to the march for life by the media. prior to embarking, all marchers had to attend a pre-march meeting, in which we were told how to handle any reporters or journalists. however, while we were marching, i was shocked at the apparent cold shoulder given to us by the media. There were hardly any cameras, i didn’t see a single reporter, nor was i asked a single question. 
year after year the march for life is held without a single story or report from any major news networks. This year the march reportedly had its greatest turnout yet. with this record attendance, it ap­peared the march for life could no longer be ignored, as The new york Times reluc­tantly reported the “tens of thousands” who came out. 
over 400,000 people participated in friday’s march for life, more than the amount of people who attended president obama’s inauguration and much more than the 3,200 that showed up in d.c. the day after the march to pro­test the nra. yet the nra protest was the top story on aBc news that night, while the inauguration made the front page of every newspaper across the country. The march for life, meanwhile, made the cover of one newspaper, The observer. 
The march for life dwarfed the nra protest, but no one watching the news or reading the newspaper would know that. isn’t a protest with half a million follow­ers a bigger story than a protest with just a few thousand? Both protests essentially are fighting for the same issue: life. 
so why is it that the media shows such bias? whether it be to get better ratings or fatter pockets, this trend has to stop. stop trying to sell screaming headlines and juicy gossip. give the people the full, unbiased story. fair and honest report­ing used to mean something, and as an aspiring journalist, i hope we can return to that point. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Adam Newman 
scientia potentia est 

Two things are promised to every per­son: death and taxes. while most op-eds would focus on the second of these two, i am going to focus on the first: death. 
most americans believe it is a moral obligation for our country to provide health care at the end of life for the elder­ly, even at an immense cost. medicare, the government insurance program for the elderly, spends roughly 30 percent of its budget on care in the final year of life. The amount that we spend on end-of­life care will quickly increase in the fu­ture due to the aging of the population and the unsustainable rise in per-capita health care costs. as i have written be­fore, america’s long-term debt is driven by health care costs, especially through medicare. if america wants to address its long-term fiscal health, it has to ad­dress health care costs. if america wants to address health care costs, it has to address end of life care. 
The very suggestion of curbing the amount that is spent on care at the end of life angers many. every person will lose loved ones sometime in their life, and to think that their loved one will not receive necessary care is unfathomable. 
however, as counterintuitive as it may seem, costs at the end of life can be brought down while simultaneously raising quality. one has to understand that the american health care system is a patchwork of providers that have no incentive to coordinate and are reim­bursed based on the quantity of services 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
rendered, not the quality of outcomes produced. roughly seven in 10 seniors die from a chronic condition, such as heart disease and cancer. These diseas­es require many different doctors, treat­ments, tests and drugs. however, when doctors do not coordinate and have the incentive to utilize many tests and ser­vices, the consequence is that seniors undergo costly and expensive care at the end of their life, prolonging suffer­ing and discomfort, while oftentimes ig­noring the senior’s preferences for their final weeks and days. 
not only do seniors receive poor qual­ity care at the end of life, but they also do not die in their preferred setting. according to the dartmouth atlas, 55 percent of the patients who prefer to die at home surrounded by loved ones still die in the hospital. This phenomenon occurs for three main reasons. The first is that fee for service reimbursement creates an incentive for doctors to keep people alive longer and conduct unnec­essary and expensive tests and proce­dures. at the very worst, some doctors are trying to make more money by keep­ing these patients as long as possible. at the very best, doctors are simply doing what they are trained to do: keep people alive, but without any conversation as to how the patient wants to die. 
second, family members are usually, and understandably so, unwilling to let their loved ones die. family members usually are in no state to make decisions about the end of life, and usually do not understand how their decisions could hurt their loved ones through painful, invasive, unnecessary medical care. 
oftentimes, people are unable to let their loved ones go, and demand every medical intervention possible without realizing the care they want may have no benefit and can lead their loved one to suffer. 
finally, patients are also part of the problem. even for those who believe in an after life, death is scary and we usu­ally prefer not to discuss it. Thus, when we are in a situation where we cannot make decisions on our own, it is up to the family members and doctors to make it for us. 
ultimately, the way to lower costs and increase quality for end of life care is to reimburse health care systems, such as geisenger, to guide seniors and their families through the final years of life by having conversations as to how the senior wants to die, working to coordi­nate care to avoid unnecessary suffer­ing, and ultimately working to ensure that seniors’ preferences for their final months, weeks and days are fulfilled. This helps prevent unnecessary inva­sive procedures at the end of life while allowing seniors to die in peace and dignity. 
however, the destructive nature of the politics of health care, especially re­lated to end-of-life care, make reaching this point politically impossible. in my next article, i will explain why. 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The worst tragedy for a poet is to be admired through being misunderstood.” 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com  
My ‘pro-life’ agenda  
opposing the many other violations  they deserve to live out their lives?  requires change, and sometimes  
Anne DeMott  of human dignity, i cannot preach a  we’re not doing enough. we will have  it means holding on to traditional  
raising voices  gospel of human dignity without rais­ to change. we can’t tolerate this any- values. sometimes it means some of  
ing my voice on behalf of the unborn.  more. These tragedies must end. and  each. it is not a liberal or conservative  
i believe that every person is en- as this belief obligates me to appreci­ to end them, we must change. we  agenda and it is not about vilifying  
dowed by their creator with human  ate racial diversity, promote worker  will be told that the causes of such  those who disagree with me. human  
dignity. however, this is often vio­ rights, welcome newcomers and love  violence are complex and that is true  dignity. That’s all. That’s everything!  
lated by discrimination, violence,  people regardless of their sexual ori­ . . . but that can’t be an excuse for in- an important part of affirming hu­ 
labor injustice, inequity of resources  entation, it so too begs me to stand up  action. surely we can do better than  man dignity is showing everyone,  
and the killing of innocent life. i have  for the dignity of society’s most vul­ this. if there’s even one step we can  even those with whom i disagree,  
a responsibility to oppose actions  nerable members, the unborn.  take to save another child, then surely  respect, celebrating the beliefs we  
that contradict human dignity and  in response to the recent shooting  we have the obligation to try.”  share and working together to better  
support those that affirm it. This ab- at sandy hook elementary school,  i am grateful to our president for  our world. surely we can do better  
solutely means challenging abuses  president obama offered insightful  recognizing the dignity of these chil­ than this. if there’s even one step we  
in the labor market, speaking out  words:  dren and the value of each of their  can take to promote the dignity of  
against racism, denouncing anti-im­ “They [the children] had their en- lives.  humankind, then surely we have the  
migrant attitudes and laws and reject- tire lives ahead of them . . . birthdays,  similarly, i am grateful to the hun­ obligation to try.  
ing homophobia. But the way i see it,  weddings, graduations, kids of their  dreds of notre dame students and  
this is not enough. pope John paul ii  own. This is our first task: caring for  faculty who raised their voices on  Anne DeMott is a senior theology  
once asked. “how is it still possible to  our children. it’s our first job. if we  behalf of our nation’s unborn children  major and education, schooling and  
speak of the dignity of every human  don’t get that right, we don’t get any- by participating in the annual march  society minor. She can be reached at  
person when the killing of the weak- thing right. That’s how as a society  for life this past friday. as a “pro­ ademott@nd.edu  
est and most innocent is permitted?”  we will be judged. can we truly say  life” woman, my agenda is about one  The views expressed in this column  
in the same way that it seems sense- we’re doing enough to give all the  thing: human dignity. sometimes,  are those of the author and not neces­ 
less for me to oppose abortion without  children of this country the chance  trying to support human dignity  sarily those of The Observer.  

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Choose love over hatred 
it is simpler to vilify those who disagree with us rather than to understand them.  mr. Bradley, your viewpoint “gazing into the abyss” (Jan. 25), demonstrates a concerning lack of empathy for women who choose abortion. Jesus calls us to love one another without condition, while you gather stones to hurl at those you should regard as sisters. 
you claim no “empathetic endeavor” makes the choice to have an abortion make sense. i assert that you lack either imagination or effort, because it is not dif­ficult to place yourself in these women’s shoes. picture the confusion and fright that a woman experiences, knowing her future is now cast into uncertainty. imagine survivors of rape, facing the scary reality of bringing a child into the world.  understand the heartbreak of choosing between your life and your child’s. our society’s not exactly supportive of those who get pregnant too young or without resources. These are not evil people; they are not even bad people. They are frightened. 
you suggest that hitler and company were not “slaughtering the innocent” and were motivated by their ideals. i contend that slaughtering the innocent is exactly what they were doing. They were driven by ambition and hatred, not “ideals.” That you empathize with men motivated by malevolence rather than women motivated by fear is worrisome. Those men did unspeakably evil acts; comparing their actions to abortion not only offends their victims but also alien­ates women who choose abortion. 
abortion is a tragedy. it breaks my heart to consider the children never born. i commend those who choose life over fear. we are called to love the innocent as well as the guilty. after all, none of us are innocent. we have all sinned. These sins do not make someone any less deserving of empathy, dignity and love. it is not our place to judge others. certainly we agree that abortion is an evil. however, you believe the women are evil while i maintain that they are only human. 
your condemnation adds nothing. instead, it sends a message to women who have had abortions: “you are worse than hitler. you are irredeemably sinful.” void of love and understanding, your message is a clanging cymbal, drowning out christ’s declaration that all are welcome. let us choose life over death, understanding over condemnation and love over hatred. let us be kind to one another. 
Ashley Currey 
sophomore ryan hall Jan. 28 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

over into all popular genres and continues to dominate stoners, other than the fact that lead singer Billie Joe Mac Hendrickson artists’ work. consider two of this year’s most popular armstrong ended up in rehab. green day also just hap-
scene writer 

releases. frank ocean’s major label debut “channel pened to release three albums in a four-month span, orange” is filled with Tv-sound effects and com-but anyone who wasn’t paying close attention probably no one buys cds anymore. not really. They are not as mercials, giving one the sense that each new track is missed this. it was a hot-potato dishing of mediocre extinct as say, the cassette tape, but it is safe to say that a different television channel or 
material that more or less fell on the birth of napster, iTunes and the mp3 put a quick program. The themes of sexual 
its face. The albums were titled, end to the reign of the compact disk. so perhaps its time alienation and lonely affluence 
un-entertainingly, “uno,” “dos” we had a frank discussion about the Bermuda Triangle semi-explain the gag, but mostly 
and “Tre.” most of the tracks of music critique, the “concept album.” it feels forced. such great material 
were meh, and the chosen mu-as most fans of post-1980s music can tell you, the does not need the support of a physi­
sic aesthetic was unimaginative phrase “concept album” has been overused and mis-cal cohesion. 
and typical of the band. used to the point of futility. The phrase has described Kendrick lamar’s equally bril-
But this rapid succession of anything from pink floyd’s “The wall” to Trick daddy’s liant major label debut “good kid, 
music release created an inter­“Thug matrimony.” m.a.a.d. city” has the subtitle “a 
esting possibility. all in all, the The whole system revolves around the idea that short film by Kendrick lamar.” 
band released 37 songs. This a concept album is a collection of songs united by a nearly every track ends with conver­
isn’t a huge number of songs theme or idea. Basically, an artist working on a concept sation that introduces the next track. 
to be written and recorded in album is not simply throwing together the best songs Kendrick is presenting excerpts from a year. But all 37 songs were he has written since his last album. rather, an artist his life, and the album flows like an indie film. packaged and released — this is unusual. Typically, a works on the album the way a director shoots a movie. in a pitchfork.com article titled “classic material,” band will record a multitude of material, then cut back There is a consistent desire for cohesion and flow. in writer andrew nosnitsky argues that “good kid” is re-to somewhere between 12 and 18 tracks. in this way, this loose sense of the word, very few musicians since ally only assessed as brilliant on the basis of its related-the band decides what makes the cut. green day, in a the late 1970s have tried to make anything but a con-ness to nas’ landmark debut “illmatic.” The article is sense, ended up giving the listeners the choice. The dis­cept album. it’s part of the music culture now. skits, spot on and worth the read. But in reality, this whole charge of 37 songs is less of an odious challenge to enjoy tracks that flow seamlessly into the next track, intros, concern really goes back to “sgt. peppers” and the a juggernaut of substance, and more of an invitation for outros and interludes are all the illegitimate children of concept album. Both lamar and nas’ albums were the listener to pick and choose. here are 37 songs. pick the concept album. designed under the pretense that the album is more whichever ones you like. if you do not like any, chances 
lesson no. 1 of music criticism concerns the Beatles’ important than any individual track. clearly, we are are you are not a green day fan. “sgt. pepper’s lonely hearts club Band.” in our early still obsessed with the concept album. maybe this was never green day’s plan. in fact, it teens, we listen and wonder why this strange artifact and how foolish to obsess over such an arcane idea. most likely was not. perhaps Billie Joe thought none of is unanimously believed to be the 
The concept album was birthed the songs were bad enough to cut. perhaps he thought greatest album of all time. it is not 
during the halcyon of the lp re-none of them were good enough to choose. either way, nearly as danceable as “please 
cord. The painstaking process green day ended up putting the power of the album in please me” or “rubber soul.” it is 
of switching records created a the fan’s hands. not as much fun as “The white 
desire for something that worked i ended up crafting my own album from the collec­album” or “abbey road.” what is 
as a whole — an album one could tion of songs. i called it “vamos,” and it featured my 14 the big deal? even elo made some 
throw on, sit back and relax. if an favorites. This self-made collection found a surprising albums more listenable. 
album was just that good, one only amount of play on my ipod. perhaps part of the allure is part of this might have to do 
had to get off the couch once dur-the freedom i was afforded in crafting the playlist. with the time it was released. it 
ing its duration. and if the album and what a beautiful direction for the album. maybe might be strange to think of an 
had a deeper artistic intent, it in 10 years we will not only be choosing what to pay album as a “you had to be there” 
made the whole process more re-for albums, but also choosing what songs make up the phenomenon, but that is exactly 
warding and defendable. The baby album. getting dizzy? do not worry, i’m sure Bruce what it was — apparently. it was an boomers wanted concept albums springsteen will still be crafting “concept albums” event. it was released in 1967, the most exciting and in-for reasons of convenience and validation. blaming the rich for all the world’s problems. albums famous year for rock and pop music. it was the heyday But the lp is dead. so is the cd. and our mothers are that rolling stone will treat like royalty despite how of Beatles hysteria, right after they decided to stop per-using florida songs as ringtones. we have nothing to mediocre the songs actually are. Basically, nothing is forming. it was a shift from pop to pop art. it reminded prove and nothing to flip. so why do we still need the ever moving as fast as it seems. it’s 2013 and we are still people of andy warhol, and made many believe that concept album? waiting for the next “Tommy.” we do not learn particu­what they listened to while they made love in the mud The introduction of the mp3 was really the introduc-larly fast. was actually something of value. Basically, it was one of tion of chaos. we can mix and match now. we can cre-so no, the concept album isn’t dead. perhaps, in a few the first concept albums. ate playlists and mixtapes and skip from track two to years though, it will be free. free from the constraints 
This isn’t a defense or condemnation of “sgt. track seven. if the concern for a concept album was a of its original author. free from the odious expectation pepper’s.” some people get it. others do not. some read chef’s concern for the order of the dinner courses, the of cohesion. maybe it’s for time artists to start sending all about it and then get it. some pretend to get it to pre-mp3 made dinner a buffet. The presentation of an art-everything our way, so the listeners can decide what serve their self-appointed music cred. it really doesn’t ist’s music is just a formality. we really shouldn’t care makes the cut. matter. “sgt. pepper’s” was a big deal either way. all that much about the album as a whole. 
and still is. no matter how old or outdated it might let’s put a pin in the concept of the “concept al-Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu seem, “sgt. pepper’s” is still very much part of the dis-bum” for a minute, and talk about green day. it was The views expressed in this column are those of the cussion. The “concept album” obsession has crossed not a particularly dynamite year for the 40-something author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 

already tired of the dining hall’s limited stir-fry bar, “authentic” indian food and wannabe-Bww wings? need a break from that all-too-frequent serving of mys­tery meat in your Taco Bell crunch wrap supreme? Thanks to downtown south Bend, you can have a taste of the area’s best restaurants at a discounted price dur­ing restaurant week. 
The week started Jan. 21 and will run until sunday. participants can visit any of the 11 participating restau­rants for either a multiple course meal or dinner for two for just $30, an average 60 percent discount at these fine dining spots. 
Borrowing ideas from larger cities’ restaurant weeks, such as indianapolis, downtown south Bend uses its restaurant week as a chance to fill empty tables during typically slow weeks in the middle of the coldest days of winter and the lazy summer vacation season. 
mark mcdonnell, president and proprietor of lasalle grill and president of the downtown dining alliance, said this week is meant “to offer people a great deal or to come in for a trial run of restaurants they might not usually be able to afford,” especially college students, who can barely manage to save enough flex points for a whole semester, much less have enough cash for a fancy dinner out. 
in addition to newcomers, mcdonnell also said the week would be a chance for “foodies who go out on a reg­ular basis to experience all the restaurants south Bend has to offer.” These people probably end up spending more than usual but enjoy the experience and still get more for their money, mcdonnell said.  in fact, lasalle grill actually has a new entrée made specifically for res­taurant week, adding another perk for regulars and first timers alike. mcdonnell said the restaurant just rolled out his new favorite item,  steak top sirloin made with steak sauce, for restaurant week. 
despite last week’s miserable weather conditions and the resulting urge to stay at home and eat Top ramen and easy mac all day, the people of south Bend have taken advantage of this money-saving opportunity by showing record attendance, mcdonnell said. 
“it’s been better than we’ve ever seen it,” mcdonnell said, in reference to this year’s turnout. 
for students hoping to catch a discounted meal in the last few days of the event, mcdonnell advised calling as soon as possible to make a reservation. 
“The weekend is pretty crowded, but there are still openings for the next few days,” mcdonnell said. “[monday night] typically has 50 tables total, but be­cause of restaurant week there are 150 — that’s three times as many people as usual.” 
whether its a girls’ night out at The vine,  an anniver­sary coming up with that special someone at lasalle grill or snagging that chocolate fix from the south Bend chocolate café, this week is the perfect chance to do so at a college student-friendly price. 
in case that’s not enough motivation to attend, par­ticipation can also provide food for those in need across the state. The Jordan automotive group and the food Bank of northern indiana are sponsoring a food for Kids pack-a-Backpack program that uses the money from extra servings of food to supply food backpacks for elementary school children during weekends and holi­day breaks. 
for a full list of all 11 restaurants, visit eatdrinkdtsb.com 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

hollywood, from time to time, will come out with a war film full of pomp and circumstance that makes us think, “wow, that’s cool.” a quiet, awe-inspiring movie theater will fill with the noise of battle as great special ef­fects, heart-wrenching storylines, lots of nazi butt kick­ing and extraordinary acts of valor light up the screen. 
it’s easy to forget while watching such a movie that for many americans with family members serving in our armed forces, war is much more than that. 
1991 notre dame graduate marc conklin’s touching film “memorial day” does well to remind us of that fact. 
at the beginning of the film, a young boy, Kyle vogel, finds a footlocker of his grandfather’s, hidden away in the family barn. 
as he opens the box, the contents are nothing more to him than meaningless objects. 
“memorial day” illustrates through Kyle’s bond with his opa (“grandpa” in german), that the objects in the footlocker are treasured souvenirs and represent mem­ories of world war ii. 
young Kyle vogel chooses three souvenirs from his grandfather’s footlocker and each formerly inanimate object comes to life as opa recounts his days as a soldier. 
Kyle vogel looks expectantly at his opa on this hot minnesota memorial day — counterintuitive, i know 
— and poses an important question with the footlocker at his feet: “it’s memorial day. what am i supposed to remember?” 
at first, this may seem like a silly and cliché question. yet, i am ashamed to admit, i was just as clueless as little Kyle vogel as to what i am supposed to remember. 
heart warming and at times heart wrenching, opa tell his grandson the horrors of war and voices his hope that Kyle will never have to experience war for himself. however, as an adult, Kyle is deployed to iraq. it is there that Kyle truly appreciates the lessons of his opa ac­quires souvenirs of his own. 
The truth is that though our country holds our veter­ans in high esteem, many times their experiences and the immeasurable value they hold are never shared. for the people who have actually gone to war, it is far more difficult to share their stories than it is for us to watch them fictionalized on screen. 
what allows for “memorial day” to abandon the ste­reotypes of the modern-day war action film is that the plot centers not simply on what happens on the battle field, but how those crucial moments of war affect sol­diers even when they have returned safely home. 
“The truth is that times change,” conklin said in an in­terview with The observer. “The theaters of war change, the equipment changes. But a soldier’s basic experienc­es have a continuous thread that binds them together.” 
The film not only forms an obvious and impenetrable bond between Kyle and his opa, but the film’s road to production and sudden rising fame display the impres­sive bond the film has made with audiences across the country. 
veterans Jeff Traxler and Kyle o’malley, two men of imposing stature who had both fought for the united sates, approached conklin with a simple plan for a film: two generations, two wars, one story. 
conklin explained at first he felt he was not fit for the job. when asked, “do you have any military background in your family?” conklin responded, “sir, i’m holding a latte.” 
and yet, a latte-loving minnesota screenwriter and two vigilant war veterans took an unorthodox war sto­ry and brought it magnificently to life against all odds. with no funding and a lot of heart, the small film grew to include academy award-nominee James cromwell (“Babe,” “The artist”), the assistance of the department of defense and permission to use restored original world war ii fighter planes. 
The independent film went on to win Best narrative feature at the minneapolis/st. paul international film festival and Best feature at the g.i. film festival in washington, d.c. — all from an amazing story from an ordinary opa on memorial day. 
“most vets actually want to tell their stories,” conklin said. “They’re just waiting for someone to ask, even to insist. and it almost doesn’t matter who’s on the other end of the conversation, just as long as they’re listening.” 
“memorial day” is a perfect way to start the conversa­tion and start listening. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Tradition always rules Rose Bowl 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the second in a 10-part series discussing the best event in sports. In this installment, Sam Gans argues for the Rose Bowl. 
when people debate the best events in sports, they usually think of events that determine a champion. 
But the greatest event in sports normally does not. 
The rose Bowl defines col­lege football. not just because of the game itself, though it is normally one of the top matchups of the entire season too. But there is so much more beyond the game that makes the college football experience. The pageantry, the bands, the tradition — that is what distinguishes college football from every other sport on the planet, most of which also have supreme athletic feats but do not have the “intangibles” ncaa football does. 
and the rose Bowl epitomiz­es all of those intangibles. 
it is the oldest bowl game in college football, with its first contest in 1902, and it set the stage for the bowl system that has defined ncaa football for a century. “The granddaddy of Them all” has been played every year since 1916, and all of its games have taken place in pasadena, calif., except for the 1942 rose Bowl, played at duke in the wake of pearl harbor. 
it is a place where college football powerhouses have emerged. notre dame won its first national championship in the 1924 season, which con­cluded with a 27-10 rose Bowl win over stanford on Jan. 1, 1925. it was also notre dame’s first bowl game, and the only one in which the irish partici­pated until the 1970s. Just one year later, alabama won its first national championship with a victory in pasadena in its first bowl game, defeating washington 20-19. Those two games were more than 75 years ago, and yet, as you may recall (or might be trying to forget), those two programs played a pretty important game against each other earlier this month and are still among the elite. 
other top football programs, including ohio state, usc and michigan have played in numerous rose Bowls, rais­ing the game’s prestige as the game itself raised those pro­grams’ prestige. and arguably the greatest game of all-time was the 2006 rose Bowl, when vince young and Texas man­aged to topple the “unbeat­able” 2005 Trojans. 
But it is more than just a football game. The rose Bowl’s typical place on Jan. 1 marks it as the top matchup on an unofficial college football holi­day. (sometimes, the game is played on Jan. 2 when the new year falls on a sunday — the nfl is still king in american sports.) But the official new year’s day holiday for many people is defined by the rose parade, broadcasted nation­wide, which is a morning spec­tacle consisting of floats and bands, including those of the two schools participating in the game. 
watching the rose Bowl takes one back to a simpler time, much like entering notre dame stadium does. unfortunately, the rose Bowl fell into the contemporary trap and added a video board in 2011, but one still gets a feel­ing of history watching the rose Bowl and seeing the sun setting over the san gabriel mountains in the distance. 
There is, i should admit, some bias from nostalgia. growing up in the midwest as a fan of a Big Ten school, participating in the game that traditionally pits the Big Ten champion versus the pac-12 champion was always seen as the pinnacle of a great season. 
But even if not a fan of a Big Ten or pac-12 school, the possi­bility of a fan’s team playing in the rose Bowl, if the Big Ten or pac-12 champion participates in the national championship and a spot opens, provides chills. and the television rat­ings show the rose Bowl is huge and meaningful beyond the midwest and west coast. 
The easiest argument against the rose Bowl as the best event in all of sports is that it’s not even the best event in its own sport. how could it be when the Bcs national championship game exists? But there’s a difference be­tween “game” and “event.” The national championship con­sists of the two best teams, but it doesn’t have the same tradi­tion — after all, the Bcs didn’t emerge until 1998 — as the rose Bowl, the same pageant­ry, the same consistency in site location or the same feeling of “pureness.” 
so that’s why, even if it’s not the biggest game in col­lege football each year, it will always be the biggest event in college football. 
and that’s also why it’s the best event in all of sports. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Cardinals escape Panthers to end losing streak 
Associated Press 
louisville, Ky. — russ smith and gorgui dieng combined for 34 points and sealed the game with four free throws in the final 12 seconds as no. 12 louisville ended a three-game losing streak with a 64-61 victory over pittsburgh on monday 
night.  
louisville,  which  has  
slumped  since  being  no.  
1  two  weeks  ago,  saw  

an 11-point second-half lead cut to 60-58 on Tray woodall’s 3-pointer with 
13.3 seconds remaining. That was one of seven 3s by pitt over the final 13:18. 
dieng made two free throws with 12.7 seconds left for a four-point lead, and after the panthers’ lamar patterson shot an air ball with 6 seconds left, smith followed with two more free throws for a 64-58 lead with 
4.2 seconds left. 
woodall, who had 14 points, drained a long 3-pointer in the final second. 
smith finished with 20 points while dieng had 14 points, 12 rebounds and five blocks for the cardinals (17­4, 5-3 Big east). 
pittsburgh (17-5, 5-4) had its four-game winning streak stopped. 
louisville shot 45 percent (23 of 51) but didn’t make a basket in the final 4:34. pittsburgh shot 44 percent (25 of 57) and outrebound­ed the cardinals 35-33 but couldn’t complete the come­back as woodall missed the front end of a 1-and-1 with 43 seconds left, leading to two free throws by chane Behanan that put louisville up 60-55. 
Behanan finished with 12 points. 
louisville won without starting forward wayne Blackshear and guard Kevin ware. Blackshear is out for a “short period” after 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Happy (almost) birthday, Catherine! 
Wisdom from Charles Barkley: 
“I remember sitting down with the Rockets and saying, ‘Yeah. I’m going to retire.’ They said, ‘Well, we’ll give you $9 million.’ And I said, ‘You got a pen on you?’” 
“I know why his name is DMX. Because his real name is Earl. Imagine if his name was Earl the rapper.” 

spraining his shoulder in practice on sunday, while ware was suspended indefi­nitely for an unspecified reason. 
The absence of Blackshear and ware created another lineup shuffle for louisville, which started forward luke hancock ahead of leading-scorer smith in saturday’s 53-51 loss at georgetown. smith returned to the start­ing lineup on monday night with peyton siva, hancock, dieng and Behanan. 
Their mission was slowing an athletic panthers squad coming in on a roll, having won five of their past six. pitt went from a 1-3 start in Big east play to third place behind syracuse and marquette and in the pro­cess matched or surpassed last year’s win totals. 
Being back in familiar sur­roundings appeared to help the cardinals regain their flow, at least in the first half. Trailing 9-6, smith’s first 3-pointer sparked louisville’s 12-0 run for an 18-9 lead and set the tone for an active first half. 
The cardinals scored in the halfcourt offense as well as transition and even got a 3-pointer from Tim henderson, playing more minutes out of necessity, as they built a 32-20 lead with 
4:49 remaining in the half behind smith’s 13 points. 
But louisville went cold after that and settled for a 32-26 halftime lead pre­served by its defense, which limited pitt’s scoring chanc­es and forced the panthers into shot clock and 3-second violations down the stretch. pitt committed 11 turnovers but stayed close with 12 of 26 shooting (46 percent) and a 19-17 rebounding edge. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
On the goal of the ‘92 Olympic Dream Team when playing Panama in the Tournament of the Americas : “To get the Canal back.” 
“Yeah Ernie, it’s called defense, I mean I wouldn’t know anything about it personally but I’ve heard about it through the grapevine. 
“We are in the business of kicking butt and business is very, very good.” 



NBA 

Rudderless Celtics move on without Rondo 
Associated Press 
BosTon — rajon rondo was having his best season for the struggling Boston celtics. 
he’s averaging career highs in points and rebounds. he leads the nBa in assists and triple-doubles by big margins. he was voted the starting point guard for the eastern conference in next month’s all-star game. 
“he’s our guy that’s orches­trating everything for us,” guard courtney lee said. “he’s our leader.” 
not anymore. 
rondo is out for the season with a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee that requires surgery. so coach doc rivers must find a replacement from a group short on point-guard experience amid a wide­spread feeling that the celtics’ already shaky playoff prospects are over. 
he doesn’t believe it. 
“you can write the obitu­ary,” rivers told reporters after sunday’s 100-98, double-over­time win over the miami heat. “i’m not. you can go ahead, but i’m not. we won (sunday) and so the way i look at it is we’re go­ing to stay in there.” 
lee could fill in at rondo’s position. or Jason Terry. or leandro Barbosa. or, less like­ly, the celtics could sign a free agent or trade for a point guard. Their first practice without rondo is Tuesday. 
“when something like this happens, someone will find someone that’s already in our locker room that’s going to play terrific,” rivers said. “and i have no idea who it is.” 
sunday’s victory moved the celtics (21-23) ahead of the philadelphia 76ers by 2½ games for the eighth and final playoff spot in the east. Their first full game since rondo was ruled out for the season is wednesday night at home against the sacramento Kings. 
rivers’ players needed a break after their second straight dou­ble-overtime game and their third game in four days so he gave them monday off. 
in the first two — losses to the new york Knicks in Boston and the hawks in atlanta — rondo had triple-doubles to bring his season total to five. no other player, not even leBron James, has more than two. But the celtics’ losing streak reached six games, their longest in six seasons. 
on sunday, rondo was a late scratch with what the team first said was a hyperextended knee suffered late in the atlanta game. 
But after mri results were read, the celtics announced that he had a torn acl. 
still, they overcame fatigue and rondo’s absence to beat James and the defending nBa 
paid adverTisemenT 


champions. 
“That wasn’t our mindset going out there, showing that we can play the game with­out him,” lee said. “it was us coming together and fighting till the end. ... it just shows that we are capable of playing with­out him.” 

They’ve done it six times this season and are 3-3. with rondo, they’re 18-20. 
But the seven-year veteran is the most important player on a team with paul pierce and Kevin garnett, still outstanding but past their primes. 
rondo draws defenders to him on drives to the basket, then dishes off. he’s averag­ing 11.1 assists per game. chris paul of the los angeles clippers is second with 9.7. 
among guards, rondo’s 5.6 rebounds per game lead the nBa and his 48.4 field goal per­centage ranks third. and he’s averaging 13.7 points. 
rondo “is becoming the heart and soul of this team,” garnett said. “he’s coming into his own. he’s had some bumps in the road, but we’re trying to be sup­portive for him. it was a blow.” 
The former first-round draft choice has a reputation for be­ing moody and stubborn. he was the subject of trade talks before the 2010-11 and 2011-12 season, even being mentioned in a possible deal for paul, who later was traded by the new orleans hornets to the clippers. 
now he’s the celtics’ most in­dispensable player. 
without him. pierce almost certainly will handle the ball more. 
“it just depends on who’s pressuring,” rivers said after sunday’s game. “we had the one lineup with (Barbosa and Terry). neither one of them re­ally want to handle the ball until the ball gets across half court, so we let Jeff (green) bring it up, or paul. it’s what we are.” 
garnett advised rondo not to rush back before he’s ready. 
“That’s the first thing i told him, ‘do not play superman,’ “ garnett said. 
rivers is hoping rondo will be ready at the start of next season. he could be, if the recovery of chicago Bulls point guard and former league mvp derrick rose can serve as a guide. 
rose tore the acl in his left knee last april 28 in the final 90 seconds of the opener of a first-round playoff series against the 76ers. he underwent surgery on may 12. he’s been increasing his workload and could be ready to play in the next few weeks. That would be less than 10 months since his injury. 
Then there’s minnesota run­ning back adrian peterson. he tore the anterior cruciate and medial collateral ligaments in his left knee on dec. 24, 2011 and had surgery six days later. he was back for the vikings opener on sept. 9, less than nine months later, and ran for two touchdowns in that game. he led the nfl in rushing with 2,097 yards, just nine short of eric dickerson’s nfl record. 
so rivers is hopeful. 
The nBa season usually starts in late october, giving rondo about nine months to recover. 
“we’ve got a guy in the nfl that we can look at in adrian peterson,” rivers said, “and whatever he did, that’s what we want to do. Because that was amazing. and that’s what rondo will do.” 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

PGA TOUR 

Tiger continues dominance with win at Torrey Pines 
NFL 
49ers respond to obama’s concerns 

Associated Press 
san diego — Tiger woods is a winner again at Torrey pines, and the only question monday was how long it would take him to finish. 
woods stretched his lead to eight shots in the farmers insurance open before losing his focus and his patience during a painfully slow finish by the group ahead. 
despite dropping four shots over the last five holes, he still managed an even-par 72 for a four-shot victory on the course where he has won more than any other in his pro career. 
he won the tournament for the seventh time, one behind the record held by sam snead, who won the greater greensboro open eight times. it was the eighth time woods won at Torrey pines, which includes his playoff win in the 2008 u.s open. 
This one was never close. 
woods built a six-shot lead with 11 holes to play when the final round of the fog-delayed tourna­ment was suspended sunday by darkness. he returned monday 
—
 a late morning restart because cBs sports wanted to show it in the afternoon on the east coast 

—
 and looked stronger than ever until the tournament dragged to a conclusion. 


having to wait on every tee and from every fairway — or the rough, in his case — woods made bogey from the bunker on the 14th, hooked a tee shot on the 15th that went off the trees and into a patch of ice plant and led to double bogey, and then popped up his tee shot on the 17th on his way to an­other bogey. 
all that affected was the score. it kept him from another big mar­gin of victory, though the message was clear about his game long be­fore that. 
one week after he missed the cut in abu dhabi, he ruled at Torrey pines. 
it was his 75th career win, seven short of the snead’s all-time tour record. 
“it got a little ugly toward the end,” woods said. “i started los­ing patience a little bit with the slow play. i lost my concentration a little bit.” 
he rallied with a two-putt par on the 18th hole to win by four shots over defending champion Brandt snedeker and Josh Teater, who had the best finish of his career. 
like so many of his big wins, the only drama was for second place. 
Brad fritsch, the rookie from canada, birdied his last two holes for a 75. That put him into a tie for ninth, however, making him eligible for the phoenix open next week. 
fritsch had been entered in the monday qualifier that he had to abandon when the farmers insurance open lost saturday to a fog delay. 
woods effectively won this tournament in the final two hours sunday, when he stretched his lead to six shots with only 11 holes to play. nick watney made a 10­foot birdie putt on the par-5 ninth when play resumed to get within five shots, only to drop three shots on the next five holes. 

everyone else started too far be­hind, and woods wasn’t about to come back to them. 
even so, the red shirt seemed to put him on edge. it didn’t help that as he settled over his tee shot on the par-5 ninth, he backed off when he heard a man behind the ropes take his picture. 
woods rarely hits the fairway after an encounter with a camera shutter, and this was no different 
— it went so far right that it landed on the other side of a fence enclos­ing a corporate hospitality area. 
woods took his free drop, punched out below the trees into the fairway and then showed more irritation when his wedge nicked the flag after one hop and spun down the slope 30 feet away instead of stopping next to the hole. 

he didn’t show much reaction on perhaps his most memorable shot of the day — with his legs near the edge of a bunker some 75 feet to the left of the 11th green, he blasted out to the top shelf and watched the ball take dead aim until it stopped a foot short. 
he failed to save par from a bunker on the 14th, and he hooked his tee shot so badly on the 15th hole that it traveled only about 225 yards before it was gobbled up by the ice plant. he had to take a pen­alty drop and wound up making double bogey. 
more than his 75th career win, it was a strong opening statement for what could be a fascinating 2013. 
Before anyone projects a mon­ster year for woods based on one week — especially when that week is at Torrey pines — remem­ber that he just missed the cut last week in abu dhabi. 
woods said he wasn’t play­ing much differently, and would have liked two more rounds in the middle east. instead, a two-shot penalty for a bad drop sent him home. 
still, in healthier and happier times he usually was sharp com­ing after a long layoff. Throw out the trip to the arabian gulf, and he is. 
was this a statement? 

woods was eight shots ahead with five holes to play when he stumbled his way to the finish line, perhaps from having to kill time waiting on the group ahead. erik compton, steve marino and fritsch had an entire par 5 open ahead of them at the end of the round. 

Associated Press 
new orleans — aldon smith was among several players preparing for the super Bowl who doesn’t see anything wrong with their kids playing football. 
responding to president obama’s comments question­ing the safety of the game, the 49ers’ all-pro linebacker and a few teammates said they’d al­low their sons to follow them into the sport. 
“it’s not like we signed up and thought we were going to play tennis,” smith said monday. “it’s a physical game. everybody plays hard. and guys get hit sometimes. That’s what we all know coming into the game. we all signed up for it. 
“we came out to play football.” 
guard alex Boone was ada­mant that football has to be “physical,” while adding he believed the league and the players association were at­tempting to make the game safer. 
“if he wants to play, he can play. he can do whatever he wants,” Boone said of having a son pursue footballs. “with little kids, you don’t really have to worry about them that much. But as you get older, you have to understand the game better. 
“i think the nfl is doing a great job with that right now with the little kids, try to teach them now, young, so that they understand. But, it’s just foot­ball. it’s going to be physical.” 
while acknowledging he’s a football fan, obama told The new republic he’s concerned about the violent nature of the sport — enough so that if he had a son, he’d think twice about allowing him to play. 
“i think that those of us who love the sport are going to have to wrestle with the fact that it will probably change gradual­ly to try to reduce some of the violence,” he said. 
“in some cases, that may make it a little bit less exciting, but it will be a whole lot better for the players, and those of us who are fans maybe won’t have to examine our consciences quite as much.” 
49ers cornerback Tarell Brown called football “a dan­gerous sport,” but not one he would dissuade anyone from trying. 
“i can understand what president obama is saying, but at the same time, the league is putting in things (for safety),” Brown said. “it is a physical game if you are passionate about it and are trained the right way.” 
san francisco coach Jim harbaugh joked about allow­ing his son Jack, now 4 months old, to follow in his footsteps; harbaugh was an nfl quar­terback for 14 seasons. 
“if president obama feels that way, then (there will) be a little less competition for Jack harbaugh when he gets older,” said harbaugh, whose older brother John coaches the niners’ opponent, the Baltimore ravens. “That’s the first thing that jumps into my mind, if other parents are thinking that way.” 



NCAA BASKETBALL 

Izzo and Spartans look to take next step 
Associated Press 
easT lansing, mich. — michigan state coach Tom izzo often lamented what his team lacked when it won 17 of its first 20 games. 
a day after the spartans lost by five points at indiana, izzo was more encouraged than discouraged. 
and, he even said the team has a chance to go from good to great. 
“That is one thing i would’ve taken out of that game,” izzo said. “That was a pretty good basketball game to watch. i liked our competitive attitude. 
“we had a couple inside guys play good and one outside play well. if we can get it to two and two, we have a chance to get even better.” 
The spartans (17-4, 6-2 Big Ten) stayed at no. 13 in The associated press’ poll on monday. They host illinois (15­6, 2-5) in their only game during a nine-day stretch. 
izzo give his players a “men­tal day” on monday by having them only watch film, plans to give them friday off and perhaps dedicate a day next week to working on individual skills before preparing to play minnesota at home on feb. 6. 
“i think this break will be per­fect,” he said. 
even though the fighting illini have slumped to a ninth-place tie in the Big Ten, izzo hopes the third-place spartans realize they are playing a team that was talented enough to beat ohio state, gonzaga and Butler 
—
 all by double digits. “we’re in for a dangerous week,” izzo said. 

in the 75-70 loss to the third-ranked hoosiers, michigan state post players adreian payne and derrick nix were dominant at times and freshman guard gary harris perhaps played his best game. They helped the spartans have a shot to win — trailing by two points late in the game 

—
 despite leading scorer Keith appling being on the bench with five fouls and two points. 


payne had 18 points, nine re­bounds, blocked a shot and had a steal. nix scored eight points, made a game-high six assists, grabbed five rebounds and had two steals. 
harris scored 21 points — one short of his season high — and made five 3-pointers while play­ing sound defensively. 
“gary harris took a major step again,” izzo said. The crowd taunted harris, the 2012 indiana mr. Basketball 

award winner, and he insisted he didn’t hear the jeering fans. 
“i didn’t even notice it to be honest with you,” harris said. “i just tried to block it out.” 
Branden dawson, who is also from indiana, contributed 12 points and eight rebounds. 
even thought that was a solid performance from a sophomore less than a year removed from major knee surgery, izzo said the forward will prove to be one of a few pivotal players this season. 
“for us to go from good to great, (dawson) has to keep tak­ing steps,” izzo said. “i think denzel (valentine) and Travis (Trice) are very important parts. we can’t do it with four or five players.” 
izzo said top-ranked michigan and indiana, who are tied for first place in the Big Ten, are definitely better than every other team in the conference. 
The spartans will have two more games left with the rival wolverines — the first is in two weeks at home — a rematch with the hoosiers along with a trip to ohio state during the sec­ond half of the Big Ten schedule. 
“we do have a chance to get better, but that could still mean a couple losses,” izzo said. “i don’t say that to protect myself, but i do it realistically because this league is very, very good and you don’t get many off days.” 
while izzo acknowledged be­ing more pleased with his team than he was just a few days ago, he vowed that it’s not because he believes in moral victories. 

“it’s because we did get more guys playing well,” he said. “and, we did some things we wanted to do.” 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Minnesota struggles through another slide 
including 3-4 in the conference. to reporters after practice on 
one of their problems has been monday. a lack of production from the re-“something’s getting him off his serves, but in the last two games game. That’s one thing that always starters Joe coleman, hollins and concerns me, just staying men­rodney williams combined for 27 tally focused and not letting one points and together shot 9 for 39 play affect you in another couple (23 percent) from the field. of plays,” smith said. “i just think 
“i’ve got to be more aggressive, he needs to be more active going more vocal. it didn’t help that i to the glass and creating more wasn’t hitting any shots,” hollins opportunities.” said. “i thought i did a decent job minnesota hosts nebraska on on defense, but at the same time Tuesday and iowa on sunday, that can always get better.” and after a tough trip to michigan 
williams had a breakthrough state returns to williams arena season as a junior, but since Big for games against illinois and Ten play began the kind of pas-wisconsin. while the goal of a Big sive offense and inconsistent Ten title might be all but gone, plen­scoring that hampered him his ty of time remains for the gophers first two years has returned to the to re-establish themselves as one court. he’s one of the most ath-of the best in this stacked-as-ever letic players in the country, but at conference and get in position for 
to go out and play that way. as eighth in The associated press power forward he’s thinner than that elusive ncaa tournament 
Associated Press 

in six years with smith, poll, but they tumbled from 12th most of his opponents and has win under smith. 
minneapolis — minnesota minnesota has lost only eight non-all the way to 23rd in the latest been getting bumped around. smith has been sharply critical has developed a troubling pattern conference games. regardless rankings released monday after The gophers tried moving him of his players after several of these since hiring coach Tubby smith: a of the quality of those early vic-losing on the road last week to to the wing, where he played as a recent losses, but this week his midseason slide. tories, the gophers have always northwestern and wisconsin. freshman and sophomore, some tone has been more upbeat. 
The gophers are counting on taken plenty of confidence and “nobody likes to lose, but it against wisconsin. “our job as a coaching staff is to a return home this week to help momentum into Big Ten play. happens. That’s part of sports. “we know that he’s a great tell ‘em we love ‘em, tell ‘em how restore their rhythm and turn the But whether the cause was in-we’ve got to fight through it as a player. people go through slumps good they are and how much bet-current four-game losing streak juries to irreplaceable players, team,” swingman austin hollins like that. unfortunately he’s ter they can be,” smith said. into an aberration rather than a disruptive off-the-court issues or said. gone through a little slump, but he added: “i still have a lot of trend. simply tougher competition that They had myriad chances to i wouldn’t be surprised if tomor-confidence in them, if you’re ask­
“it’s mostly mental. we have exposed some flaws, they have win both times, but a two-game row he goes for 15 or 20 points,” ing that question. we still haven’t to just keep having faith,” center always faded — be it in mid-Jan-total of 92 points and a pattern mbakwe said. “he’s a competitor. peaked yet. we have a lot of bas-Trevor mbakwe said. “we all still uary, early february or a late skid of untimely fast-break-squelch-i know he’s been taking a lot of ketball left to play. we’ve got a lot to believe we’re one of the best teams into tournament time in march. ing turnovers led to defeats that criticism. it’s not all rodney.” do. nobody’s happy when we lose. in the country. now we’ve just got The gophers reached as high dropped their record to 15-5 williams was unavailable i know i’m not.” 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

SMC BASKETBALL | Kalamazoo 63, smc 59 
Belles surrender lead, fall to hornets 
Observer Staff Report 
despite a strong start to the game, saint mary’s ultimate­ly fell to Kalamazoo in a close 63-59 contest on saturday. 
The Belles (5-15, 3-8 miaa) failed to get the victory, while the hornets (2-17, 1-10) se­cured their first league win of the season. 
halfway through the first half, saint mary’s went on an 11-0 run and pulled away for the largest lead of the game, a 24-13 advantage, with 
6:55 remaining before the intermission. 
Kalamazoo countered that run with a three-pointer, which saint mary’s fresh­man guard maddie Kohler answered with another deep three-pointer. The Belles fin­ished the first half with a 30­27 lead. 
roughly seven minutes into the second half, the hornets tied the game at 41. 
The second half consisted of back-and-forth action be­tween the teams and a tied scoreboard. 
with just over two minutes left in the game, the Belles held a 59-53 lead. 
however, the Belles could not finish on any of their last possessions. The hornets scored the final 10 points of the game to secure the 63-59 victor y. 
freshman forward eleni shea recorded season-highs with 16 points and five steals, while fellow freshman for­ward Krista Knapke poured in 11 points. Kohler also added 11 points and five re­bounds off the bench. 
The Belles turn their focus to their next opponent, Trine, whom they defeated 59-43 on Jan. 9. 
saint mary’s takes on the Thunder on wednesday at 6 p.m. at hershey hall in angola, ind. 
NHL 

Blue Jackets rally to defeat stars 

Associated Press 
columBus, ohio — vinny prospal scored from a hard angle at 1:22 of the third and sergei Bobrovsky had 24 saves to lead the columbus Blue Jackets past the dallas stars 2-1 on monday night, ending a four-game losing streak. 
it was the Blue Jackets’ first victory since opening night in nashville in a shootout. They had been outscored 16-6 since while mustering just a point in a shootout loss to detroit in the home opener a week ago. 
derek dorsett also scored for the Blue Jackets. 
philip larsen had the stars’ goal with Kari lehtonen stop­ping 25 shots. 
The Blue Jackets took the lead for good when prospal collect­ed the puck in the right corner and fired a shot along the goal line that appeared to catch lehtonen by surprise, slipping into the net. 
Bobrovsky preserved the lead with a terrific stop on michael ryder’s one-timer from the right hash midway through the period, just before columbus’ adrian aucoin hit a post with a slap shot. 
Jamie Benn saw his first ac­tion of the season for the stars, who have lost three in a row. he signed a five-year, $26.5-mil­lion contract last week and had missed the first five games dur­ing negotiations for a new deal and while awaiting a u.s. work permit. 
Jaromir Jagr, needing just one goal to break a tie with luc robitaille (667 goals) to move into 10th on the all-time list, returned to the dallas lineup after missing one game with a bad back. 
The second period was filled with frustration for the Blue Jackets, but ended with them getting a loud ovation as they came off the ice. 
larsen scored his first goal of the season on the power play at 4:13, rocketing a shot from the right point that slipped be­tween two players to befuddle Bobrovsky, who was screened on the play. Benn picked up an assist. 
soon after, vernon fiddler picked up two minors for a hook and high sticking on the same sequence. Then Tom wandell gloved the puck in the defensive zone and was called for delay of game — giving the Blue Jackets 2 minutes of a 5 on 3 advantage. 
The stars’ defense completely shut down the power play, lim­iting columbus to passes back and forth out front, but no real scoring chances. 
There was a smattering of boos when dallas killed off all the power plays. 
despite generating no of­fense when they had a man ad­vantage, the Blue Jackets then tied it at even strength. 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Strong Big East tests Irish 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
in 1983, pittsburgh won the Big east title. Then it won again and again until 1993, when villanova finally put a stop to the streak. By 2004, the panthers had taken control once again, stretching their consecutive top finishes to an eight-year stretch that started in 1997. Between 1983 and 2004, all but three of the 22 Big east championships had gone to pittsburgh. 
notre dame had won none. 
in 2005, the irish finally won the Big east crown. The follow­ing year, they again finished victorious. in 2007, five points stood between the irish and the top of the podium. in 2008 and 2009, they won the title back-to­back years, capturing the third and fourth for the program, respectively. 
in 2010, when the current se­niors were freshmen, louisville took its first title. The cardinals returned to the top again the following year. 
“louisville is always our toughest competition,” senior chris Johnson said. 
last year, in 2012, the irish swept the Big east. notre dame took top honors by winning the conference, current senior Bill Bass earned the title of most outstanding swimmer, Tim welsh was named swimming coach of the year, current soph­omore nick nemetz was named diver of the year and caiming Xie won diving coach of the year. 

This year, the irish return nearly all of last year’s success­ful competitors. Bass won two races at last year’s meet and has continued to lead the squad this season. current sophomores Brennan Jacobsen and John williamson also contributed top finishes to last year’s win. 
louisville, the most recent team besides the irish to cap­ture the Big east title, stands at no. 14 in the most recent polls. notre dame just dropped out of 
paid adverTisemenT 
the top 25, falling from no. 20 after saturday’s loss to harvard. 
despite the recent loss tar­nishing their undefeated re­cord, the irish look forward optimistically. 
“as we get closer to Big east, training tapers off as we start resting,” Johnson said. “when the week of Big east comes, we are primed, rested and ready to go off.” 
The irish next compete at the northwestern invitational on friday and saturday before the Big east championships begin feb. 27 in indianapolis, ind. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 




TRACK AND FIELD 

freshman swanberg prepares for heptathlon 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
orange freshman will have surgery 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
for Brent swanberg, compet­ing in the multi-events is all about one thing: stamina. 
The freshman from manhattan, ill., has been en­tering decathlons and heptath­lons since he was a junior in high school and even advanced to the usa Track & field na­tional championships his se­nior year. 
swanberg will compete in his first collegiate heptathlon at the Big east indoor cham­pionship in less than a month alongside veteran seniors Ted glasnow and dean odegard. 
The indoor men’s heptathlon consists of the 60-meter dash, 60-meter hurdles, 1,000-me­ter run, long jump, high jump, pole vault and shot put. The competition takes place over two days, testing the full range of each athlete’s ability. 
while swanberg’s favorite discipline is the high jump, he said the event doesn’t favor one skill set over any other. 
“The person who is most technically sound almost always comes out on top,” swanberg said. 
To achieve this technical prowess, the irish multi-even­ters spend copious time train­ing on each event. 
“The key is logging a bunch of hours during the week in train­
“It’s also really important to spend the most time on your worst event.” 
Brent Swanberg 
Irish freshman 
ing,” swanberg said. “it’s also really important to spend the most time on your worst event.” 
not many meets offer the full event, so to prepare for the championships, swanberg and glasnow each com­peted in the high jump, long jump and 60-meter hurdles at the indiana relays this past weekend. glasnow also ran the 400-meter. 

Jim garnham coaches the irish decathletes with the wis­dom of his extensive experience coaching multi-events and field events for 12 years. under his tutelage, irish multi-eventers have earned all-Big east honors nine times. last year, at the in­door championships, glasnow and odegard finished fourth and ninth, respectively. 
“he really knows what he’s doing,” swanberg said of garnham. “To be successful, you need a good coach and good facilities, and we defi­nitely have both of those here at notre dame.” 
The irish next compete friday and saturday at the meyo invitational, the biggest home meet of the season. 
The multi-eventers will make their heptathlon debut at the Big east indoor championships on feb. 16 and 17. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Associated Press 
syracuse, n.y. — syracuse freshman forward dajuan coleman will have a surgical pro­cedure on his left knee Tuesday, the university announced in a release. 
The 6-foot-9, 288-pound coleman, who has started all 20 of the sixth-ranked orange’s games this season, is expected to miss four weeks. he was averag­ing 5.0 points and 4.3 rebounds. 
coleman injured the knee in practice before syracuse’s game at villanova on saturday. he start­ed, but played only 7 minutes in a 75-71 overtime loss. he played 7 minutes the previous game, a 57­55 home win over cincinnati. 
with coleman out, syracuse (18-2, 6-1 Big east) is down to seven scholarship players. senior forward James southerland has missed the past four games after being declared ineligible on Jan. 12. 
coach Jim Boeheim has said he is hopeful that southerland can return to the team, but there is no time frame. 


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


Fab Five 
conTinued from page 20 
around,” lawson said. 
after coming back from winter break early for two-a-day prac­tices, the five freshmen solidi­fied the “fab five” by creating a Twitter account (@ndfabfive) to document the group’s play on the court and its shenanigans off it. 
“it started as a joke,” lawson said. “we made a Twitter account … and we were taking pictures and tweeting them, just ridicu­lous stuff. it pretty much took off from there.” 
while the Twitter account provides some good laughs and shows off the freshmen’s humor, it also serves another greater purpose, monaghan said. 
“it’s more to attract atten­tion to us and the tennis team,” monaghan said. “we think we could become something special as a team, especially later in our careers. The more followers we get, the more support we’ll have and that can only help us.” 
for example, on Jan. 19, the “fab five” garnered attention for the team’s opening match of the spring season. 
“wake up and smell the ten­nis balls!!! men’s Tennis season starts today! see you at the eck pavilion at 11 #protectTheeck,” the “fab five” tweeted. 
with home matches against no. 5 duke and no. 2 usc on the irish schedule, the freshmen and the rest of the team hope the Twitter account can continue to get fans to come support them at the eck pavilion. 
“There are definitely some big matches that we are looking for­ward to and trying to get people to come out for,” lawson said. 
with three and a half more years left in their collegiate ten­
“We think we could become something special as a team, especially later in our careers.” 
Quentin Monaghan 
Irish freshman 
nis careers, the “fab five” have some lofty goals in their sights. 
“we would like to finish in the top 8 in the country and go from there,” monaghan said. “and as a group, once we are juniors and seniors, [we want] to carry the program along.” 
But lawson chimed in with one more goal — 1,000-plus Twitter followers. 
if the “fab five” and the irish can reach their tennis goals first, their other goal is likely to follow. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

Diggins 
conTinued from page 20 
but then we made a nice run in the second half. we didn’t handle it late particularly well, but managed to hang on. you know, we missed some free throws down the stretch which we don’t normally do. But overall, [with the] hos­tile environment and a lot of emotion on the Tennessee side, we handled it well.” 
notre dame led by as many as 19 points in the second half, but saw its lead cut in herself, she uses the ball screen well, you know, she knows when we really need her, and when to get the ball up, so she just has that great basketball iQ.” 
cable made an important contribution to the irish vic­tory. although she entered the game averaging 17.5 min­utes per game, she played 26 minutes monday, including many during the lady vols’ second-half run. her nine points and five rebounds continued a recent trend, as cable had averaged 9.8 points 

“I thought Skylar was magnificent ... I mean, career-high in front of that crowd, in that environment, with great defense? She was magnificent.” 

Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
to 69-64 with 3:54 remain­ing. however, Tennessee never got closer than that five-point deficit. a layup by sophomore guard madison cable and a three-pointer by diggins pushed the irish ad­vantage to 10 points, and the lead never again dipped be­low eight. 
“i thought skylar was mag­nificent,” mcgraw said of her senior guard. “i mean, career-high in front of that crowd, in that environment, with great defense? she was magnificent. 
“she’s got a lot of confidence 
paid adverTisemenT 
and five rebounds over the previous four contests. 
“she was so important in the win,” mcgraw said of the sophomore guard. “i thought she had just great minutes, terrific job off the bench, played well in so many differ­ent stretches for us and made some huge baskets when we really needed them.” 
The irish return to Big east play saturday when they host cincinnati at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTz 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher BrucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricK cross 



SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ariel winter, 15; elijah wood, 32; sarah mclachlan, 45; frank darabont, 54. 
Happy Birthday: face whatever problems come your way head-on. The longer you let things fester, the harder it will be to move forward in a positive direction. make this year count by turning it into a transitional period that leads to your victory. Be honest, creative and determined to do what’s best for you as well as those you love. your numbers are 8, 10, 16, 24, 31, 38, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): look at the relationships you are in and decide which are complimentary and which are not. call in favors and make the most of the connections you have developed in the past. put your dreams, hopes and wishes at the top of your list. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you are likely to face opposition. you will have to do things on your own if you want to reach your goals without interference. not everyone you meet will be honest regarding motives or what they have to offer. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): pick and choose what you do according to your needs, not someone else’s. it’s important to express how you feel if you want to get ahead. a personal matter can easily get blown out of proportion. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22):you have more options than you realize. don’t settle for less when you clearly want more. use your imagination and you will find a way to get what you want. Take the initiative to make things happen. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): change is heading your way. embrace what’s being offered and you will end up in charge. Be honest about your financial position and don’t promise what you can’t deliver. everything will ride on how practical and reliable you are. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions will surface and truth will be of utmost importance. pick up all the information you can that will help you avoid looking unprofessional. don’t be afraid to give anything you pursue your own unique touch. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotions will surface and truth will be of utmost importance. pick up all the information you can that will help you avoid looking unprofessional. don’t be afraid to give anything you pursue your own unique touch. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you can afford to be different. walk away from anyone who wants you to conform or give in to a lifestyle that doesn’t work for you. don’t limit your possibilities by trying to please others. it’s up to you to do your own thing. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel, communication and trying your hand at something you would like to do for a living will all play in your favor. embrace any alterations being made in your personal life and you will impress someone you love. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): money, health and legal matters must be taken care of. unforeseen change will make it difficult for you to get what you want if you have too much clutter in your life. stay on top of every situation you face. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have to address past regrets before you can move forward. discipline will be required in order to pursue new goals. focus on home, family and future security. don’t let emotions stand in the way of what must be done. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): not everyone will be upfront with you. ferret out secret information in order to keep the upper hand. love is in the stars, but honesty regarding your current situation will be necessary if you want to start something new. face facts head-on. 


Birthday Baby: you are intuitive, motivated and a humanitarian. you demand attention. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state   zip  


The oBserver | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 77, Tennessee 67 
Rocky Topped 
Diggins scores a career-high 33 points as the No. 2 Irish down Lady Vols in Knoxville for first time ever 

By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
immediately after no. 9 Tennessee honored leg­endary coach pat summitt with a banner before tip-off monday, an irish star con­tinued making the case for a banner of her own. 
senior guard skylar diggins, the newest member of notre dame’s 2,000-point club, scored a career-high 33 points to go along with five assists and four steals, and the no. 2-ranked irish de­feated the lady vols (16-4, 7-0 sec) 77-67 at Thompson-Boling arena in Knoxville, Tenn. freshman guard Jewell loyd added 10 points and junior guard Kayla mcBride contributed nine points and 10 rebounds. 
diggins has now led the irish (19-1, 7-0 Big east) to three straight wins in their series with Tennessee af­ter notre dame dropped its first 20 matchups against the women’s basketball pow­erhouse. with the victory, the irish became the first program ever to defeat both connecticut and Tennessee in three straight seasons. irish coach muffet mcgraw said she enjoys being in the same elite group as the huskies and lady vols. 
“it’s good to be in that elite company,” she said. “i think that’s where we want to be and so we’re really proud of that.” 
in the first half, the game looked every bit like a top-10 matchup. notre dame en­tered the locker room holding a 33-29 lead after both teams played a clean, defensively tenacious 20 minutes of bas­ketball. however, the irish wrested control of the mo­mentum early in the second half with an 11-0 run to build a 16-point lead. 
“i was really pleased with the way the game went in the second half,” mcgraw said. “i thought the first half, our shot selection was not as good as it could have been, 
see diggins PAGE 18 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Tight-knit ‘fab five’ seek followers via Twitter 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
They might not have quite tak­en collegiate athletics by storm yet as their Twitter account states, but the “fab five” have brought new energy and plenty of attention to notre dame this season. 
The “fab five” consists of the five freshmen on the irish roster and the group has already made big strides on the court, off the court and in the world of social media. 
Quentin monaghan, alex lawson, nicolas montoya, Kenneth sabacinski and eric schnurrenberger make up this freshmen contingent of the irish squad. But before these rookies joined the irish and became the “fab five,” they already knew each other through other tennis avenues, lawson said. 
“The four american freshmen knew each other pretty well from junior tournaments and nation­al tournaments, even though we weren’t close living by each other,” lawson said. “eric is from switzerland and he’s so nice and friendly. he fit right in.” 
Because they spend many hours each day together, the five freshmen have become a close-knit group that does more than just play tennis together, monaghan said. 
“we are just always around each other,” monaghan said. “it’s practice every day and then we eat dinner together. we continue to hang out and we just enjoy be­ing around each other and work­ing hard.” 
in addition to adjusting to nor­mal college life, the freshmen have also adapted to the colle­giate tennis format — something much different than they experi­enced in high school, monaghan said. 
“it’s much different,” monaghan said. “while playing matches there are fans and the atmosphere is team-oriented. in juniors, it’s just pretty much all you. you care a lot more about the team. They’ll pick you up if you lose, but if you win you’re re­ally helping out the team.” 
This team aspect of college tennis has been something the freshmen particularly enjoy, lawson said. 
“we have a really close team and all the guys are really tight, so it’s a great group to hang 
see faB five PAGE 18 


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Irish freshman Alex Lawson lungers for a ball during his doubles match against Western Illinois on Jan. 19 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Lawson is one of five freshmen on the Notre Dame squad. 





