The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 70 | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Controversy surrounds Te’o 
University confirms story of girlfriend’s death to be hoax, claims linebacker to be victim 
By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
lennay kekua, the girl be­lieved to have been former irish linebacker manti Te’o’s girlfriend and who was reported to have died of leukemia in september, never existed. 
after an afternoon of ques­tions and swirling controversy, notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick addressed the situation, originally reported by deadspin.com, at a press confer­ence wednesday evening. 
swarbrick said Te’o received a phone call from the number he associated with lennay kekua while he was in orlando in early december for an espn awards show that took place dec. 6. 
“when he answered it, it was a person whose voice sounded like the same voice he had talked to, who told him that she was, in fact, not dead,” swarbrick said. 
Following the phone call that day, Te’o received what swarbrick called “persistent” contact from the number; the frequency dis­sipated in time because Te’o stopped responding, swarbrick said. 
Te’o waited to act on the situ­ation until he went home for christmas on dec. 21 because he wanted to speak with his family about it in person, swarbrick said. when he returned to campus, Te’o alerted head coach Brian kelly and defensive coordinator Bob diaco before swarbrick was notified. 
swarbrick said he met with 
see manTi PAGE 6 


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 

Notre Dame director of athletics Jack Swarbrick spoke at a press conference Wednesday regarding the story of Manti Te’o’s girlfriend revealed to be a hoax. Te’o is expected to comment publicly soon. 


Mendoza adds graduate business program 

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
The mendoza college of Business plans to add a master of science in Business (msB) to its graduate school offerings in June 2013. 
roger huang, kenneth r. meyer professor of global in­vestment management and in­terim dean of mendoza, said the students will be non-business program college graduates with little to no work experience. 
The program will teach busi­ness fundamentals that will open the door to career oppor­tunities, huang said. The pro­gram’s content will reflect the mission of the university. 
“The [program’s] mission is to have ‘business for the good,’” huang said. 
This mission motivated the emphasis on ethics in the pro­gram’s business fundamentals curriculum, huang said. 
“an important part of business fundamentals is business eth­ics,” he said. 
huang said the msB program lasts one year and is comprised of three semesters: summer, fall and spring. students will com­plete 44 hours of coursework, he said. 
The program will include two specialized courses that will connect each student’s 
see masTer’s PAGE 5 

students plunge into cities 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
instead of spending winter vaca­tion relaxing or earning money, sev­eral notre dame students donated their time to the underprivileged in their own backyards through the center for social concerns’ urban plunge program. 
Bill purcell, the center’s associate director for catholic social tradition and practice, said this year’s theme was “raising voices in the city.” 
urban plunge is a one-credit learning course that focuses on ur­ban poverty in the united states, purcell said. students participate in a 40-hour immersive volunteer experience, usually in cities close to their homes. 
purcell said 210 students were chosen out of 280 applicants to this year’s program. These participants attended three preparatory class sessions about catholic social tradi­tion late in the fall semester. 
various professors taught the class sessions, including mary Jo Bane, a political science professor from harvard university who spe­cializes in poverty studies, purcell said. 
chris weber, a sophomore from chicago, ill., said he decided to par­ticipate in the program after hear­ing positive feedback about urban plunge from his roommate. 
“From him, i learned that it would be a service trip over winter break,” weber said. “when i saw that there were a couple of sites located in chicago, i thought, ‘why not?’” 
weber said he did not know what to expect from the experi­ence but was confident it would be worthwhile. 
“even after the three urban plunge classes before break, i had 
see plunge PAGE 3 


grc educates nd about stalking 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
The gender relations center (grc) wants students to know how to protect themselves from unwanted attention. 
as part of national stalking awareness month, the center is hosting a campaign titled “stalking: know it. name it. stop it.” 
emmanuel cannady, assistant director of outreach services at the grc, said the campaign aims to educate people about stalking in order to reduce its prevalence. 
“stalking takes many different forms and is underreported,” he said. “The definition of stalking has more to do with impact ver­sus intent. any form of unwant­ed contact that causes anxiety and fear is stalking.” 
grc representatives will man informational tables in 
see sTalking PAGE 5 


smc presidenT To sTay PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 hockey PAGE 20 women’s BaskeTBall PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite animal? 

Anthony Abordo 
senior 
o’neill hall 
“peregrine falcon.” 
Federico Segura 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“giraffe.” 
Jane Goodson 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“dogs.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Jordyn Conover 
junior 
ryan hall 
“ke$ha.” 
Meaghan Hannon 
sophomore mcglinn hall 
“dolphin.” 
Pat Walsh 
sophomore o’neill hall 
“snakes.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

marisa iati isaac lorton Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
nicole michels mike monaco rebecca o’neil Jack hefferon 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Brandon keelean allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Zen Meditation “Roe and the Culture Indoor Track and Mass at the Basilica Prayer Service for Dr. 
kirby mckenna laura rosas 

Coleman-Morse War that Followed” Field Invitational Basilica of the Sacred Martin Luther King Jr. Center Reckers Loftus Sports Center Heart Main Building Rotunda 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Meyo Field 11:45 a.m.-12:45 p.m. 11:45 a.m.-12:15 p.m. 
Corrections 

All faiths welcome. Professors for Lunch 10 a.m.-3 p.m. Music by the Folk Choir. Reception to follow. 
in a Jan. 16 article titled “Judge dismisses lawsuit against hhs,” law professor rick garnett said he hoped officials would be more mindful of “Is Promoting Film: “The Perks of Chicago Sinfonietta Moreau Day “Sexual Abuse in the 
protecting religious liberty in the future than 

Democracy in Being a Wallflower” DeBartolo Performing Scavenger Hunt Church: Where Are 
officials in the department of health and human services, not those in the federal court the Middle East a DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Coleman-Morse We Now?” system, have been in this case. in addition, a 
Mistake?” Arts Center 7:30 p.m.-9:20 p.m. Center McKenna Hall 
direct quote from a ruling by a federal judge in another challenge the hhs mandate was not Hesburgh Center for 9:30 p.m.-11:15 p.m. A performance by 2 p.m.-5 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. properly cited as such due to an editing error. 
International Studies Based on a novel by America’s most Campus Ministry staff Lecture by Kathleen 
The observer regrets these errors. 

4:30p.m.-6 p.m. Stephen Chbosky. diverse orchestra. will provide clues. McChesney. 


College extends Mooney’s contract as president 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
news writer 
The saint mary’s college Board of Trustees announced monday in a press release it would extend the contract for college president carol ann mooney’s contract until may 2016. 
mooney began her presi­dency on June 1, 2004. she is the college’s first president who is also an alumna of saint mary’s. 
“There is no doubt that my saint mary’s education shaped my adult life,” mooney said. “my experiences and educa­tion at saint mary’s made me well prepared for law school and the world. my law back­ground then helped me become a practical administrator.” 
under mooney’s leadership, 

paid adverTisemenT 


hesitates to get to know the students. she is a great asset to this community and i am very happy to see she will be with us for a few more years.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac02@saintmarys.edu 
Plunge 
conTinued From page 1 
no greater understanding about the nature of the service iwould be doing in chicago at the amate house site,” weber said. “however, i was pleas­antly surprised by the welcoming atmosphere there.  The house staff was kind, funny, entertaining and generous.” 
weber said he felt at home after get­ting to know everyone through con­versation, games and prayer. 
“over the course of the next two days, my fellow notre dame volun­teers and i visited four different loca­tions to lend our help,” weber said. “we were able to get a sampling of various services: decorating rice krispies treats with the elderly, pack­ing donated food goods at the greater chicago Food depository, helping out a creative writing workshop for eighth graders and helping teach addition and subtraction to first graders.” 
weber said urban plunge changed his view of chicago and opened his eyes to an entirely different way of life. 
“Through these experiences, i was able to experience a whole dif­ferent side of chicago,” weber said. “additionally, iwas privileged to meet amazing people from different walks of life, and i met some great fellow vol­unteers. For these reasons, i am glad that i participated in such a great ser­vice trip.” 
purcell said the urban plunge program predates the center for social concerns, where it is currently housed. 
“The program started in 1967 at notre dame and started to expand outside of notre dame in the 70s,” purcell said. 
as the urban plunge projects con­tinue, weber recommended the ser­vice opportunity to others. 
“i would highly suggest that ev­eryone tries an urban plunge at least once,” he said. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
saint mary’s is currently de­veloping many new projects, including the sophia program, a learning outcomes-based curriculum. The college is ap­plying that particular program to the class of 2016. 
“There are many programs i would like to see fully im­plemented within the next couple of years,” mooney said. “seeing the sophia program being fully implemented into the college’s curriculum is something very important to me. i am also looking forward to doing some fundraising for the science building to be renovated and for an angela [athletic Facility] expansion.” 
The Board of Trustees re­cently voted to approve a plan to add some co-educational graduate programs to the college within the next few years. 
“This project is being exe­cuted by [senior vice president and dean of Faculty] dr. patricia Fleming and will be under my direction,” mooney said. “it will be nice to see these graduate programs come to life within the next couple of years.” 
some people who work be­side the president expressed pleasure that the college ex­tended her contract. 
“i am so excited she is stay­ing,” vice president for student affairs karen Johnson said. “she is an amazing leader and a great role model.” 

students like junior carolina Tapia shared cupcakes with the president yesterday in the student center atrium to cel-for the college and our future,” ebrate her contract renewal. Tapia said. “[mooney] is a saint 
“i think this is great news mary’s graduate and never 
paid adverTisemenT 




saint mary’s plans career networking event 
By CAILIN CROWE 
news writer 
saint mary’s students looking for professional work experience can learn about internship oppor­tunities at the indiana internship expo on Jan. 30 in lemans hall’s reignbeaux lounge. 
The expo, sponsored by saint mary’s cross currents program and funded by the lilly endowment initiative to promote opportunities through educational collaboration, is open to students of all majors and will 
stalking 
conTinued From page 1 
north dining hall, south dining hall and the laFortune student center, cannady said. The center will also hang posters with stalking facts and statistics in residence halls. 
stalking takes many forms and is difficult to de­fine, cannady said. it can include sending unwanted gifts, texts, phone calls, pictures or contact on so­cial media sites. 
“There can be many mixed messages about what exactly stalking is, but the key word is ‘unwanted,’” cannady said. 
The majority of victims are stalked by someone they feature fall, winter and spring in­ternship opportunities in indiana. 
assistant director of the career crossings office [cco] kim patton said the lilly endowment is a grant bestowed upon saint mary’s to support efforts by indiana com­panies to employ Belles after graduation. 
patton said south Bend’s center for the homeless, northwestern mutual life insurance and Financial services, downtown south Bend, inc. and Quality dining, inc. will be among the em­ployers in attendance. 
know, cannady said. sixty-six percent of female vic­tims and 41 percent of male victims are stalked by a for­mer or current partner. one in six women and one in 19 men have been stalked. 
“men and women both un­derreport the crime, but for different reasons,” cannady said. “men tend to see stalk­ing as merely annoying, not a potential threat, whereas women actually fear report­ing the crime.” 
stalking transcends all 50 states, cannady said, but many people are un­informed about its seri­ousness. Two-thirds of perpetrators stalk their vic­tims once a week, and many more stalk their victims daily. 
paid adverTisemenT 
students should not be afraid to look beyond the indiana internship expo to land their dream internship, patton said. The cco is available to students on an appointment basis. 
“we always encourage students to come in and meet with us one on one because we can talk to students about their resumes, networking, interviews, et cetera,” patton said. 
Belles can also look to the cco website for help in their job search­es, patton said. 
“The cco’s website is not just 
stalkers fit no psychologi­cal profile, he said. many move locations and are dif­ficult to track. 
cannady said victims may suffer from anxiety, insom­nia, depression and changes in behavior. he said friends should look out for these signs in one another. 
“if you think you are be­ing stalked, keep a log of all contact,” cannady said. “This can be used for evi­dence. Be aware of who has access to your accounts on social media. if you think you are being stalked, do not hesitate to call ndsp [notre dame security police].” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
your monster or career Builder website,” she said. “it’s actually zeroing in on internships. we pro­vide the general sites to find intern­ships, but also the more specific sites for opportunities in areas like biology, publishing, nursing, non­profits, green jobs and of course tons more.” 
students can also search for in­ternships by following the cco and employers on Twitter and not­ing opportunities they post, patton said. 
patton said networking via linkedin and the alumnae 
Master’s 
conTinued From page 1 
undergraduate background to the business world, huang said. 
“we’ll try to make it more per­sonal and individualized in that sense,” he said. 
The university’s career center will help students find employ­ment opportunities where they can put their new degrees to use, he said. 
huang first proposed the msB program after meeting with deans from other private busi­ness schools in notre dame’s peer group, he said. mendoza also conducted its own market assessment of the demand for business education, which indi­cated a niche for the proposed program. 
“what we found is that there’s a growing demand for business education among non-business college graduates,” huang said. 
The business schools at duke university, university of Florida, university of virginia, arizona state university, wake Forest university and catholic university of america  have similar master’s programs, huang said. he said the master of management studies program at duke’s Fuqua school of Business was a model for the new msB pro­gram at mendoza. 
“we improved on the duke pro­gram to come up with the current curriculum of our new program,” resource network allows students to contact potential employers and learn of job openings. 
“we encourage our students to utilize the alumnae resource network to network with alum­nae who are working in the field students are interested in,” patton said.  “it’s a wonderful tool and all of the alumnae [in the network] have chosen to be in the network so they know students will be con­tacting them.” 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 
he said. 
huang said efforts to improve the curriculum will continue in order to meet the needs of non­business graduates hoping to en­ter the business world. 
“right now we are focusing on getting off the block,” huang said. “once our program is established, however, we want to keep improv­ing it to be the best in the country.” 
huang said he also hopes to complement the new program with similar ones in the future. in particular, he said he would like to create a more specialized pro­gram in finance. 
huang said such master’s pro­grams would complement the msB program and the established masters of science in accounting (msa), which provides special­ized training in accountancy. 
The maximum number of stu­dents the program will accept each year is 110, huang said, but he does not expect full enrollment in the first year. 
“The first class will likely be smaller because we have not yet implemented our full market­ing strategy, but in the future we hope to not exceed 110 students,” he said. 
huang said the college is cur­rently accepting applications for the first class of the msB program and the application deadline is march 15. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 



The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


Manti 
conTinued From page 1 
Te’o on dec. 27 and 28 after the linebacker returned to campus for practice leading up to the Jan. 7 Bcs national championship game. in those meetings, swarbrick interviewed Te’o about the chain of events. 
“i want to stress, as someone who has probably been as engaged in this as anyone in the past couple of weeks, that nothing about what i have learned has shaken my faith in manti Te’o one iota,” swarbrick said. “The same great young man, great student and great athlete that we have been so proud to have be a member of our family is the same guy tonight, unchanged in any way, except for, as he indicat­ed in a statement in his release, the embarrassment associated with having been a victim in this case.” 
Following the meetings, swarbrick met with university leaders and they made the deci­sion to acquire the services of an independent investigative firm. swarbrick said he met with Te’o’s parents — Brian and ottilia Te’o — on Jan. 4, and the family made the decision to release the story sometime the week of Jan. 20. 
swarbrick refused to release many of the details regarding Te’o’s perceived relationship with kekua, saying it’s “manti’s story to tell.” he added that the university does not plan to publish the inves­tigative firm’s results. swarbrick said he does not know the details of when or how Te’o plans to speak about this, but said it could come as early as Thursday. 
swarbrick said authorities have not been alerted to the case, due in large part to the lack of criminal activity such as extortion. 
swarbrick said Te’o never met with anyone claiming to be kekua in person and that the entire rela­tionship was conducted electroni­cally and over the telephone. Te’o had spoken of falling to sleep in bed with kekua on the line in a story that appeared in the oct. 1 issue of sports illustrated. 
“There were lengthy, long tele­phone conversations,” swarbrick said. 
“The issue of who it is, who’s playing what role, what’s real and what’s not here is a more complex question than i can get into.” 
The comments contradicted published reports in october that Te’o met kekua in person in palo alto, calif., in nov. 2009 when notre dame played at stanford over Thanksgiving weekend. 
“i’ll let manti provide the de­tails, but as i said earlier in this press conference, when manti took me through the entire story from start to finish, when he first described the contact, he used the verb ‘met,’” swarbrick said. “For him, the fact that they connected online, that they met online, was consistent with using that verb. 
“not one that i might have cho­sen, but it was for him. and the timing was consistent with the playing of that game.” 
stanford university spokesperson lisa lapin issued the following statement to The observer regarding kekua’s al­leged enrollment at the school: 
“we’ve had no student attend­ing stanford by that name or any other similar name.” 
additionally, dan anderson, an employee at the los angeles county department of coroner, told The observer there is no re­cord of lennay kekua or anyone with a similar name dying in the county from sept. 11 to 13. it had been reported that kekua died in carson, calif., sometime around those dates. 
Te’o released a statement to espn wednesday afternoon in which he said the situation has been “painful and humiliating.” 
“This is incredibly embarrass­ing to talk about, but over an ex­tended period of time, i developed an emotional relationship with a woman i met online. we main­tained what i thought to be an authentic relationship by com­municating frequently online and on the phone, and i grew to care deeply about her,” Te’o said. 
“it further pains me that the grief i felt and the sympathies expressed to me at the time of my grandmother’s death in september were in any way deep­ened by what i believed to be an­other significant loss in my life.” 
until Te’o speaks in more de­tail, the controversy surrounding the star player who helped return notre dame to national promi­nence on the field will continue to build. But swarbrick made it clear throughout wednesday’s press conference that Te’o has the university’s full trust and support. 
“There’s a lot of tragedy here,” swarbrick said. “There’s a lot of sorrow here. But the thing i am most sad of, sad about is … that the single most trusting human being i’ve ever met will never be able to trust in the same way again in his life. That’s an incredible tragedy.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at       aowens2@nd.edu 
AlGEriA 

Islamist militants claim hostages in Algeria 
in the number of reported hos­algeria itself, operating under or­ 
tages. Their identities also were ders from moktar Belmoktar, al­ 
not clear, but ireland announced Qaida’s strongman in the sahara.  
that they included a 36-year­in washington, u.s. state  
old married irish man. Japan, department spokeswoman  
Britain and the u.s. said their cit­victoria nuland confirmed that  
izens were taken. a norwegian “u.s. citizens were among the  
woman said her husband called hostages.”  
her saying that he had been tak-The caller to the nouakchott  
en hostage. information agency, which often  
hundreds of algerians work at carries announcements from ex- 
the plant and were also captured tremist groups, said the kidnap- 
in the attack, but the algerian ping was carried out by “Those  
state news agency reported they who signed in Blood,” a group  
were gradually released un­created to attack countries par- 
harmed wednesday. ticipating in the offensive against  
The algerian minister said it islamist groups in mali.  
seemed the militants were hop-The masked Brigade was  
ing to negotiate their departure formed by Belmoktar, a one- 
AP from the area — a notion he re-eyed algerian who recently de- 
U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta confirmed during a news conference in Rome on Wednesday that jected. he also dismissed theo­clared he was leaving the terror  
American citizens are among the hostages taken by an Al-Qaeda group in a standoff in Algeria. ries that the militants had come network’s algerian branch, al­ 
from libya, a mere 60 miles (100 Qaida in the islamic maghreb, to  
Associated Press  surrounding the complex and  kabila, said that “security forces  kilometers) away, or from mali, create his own group. he said at  
army helicopters clattering  have surrounded the area and  more than 600 miles (1,000 kilo-the time he would still maintain  
algiers, algeria — in a desert  overhead.  cornered the terrorists, who are  meters) away. ties with the central organiza­ 
standoff deep in the sahara, the  The group — called katibat  in one wing of the complex’s liv­ kabila said the roughly 20 tion based in afghanistan and  
algerian army ringed a natural  moulathamine or the masked  ing quarters.”  well armed gunmen were from pakistan.  
gas complex where islamist mili­tants hunkered down with doz- Brigade — phoned a mauritanian news outlet to say one of its affili­ he said one Briton and one algerian were killed in the at- paid adverTisemenT  
ens of hostages wednesday night  ates had carried out the opera- tack, while a norwegian and two  
after a rare attack that appeared  tion at the ain amenas gas field,  other Britons were among the six  
to be the first violent shock wave  and that France should end its  wounded.  
from the French intervention in  intervention in mali to ensure  “we reject all negotiations with  
mali.  the safety of the hostages.  the group, which is holding some  
a militant group that claimed  Bp, the norwegian company  20 hostages from several nation- 
responsibility said 41 foreign­ statoil and the algerian state oil  alities,” kabila said on national  
ers, including seven americans,  company sonatrach, operate the  television, raising the specter of  
were being held after the assault  gas field. a Japanese company,  a possible armed assault to try to  
on one of oil-rich algeria’s ener- Jgc corp, provides services for  free the hostages.  
gy facilities, 800 miles from the  the facility as well.  The head of a catering com- 
capital of algiers and 1,000 miles  in rome, u.s. defense  pany working on the base told  
(1,600 kilometers) from the coast.  secretary leon panetta declared  the French Journal de dimanche  
Two foreigners were killed.  that the u.s. “will take all neces­ that helicopters were flying over  
The group claiming respon­ sary and proper steps” to deal  the complex and the army waited  
sibility said the attack was in  with the attack in algeria. he  outside. There were even reports  
revenge for algeria’s support  would not detail what such steps  of clashes between the two sides  
of France’s military operation  might be but condemned the ac- and a member of the militant  
against al-Qaida-linked rebels  tion as “terrorist attack” and lik­ group told the mauritanian news  
in neighboring mali. The u.s.  ened it to al-Qaida activities in  outlet the islamists had already  
defense secretary called it a “ter­ pakistan, afghanistan and in the  repelled one assault by algerian  
rorist act.”  united states on sept. 11, 2001.  soldiers late wednesday night.  
The militants appeared to  algeria’s top security official,  it was not immediately possible  
have no escape, with troops  interior minister daho ould  to account for the discrepancies  



Boeing investigates alleged flaws in 787 design 
Associated Press 
The federal government ground­ed Boeing’s newest and most technologically advanced jetliner wednesday, declaring that u.s. air­lines cannot fly the 787 again until the risk of battery fires is addressed. 
The Federal aviation administration’s emergency order affects only united airlines, the lone 
u.s. carrier to operate 787s. united said it would put passengers on oth­er aircraft and work closely with the Faa and Boeing to review its fleet of six dreamliners. 
The Faa action came on the same day that Japan’s two biggest airlines — which fly almost half of the world’s 50 787s — voluntarily grounded them pending full safety checks. 
Boeing said it was working around the clock with investigators. 
“we are confident the 787 is safe, and we stand behind its overall in­tegrity,” Jim mcnerney, company chairman, president and ceo said late wednesday in a statement. 
The Faa decision was another setback for a plane that was sup­posed to establish a new standard for jet travel but has instead been beset by one mishap after another. 
The latest trouble arose when pi­lots for Japan’s all nippon airways smelled something burning and received a cockpit warning of bat­tery problems on a flight from yamaguchi ube airport in west­ern Japan to Tokyo. They made an emergency landing wednesday at Takamatsu airport in western Japan, and passengers evacuated using inflatable slides. 
an inspection found that a flam­mable liquid had leaked from the main lithium-ion battery below and slightly behind the cockpit. investigators found burn marks around the damage. 
Japan’s kyodo news agency quot­ed a transport ministry investiga­tor as saying that the liquid leaked through the electrical room floor to the outside of the aircraft. The trans­port ministry said the leak could have led to an accident. 
That problem followed a Jan. 7 battery fire aboard a Japan airlines plane parked at Boston’s logan airport. Both incidents involved the same type of battery, raising wor­ries that the jet’s electrical problems could be more dangerous than pre­viously thought. 
“anytime you have a fire on board 
— whether it’s the battery that has caused it or a passenger that caused it or another electrical compo­nent — that’s a very a serious situa­tion on an aircraft and something not to be taken lightly,” said kevin hiatt, president of the Flight safety Foundation. 


so far, no one has suggested that the plane’s fundamental design can’t be fixed. But it’s unclear how much will need to be changed. 
The remedy could range from relatively quick-and-easy improve­ments to more extensive changes that could delay deliveries just as Boeing is trying to speed production up from five planes per month to 10. 
The 787 is the first plane to make extensive use of lithium-ion bat­teries, which have been the focus of concerns in the past for their po­tential to catch fire. The Faa issued a special rule for their use in the 787. The plane has two batteries — the 
paid adverTisemenT 
main one near the front and a sec­ond one in the rear. 
Boeing and the airlines will need to move quickly to determine whether the problem is a flaw in the batteries themselves, in the plane’s wiring or in some other area that’s fundamental to the plane’s electri­cal system. 
Boeing has booked orders for more than 800 of the planes from airlines around the world attracted by its increased fuel efficiency. 
The jet’s lightweight design makes it more of a fuel-sipper, and it’s so lightweight in part because it uses electricity to do things that other airplanes do with hot air vented through internal ducts. so a 787 with electrical problems is like a minivan that won’t haul kids. it goes to the heart of what the thing was built to do. 
Before it carried paying passen­gers, the 787 was closely reviewed by inspectors from Boeing and the Faa. 
mike sinnett, chief engineer on the 787, said last week that the plane’s batteries have operated through a combined 1.3 million hours and never had an internal fault. he said they were built with multiple protections to ensure that failures “don’t put the airplane at risk.” 




all but a job 
Sam Stryker 
assistant managing editor 
i consider myself a well rounded per­son. i get good grades, i make a mean pecan pie and i have a sparkling set of pearly whites. it would seem i have it all in life (in Twitter-speak, i’m #blessed). however, there is one gaping hole in my existence: a job. whereas most of my friends have their lives lined up after graduation, i still have no clue what i will be doing or where i will end up. ideally, i would like to eventually host the fourth hour of the “Today show,” but i realize i may need a backup plan. here are some potential career paths i believe i am exceptionally well qualified for. 
chapstick model: after my teeth, i would say my favorite body part is my lips, especially my lower lip. i wouldn’t go so far as to say it is angelina Jolie­esque, but it definitely could hold its own on any hollywood red carpet. what better way to show off my best physical asset than as a chapstick model? Fun fact: my favorite flavor of chapstick is raspberry lemonade. 
cheese taste tester: you know how parents always talk about how they don’t have a favorite kid, but they love their kids in different ways? That’s how i feel about cheese. mozzarella is like my qui­et, reliable child, always making a pizza tasty. parmesan is spunky, adding some kick to a pasta dish. goat cheese is flashy and outspoken. i mean, maybe i could even save myself some cash and never have kids and just keep a lot of cheese in my fridge. 
human shark bait — news flash: i love sharks. i have a shark backpack, a shark apron, shark shirt, shark pillow and even shark underwear. shark week is my favorite week of the year. while i am terrified of dogs (my friends used to have to put them in their crate before i came over for play dates), i absolutely adore sharks. what better way to make friends with a shark than as human shark bait? no, i wouldn’t actually be eaten. Think of it as me playing a friendly prank on one of my future finned friends. 
castmember on a “real housewives” show: i like to gossip. i like white wine (chardonnay, please). i’m blonde. i talk really loudly. i can flip a table just fine (i’m looking at you, Teresa). i don’t care if the rest of the cast is Beverly hills born-and-bred, i could definitely hold my own in terms of sass. i think i would fit in perfectly. 
so if you’re an employer looking for a chapstick model, cheese taste tes­ter, human shark bait or a new (and young, male) castmember for a “real housewives” show, or any combination of the above, i’m your guy. until then, i’ll just have to enjoy being funemployed. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kate Barrett 
Faithpoint 
welcome back, and — though it feels like an inaccurate term when it’s 21 degrees outside — welcome to the spring semester 2013. likely you have some new courses, a new schedule, some super-clean notebooks and folders recently purchased at home or from the bookstore. a new semester almost always provides a chance for a fresh beginning. sort of like new year’s or lent, only with an academic twist: “i will start my papers earlier than the night before they’re due,” “i will review my notes after class” or “i will quit checking Facebook during class.” 
This past Tuesday, January 15, marked the anniversary of a little-known beginning here at notre dame. 169 years ago Tuesday, the indiana legislature officially char­tered the university, “l’université de notre dame du lac,” as Fr. edward sorin, csc, named it in his native French, or “The university of our lady of the lake.” perhaps you’ve already heard the famous story about Fr. sorin’s arrival in november of 1842, when he looked out over the wooded and snow-covered property from up between corby hall and old college, and — thinking he saw only one lake un­der all that snow — dedicated notre dame to the care of mary, our lady. 
at the time of Fr. sorin’s brave (some might say improbable) be­ginning, the congregation of holy cross, the religious order of priests who sent him from France into the “mission territory” of indiana, was still close enough to its own begin­nings that Fr. sorin knew well the founder of the congregation, Fr. Basil moreau, csc. Fr. moreau, now called “Blessed” to signify his one-step-away-from-sainthood status, knew the catholic church in France needed a bold new beginning after the French revolution. his priests, brothers and sisters tended to the re-education of the children and families in France who had been deprived of religious instruction and parish life. however, even at the same time Blessed Basil wanted to bring the faith to mission territo­ry and — lucky for the future notre dame — indiana fell squarely into that category. Fr. sorin’s five hun­dred acre woods and (as he would soon realize) two lakes became the site of the third catholic university established in the united states. 

The essential, inspirational influ­ence of the congregation of holy cross remains central to notre dame. our beginnings are always with us in the best sense of the word, no matter how many times our campus and academic commu­nities here welcome new students, begin new semesters, offer new majors, dedicate new buildings or open new residence halls. 
whether we are new here or have been a part of the community for many years, we can draw upon the zeal and energy of the congregation of holy cross and challenge our­selves at the same time, to contrib­ute the best of who we are to what notre dame will become. 
This sunday we will celebrate the Feast day of Blessed Basil moreau, csc, in each of the resi­dence halls, at the Basilica, and at holy cross parishes all over the world. on campus, the “Think you know moreau?” scavenger hunt will give clue-hunters a chance to explore this place in a whole new way (here’s a clue for you: sign up at campusministry.nd.edu). January is a month for the brave at notre dame: it’s cold, dark, and sometimes knee-deep in snow. it’s a time for new beginnings and re-commitment to our commu­nity, our work and our studies. But Januarys at notre dame have grown out of a brave legacy since they were nothing more than what Fr. sorin’s imagination could describe. as he wrote to Fr. moreau during those very early and difficult days, “we shall not fail to find a blessing here.” now it’s our turn to find the blessings and to offer our own as well. 
Kate Barrett is the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Ministry in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EditoriAl CArtoon 


QuotE of thE dAy 
“sometimes you can’t see yourself clearly until you see yourself through the eyes of others.” 
Ellen DeGeneres 
Talk show host 




The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
it’s time to do something about guns in america 
world in guns per 100 people with  
Adam Newman  88, nearly double as the next highest  
scientia potentia est  country, switzerland (46). according  
to the children’s defense Fund, 2,800  
at 9:35 a.m on december 14,  children die every year as a result of  
20-year-old adam lanza, wearing  gun violence, which is the equivalent  
military armor and equipped with  of a sandy hook shooting every other  
a rifle and two handguns, shot and  day.  
killed 20 children and six adults. The  gun laws will not prevent every  
carnage was horrifying, with the  shooting and it is possible that gun  
medical examiner confirming that  laws would not have prevented sandy  
each dead child sustained between  hook (although most of the children  
two and 11 bullet wounds. words can- were killed by an assault weapon that  
not describe the evil and horror that  was purchased legally). sandy hook  
occurred, but i use words in this letter  symbolizes the horror of america’s  
to conservatives that something has  gun violence epidemic and the need  
to be done about guns in america.  to do something about it. if there was  
sandy hook is just one of the 61  ever an event that called for new con­ 
american mass shootings since  trols on guns, it is sandy hook.  
1982, most notably columbine in  without doubt, the safest and most  
1999, virginia Tech in 2007, Fort  efficient way to prevent another sandy  
hood in 2009, the shooting of a  hook is to enact common sense, rea­ 
congresswoman in 2011 and the mass  sonable gun laws that allow people to  
shooting at a movie theater in aurora  purchase certain handguns and shot- 
this past summer. sadly, america does  guns, but do not allow them to buy  
not just have a major problem with  assault weapons, limit the number of  
mass shootings, but overall homicides  guns one can purchase and end pur­ 
by firearms as well. america has 3.2  chases to the mentally ill. This must  
murders per 100,000 people as a re­ occur on the federal level, because  
sult of firearms. To some this may not  city and state gun controls are weak- 
seem like many, but it does in com­ ened by guns that pour in from places  
parison to other industrialized coun­ with less strict gun laws.  
tries, such as France (0.1), canada  as what usually happens after a  
(0.5), the uk (0.2) and switzerland  mass shooting, conservative politi­ 
(0.8), the second highest country. not  cians refuse to take any major steps  
surprisingly, america also leads the  about restricting access to guns or  
lEttEr to thE Editor  

No regrets, one request 
we have no regrets. we booked greatest games in our history, we our hotels after pitt. we booked failed to acknowledge maybe our our flights after usc. we prayed greatest tradition, and that is stand-we would win tickets in the lottery. ing together as one family and sing­99% of us didn’t. we appealed to our ing our praise to our Beloved lady of spouses and better sensibilities that the lake. our feeling of emptiness this was a once in a lifetime event. in the stands grew ever deeper when They submitted. and then we paid we could not acknowledge the good way too much for tickets. we begged fight and send off our team properly our parents to take the grandkids for having one of the greatest sea-for a few days. They couldn’t say sons we can remember, and for giv­no. we had used up our fun tickets ing all of us alumni the opportunity for the year by January 7. we flew to experience what we did. maybe it from places like rhode island, south was the overwhelming grief of the dakota, idaho and Texas. we arrived moment. maybe it was the bureau-in south Florida to eternal sun and cracy of the orange Bowl committee optimism. we may have had a cock-and their stages and ensuing pre­tail (or two). we saw dear friends we sentations. But i ask you, next time, haven’t seen in 10, 15, 20 years. we make it happen. give us the oppor­felt an energy, a passion and a part tunity to thank the team for a tre­of something that we haven’t felt in a mendous season, and show us a little long, long time. it felt like home. we love for the sacrifices we all made tailgated like champions. The Blues to be there in support. misery loves and greens outnumbered the reds company, and we all could have used at least 3 to 1. of the 55,000 domers a little family love around about in the stadium, we were the 40,000 0:00. we are nd. who stayed until the clock said 0:00. we have no regrets. we would do Andrew Nachman it all over again, even if we already class of 1997 knew the ending. we thank you. st. edward’s hall 
we have one request. at one of the Jan. 16 steps to prevent mass shootings (even egg got fertilized, but we are not ob-if they may say differently in public). ligated to protect every living person 

conservatives usually refer-from being shot with a concealed au­ence the second amendment of the tomatic weapon … The term ‘pro-life’ constitution as an argument against should be a shorthand for respect for new gun controls. americans do the sanctity of life. But i will not let have the right to bear arms, but no that label apply to people for whom democracy can have a right without sanctity for life begins at conception restrictions. in america, the First and ends at birth. what about the rest amendment protects the freedom of life? respect for the sanctity of life, of speech, but the supreme court if you believe that it begins at concep­has ruled one cannot yell “fire” in a tion, cannot end at birth.” crowded theater, nor can one defame sandy hook was just one of a string someone’s reputation. There have to of mass and solo shootings that be limits. and as the supreme court comprise america’s gun violence has ruled before, gun controls can epidemic, which without question is coexist with the second amendment. partially due to the high prevalence 
what is perhaps the most perplex-of guns in our society. But even with ing is how many conservatives si-scenes of crying parents and cold, multaneously identify as “pro-life” hard numbers, conservatives still and oppose common sense gun con-refuse to do anything to prevent gun trols. ny Times columnist Thomas violence. whether it be out of cour-Friedman perhaps put it in perspec-age or conviction, guilt or anger, i ask tive the best: “in my world, you don’t my conservative friends to support get to call yourself ‘pro-life’ and be common sense gun controls that still against common-sense gun con-allow people to bear arms, but could trol — like banning public access to help lower the high prevalence of gun the kind of semiautomatic assault homicides and the mass shootings in rifle, designed for warfare, that was america. used recently in a colorado theater ... ‘pro-life’ can mean only one thing: Adam Newman is a senior political “respect for the sanctity of life.” and science major. He can be reached at there is no way that respect for the anewman3@nd.edu sanctity of life can mean we are obli-The views expressed in this column are gated to protect every fertilized egg in those of the author and not necessarily those a woman’s body, no matter how that of The Observer. 
uWirE 

armstrong’s future 
armstrong’s influence extends far beyond 

The Oracle Editorial Board 
his accomplishments as an athlete. when he 
The oracle 
was 25, he was diagnosed with stage three testicular cancer that spread to his lungs and 

renowned ex-cyclist lance armstrong brain. armstrong battled through cancer, is expected to appear on the oprah got back on his bike and won the Tour de winfrey network this week to admit his France seven times in a row. it made for an use of banned performance-enhancing inspirational story and armstrong lived the drugs before his memorable seven Tour de life of a celebrity and hero for years after that. France victories. But as the world reacts to he was one of the few bicyclists who was a armstrong’s confession, the question re-household name and an inspiration to those mains as to how the world should view the affected by cancer. his story forces the public man once considered the most influential to question the standards we place on ath­athlete in the world and the legacy he leaves letes and the pedestal we put them on just to behind — which includes the livestrong watch as they notoriously fall. Foundation, which has raised more than while there is no sense or humility in $470 million to fight cancer. rationalizing armstrong’s actions, there is 
There is no denying the despicable real-humility in allowing armstrong — and his ity of armstrong’s actions, even more so his foundation — the chance at a normal and emphatic dedication to lying about them. vitriol-free life as long as he tells the truth. armstrong cheated and lied about doing it armstrong, like the majority of people, was under oath during a court deposition in 2005 prone to the inevitable cadence of feats and and in the media multiple times after that. failures that define the human condition. armstrong will have to face many people re-despite how much he may have disappoint­garding his actions — the world anti-doping ed those who looked up to him, it would be agency, all of his past sponsors, all of his past unwise for us to overlook his contributions team mates, all of the people who claimed he outside of professional cycling and his sto­was doping before and all of his fans. ried battle against cancer. 
But nobody understands the seriousness of his actions more than armstrong himself. This column originally ran in the Jan. 16 more than anything that armstrong has edition of The Oracle, serving the University of accomplished, recovering from his reputa-South Florida. tion will turn out to be the second most The views expressed in this column are those trying feat he will ever face. regardless of of the author and not necessarily those of The the implications that doping will bring, Observer. 


The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 
david o. russell’s “silver linings playbook” follows pat, recently out of a medical hospital on plea bargain af­ter beating his wife’s illicit lover near­ly to death. pat, who had long been undiagnosed for bipolar disorder, is determined to get in shape and get better to get his wife back, who now has a restraining order against him. Back home, pat’s worried parents urge him to take his medication and spend more time with them to heal his relation­ship with his football-obsessed father. instead, he meets Tiffany through a mu­tual friend, who also struggles with men­tal illness after the death of her husband. Their awkward, quirky and sometimes inappropriate demeanors both attract and repel each other in this rom-com with bite. 
unafraid to be messy, stressful and frustrating, the film tackles real life problems by focusing on family, forgive­ness, mental illness, life and love. “silver 
By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 
in the midst of oscar season, i spent my winter break catching up on all of the highly acclaimed films of the past two months. without question, this has been an outstanding year for film as every mov­ie i saw, whether it was “life of pi,” “les misérables” or “argo,” i was convinced that not another film could top it. 
This past weekend, however, i spent two and a half hours watching kathryn Bigelow’s (who in 2010 won best picture and director at the academy awards, beat­ing out her ex-husband, James cameron, with “The hurt locker”) latest militaristic work, and i was blown away. To call her “Zero dark Thirty” a great film is an un­derstatement, as this movie is an achieve­ment on nearly every level. 
if you aren’t familiar with the story line of the film, “Zero dark Thirty” focuses on the investigative journey of a resilient cia operative named maya, played by Jessica chastain, as she spends 10 years diligently hunting osama bin laden. 
at the very start of the film, audiences face a black screen with a composite of haunting audio recordings from the day of the world Trade center attack, painfully linings playbook” draws in the audience to the characters and the family to make them feel like a part of the drama, help­less on the sidelines to stop everyone from descending into the slippery slope of past mistakes. 
often more driven by drama driven than by comedy, the film still retains a dry sense of humor of the awkward and socially inappropriate pair. lawrence’s sharp, sassy, sometimes ruthless charac­ter is the perfect foil to cooper’s hopeless, optimistic fixation on his wife. deniro, the obsessive, relentless father with foot­ball superstitions and gambling problems further complicates and limits pat as he struggles to find his silver lining. 
The movie is careful and insightful with its portrayal of mental illness — including ocd, bipolar disorder and depression — and mixes it with the struggles of living, coping and moving on. every character is affected by the trails of family life and marriage, and the rest of the cast plays an important role in the story. 
The film is able to cover issues of such weight without becoming melodramatic 
reminding viewers of the tragedy on sept. 11, 2001. From here, we jump two years later to find an al Qaeda detainee being mercilessly tortured. it is here that maya’s story, as well as the controversy behind this film, begins. 
maya, an agent recently stationed in pakistan, slowly begins to immerse herself into the dark and confusing world of terrorist tracking, attacks and interrogations. 
Through the years of her search, maya quickly rises within the cia rankings as well as al Qaeda’s hit list. chastain ef­fectively conveys the emotional maya’s struggle as her character faces years of hardships and personal loss in her efforts to find bin laden. 
The story culminates into a series of events in 2011 as an elusive courier who maya has been tracking, abu ahmed, eventually leads her to a mysterious com­pound in abbottabad, pakistan. within this compound are women, children and one man who, suspiciously, never steps outside. 
Because bin laden was never identi­fied within the house, it was a highly risky move for the american government to pursue this lead, but maya’s determina­tion and confidence convinces her cia or cliché, maintaining the romance in a realistic, well-paced way. it’s not oppo­site attraction, forbidden love or hopeless romance; perhaps their relationship is destined to be, but with truly challenging obstacles including a spouses, mental ill­ness and family wounds. 

“silver linings playbook” works so well due to the stellar performances by cooper, lawrence and deniro — perfect for the roles and delivering the quality of acting expected of them. The rest of the cast, in­cluding chris Tucker and Julia stiles, give the story believability and depth, and the film is not surprisingly nominated for multiple best ensemble cast awards. 
unlike most rom-coms or romance dramas that give away the ending in the trailer, “silver linings playbook” creates moments of actual drama and suspense, especially at its close. The characters are so well developed and liked that the au­dience knows the fragility of their minds and fears for their wellbeing the high stakes of their actions. Though the ending was still fairly predictable, this rom-com takes the audience along for a ride most 
superiors to move forward with the stealth raid on this secure pakistani compound. 
The raid itself, following a team of u.s. navy seals called the “canaries,” uses first person perspective and night vision to allow for a more immersive and grip­ping experience unlike anything you’ve ever seen on film before. From the mo­ment the canaries break into the com­pound to bin laden’s death, you will be at the edge of your seat. 
if it weren’t for Jennifer lawrence’s per­formance in “silver linings playbook,” i would say Jessica chastain has the oscar in the bag. she is outstanding as an in­credibly determined and strong-willed agent whose constant struggle through­out her ten-year journey only fuels the fire for her mission. in a film filled with many familiar faces, chastain has the acting chops to stand out among them all and truly bring to life one of the strongest fe­male leads in recent years. 
For a film that certainly portrays u.s. in­terrogation tactics in a negative light, this film received its fair share of criticism from the u.s. government. countless members of congress, including sen. John mccain, spoke out against the film for being inac­curate. That being said, none of the ma­jor political figures of the past decade, movies in the genre can’t hope to compete with. 
Though it likely won’t win the academy award for Best picture, “silver linings playbook” is a great showcase for cooper and lawrence’s abilities to play both dra­ma and humor convincingly to move a story. “silver linings playbook” is an en­tertaining combination of both genres for both genders. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
“Silver Linings Playbook” 
The Weinstein Company 
Directed by:  David O. Russell 
Starring:  Bradley Cooper, 
Jennifer Lawrence 

including presidents Barack obama and george Bush and vice president cheney, are portrayed in any sort of negative light. 
The movie may have its share of inaccu­racies, but for a story that reveals so much about the inner workings of the govern­ment, it may be for the best. Bigelow did an outstanding job with her attention to detail, making every scene of this movie mind-boggling. 
The directing, acting, writing and over­all production of this film is impeccable, and it is ludicrous that Bigelow has been snubbed from the “Best director” title at the oscars this year. i firmly believe that “Zero dark Thirty” is the best film of the year. 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
“Zero Dark Thirty” 
Annapurna Pictures 
Directed by: Kathryn Bigelow, Chriss Pratt 
Starring: Jessica Chastain 





The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 
when it comes to adapting a musical for the big screen, there’s little the director can tweak from the original source. “les misérables“ is no exception, especially because of its status as one of the most adored musicals of all time. i’ve been a longtime fan of the play myself, and hav­ing the opportunity to see it on the big screen with such an incredible lineup of talent was enough to hook my interest. 
This isn’t the first time “les mis” has been adapted into a movie — the origi­nal starred liam neeson, the man who can do it all — but what was so intrigu­ing about this new take on it was that for the first time in a musical film, the actors would be singing live on camera. usually, the actors just lip-sync to a recorded track. The result is a near three-hour film that, while having its fair share of flaws, is an overall success. keep in mind i say this as someone who is familiar with the mu­sical, and for those of you who are going in blind, there’s a chance you’ll have a far different opinion. what makes this film a success is that it stays faithful to the origi­nal musical and features some remark­able performances. 
“les misérables” was originally adapted 
list for best picture of the year. Quentin Tarantino is known for his unique, out of the box and often-controversial films, and “django” is no exception. in the so-called “spaghetti western” Tarantino explores the pre-civil war south and the attitudes of and towards african americans. 
Jamie Foxx plays django, a former slave who is purchased and freed by a bounty hunter, dr. schultz (christoph waltz), interested in the bounty on django’s for­mer owner. Their escapades are marked by witty dialogue and a dark humor sur­rounding the characters and racism of the time. however, only when the eccen­tric, wealthy landowner calvin candie from its novel of the same name written by victor hugo, and since its birth on the stage it has experienced the closest thing to a cult following that a musical can have (except maybe “rocky horror picture show”). set in 19th-century France, les mis tells the story of valjean (hugh Jackman), who is released from prison after a 20-year sentence for stealing a loaf of bread. with the help of a bishop (played by the original valjean, colm wilkinson), valjean starts a new life by breaking his parole and assuming a new identity. The only problem (aside from the rise of the French revolution) is that valjean must avoid his old nemesis, inspector Javert (russell crowe), who is on the hunt for him after his parole violation. 
Through his journey, valjean adopts the orphaned girl cosette (first played by isabelle allen then amanda seyfried) after the passing of her mother and his previ­ous employee, Fantine (anne hathaway). The second act continues their story years later amidst the French revolution as we meet a younger crew of characters. les mis is filled with struggle, violence, ro­mance, and plenty of death. Though the story is not a positive one (just look at the title), audiences have for years fallen in love with this memorable and layered cast of characters. 
had been purchased by candie. The in­teraction of candie with those around him provides an, albeit extreme, window into the atmosphere of the early 1800s and actors such as samuel l. Jackson and dicaprio work incredibly well together. 
The beauty of the movie comes from the depiction of characters and the per­sona Tarantino gives them. much like in “inglorious Bastards,” christoph waltz is impeccable in taking on his character, whether he is a vicious nazi commander or whimsical dentist turned bounty hunt­er, and it is no surprise he won the golden globe and is an oscar frontrunner. Though largely overshadowed, Jackson’s 

Jackman does a remarkable job carry­ing this film as the lead. he’s had years of experience in musical theater, and there is no denying that Jackman has talent. Because i’m sure you haven’t heard this enough times yet, anne hathaway knocks it out of the park in her 20-minute role as Fantine and her performance is the crown jewel of the film. her performance of “i dreamed a dream” is shattering. The emotional and vocal range of these two actors is stunning to say the least. 
russell crowe’s performance, on the other hand, falls short in comparison. The guy is an amazing actor, and while he got his start as a singer, it’s clear that crowe doesn’t belong in a musical. eddie redmayne gives an excellent performance as marius and provides a much-needed sense of emotion and energy to the final act of the film. seyfried performs well as cosette and sings beautifully, despite some out-of-control vibrato. samantha Barks as eponine can definitely sing, but lacks the needed emotional range. sacha Baron cohen (yes, Borat is in this movie) and helen Bonham carter don’t stand out vocally but do bring a well-needed dose of humor to the film. 
director Tom hooper, who also directed “The king’s speech,” was definitely ambi­tious in his latest project, but between the 
ticular word and repetition of dialogue and expressions. i understand the need to be historically accurate and building the backdrop of the movie, but it was done so to the point of excess. 
Beyond the controversial nature, “django” was also incredibly long at over two and a half hours, and seemed to drag at times. while admittedly most of the film’s humor and comic relief came dur­ing the dead time that didn’t move the plot forward, there was both too much build up and several times where the movie felt like it could have, or should have, ended. 
still, as a whole “django” was vintage Tarantino, with incredible acting and massive spectacle and some outstanding performances, many of the story’s themes become lost. “les misérables“ is about how the sum of our cumulative life choic­es is what alters the course of history, yet it’s easy to miss that lesson by the film’s end. 
Though 160 minutes without intermis­sion is a lot to ask out of an audience, but hooper still delivers an entertaining and faithful rendition of this beloved classic. The film as a whole is uneven, yet when it’s good, it’s fantastic. in the end, hooper’s “les misérables“ should be recognized for its amazing collaboration, performances and effort. 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
“Les Misérables” 
Working Title Films 
Directed by: Tom Hooper 
Starring: Hugh Jackman, Anne Hathaway, Amanda Seyfried, Russell Crowe 

“Django Unchained” 
The Weinstein Company 
Directed by: Quentin Tarantino 
Starring: Jamie Foxx, Christoph Waltz, Leonardo DiCaprio 




sPorts Authority 
wilson deserves rookie of the year 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
at the end of a career, when everything is said and done, a player is judged for whether he or she won in the big games. 
so why do the playoffs not matter in choosing the nFl rookie of the year? 
realistically it comes down to three players, and surprise, they are all quarterbacks. The first overall pick of the 2011 nFl draft, andrew luck; the second overall pick, robert griffin iii; and the 75th overall pick in the third round russell wilson, who was drafted to be a backup behind assumed starter matt Flynn. sorry alfred morris and muscle hamster (rookie nickname of the year goes to doug martin, hands down). if the playoffs were more of a fac­tor, then russell wilson would be named the 2012 offensive rookie of the year. 
each of these three phenoms took their respective team to the playoffs.  luck amassed an 11-5 record with the colts, rgiii led the skins to a 9-6 record (one win was kirk cousins’) and wilson led the seahawks to a 10-6 record. But only one has a playoff win under his belt — wilson. each resume is extreme­ly impressive, but if we are going by who wins in the clutch game, wilson should be the offensive rookie of the year. 
yes, andrew luck has the most passing yards ever for a rookie (4,374) and one more win (11), and robert griffin iii has the most rushing yards in a rookie season (815) and a higher quarterback rating (102.4). But wilson came out of nowhere, tied the record for most touch­downs thrown in the regular season by a rookie (26) and, most importantly, took his team further in the playoffs than ei­ther luck or rgiii. all of this he did starting from the third spot on the depth chart, while the other two were already locked in as starters. luck and rgiii had leeway to make mistakes (luck’s 18 interceptions), but wilson had to go out every week, be nearly immaculate and win, be­cause he knew that the pressure of a three-year, $19.5 million contract was right behind him. yet he flourished and outshone luck and rgiii in the playoffs. 
The voters are not supposed to take the playoffs into consid­eration, but they should. when arguing over who’s the best of the best, sports writers and fans always end up at the point in conversation where the ultimate trump card must be played — the championship card. it’s sim­ple, whoever wins when the win is most important, is the best. 
The regular season does not matter at all, if there are no re­sults in the playoffs. ask dan marino or Tony romo. no one cares if you lead 199 of the 200 laps at the daytona 500 and then not win the race (no one really cares about nascar anyway, poor example). if people only cared about the regular season, there would be no need for the wild card berth in the playoffs. which means no fun or drama at the end of the season (yeah, i’m looking at you, english premier league). The wild card, as the name states, makes the game more interesting. it adds a michael Bay spark and an m. night shyamalan twist to the playoffs, giving that one team an opportunity to mix things up and take its second-half-hot­streak all the way to the champi­onship game. 
russell wilson is exactly that — a wild card. he was not guaranteed a spot, but he did the most with what he earned. he may not have had the same passing or rushing yards as the other two candidates, but he simply got the ball in the end zone, scored more points than the other teams and won clutch games. and if it wasn’t for pete carroll, we might be watching wilson this weekend. overall, the wild card trumps the ace and king every time. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CyClinG 

Armstrong to AP: ‘People can decide’ the truth 
Associated Press 

lance armstrong said viewers can judge for themselves how candid he was in his interview with oprah winfrey. 
“i left it all on the table with her and when it airs the people can decide,” he said in a text mes­sage to The associated press. 
armstrong responded to a re­port in the new york daily news, citing an unidentified source, that he was not contrite when he acknowledged during monday’s taping with winfrey that he used performance-enhancing drugs. although the first installment of a two-part interview doesn’t air until Thursday night, there has been no shortage of opinions or advice on what armstrong should say. 
livestrong, the cancer char­ity armstrong founded in 1997 and was forced to walk away from last year, said in a state­ment wednesday it expected him to be “completely truthful and forthcoming.” a day earlier, world anti-doping agency gen­eral director david howman said nothing short of a confes­sion under oath — “not talking to a talk-show host” — could prompt a reconsideration of armstrong’s lifetime ban from sanctioned events. and Frankie andreu, a former teammate that armstrong turned on, said the disgraced cyclist had an obliga­tion to tell all he knew and help clean up the sport. 
armstrong has held conversa­tions with officials from the u.s. anti-doping agency, including a reportedly contentious face-to­face meeting with usada chief executive Travis Tygart near the denver airport. it was usada’s 

FOR SALE 

7 month old MacBook Pro. Very little use. $3K of software for graphic design. Magnetic charger. 15&quot; screen. $1800. Call 574-370-0801 
FOR RENT 

Commencement rental. Beautiful house on Notre Dame Ave., 1 block from campus and Eddy St Commons. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for photos and additional info. 
WANTED 

Personal trainer to supervise work­outs at Rock exercise room once or twice/week. Must have experience; Polequin background preferred. Call 314-583-4191 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
Born in this day in history: 
1973 - Cuauhtémoc Blanco, Mexican footballer 
1973 - Liz Ellis, Australian netball captain 
1974 - Derrick Mason, wide receiv­er (Tennessee Oilers) 
1974 - Guillermo Mercedes, Dominican/US baseball infielder 

1,000-page report last year, in­cluding testimony from nearly a dozen former teammates, that portrayed armstrong as the leader of a sophisticated doping ring that enveloped the 
u.s. postal service team on the way to title after title at the Tour de France. in addition to the lifetime ban, armstrong was stripped of all seven wins, lost nearly all of his endorsements and was forced to cut ties with livestrong. 
according to a person with knowledge of the situation, armstrong has information that might lead to his ban being re­duced to eight years. That would make him eligible to compete in elite triathlons, many of which are sanctioned under world an­ti-doping rules, in 2020, when armstrong will be 49. he was a professional athlete in the three-discipline sport as a teenager, and returned to competition af­ter retiring from cycling in 2011. 
That person also said the bar for armstrong’s redemption is higher now than when the case was open, a time during which he refused to speak to investigators. 
The person spoke on condition of anonymity because he was discussing a confidential matter. 
armstrong, who always prized loyalty on his racing teams, now faces some very tough choices himself: whether to cooperate and name those who may have aided, abetted or helped cover up the long-time use of peds. 
“i have no idea what the future holds other than me holding my kids,” he said. 
armstrong left his hometown of austin, where the interview was taped at a downtown hotel, and is in hawaii. he is named as a defendant in at least two pending lawsuits, and possibly a third. The Justice department faces a Thursday deadline on a decision whether to join a whistle-blower lawsuit filed by former teammate Floyd landis, who was stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title for doping. 
That suit alleges armstrong defrauded the u.s. government by repeatedly denying he used performance-enhancing drugs. armstrong could be required to return substantial sponsorship fees and pay a hefty fine. The ap reported earlier that Justice department officials were likely to join the lawsuit. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
(Texas Rangers) 
1974 - Marcus Spriggs, offensive tackle (Buffalo Bills) 
1974 - Sharon Marie Ferris, NZ, yachter (Olympics-96) 
1974 - Vesko Kountchev, Bulgarian musician 
1974 -Yang Chen, Chinese footballer 
1975 - Tom Jenkinson, English mu­sician (Squarepusher) 
1975 -Freddy Rodriguez, Puerto Rican-American actor 
1975 - Rami Yacoub, Swedish songwriter/producer 
1977 - Ali el Kattabi, soccer player (Sparta) 



nfl 

Eagles get their man, hire Oregon’s Kelly 
energetic approach to our team.” many to be the leading con-
Associated Press 
on the day he fired reid, lurie tender, though former cardinals 
philadelphia — in the end, appeared to be describing kelly coach ken whisenhunt and for-chip kelly chose the nFl, giving when he said he wanted to find mer ravens coach Brian Billick the eagles their guy. a “real smart, forward-thinking were in the mix. 
philadelphia hired kelly on coach” who is “strategic, a strong That all changed when kelly wednesday, just 10 days after he leader, very comfortable in his had a change of heart. decided to stay at oregon. The own skin.” The visor-wearing kelly built 49-year-old kelly, known as an The enigmatic kelly report-oregon into a national pow-offensive innovator, becomes edly was close to signing with erhouse. The ducks went to the 21st coach in team history the Browns after a long interview four straight Bcs bowl games and replaces andy reid, who Jan. 4. he met with the eagles — including a bid for the na­was fired on dec. 31 after a 4-12 for nine hours the next day, set-tional championship against season. ting up a soap-opera scenario in auburn two seasons ago — and 
he’ll be introduced at a news which the eagles were compet-have won three conference conference Thursday at 1:30 p.m. ing with Browns ceo Joe Banner, championships. at the eagles’ practice facility. their former president and long-kelly originally went to oregon 
kelly, who was 46-7 in four time friend of lurie who left the in 2007 as offensive coordina­years at oregon, interviewed organization after a falling out. tor under mike Bellotti. Before with the eagles, cleveland But that roller coaster ended that, he was offensive coordina-Browns and Buffalo Bills in a when kelly opted to remain — tor at new hampshire, where he two-day span after leading the temporarily — in eugene, ore. started devising the innovative fast-flying ducks to a victory “it’s a very difficult decision for hurry-up offense the ducks are over kansas state in the Fiesta me. it took me so long to make known for now. Bowl Jan. 3. it just because the people here oregon finished last season 12­

The eagles are known to have are special,” kelly told keZi-Tv. 1. The team was ranked no. 1 and interviewed 11 candidates, in-“The challenge obviously is ex-appeared headed for another said. “i was surprised when i got some people are gifted with dif­cluding two meetings with citing for me, but it’s an exciting shot at the national champion-the call this morning, but as the ferent things. That’s just not one seahawks defensive coordinator time and it’s a sad time — saying ship until a 17-14 loss to stanford leader of this organization, my of my skill sets. i can work on the gus Bradley. all along, kelly was goodbye to people you love and nov. 17. focus is on moving forward and speed in the offseason and get thought to be philadelphia’s first respect, and i wanted to make ducks athletic director rob that’s what we’re doing. i’m la-better with that. But i’ve always choice in a long, exhaustive pro-sure i talked to my players and mullens said wednesday that ser focused on what’s next, and been a dropback guy in the pock­cess that took many twists. did it in the right fashion and kelly called him at 7:15 a.m. psT that’s finding the right fit to lead et. i’ve been able to make plays 
“chip kelly will be an out-talked to our staff. i feel i did.” to tell him he had changed his oregon football.” on my feet throwing the ball or standing head coach for the The eagles interviewed two mind: “he wasn’t sure if that op-it’s unknown whether the pos-running for a first down.” eagles,” owner Jeffrey lurie said other high-profile college coach-portunity would present itself sibility of ncaa sanctions based on the other hand, michael in a statement. “he has a brilliant es — penn state’s Bill o’Brien again, so he felt this was the right on oregon’s use of recruiting ser-vick could be perfect. But it’s un­football mind. he motivates his and notre dame’s Brian kelly. one at the right time.” vices factored into kelly’s rever-likely the eagles would want to team with his actions as well as Both of them elected to stay with mullens now faces a coaching sal. he indicated in arizona that pay the $16 million they’d have his words. he will be a great lead-their schools. search amid recruiting season. he isn’t running from anything. to shell out for an injury-prone er for us and will bring a fresh Bradley was considered by “i’ve turned the page,” mullens “we’ve cooperated fully with quarterback, who will be 33 next 
them,” he said. “if they want to season. 
paid adverTisemenT 
talk to us again, we’ll continue to kelly had high praise for Foles cooperate fully. i feel confident after oregon beat arizona 56-31 in the situation.” in september 2011. 
kelly doesn’t have any pro “i’ll tell you what; i’m glad nick coaching experience, but as-Foles is graduating,” kelly said at pects of his up-tempo offense that time. “i catch myself watch-are already being used by new ing him in awe sometimes. nick england and washington. is a hell of a football player. That 
The eagles fired reid after two kid’s a warrior. he’s as good as forgettable years. a late flurry anyone in the country.” brought the team to an 8-8 fin-others interviewed by lurie, ish last season, but this season, general howie roseman and philadelphia endured an eight-president don smolenski were game losing streak, and dropped former Bears coach lovie smith, 11 of its final 12. a 3-1 start soon atlanta assistants mike nolan washed away, and reid’s 14-year and keith armstrong, former tenure ended not long after. Broncos offensive coordinator within a week, reid was kansas mike mccoy and Bengals offen­city’s new coach. sive coordinator Jay gruden. 
still, kelly has tough shoes to The first eagles to react to fill. reid won more games than kelly’s hiring on Twitter were de­any coach in franchise history fensive players. and led the eagles to nine play-defensive end Brandon off appearances, six division graham wrote: “happy to have titles, five conference champion-chip kelly!! now it’s time to get ship games and one super Bowl to work!” berth. safety kurt coleman wrote: 
kelly and the eagles have the “welcome chip kelly to the no. 4 overall pick in the draft as eagles family. can’t wait to see well as some talented players what he brings to the team in on offense who could fit his up-2013!” tempo scheme. running back oregon’s players gave kelly a lesean mccoy and wide receiv-gatorade bath at the end of his ers desean Jackson and Jeremy last game, and some seemed re­maclin seem like an ideal match. signed to their coach moving on. Quarterback nick Foles, how-“we’re all behind him,” quar­ever, isn’t. terback marcus mariota said. 
“i’ve never run the zone read,” “he’s someone that you can look Foles said after the season. “i’m to and learn a lot of life lessons more of a dropback guy. i’ve been from. whatever happens, hap-under center. i’ve been in the pens. we’ll see where it takes us.” gun. if i can adapt, i want to. But kelly took the road to i’m not a zone-read quarterback. philadelphia and the nFl. 





The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Mls 

Livestrong, Sporting Kansas City sever ties 

AP 

The home stadium of Sporting Kansas City, formerly named Livestrong Sporting Park, has a new name following a disagreement between the Major League Soccer team and the cancer charity founded by Lance Armstrong. 
Associated Press 
kansas ciTy, mo. — The loss of trust — not money or a tarnished reputation — led sporting kc to sever ties with the cancer charity founded by lance armstrong, according to a team official. 
But sporting kc chief execu­tive robb heineman also said wednesday the “tumultuous environment” that developed before the cyclist admitted us­ing performance enhancing drugs also played into the major league soccer team’s decision to end the relationship. 
“The severance for us was about violating the trust of a partnership. That’s what they did. does lance bleed over into that? certainly,” heineman said. “whether anyone wants to say it or not, he’s connected to the foundation. he’s why we have to always answer questions around him. ... it’s something you can’t get away from.” 
sporting kc announced Tuesday the team was changing the name of livestrong sporting park to sporting park and ending its novel arrangement with the charity that began in 2011. 
under the naming rights deal, livestrong didn’t pay to have its name on the $200 million soc­cer stadium in kansas city, kan. instead, the team promised to donate $7.5 million in stadium revenues to livestrong over six years. 
heineman said the decision came after espn reported that livestrong recently said sporting still owed $750,000 of the $1 mil­lion promised to the foundation in 2012. heineman said the team doesn’t owe livestrong any mon­ey, but he would not discuss the contract. 
“when they started to, for the lack of a better term, start to drag us through the mud a little bit in public around the relationship, that’s just nothing we have an interest in,” heineman said. “i would call it inaccurate, unfair and a breach of confidentiality. i think that’s at the core of any of this.” 
But he said it’s difficult to parse how much the loss of trust in livestrong because of the con­tract discussion in the media and armstrong’s doping ad­mission played into the end the partnership. 
“it’s a hard thing to say be­cause one is so connected to the other,” he said. “if this would just have been about lance and his reputation would we have made the same decision at some point? potentially. potentially. 
“Because what this has begun to do over time as i mentioned to you is erode the focus of what we and the partnership were all about,” he said. “it wasn’t about answering questions about what lance did or didn’t do.” 
heineman said sporting and livestrong had discussions for several months about their part­nership but would not go into de­tail about those discussions. 
“i think as the tension and as the tumultuous environment continued to kind of surround livestrong, we kept working with them around how can we modify things,” heineman said. “i think that what we saw was the brand was evolving .... and for us the vi­sion of livestrong always was it was going to be much bigger than one person.” 
armstrong resigned from the board of directors for livestrong in november after a report by the u.s. anti-doping agency ac­cused the cyclist of helping run “the most sophisticated, pro­fessionalized and successful doping program that sport has ever seen” within his u.s. postal service and discovery channel teams. 
armstrong had persistently de­nied doping until this week when he admitted to oprah winfrey he used performance-enhancing drugs during his cycling career, which included seven straight Tour de France victories. The first installment of the two-part inter­view airs Thursday night. 
greg lee, chief financial officer for livestrong, said in an emailed statement that it was the char­ity that terminated the agree­ment with sporting kc, and the foundation doesn’t discuss spe­cifics about arrangements with its partners. he said his role is “to ensure compliance by our corpo­rate partners.” 
“if a partner doesn’t live up to the terms of our agreement, we have no choice but to bring that agreement to an end,” he said. 
Foundation spokeswoman katherine mclane also said while livestrong “did not receive 
paid adverTisemenT 
a significant portion of the rev­enues it was promised, it still invested nearly $40,000 in pro­grams to serve people affected by cancer,” at several kansas city area institutions. mclane also said in an email that livestrong will continue to invest such pro­grams in the kansas city area. 
sporting park is scheduled to host the mls all-star game on July 31. 




nfl 

abraham expected to play against 49ers 
Associated Press 
Flowery Branch, ga. — it’s too early for the atlanta Falcons to know how much defensive end John abraham will play in sunday’s nFc title game. 
abraham, the nFl’s active sacks leader, made it through just 15 snaps in last week’s di­visional playoff victory over seattle before aggravating a left ankle injury that forced him to leave in the second quarter. 
“you don’t want to lose a good player,” Falcons defen­sive coordinator mike nolan said. “we won the game, so there’s something we did right. But it does change things.” 
The Falcons are making contingency plans in case abraham is unable to play at full strength against the san Francisco 49ers on sunday at the georgia dome. 

abraham, who has not been available to speak with report­ers this week, missed practice on wednesday even though coach mike smith listed him as having limited participation. said. “That’s what i like to call help the team get the win.” veteran to start on sunday. aspects of it. it’s a very explo-
But it’s clear that the Falcons him — Father abe. we look abraham, 34, was initially even so, the Falcons are giving sive offense they’ve created.” (14-3) will be pleased to have forward to getting him back hurt in the regular season fi-reserve ends cliff matthews, Though abraham’s 122 ca­abraham on the field for any out there this week. i think the nale loss to Tampa Bay, limp-Jonathan massaquoi and reer sacks rank 13th on the length of time against san guys that had a chance to play ing off the field with the help lawrence sidbury more work nFl career list, he hasn’t had Francisco (12-4-1). in his absence did a good job of trainers. this week in case abraham has one since nov. 29 when he 
“he’s a sack master,” line-stepping in and doing what coach mike smith said to make an early exit. took down new orleans quar­backer sean weatherspoon they need to do in order to that he expects the 13th-year matthews took the balance terback drew Brees to help of the work against seattle, seal a 23-13 victory. 
paid adverTisemenT 
playing 46 snaps and mak-The following week, atlanta ing two tackles opposite kroy won its second nFc south title Biermann, atlanta’s other in three years. starting end. Before the Falcons traded 
abraham, though, is a spe-for him in 2006, abraham had cial talent. a long injury history in six 
“obviously he’s an inte-years with the new york Jets. gral part of this defense,” he’s overcome assorted ail-Biermann said. “when you ments and offseason surger­lose a player like that, it kind ies with atlanta, however, and of puts a little bit of strain on has missed just two games you, but the guys behind him over the last six seasons. know that they’ve got to step “when you watch the film, up, play that role and get it he played through the pain done.” a little bit,” strong safety 
The 49ers present several william moore said. “it was problems for atlanta’s defense. hard to even tell. he rotates a 
Quarterback colin lot, so i didn’t even know he kaepernick is coming off an was out at one point.” impressive playoff win over moore learned of abraham’s green Bay, passing for 263 absence soon enough while yards and two touchdowns seattle quarterback russell and rushing for 181 yards and wilson and the seahawks two Tds. he set an nFl single-were carving up atlanta’s de­game record for yards rushing fense in the second half. after by a quarterback. vance walker sacked him ear-
smith knows the Falcons ly in the third quarter, wilson must do their best to contain completed 13 of 18 passes for kaepernick in the pocket while 230 with two Tds. keeping tight coverage on re-The Falcons did a decent job ceivers michael crabtree and covering deep routes, but they randy moss and tight ends struggled badly in trying to vernon davis and delanie defend tight end Zach miller walker. and other targets wilson hit in 
running backs Frank gore the middle of the defense. and lamichael James also cre-“Those were still miscues on ate issues in the passing at-our end,” free safety Thomas tack, too. decoud said. “we were short 
“They have playmakers at on a drop here or there or both levels with their offense,” someone didn’t carry some-smith said. “you’re going to one here or there. Those things have to put together a plan were more about us rather to try to slow down certain than things that they did.” 





The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


sMC bAskEtbAll | hope 87, smc 41 

High-powered Flying Dutch roll over Belles 

Belles senior guard Annie Doyle looks to pass to a teammate during Saint Mary’s 66-63 win over Wheaton on Nov. 15, 2011. Hope defeated the Belles 87-41 on Wednesday night. Junior guard Shanlynn Bias led the team with 15 points. 
coach Jennifer henley said. floor with five free throws. through the season without team to lock down their play 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

sports writer however, the Belles strug-Freshman forward eleni shea getting caught up with win-on the defensive end of the gled to shut down the potent scored eight points, while se-ning or losing, henley said. floor. 
saint mary’s fell short in offense of the Flying dutch nior guard kayla wolter added after the loss, saint mary’s “our effort in preparing for its efforts to take down no. 3 (15-1, 7-1). The victory was a six points and three steals for will now look to rebound when games is more concentrated on hope college last night, as the return to its usual dominance the Belles. they take on olivet (10-6, 6-2) the defensive end of things,” Flying dutch secured an 87-41 for hope, as it bounced back The depth of the veteran on saturday in olivet, mich. henley said. victory in holland, mich. from its first loss of the season hope bench showed against Facing the comets (10-6, saint mary’s will play olivet 
The Belles (5-12, 3-5 miaa) against no. 2 calvin (13-1, 7-0). the young saint mary’s squad. 6-2), who secured a close 62-at 3 p.m. saturday at the cutler anticipated a tough fight com-saint mary’s junior guard despite the loss, which shut 58 victory over rochester on event center. ing into the game and planned shanlynn Bias led the team down the Belles’ two-game wednesday night, should be to stand strong in their defen-with 15 points, combining winning streak, the young another difficult matchup for Contact Kit Loughran at sive tactics, saint mary’s head 5-of-10 shooting from the team continues to power the Belles, and will force the kloughr1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Assists 
conTinued From page 20 
calabrese notched an assist on the lone goal scored by junior center T.J. Tynan on the power play in a 1-0 win at michigan state last Friday and another in a 4-2 loss at Bowling green on Tuesday. 
“i think being poised with the puck [is the biggest improve­ment i’ve made this season],” calabrese said. “i think making better puck decisions and help­ing out on the power play here 
— i didn’t get on the power play week layoff. 
calabrese said monday, be­fore the team’s most recent loss to the Falcons on Tuesday, the irish learned from last season’s late fade. 
“i think we learned a lot from last year,” he said. “i think this year, our mindset’s a lot different at this point in time than it was last year. our past three games since break have all been on the road. in the past three years, we’ve had a game at home to kind of be a tune-up game to be prepared for a road stretch. any time you play college hockey, 
“So I think it’s a quiet and calm confidence in him, but he does do a good job with his teammates and I think he does a real good job in his approach to not just the game, but situations within the game that are sometimes stressful.” 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
until the end of the year last year 
— just being able to contribute that way.” 
last season, the irish went 12­6-3 in 2011 before going 7-12-0 in 2012 for a final season record of 19-18-3 and no ncaa tourna­ment appearance. This season, the irish were 14-4-0 in 2012, but have dropped three of their first four games since the turn of the calendar after a three-and-a-half 
paid adverTisemenT 
it’s tough to win on the road, so we’re not panicking. everyone’s positive. But that is in the back of our minds, what happened last year.” 
calabrese and the rest of the irish next hit the ice Friday, when they’ll take on alaska in the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 



Confidence 
conTinued From page 20 
— shooting 17-for-38 on the year. But loyd can score in a variety of ways. she can drive, she can cut backdoor and she can get out in transition. all in all, she averages 13 points per game, just two per game shy of team leaders senior guard skylar diggins and ju­nior guard kayla mcBride. 
defensively, she’s a nui­sance. Though just a five­foot-10 guard, she pounds the glass as hard as any post player, averaging 5.7 rebounds per game, good for second on the team be­hind junior forward natalie achonwa. she attributed her rebounding ability to a mindset ingrained in her by notre dame’s coaches. 
“Boxing out and rebound­ing is something we do every day in practice, so it’s kind of like a habit,” loyd said. 
on a team that features a number of veteran scor­ers, including diggins and mcBride, loyd said she has found her niche as the util­ity guard, a scrappy player who can score, rebound and defend. 
“[my role] depends on game situations,” loyd said. “at times, i can be a really good passer. i can score at certain times. i just try to do what’s needed. a lot times it helps with skylar on the floor because everyone covers sky. so there’s opportunities to score.” 
moving forward, loyd said she knows she needs to continue to improve. she pointed out several areas on which she needs to focus. 
“There’s always things to help improve my game,” loyd said. “you can al­ways improve ballhan­dling, knowing the offense a little bit more and person­nel. reading the defense is something that’s still hard to do. i’m trying to watch film and stuff to get better everyday.” 
up next for loyd and the irish is a home matchup sunday against st. John’s. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
sMC sWiMMinG & divinG 

Belles return recharged and ready to compete 

GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Now-sophomore Anna Nolan swims backstroke at the Defiance Invitational on Nov. 12, 2011. The Belles return from their winter training trip and begin competition at home Fri­day. Saint Mary’s will next swim against conference matchups Kalamazoo and Calvin, who both have defeated the Belles in the past. 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer  
after a week of training and competition in mesa. ariz., saint mary’s will face a tough conference test this Friday, when they host miaa foes calvin and kalamazoo. 
Both calvin (2-3) and kalamazoo (1-2) will pose as stiff challenges to the Belles, as they both placed higher than saint mary’s (0­
3) at the calvin winter invite 
“Those are some of the toughest teams in the con­ference, and generally we don’t have a positive history with them,” Belles senior captain genevieve spittler said. “But we will still go out and swim our best.” 
in spite of their earlier de­feats, the Belles are looking primed to improve in this weekend’s action, in part due to their winter train­ing trip to arizona. after spending much of the nine­
“Those are some of the toughest teams in the conference, and generally we don’t have a positive history with them, but we will still go out  and swim our best.” 
Genevieve Spittler 
senior 
on dec. 1. The knights and day trip working as a team hornets placed fouth and in the pool, spittler said the sixth respectively, while the team should be ready for Belles finished in a distant their dual meets at notre 11th. dame. 

paid adverTisemenT 
“we’re facing tough con­ference opponents, but we will be ready,” she said. 
Friday’s meets are espe­cially significant for saint mary’s, as the dawning of 2013 has brought the miaa championships ever clos­er. after facing the knights and hornets this weekend, the Belles will have just one more conference meet — a Feb. 2 dual meet against olivet — before traveling to the conference champion­ships in Jenison, mich. 
But while the champi­onships loom ever closer, saint mary’s is focused only on the next step in the jour­ney, and that’s finding it’s first win of the season this weekend. 
The Belles will host calvin and kalamazoo on Friday at the rolfs aquatic center. The meets will begin at 7 p.m. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 



CrossWord | will shorTZ 


hiGhly PunlikEly | chrisTopher Brucker 

loWEr yourExPECtAtions |lenny rago & paTrickcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoku | The mepham group 


horosCoPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Trent Ford, 34; kate moss, 39; debbie allen, 63; John carpenter, 65. 
Happy Birthday: pursue opportunities. step into the limelight and discuss your plans for the future. The way you embrace your goals will bring you support and interest. change is apparent, but not all will be easily acquired, especially if it has to do with personal or domestic matters. Focus on work and protecting what you have earned. your numbers are 2, 9, 12, 22, 26, 33, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): enjoy life. stop worrying about things you cannot change. a force play may affect your current status. an old friend will help you find the strength and courage to reach goals you’ve only talked about in the past. embrace change. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you must regroup. Taking on other people’s responsibili­ties will be detrimental. Focus on reaching your goals and acquire a position that will give you greater freedom. love and reputation will be key to your happiness. don’t neglect either one. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put energy into getting ahead by taking care of what’s expected of you. you must maintain a state of calm if you want to be taken seriously in the future. do what you can to the best of your ability. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): show emotions and share your thoughts and you will resolve pending issues that have left you standing idle in the past. it’s time to make a concerted effort to make a choice and let others scramble to fit into your plans for a change. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t allow temptation to take over, leading to added expense or a waste of time. Be progressive and constructive in your actions and focus on ways to improve what you do and how much you can earn with the skills you have. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you have options that can lead to fruitful endeavors if you keep a sound mind and realistic outlook. social networking will pay off by con­necting you to people who have something to share. Take advantage of what’s being offered. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): domestic matters will escalate, causing concern for how you should move forward. make plans to visit a destination you find comforting and conducive to finding a solution you can achieve with the least amount of turmoil. act quickly and avoid prolonged grief. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a realistic approach toward situations that concern friends, relatives or your community will put you in the spotlight. love and romance are highlighted and can help you find peace and happiness through shared accom­plishments. let your intuition guide you. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will lack practicality due to emotional decep­tion and unrealistic expectations. step back and look at the big picture and you will know what’s required of you in order to make your life better at home or at work. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take time out to revisit an old idea or project you left unfinished. reestablishing a friendship with someone you find inspiring will lead to future options that can increase your earning potential. reveal your true feelings and prosper. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): past experiences will help you make a good judgment call now. you can offer an ultimatum to someone you feel has taken advantage of you. Fixing old problems will ensure that you can continue down a path that leads to a better lifestyle. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): put greater emphasis on communication and working with institutions, government agencies or any other organization that can benefit you with grants, loans or intellectual assistance. participating in humanitarian causes or volunteering your services will enhance your love life. 

Birthday Baby: you are popular, unique and imaginative. you strive for reform and justice. 
juMblE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city  state  Zip  


The oBserver | thursdAy, jAnuAry 17, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
WoMEn’s bAskEtbAll 

Deadly shooter 
Freshman guard starts her collegiate career as scoring machine, key player in Irish victories 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
From the moment she first stepped onto the court in purcell pavilion, freshman guard Jewell loyd has daz­zled irish fans, scoring 20 points in an 88-28 exhibition win over edinboro. 
since then, she’s been nothing but spectacular. 
The Big east honored loyd on monday as the confer­ence Freshman of the week, the third time she has re­ceived that award this sea­son. in a 75-71 overtime win at south Florida on Jan. 8, loyd notched her first ca­reer double-double with 18 points and a career-high 13 rebounds. 
although loyd said she appreciates the praise, she recognized that it’s just a product of hard work in prac­tice, something she needs to continue. 
“i thank them for giving me that award,” loyd said. “But i’ve got to stay grounded and keep getting better. i couldn’t have done that without my team. i’ve still got to work. it’s awesome that i got it but i’m not getting caught up in that. 
Two days later, she scored 14 points and grabbed five rebounds in a 71-46 win over rutgers in purcell pavilion. 
simply put, loyd can do just about everything on the court. as a highly touted re­cruit from niles west high school in chicago, loyd’s success as a four-year starter did not take long to translate to the collegiate level. 
“it’s a different game, a different style of play,” loyd said. “The confidence i get from my team and my coach­es helps me. when you step out onto the court you can’t think, ‘oh i’m just a fresh­man, i’ve got to just pass the ball.’ They give me the confi­dence to just shoot.” 
From behind the three-point line, she’s deadly 
see conFidence PAGE 18 
hoCkEy 

veteran calabrese anchors the irish defense 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
in the two seasons preceding the 2012-2013 campaign, irish se­nior defenseman sam calabrese played a significant role for notre dame, racking up top minutes and scoring a total of 34 points with a +14 rating in 82 games. 
his role has expanded this year, however, as the lone senior on no. 5 notre dame’s blueline. calabrese said one of his big­gest strengths is an ability to stay calm in tense situations, a skill he tries to use to impact younger teammates. 
“i try to be the backbone back there, and not be the voice of rea­son, but i’ve been in a lot of situ­ations and as we approach the second half here, i’m going to try to keep everyone looking on the next game and not trying to look too far ahead, just try to keep ev­eryone focused on the process. … Just being here for four years, you realize that each day, you have to come to the rink and prepare for your next game,” calabrese said monday. “you can’t look too far ahead, so being the veteran i am back there and the only senior, i think it’s my job to make sure everyone’s focused on the right things and the right goals, which are day-to-day getting better.” 
irish coach Jeff Jackson shared the same sentiments about calabrese’s play. 
“[calabrese is] a very calm kid and he plays the game that way,” Jackson said monday. “as a se­nior, i think he’s done a good job in a leadership role, and i think his demeanor helps us in those chaotic times that we face during games, and even potentially dur­ing the season, just because he’s probably more mature, he’s been through this now for four years, and i think that experience of the highs and the lows, he’s probably able to handle as well as anyone. 
“so i think it’s a quiet and calm confidence in him, but he does do a good job with his team­mates and i think he does a real good job in his approach to not just the game, but situations within the game that are some­times stressful.” 
calabrese has scored nine times in his career. Though he has yet to light the lamp this season, his nine assists on the season have contributed to the success the irish (15-7-0, 11-3-0­0 ccha) have achieved thus far. 
see assisTs PAGE 17 


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Calabrese  prepares to stop an attack mounted by Lake Superior State in their own zone on Dec. 1.  Notre Dame went on to trounce the Lakers 6-1 to clinch the sweep at home. 





