The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 71 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
COMMENTARY 

‘Manti’s story to tell’ 


Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 

Megan Doyle 
managing editor 
a star linebacker’s well-known story of his girlfriend’s death has been shattered this week, and his well-known name is now the center of controversy. 
The revelations regarding manti Te’o have made for a complex, confusing story. and for a student body sort­ing through the news of the past two days, there are more 
see manTi PAGE 6 


Professor says fiscal plan needs work 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 

The contention over the united states fiscal policy has boiled down to a matter of re­arranging the deck chairs on the Titanic, economics pro­fessor eric sims said. 
members of the u.s. congress reached a compro­mise on december’s fiscal cliff crisis, a decision that was catalyzed by the expiration of the bush administration’s tax cuts that had been ex­tended in 2010 to alleviate the recession. 
The deal, made on Jan. 2, did not increase taxes for the majority of the population, but it also did not address the issue of national spending cuts. if congress had failed to act, taxes increases would have happened immedi­ately along with government spending cuts known as se­questration effected across the board. 
The frustrating inaction and seemingly endless debate among members of congress was the result of a tension be­tween the short run and long run needs of the national economy, according to sims. 
“To understand where this is coming from, the debt ceil­ing in the united states is congressionally mandated,” sims said. “we have [more than] 11 trillion [dollars] in total debt outstanding now, and mandates say the debt can’t exceed X [amount of] dollars, though historically we’ve always increased that. 
“it’s natural that we would run large annual deficits during a time of recession, because taxes are lower and spending is higher,” sims said. “in this case, it was ex­acerbated by the political showdown of 2010 and the re­cent economic sluggishness from the great recession.” 
in a time of recession, a typical fiscal policy increas­es spending and decreases taxes to foster economic re­covery and growth. however, with the national debt 
see Fiscal PAGE 5 


Colleges unite with food drives 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
The holy cross harvest is rally­ing saint mary’s, notre dame and holy cross campuses in a common cause to support the community through food drives. The drives will extend from Jan. 28 to Feb. 15 on the university of notre dame and saint mary’s college campuses, and throughout the month of February at holy cross college. 
all three institutions will have collection boxes for non-perishable foods available on their campuses. notre dame’s boxes will be available in both locations of the hammes bookstore. saint mary’s will have them in the atrium of the student center, in the lobby of spes unica hall, and by the front desk in le mans hall. 
online donations are also possible through the websites of the various organizations each school will be supporting. 
“all of our efforts will go to st. vincent de paul Food pantry,” patricia adams, director of community engagement at holy cross, said. 
holy cross will be utilizing the people gotta eat website at www. uwsjc.org for online contributions. 
saint mary’s has chosen the Food bank of northern indiana to be the beneficiary of their drive. 
“[They were] chosen because they serve six area counties, not just st. Joseph [county]. They provide food to 185 agencies in these six counties,” director of the office of civic and social engagement at saint mary’s erika buhring said. “by providing 
see Food PAGE 5 

pharmacy changes policy 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 

Thanks to a new ser­vice offered by university health services (uhs) in conjunction with walgreens pharmacy, it will now be easier for notre dame stu­dents to fill their prescrip­tion medications through private insurance compa­nies. walgreens at uhs is a new pharmacy management service offered by uhs al­lowing students to use pri­vate insurance for payment of prescriptions. 
director of university health services ann e. kleva, r.n., msa, explained that uhs felt the need to up­date their pharmacy services to better serve students. 
“it’s not so much a poli­cy change as a provision of services. … we needed to look and see where we were going in the future and what would be the best service for our students,” kleva said. “it surely was in the best interest of the students where we could file right from our sys­tem for private insurance.” 

previously, students could 
see healTh PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your New Year’s resolution? 

Ben Hiles 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“get straight as.” 
Joe Pautsch 
freshman 
morrissey manor 

“work out three times a week.” 
Mike Mercurio 
senior 
morrissey manor 
“appear on the notre dame website homepage. check.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Janie Zhang 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“sleep earlier and complete homework on time.” 
Mike Ginocchio 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“my new year’s resolution is to be more organized in every facet of my life.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian barwick vicky Jacobsen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: ann marie Jakubowski brian hartnett carolyn hutyra cory bernard 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
brandon keelean maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Roe and the Culture Indoor Track and Mass at the Basilica Prayer Service for Dr. Exploring Career 
kirby mckenna dan brombach 
War that Followed” Field Invitational Basilica of the Sacred Martin Luther King Jr. Options Reckers Loftus Sports Center Heart Main Building Rotunda 114 Flanner Hall 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 10 a.m.-3 p.m. 11:45 a.m.-12:45 p.m. 11:45 a.m.-12:15 p.m. 12:00 p.m.-1:00 p.m. 
Corrections 

Professors for Lunch. Mayo Field. Music by the Folk Choir. Reception to follow. Five week workshop. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Film: “The Perks of Chicago Sinfonietta Moreau Day “Sexul Abuse in the Summer Service 
strives for the highest standards 
Being a Wallflower” DeBartolo Performing Scavenger Hunt Church: Where Are Learning Program 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Coleman-Morse We Now?” Information Session 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center 7:30 p.m.- 9:20 p.m. Center McKenna Hall Geddes Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
9:30p.m.-11:15 p.m. A performance by 2 p.m.-5 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 5:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Based on a novel by America’s most Campus Ministry staff Lecture by Kathleen Find ways to reach out 
we can correct our error. 

Stephen Chbosky. diverse orchestra. will provide clues. McChesney. to people in need. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | The observer 

mendoza ranks first in ethics 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
at notre dame, ethics matter as much as the almighty dollar when it comes to learning business. 
This past december, bloomberg businessweek mba specialty ranking announced that the university of notre dame mba program ranked no.1 for ethics. 
“The ranking is a wonderful recognition of our values-based approach to business, which is foundational to the mission of notre dame and the mendoza college,” mary goss, senior direc­tor of the notre dame mba, stated in a press release. “it’s not a trend for us, but the essential core of what we do, who we are and what kind of business leaders we hope to develop.” 
These rankings are based on the mba class on 2012’s ratings of their program’s ethics offerings from one point for “poor” through six points for “outstanding.” 
The average ethics score for all 82 u.s. and international schools in the ranking were 4.64, accord­ing to bloomberg businessweek. notre dame’s mendoza college of business was at the top of the list with a score of 5.87 out of 6, fol­lowed by university of virginia’s darden school of business and indiana university’s kelley school ofbusiness. 
Joseph holt, director of eth­ics programs in the executive education program, and concurrent assistant professor of managemen, at the universityssaid that “ethics is in­tegrated into our mba program both because of who we are and what we offer our students, and because of who they are and what they bring to us. 
“i say that ethics is to business as a foundation and skeletal frame are to a building,” holt said. “ethics in business is also critical because companies will not get the most of their employees, and society will not bet the best from companies, unless employees see the work they are doing as con­sistent with the values that define them morally and spiritually.” 

There is a required ethics course that engages students in stimulating and mutually enrich­ing discussions about particular dilemmas but also about larger questions such as how to create a values-based company and how best to measure success in life as a whole. 
in addition to the required eth­ics course, students must choose at least one ethics electivedfrom the rich variety of options involv­ing marketing, finance, account­ing, sustainability, international business ethic, and spirituality of work. 
“i believe that our students can and do help create values-based companies like that in their lead­ership roles after graduation,” holt said. 
The student-created “mba values statement” hangs in every classroom;sstudents spend a full day on community service as part of orientatio; and most faculty teaching core business discipline courses also integrate ethics into their courses. 
“high rankings are a good thing so long as we remain concerned first and foremost to be the best business school that we know how to be consistently with the mis­sion and values that define notre dame, and only secondarily con­cerned with being recognized as a great business school,” holt said. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Author lectures on democracy 

By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
in an area plagued by con­flict, a push toward democ­racy may appear reasonable, but when dealing with the middle east, some ques­tion whether such tactics are actually a mistake. author John agresto presented his views on the issue at a lec­ture Thursday night support­ed by the kellogg institute and the undergraduate mi­nor in constitutional studies program. 
agresto began his lecture with a story that involved his first journey to iraq in 2003. he recalled a conversation he had with the dean of one of the colleges of science at the university of baghdad. This man could not under­stand why americans were truly present in iraq. agresto said that though he could not speak for everyone, he be­lieved americans were pres­ent to help. 
“[The man replied] no one leaves home and country and family to go to another coun­try to help. it’s unnatural,” agresto said. 
working as a civilian for the pentagon in iraq from 2003 to 2010, his views changed sig­nificantly over time. entering the nation, he said he was a strong believer of u.s. efforts and thought a democratic system could successfully be transported to the middle east.  
“we managed to help many of the formerly occupied na­tions of eastern europe, czechoslovakia, hungary, poland and elsewhere be­come viable, stable, and free democracies. Taking nations from autocracy and tyranny to some variety of freedom and democracy seems quite normal to us americans,” he said.  
a life of freedom seems nat­ural to the american people, yet agresto pointed out that a transfer from autocracy to democracy could not suc­cessfully materialize in the middle east. 

“because i tended to be­lieve that all people yearn for freedom and deserve to gov­ern themselves i thought that what we were attempting was good for iraq and all iraqis,” he said. 
agresto said he wanted to see a democratic nation rise from the ashes of tyranny. his thoughts were that an inter­national friend was forming and perhaps also an ally for america. 
agresto also thought a lib­eral democracy would bring peace to the region, but the gap between expectations and reality only lengthened. 
“There were political par­ties and elections and the writing of a constitution, but the peace, the toleration, the personal liberties, the moder­ation of violent passions that we hoped would follow in the wake of democracy’s advent seemed to be further away than ever,” agresto said. 
something was clearly wrong. democracies, recog­nized as the pillar of american foreign policy and a most de­sirable form of government, were failing to materialize in the middle east. 
agresto said a more demo­cratic afghanistan was rec­ognized yet not one christian church, charitable organiza­tion or school remained in the country. 
“perhaps one might want to look at the democratic mobs in libya executing all blacks they capture, men and wom­en,” he said. 
agresto marveled at how so many could continue to support a view of democracy in the middle east that was producing results contrary to the standard concepts of free­dom, security and peace com­monly attached to the system. 
“i think our understanding of government was defective,” he said. “what we are learn­ing the hard way in the middle east is that there is little in politics harder to create than just and stable democracy.” 
The success of democ­racy in the u.s. has perhaps led americans to think that government can simply be willed into being, he said. a liberal democracy that is just is a challenge to create and even harder to maintain. 
“nothing takes more art, more human effort, and more intelligence to design than a good democracy,” he said. 
agresto said especially in the middle east people want to hold onto their customs and traditions. americans may wish to say that all peo­ple deserve freedom, but that all people desire it is flat out wrong. 
agresto then posed the question, “don’t all people yearn for freedom?” he said the assumed answer was yes, but the real one was no. 
he said some people hold other goods in higher esteem. For instance, some value ho­liness, safety and instruction over freedom. some cultures are not conditioned to build a free and liberal democracy, he said. 
“democracy, we need to un­derstand, is rule by the peo­ple. democracy, more than any other government, takes on the character of its peo­ple,” agresto said. 
a nation that is intolerant or radically sectarian cannot form a successful democracy­oagresto said. he said if there is no patriotism, no real love of neighbor, no willingness to compromise then a democra­cy is close to impossible. 
“Freedom and democracy have political, social, and cul­tural preconditions,” he said. 
There are nations in which such preconditions are ab­sent. agresto said the pro­tection and growth of liberty requires certain institutions and political arrangements. political monitoring is neces­sary, and majority decisions are required in order to run a temperate, tolerant and just system. 
“culture, especially reli­gious culture, can make or break the prospects of de­mocracy,” agresto said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 



Meal plan options expanded 
By MARISA IATI 
associate news editor 
students can now satisfy their burrito and frozen yo­gurt cravings with just a swipe of their id cards. 
chipotle on north eddy street and let’s spoon on edison road began accept­ing domer dollars at the beginning of the spring se­mester. domer dollars are money added to a student’s id card so it functions as a debit account. 
“we received a letter from the university letting us know that that option was out there … and we jumped on it,” holly lederer, owner of let’s spoon, said. “especially our location at edison road, most of our clientele is notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross students, so we thought this would be something that would make it even more convenient for them.” 
britney barnett, general 
Health 
conTinued From page 1 
not fill prescriptions using private insurance. They had to pay the full price of the medication—sometimes 500 to 1,000 dollars per refill, ac­cording to kleva — and the full charges of the medication were applied to the student’s account for them or their parents to pay or file with insurance.  
“we were a private, university-owned pharmacy and we did not have the capa­bilities of filling private insur­ance prescriptions. either the student or the parent, if they wanted any reimbursement at all, needed to file with the private insurance company,” kleva said. 
now, the walgreens phar­macy in uhs fills pre­scriptions through private insurance. students may pay a co-pay (a small portion of the actual cost of the pre­scription) according to their individual private insurance at the time of service. 
“with insurance, often­times going to the physician’s office you pay a small portion manager of the chipotle lo­cation, said employees ring up domer dollar sales simi­larly to how they ring up credit and debit card sales, but the process involves a few more steps. students sign their receipts the same way they do in credit and debit card transactions. 
let’s spoon had to make only minimal changes to ac­cept domer dollars, lederer said. 
“we have a new card read­er just for that program and we’ve had to make a few changes as far as our point of sales system, our computer system,” she said. “but really … it was pretty easy.” 
accepting domer dollars has already benefited chipotle, barnett said. she said the restaurant’s sales to­taled approximately $8,000 monday, which is $3,000 more than it earns on an av­erage monday. 
“we already have a bunch of notre dame students who 
of the service and the insur­ance company pays the rest. … The students only have to pay their copay, whereas be­fore students that were on medication that could cost 500 dollars to 1,000 dollars monthly,” kleva said. 
so far, the new pharmacy service has been a resounding 
“We have students with exceptional needs who need exceptional support and we are still working with Walgreens to serve those students that truly have more needs.” 
Ann E. Kleva 
director 
University Health Services 
success. 
“our business officer, connie morrow, said she has received [more than] 180 phone calls expressing satis­faction,” kleva said. 
come in, but it has already brought in … more custom­ers,” barnett said. 
The let’s spoon at edison road is currently the brand’s only location accepting domer dollars, lederer said. The new store in the university park mall in mishawaka may implement domer dollars in the future, she said, but there is current­ly no official plan to do so. 
lederer said it is unlikely the east ireland road lo­cation will accept domer dollars because it gets very little business from students. 
however, she said, over­all that let’s spoon’s accep­tance of domer dollars is positive. 
“we hope to bring more business,” lederer said. “we’re really excited about it. we hope the convenience of it brings more people through the door.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
she noted that students might still use the uhs phar­macy service even if they have concerns about finances or confidentiality, or other special needs. “we have stu­dents with exceptional needs who need exceptional sup­port and we are still work­ing with walgreens to serve those students that truly have more needs,” kleva said. “any student with a special need can still speak to our busi­ness office about self-pay or confidentiality.” 
kleva said that walgreens was a natural choice for uhs after the opening of the Take care/walgreens employee wellness center in July 2012. 
“The Take care/walgreens employee wellness center is operating on campus for em­ployees only. however, prior partnership with the univer­sity made the decision to uti­lize walgreens/Take care for uhs pharmacy management a natural one as we continu­ally look for ways to improve services for our students,” kleva said. 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmaclee@nd.edu 

development center to hold open house 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 

The early childhood development centers (ecdc) on the notre dame and saint mary’s campus will hold a series of open houses in the next month for prospective parents to gain a better un­derstanding of the program. 
saint mary’s first open house is scheduled for Jan. 20 and notre dame’s first is Jan. 27. kari alford, program director at saint mary’s, said these open houses are a great way for families and children to explore the options and education available at ecdc. 
“open houses are designed for families interested in en­rolling their child at ecdc,” she said. “open houses are a time for families to meet some of our staff, have a tour and to find out more informa­tion about our program and the registration process.” 
senior annie root, who works part-time at ecdc on the saint mary’s campus as a teacher assistant, said she hopes the open houses are a success. 
“The open houses are a great way for the parents to see what kind of atmosphere we have at ecdc,” she said. “i think we have a lot to offer and i’m excited for the par­ents to see that.” 
according to alford, notre dame and saint mary’s each have an ecdc on campus that serves different ages. 
notre dame’s ecdc was founded in 1994 and is for children the age of two un­til they reach kindergarten. saint mary’s ecdc, found­ed in 1971, educates young children ages three to five. children at both centers can attend preschool schedule for a morning, an afternoon, or an entire day. ecdc also of­fers summer recreational day camp opportunities for chil­dren through age 9, accord­ing to alford. 
“we are a nonprofit pro­gram accredited by the national association for the education of young children (naeyc) and licensed by the indiana bureau of child development and staffed with degreed lead teachers,” alford said. 
while anyone from the community is encouraged to attend the open houses if they are interested in enroll­ing their children at either the saint mary’s or notre dame ecdc, the centers accepts children who are associated with the schools first. 
“ecdc enrolls families who are affiliated to nd or smc in the categories of faculty, ad­ministration, staff, student, and alum,” alford said. “if ecdc-smc has enrollment openings after enrolling affil­iated families, non-affiliated families from the community are enrolled.” 
a complete list of open house times for saint mary’s ecdc, located in havican hall, and for notre dame ecdc, located on bulla road, can be found by vis­iting the website www. nd.edu/~ecdcnd/. anyone with questions about ecdc or the open houses can con­tact alford at kalford@saint­marys.edu. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | The observer 




Fiscal 
conTinued From page 1 
approaching 100 percent of the gross domestic product (gdp), economists are worried about the long term consequences of the gradual increase of the debt ceiling. 
“Tax increases and spend­ing cuts aren’t good for the short-term economy, but now there is concern that our debt is so big that eventually, other countries and other investors won’t want to take our debt if they doubt the full faith and credit of the u.s. government,” sims said. “The basic gist of the deal was that taxes won’t go up for most people, just the higher-income brackets, and the spending issue was just punted farther down the line.” 
in the economic long run, the increased taxes and decreased spending are exactly what the nation needs in order to reme­dy the national debt issues, ac­cording to sims. The fiscal cliff compromise is intended only to address the short run situa­tion, post-recession. 
“‘going off the fiscal cliff’ would have meant no deal, taxes up for a lot of people, and sequestration, which means general spending cuts effective immediately,” sims said. “in a sense, this is exactly what we needed to do, but the tension is in the fact that the higher tax­ing would have been bad for the short-term behavior of an economy finally in the begin­ning stages of recovery.” 
economics professor robert Flood said the issue of the spending cuts, or sequestra­tion, must be addressed soon if any lasting progress is to be made. The threatened cuts, in­tended to force a compromise in congress, would have seri­ous immediate implications. 
“The sequester involves across-the-board cuts of eight to-10 percent in many domes­tic and military programs,” Flood said. “The yelling and screaming when this comes up will be deafening.” 


Flood said the current defi­cit situation has prompted the panic of this particular negotiation. 
“we are now at about 39 per­cent of gdp spent by the Feds, which taxes about 27 percent of the gdp—taxes are low by historical standards,” Flood said. “The difference is the deficit. 
“To get to fiscal balance, the 
u.s. needs to reduce spend­ing by 35 percent and increase taxes by 35 percent. we need some big adjustments, and the fiscal cliff stuff negotiated at the year’s end solves about fiv5 percent of the problem.” 

sims said the debt ceiling is projected to be reached in six weeks, which puts pressure on congress to come up with a new, more comprehensive deal by then to avoid a repeat of this situation. This time, they will not be able to avoid the question of spending and the 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 
national debt. 
“They’ll have to address the spending cuts issue in six weeks, they’ll have to negoti­ate the higher debt ceiling and come up with cuts that will take place over the next sever­al years,” sims said. “we need lower taxes and higher expen­ditures in the long run, but it isn’t clear how we will do that.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
people gotta eat, a united way coali-
Food 
tion of 17 food pantries in the area. 
conTinued From page 1 

“The united way of indiana has food and monetary donations to this a grant that they’re giving this year one agency, the saint mary’s com-to healthy eating programs, so any munity can extend our help to many money given to people gotta eat other agencies in our area.” will actually be doubled ... but there 
electronic donations can be made are people on campus who be-to the Food bank through their website lieve very strongly in the mission at http://donations.feedindiana.org/. of the Food bank, so we are mak­
“last year the money went to the ing it their choice,” kolaczyk said. [Food bank of northern indiana]’s kolaczyk said that notre dame will backpack program,” senior tech-divide up the cash donations equally nical training professional at the between the two organizations, food university’s office of information will be sent to the people gotta eat Technology anna kolaczyk said. pantries, and that donations by check “This year we’re splitting the dona-will be sent to the organization the tions between several programs, check is written out to. electronic do-but still supporting the backpack nations can be made online at www. program.” holycrossharvest.nd.edu/. 
The Food bank of northern “The various organizations ... can indiana’s Fun packs program pro-do a lot more with the money than vides a backpack of food for each with the food,” kolaczyk said. “last weekend of the school year to under-year we raised 15,383 dollars. we are privileged children. hoping to raise more this year.” 
notre dame is also supporting holy cross has a head start on 
paid adverTisemenT 


donations. 
“already we have raised [more than] 1,400 dollars for the st. vincent de paul food pantry,” student pro­gramming coordinator at holy cross gonzalez said. “we will give st. vincent de paul this donation along with our other harvest drive donations.” 
“For Faculty and staff, we are hop­ing to get 100 percent to make a cash donation or go online to people gotta eat,” adams said. “They are recording our donations and will give them to st vincent de paul Food bank.” 
“i think we will probably raise more monetary donations [than food donations] based on past drives,” buhring said. “we will be happy to take contributions other than food. Families also often have trouble buy­ing things like diapers, toilet paper, paper towels, tissues, baby formula and feminine products. saint mary’s will make sure these donations get to the right organizations.” 
holy cross and notre dame are providing alternative donation op­portunities as well, with students in mind. 
“This winter we are giving the students the option of giving up one of their meals in the dining hall in exchange for a meal to feed those in need. sodexo [a food services and facilities management corpora­tion] is helping us in this endeavor,” gonzalez said. “For every meal a stu­dent decides not to use throughout the month of February, sodexo will donate that money to our harvest drive.” 

at notre dame, the student-aimed drive campaign is organized and run by a student service club on campus, affiliated with united way. 
“we try to help the united way in any way possible,” Frank soler, the club’s president, said. “we’re their stu­dent arm. This will be our first year. ... we’re still growing, but i think we’ve been a pretty good success so far.” 
soler and other club officers will staff a table outside of the huddle, the grocery story in laFortune student center, from 5 to 7 p.m. Friday night, encouraging students to purchase donation items from the huddle with Flex pointss. 
“we wanted to do it in a time frame with the holy cross harvest,” said soler. “we thought it would be bet­ter at the beginning [of the semester] when people have a surplus of Flex points. The average student would be willing to buy a can. ... we want to let everyone do something easy.” 
he said he has high expectations for the student response. 
“we don’t have a specific number in mind, just whatever we can do,” soler said,  whatever we get, we’ll be happy with, and we’ll just hope for the best.” 
kolaczyk said she is glad to see this level of student participation. 
“This is the first time students are really doing something for the drive,” she said. “it’s been hard to find the right student leadership to lead the food drive. Finding the right ap­proach [for students on campus] is really important.” 
she said there are few opportunities for students to donate their time to the harvest, something that she thinks might increase student involvement. 
“we really need to figure out ways for the students to be involved that doesn’t require spending money,” kolaczyk said. “if anyone has any ideas, i’d be happy to hear them!” 
kolaczyk has also reached out to the notre dame alumni commu­nity to seek more participants in the harvest for the first time this year. 
at saint mary’s, student volunteers will be in charge of monitoring the food donation barrels. 
“when they look like they are fill­ing up“we will contact the Food bank, who will come out and pick up the food.” buhring said. 
buhring believes that the drive is important to the college community. 
“it provides a chance for the cam­pus to come together and provide needed assistance for others in the community,” buhring said. “it is also a chance to partner with holy cross college and the university of notre dame.” 
“i think it’s great,” soler said. “it gives everyone an opportunity [to give] directly to our community.” 
“so many times we are focused on notre dame itself, or saint mary’s, or holy cross, and i think joining some­thing like this puts the focus off of our schools and onto what we can do to help,” kolaczyk said. “you should give because you’re supposed to and not because you want recognition for it.” 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Manti 
conTinued From page 1 
questions than answers. 
notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick be­gan to answer some of those swirling questions wednesday evening at a press conference. he confirmed lennay kekua’s existence was indeed a hoax. he confirmed the university had investigated the incident. but he also deferred a number of questions, claiming the de­tails are “manti’s story to tell.” 
yet beyond a brief state­ment about what he called “an incredibly embarrassing” situation, manti’s story is still untold. since Te’o has not yet spoken publicly beyond that statement, students can only speculate to fill his silence. and suddenly, Facebook and Twitter have exploded with students’ reactions to a rela­tionship that appears to have existed only in that realm of social media. 
student opinion is mixed, with little consensus. some stand by notre dame’s version of events and loyally defend Te’o. some, convinced by the original deadspin story and subsequent revelations, are disgusted with what they see 
“I think the students of Notre Dame and fans in general deserve to know what exactly happened with this.” 
John-Paul Zebrowski 
sophomore 
as their erstwhile hero’s com­plicity. but while almost all have their theories of what happened, many are simply waiting to hear from the line­backer, reserving their judg­ment till they hear more about his side of the story. 
after a season in which the notre dame student body ral­lied around Te’o, it is time he answered their questions — honestly, openly and fully. 
“i think the students of notre dame and fans in general deserve to know what exactly happened with this,” sophomore John-paul Zebrowski said. 
The original deadspin re­port implicated Te’o in the hoax, but swarbrick and the university have vehemently denied that claim. The direc­tor of athletics described the player as an innocent victim and said the hoax “had a cer­tain cruelty at its core.” 
The motive for that cruelty is still unclear. so is if Te’o ever attempted to speak with a long-distance girlfriend via video-chat programs like skype. reports continue to trickle out with conflicting details, and it’s hard to know Te’o’s motivation for speaking so passionately about an on-line relationship. none of this is lost on students. 
“why didn’t he just put the details to rest earlier and why did this thing have to unroll so far?” sophomore victoria kasznica asked. “why did he take advantage of this to maybe gain the sympathy of others, or why didn’t he put an end to the false rumor earlier?” 
in addition, the university’s delays in revealing the hoax have raised eyebrows. Te’o waited to act on the situa­tion until he went home for christmas on dec. 21 because he wanted to speak with his family about it in person, swarbrick said. when he re­turned to campus dec. 26, Te’o alerted head coach brian kelly and defensive coordinator bob diaco before swarbrick was notified. a yahoo! sports report also claimed the university expected Te’o to reveal the hoax himself earlier this week before deadspin. com broke the story. These long silences are just more confusing developments along the hoax’s timeline. 
“[The students deserve to know] why the news came out so late,” Zebrowski said. 
For a player whose off-the­field qualities were so central to his on-field persona, Te’o’s answers to the questions fac­ing him will determine what comes of a legacy that once appeared to be so magnificent. 
“i feel so bad for the guy and i mean, in order to clear his name and make him con­tinue to be the outstanding individual he is both inside and out, i think he does need to clarify a few things that people are wondering, like ‘were you at any moment part of this scandal?’” junior chris 


Colorado theater reopens 
Associated Press 
aurora, colo. — The colorado theater where 12 people were killed and dozens injured in a shooting rampage last year reopened Thursday with a som­ber remembrance ceremony and a screening of the latest “hobbit” film for survivors — but the pain was too much, the idea too hor­rific, for many aurora victims to attend. 
“we as a community have not been defeated,” aurora mayor steve hogan told victims, offi­cials, and dozens of police officers and other first responders who filled half the theater’s seats at the ceremony. 
“we are a community of survi­vors,” hogan declared. “we will not let this tragedy define us.” 
pierce o’Farrill, who was wounded three times in the shoot­ing, said: “it’s important for me to come here and sit in the same seat that i was sitting in. it’s all part of the healing process, i guess.” 
o’Farrill walked to an exit door inside the theater where he re­members the shooter emerging. “The last time i saw (the gunman) was right here,” he said. 
James holmes, a former neuro­science ph.d. student, is charged with 166 felony counts, mostly murder and attempted murder, in the July 20 shooting at the for­mer century 16 — now called the century aurora. a judge has or­dered holmes to stand trial, but he won’t enter a plea until march. 
several families boycotted what they called a callous pub­lic relations ploy by the theater’s owner, cinemark. They claimed the Texas-based company didn’t ask them what should happen to the theater. They said cinemark emailed them an invitation to Thursday’s reopening just two days after they struggled through christmas without their loved ones. 
“it was boilerplate hollywood 
— ‘come to our movie screen­ing,’” said anita busch, whose cousin, 23-year-old college stu­dent micayla medek, died at the theater. 
The remembrance was fol­lowed by a private screening in the former theater nine of the fantasy film “The hobbit: an unexpected Journey.” 
victims have filed at least three federal lawsuits against cinemark holdings inc., alleging it should have provided security for the July 20 midnight showing of “The dark knight rises,” and that the exit door used by the gunman to get his weapons and re-enter should have had an alarm. in court papers, cinemark says the tragedy was “unforeseeable and random.” 
brandt said. “i mean, i don’t think he is, and the answer to 

“I feel so bad for the guy and I mean, in order to clear his name and make him continue to be the outstanding individual he is both inside and out, I think he does need to clarify a few things that people are wondering.” 
Chris Brandt 
junior 
that would be probably ‘no, i wasn’t a part of it, i was totally fooled.’” 
The student body rallied around Te’o not only as a leader on a football team ris­ing from disappointing past seasons, but also as a tangible symbol of what it means to be notre dame. he was a brother to students, and the latest in a proud tradition. when he was hurting, his university fam­ily embraced him as one of its own. 
manti’s peers listened to the story of his sorrow and helped it become a story of success. now, they are asking their brother for the story again. The full one. 
now, it is manti’s story to tell. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Gun control now 
vegas vs. miami 

John Cameron 
news editor 

as a political science major with a focus in comparative politics, i’d like to offer a comparative analysis of two vacation/clubbing/debauch­ery hotspots i recently had the chance to experience: las vegas and miami. 
i participated in the “domer bomb” of 100 plus seniors destroying our internal organs and checking accounts in the desert wasteland of the west this past fall break. now, i know vegas has the reputation of be­ing a college-aged male’s paradise, and it is certainly oriented toward the less-fair gender. oriented to­wards draining every ounce of dig­nity and currency from our beings. 
las vegas at night is truly an amazing experience. The clubs are pretty much everything they’re cracked up to be and then some. That being said, i paid 15 dollars for a whiskey and diet soda. Fifteen dol­lars. Two hours of minimum wage, or about 100 hours of toiling away as a lowly news editor (we don’t do this for the paycheck). if you’re not prepared to drop an ungodly sum of money on bottle service or arrive at 8 p.m., you had better be rolling with a harem of ladies, at least providing a one-to-one ratio. otherwise, ex­pect to spend the evening raging at a hot dog stand. 
las vegas during the day is cringe-worthy. it is packed with predomi­nantly older tourists and people shamelessly flicking cards at you containing pictures of scantily-clad women named Jazmin or destinee and a phone number. everything remotely close to the strip is out­rageously pricy, dirty and awful. basically, spend the daylight hours nursing that hangover at the pool or wolfing down in-n-out. second bit of advice: don’t get in any “free li­mos” after 3 a.m. Just don’t. 
miami, on the other hand, might actually be paradise. its clubs are just as clutch as those in vegas but are substantially less skeezy, there are beaches everywhere and literally every local is beautiful. To be fair, it is also outrageously expensive and touristy. also, i’m told the setting is not favorable for irish athletics, but don’t quote me on that. 
rather than play the odds at another domestic destination for spring break, we’re just cutting our losses and fleeing the country. we chose a tropical location because, being even farther south than miami and a safe distance from vegas, ge­ography is in our favor. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jack Rooney 
The liberal medium 

i really can’t make it any clearer than the headline. as i sit writing this in my dorm room, the Tv in the background is informing me that it has been one month since the horrific shooting at sandy hook elementary school in newtown, conn. on dec. 14, when most of us were eagerly awaiting the beginning of winter break and finishing our last exams, the students of sandy hook, ranging in age from five to 10 years old, survived what can only be de­scribed as a living hell. anyone reading this undoubtedly knows the senseless events of that day. i can only refer to them as tragic because no words i can find aptly describe the horror experienced by the children and their loved ones. nor, for that matter, can i even begin to imagine how the children and their loved ones would feel. 
however, my goal is not to write a thor­oughly depressing piece trying to make sense of the senseless and wicked. The sandy hook elementary school shooting was the act of a madman. The reason i am writing about it now, though, is because it was specifically the act of a madman with a gun (make that several guns). 
Following any tragedy involving mul­tiple gun deaths, the conversation even­tually turns to renewed political efforts for stricter gun control. however, this is only after a large dissenting group claims that we, as a country, need to wait until the wounds begin to heal. They claim it is wrong to use the tragedy as political mo­tivation. They say now is not the time to discuss gun control. 
Tell me something, then: when is the time? certainly the time for real gun con­trol was before 27 people died in newtown, most of whom had barely begun their lives. it was before six people died at the sikh Temple of wisconsin in august, and before 12 people died in an aurora, colo. ,movie theatre in July. The time to affect change on the united states’ pitifully lax gun laws was before people started dying. but dwell­ing on the past does no good for the future, so we need to turn our focus now to assur­ing events like Friday’s never again befall this country. 
i live in chicago (actual chicago, not the surrounding suburbs) and in 2012, chicago reported 506 homicides. Through some simple calculations, one can deduce that chicago experienced an average of more than one homicide per day during the pre­vious year. in the infancy of this new year, chicago has already reported 82 shootings (though not all fatal). every night i make the unfortunate choice to watch the news at home, i inevitably see several reports of gun violence or death within the city. The victims are not seasoned gang members or hardened criminals, either. They are often children and innocent bystanders who suffered from a case of mistaken identity. is it actually acceptable to live in a society where people shoot, then think? 
i understand by this point, many who disagree with me have already stopped reading because i am neglecting the constitutional implications of practical gun control and because they have al­ready labeled me as another liberal with a pipe dream for peace. i gladly accept that label and wear it proudly because i do not think an end to gun violence is all that unimaginable. nor, for that matter, do i think the second amendment can any longer justify the thousands of senseless slayings in this country. i defend the notion that the constitution is a living document, not a killing document, as the second amendment has tragically allowed it to become. 
people often use the principle of original intent to defend certain constitutional clauses and amendments. The framers of the constitution were many things, but stupid was not one of them. how could they have possibly have known allowing for the right to bear arms would eventu­ally lead to close to 10,000 needless deaths per year? certainly they did not envision a country in which the homicide total consistently exceeds that of almost every other industrialized country in the world combined. i lament to say events like those in newtown are the price americans pay for their gun “rights.” 
That being said, i do not know exactly how to enact true gun control in our coun­try. i do not know if the comprehensive plan recently proposed by the white house will yield results. i do know it will be one of the most daunting tasks this nation has ever seen because the united states has sadly developed a gun culture in which people feel it is their god-given right to own a firearm. but i’m not done thinking yet, and neither are the best minds in the world. i doubt we ever will be. For now, all i know is the rabid gun culture needs to end. now. 
Jack Rooney is a freshman studying political science.  He can be contacted at jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“education is an admirable thing, but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish author 




Tears for my champions 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

This writer is among a select few who personally witnessed every notre dame-alabama football clash, including the discover bcs national championship game roil earlier this month at the orange bowl in miami. initially at the 1973 sugar bowl — in those days simply labeled “sugar bowl classic” unlike today with an onslaught of commercial sponsorships — alabama first faced notre dame in what would become a handful of cultural, religious and political clashes masked in the form of football contests. The irish sugar bowl win inaugurated a string of sev­eral national championship “steals” perpetrated against the alabama crimson Tide. so this month’s bru­tal snatching of the title from notre dame is, for alabama fans, a de­served payback. 
beneath the niceties of both uni­versities lie great football traditions and an evolution of student bodies. notre dame morphed from a fledg­ling coeducational and substantially blue-collar student body in the early 1970s to a more homogenous, “The north Face” fashionable affluent catholic finishing school. alabama maintained its longtime public co­educational institutional stature, but now includes a markedly increased racial minority makeup from that of the late 1960s. The most notable dif­ference this year compared to 1973 — and an amazing testament to our nation’s civil rights strides — was the large number of african-american fans following both alabama and the irish throughout south beach. Four decades ago, only a few fans of any non-white heritage roamed bourbon street in support of either team. 
back in the 1970s both fan groups overtly displayed stereotypical dis­dain for each other. after the 1973 win, notre dame fans greeted the new year by twisting the lyrics of an alabama cheer: “roll Tide, roll. ‘round the bowl and down the hole. roll Tide roll.” 
in the days leading up to the 1980 game at birmingham legion Field, alabama held “red day” on campus with bumper stickers pro­claiming “The mighty crimson Tide will Forever shame the university of notre dame.” a local newspaper headlined, “we’ve got to beat those damn yankees.” however, alabama lost in a 7-0 shutout before their home crowd. 
irish defensive lineman scott Zettek told the Tuscaloosa news the negative barbs gave the team an ex­tra motivation. “Their fans brought out the hate in us and made it … a holy war,” Zettek noted. “it ended up bringing out the best in us. alabama has a class team, but i’m a little sus­pect of their fans [who] are a little to be desired. They lose sight that it was just a football game. no one died to­day. This was a shut-up game for their fans and should keep them quiet.” 
ironically, legendary coach bear bryant never beat notre dame for the same reasons alabama dominated the irish a week ago. describing his 1980 loss that knocked alabama out of national championship conten­tion, bryant said, “it would be an understatement to say the best team won. we are not used to playing anybody as big and strong as notre dame.” 
it may be too simplistic to char­acterize this year’s bcs participants by saying football is a way of life for alabama and a religion for notre dame. but football is a way of life at alabama while at notre dame football is part soul. alabama fans live their football experiences like a concert pianist superbly caresses the ivory keys. They are technicians very skilled at executing their specialities. irish fans enjoy football like a clas­sical composer brilliantly crafts an iconic melody. They are creative mas­ters very skilled at constructing their specialities. 
nonetheless, a way of life be­comes routine while still serving its pleasantries. a spiritual revival, conversely, is a rare opportunity to seize the moment a long time in the making. The bands embodied it when the alabama band walked silently onto the beach for their pep rally be­fore hundreds while the notre dame band drummed and chanted “here come the irish” for blocks to face thousands. The football programs also demonstrated their passions differently. The upstart irish program saw firsthand how ‘bama operates at a well-refined championship level 
— which actually is a way of life for alabama. 
coach nick saban, his players and the alabama fans had come to finish their task like they had done the pre­vious year and three years prior. They needed nothing more to take care of business. notre dame fans were absorbed in emotion and zeal. while lou holtz — the only coach to lose to alabama in a gallant effort during his first year of rebuilding a flailing pro­gram — extolled the virtues of play­ing for our lady without adulation, my classmate had tears streaming down his face.
 “The notre dame i know,” he said, “offered us the possibility to go be­yond our working class backgrounds to one day become successful. i’m afraid that most of today’s students are from successful families so notre dame no longer champions as many opportunities.” 
his tears swelled for a champion of our era, an expectation far removed from football crowns and crystal trophies. 
Gary Caruso, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
it’s time to learn something about guns in america 
Austin Lagomarsino 
The Toolbox 

The Toolbox has always served as a column that aims to educate and inform its readership. yesterday, i read adam newman’s article, “it’s time to do something about guns in america,” and was very interested in his claims. however, i noticed very few of the claims were sub­stantiated by data, so i began to look into it a little further. 
First and foremost, i would like to start by agreeing with mr. newman in his assessment of the horrors of the 61 mass shootings that have oc­curred since 1982, and affirm that these occurrences are so frighten­ing and tragic that i wholeheart­edly agree we need to ensure these events do not occur. however, i am not going to preach about how i be­lieve that should be done. rather, in Toolbox fashion, i want to point out some interesting statistics many people either do not know or simply ignore when making claims about how to fix gun violence. 
now, let’s look at some of the ex­amples of egregious spree killings mr. newman pointed out: sandy hook, columbine, virginia Tech and Fort hood. what do they all have in common? yes, they were all sites of horrifying mass kill­ings, but what else? how about the fact they were all, by law, gun-free zones. yes, even Fort hood. as a military base, laws passed in 1993 do not allow soldiers to carry around firearms unless the base it­self is under military threat at that moment. The other sites were all schools, which are gun-free zones to keep children safe. The designa­tion of gun-free zone identifies that location as an area full of unarmed people, marking these spots as easy targets. 
This unintended consequence of these well-intentioned rules demonstrates the paradox of imple­menting guns laws: the only people the laws will affect are law abiding citizens. by definition, criminals are individuals who defy the law. so if someone is set on performing a shooting, which is clearly against the law, what is going to stop them from defying another law to get a gun? 
as it turns out, not much. 93 percent of gun-related crimes are committed with an illegally obtained firearm. now consider that in 2011 there were 760,000 in­cidents of law abiding american citizens using firearms to defend themselves from a crime. 
many will say there is no need for an assault rifle, that the second amendment should allow people to have hunting guns but shouldn’t protect weapons designed to wage war. if you read the second amendment, you will notice it is designed to keep citizens armed in the event they needed to overthrow their government. at the time, that weapon would have been the musket, and today that would be a weapon designed for combat, such as a semiautomatic assault rifle (this argument does not include fully automatic machine guns, as those are already extremely heavily regulated). 
now, all firearms are not cre­ated equal. i will be the first to tell you an 18th-century musket is not nearly as scary a weapon as a mod­ern assault rifle. as mr. newman points out, assault rifles have be­come a major issue in the united states. These weapons of war are by and away the scariest weapons on the streets, right? 
assault rifles represented ap­proximately 0.6 percent of all gun murders in the united states in 2011. This astounding statistic means the terrifying, military grade weapons the united states’ armed forces use represent a tiny fraction of gun related incidents. in fact, 2011 Fbi data records 323 murders in the united states with a rifle of any kind, including assault weapons. To put that in context, that means these weapons “de­signed for warfare,” in addition to all other rifles, combined in 2011 for 173 less kills than hammers and clubs (496) and 1371 less kills than knives (1694). 
as i said before, i won’t tell you how i would fix the gun problems we have in the united states, be­cause frankly i have no idea. maybe the solution is increasing the laws to prevent people from getting guns. maybe it requires an ideo­logical shift in the united states away from the thought crime is acceptable. would you be surprised to learn america has seven times as many people per 100,000 in pris­ons as europe does? 0.7 percent of all american adults are in prison. That stat is high enough to make america number one in the world in incarcerations per capita. 
regardless, we need to ensure we have all the facts before we make a decision on our gun laws. 
Austin Lagomarsino is a junior aerospace engineering major. He can be reached at alagomar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

we all remember when “american idol” was extremely popular, right? we all remember what it was like be­ing in school in 2005, asking each other on wednesday morning, “did you see ‘american idol’ last night?” heck, even your teacher would take away from the lecture Thursday morning just a bit to allude to and discuss wednesday night’s results. everyone believed that becom­ing an “american idol” was nothing short of the american dream, what with prominent names like kelly clarkson, carrie underwood and clay aiken. 
wait a minute, clay aiken? as in the runner-up in the second season to “american idol” winner ruben studdard? now, if you answered “yes” or “who’s ruben studdard again?” to the previous question, therein lies the inter­esting predicament with the currently 12-season strong Tv show “american idol.”  and since we are fortunate enough to get to see phillip phillips, winner of the eleventh season and best known for the song “home” live at legends tomor­row night, it begs the general maxim: for every phillip phillips, there’s a Taylor hicks (who?). 
yes, unfortunately winning “american idol” yields wildly inconsistent results and absolutely no reassurance of fame (see: Fantasia barrino). as a matter of fact, after a quick search of “american idols: where are They now?” e! online reports that hicks starred in a broadway production of “grease,” although on the flip side of things “[his] snow patrol fan base largely abandoned him afterward, however: he was dropped from his re­cord label and his follow-up album, on his own label, bombed”. studdard, as reported by the same site, was dumped by his record label along with hicks. Though, in studdard’s defense, he scored a grammy nomination and is the fifth-best-selling american idol winner. not to mention mama malabute always used to tell me that even if kelly clarkson seemingly pops up every now and then on the radio, it’s hard to attribute it to much other than the fact that she was the first “american idol” winner. 
now no one loves to laugh at hard times or struggles, but it is quite inter­esting to see exactly how volatile the life of an “american idol” must be. because, after all things considered, there have been many largely successful “american idols” – some not even winners or run­ners-up.  There are many examples of success, such as the aforementioned aiken, the runner-up in season two who released a few platinum albums and even took his talents to broadway. next was underwood, winner of season four, arguably one of the most popular country artists in america, and part-time actress, appearing in shows such as “how i met your mother.” Jordin sparks was the winner of season six and released one of my personal favorite songs, “no air,” with chris brown.  even an absolutely horrible audition tape by contestant william hung in season three netted him his fifteen minutes of fame, turning him from a nobody to a somebody, even if he completely mangled ricky martin’s “she bangs”. Finally, there is phillips, who is coming to legends this saturday night and was the winner of the latest season by a re­cord 132 million votes.  he also has the best-selling coronation song “home” which is largely well-known for its use in the nbc coverage of the 2012 london olympics. 
phillip phillips will be performing live at legends of notre dame on saturday, Jan. 19 at 10:00 p.m. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

By LIZZY SCHROFF 
scene writer 

Tonight at 10 p.m., canadian indie band walk off the earth comes to notre dame to perform at legends nightclub. Formed in 2006, walk off the earth is composed of multi-instrumental­ist members gianni luminati, sarah blackwood, ruan marshall, mike Taylor and Joel cassady. The band first found success with covers of songs by The gregory brothers. over the past year, this band jumped immensely in video views on youtube, most notably with their cover of gotye’s “somebody That i used to know.” impressively, walk off the earth has garnered its fan base in­dependently of record labels, agents or managers. so to get ready for Friday’s show, let’s take a look at some of their finest moments. 
gotye’s “somebody That i used to know” is a real gem with a whopping 
144.5 million hits on youtube. all five members of the band cover this sum­mer hit on one guitar. yes, one guitar. no one has any elbow room and it looks extremely uncomfortable, but it is truly unique. and one cannot help but be amused by the beanie-donning, beard­ed member on the far left Taylor, who intermittently plays the little strings on the headstock. one can’t help but be re­minded of will Ferrell’s cowbell skit on “saturday night live.” 
in “little boxes,” the entire set – from the walls and floors to a sofa and television – is made out of cardboard. Featuring homemade instruments such as empty wrapping paper rolls, guitars and a percussion instrument made out of wooden boxes, the song itself is cute and folky-sounding, where “everything comes out the same.” There’s definitely some profundity in that lyric. 
The video for “red hands” looks like it was a blast to film. set in a warehouse outfitted with swinging light bulbs and spotlights, the video features mem­bers of the band shooting confetti out of cannons, banging on dusty drums and jamming out on their instruments. The camera zooms from the foreground and background of the set, and there is plenty of shifting scenes and movement from the band. Fully expect yourself to be belting out the chorus in no time. 
Taylor swift’s “i knew you were Trouble” featuring krnFX is simply set with a window and a few house plants. This video focuses on the band mem­bers, no crazy instruments or quirky concepts. Just four members of the band a cappella-ing it up while krnFX lays down some sweet beat-boxing. if you’re a fan of notre dame’s beloved undertones or saint mary’s lovely group bellacappella, you’re sure to enjoy this. 
“gang of rhythm” is like a mini, modern, musical version of “o’ brother, where art Thou?” The tune is upbeat and, well, it has plenty of rhythm! Four members of the band, clad in striped jail outfits and chains, escape the evil clutches of sheriff mike Taylor (our bearded, beanie friend). The song makes you want to get up and dance (or per­haps make a jailbreak?) with its catchy guitar and ukulele, charming harmo­nies and heart-pounding drumbeat. 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 

before the nba season started (that’s professional basketball for you non-ath­letically inclined folks) the los angeles lakers, one of the most storied franchis­es in american sports, looked primed to make a run at a title. Fittingly for the hollywood squad they had assembled a team of stars, from franchise legend kobe bryant to offensive genius steve nash, big man dwight howard and euro wiz pau gasol. but then the sea­son started and the big-budget lakers flopped. coach mike brown was fired, kobe squabbled with howard, and now the lakers — a preseason title contender 
— will have to make a run for the ages just to make the playoffs. 
what does this have to do with the recently-released “gangster squad”? unfortunately, everything. on pa­per, this gangster movie should be a slam-dunk success. you’ve got oscar­winner sean penn headlining the cast and two of the biggest current stars in hollywood, ryan gosling and emma stone, looking to rekindle their “crazy stupid love” romance. Throw in a stern-faced Josh brolin and “Zombieland” director ruben Fleischer for good mea­sure, and it would seem producers found the recipe for cinematic success. 
but not so fast. “gangster squad” is more style than substance. based on a true story (yeah, we’ve all heard that one before) the film takes place in los angeles in 1949. mobster mickey cohen rules the streets and owns the lapd. This isn’t what lone sheriff good-guy sergeant John o’mara (brolin) fought to protect in world war ii and he looks to take out cohen, much to the chagrin of his pregnant wife. o’mara is recruit­ed by the lapd chief to assemble an off-the-books outfit to wreak havoc on cohen’s operation, and he is only too happy to oblige. 
sounds great, right? The flash of golden age hollywood, an a-list cast and a sizzling plot seem to come togeth­er in “gangster squad,” but the movie falls flat on its face. Fleischer is clearly a clever director, but he can’t seem to decide what type of movie he is making here. “gangster squad” is almost a par­ody of the stereotypical gangster movie, but without actually being funny. The characters are too one-dimensional for their own good — cohen a cursing ball of fury, o’mara a force that will stop at nothing to do good, Jerry wooters (gosling) a bad-boy cop who falls for the girl and grace Faraday (stone) the woman trapped in a relationship with the mobster. 
all of the characters are in their place to advance the plot, but we never re­ally learn much about any of them. why does cohen want to rule los angeles? why does o’mara care so much when he knows no one else does? why is Faraday trapped? These are questions that never are really answered in the film. unfortunately, by not addressing this, “gangster squad” seems like it is going through the mob movie motions, with­out actually trying to achieve anything great. 
To be fair, “gangster squad” is a visu­ally stunning movie. seeing los angeles in the throws of a golden age — albeit one tainted by the mob — is incredible, and the attention to detail, from cos­tumes to architecture, is astute. 
additionally, the on-screen charm of gosling is undeniable. i would pay the price of admission just to see him read names from a telephone book (luckily, he does a lot more in “gangster squad”) but that only makes the underdevel­oped relationship between wooters and Faraday that much more disappointing. 
it also must be noted that “gangster squad” was pushed back from its origi­nal release date following the movie theater shootings this past summer in aurora, colo. The film was to feature a scene set in the legendary grauman’s chinese Theatre where characters shot through the movie screen. The movie was pushed back and the scene was re-shot (but seems to be just as violent as the original). That brings up another complaint — sometimes “gangster squad” seems violent for the sake of be­ing violent. The topic of how media por­trayals of violence impact society are not for this film review, but sometimes the shoot-‘em-up style of “gangster squad” is a bit excessive. 
it’s too bad “gangster squad” turned out the way it did. There would have been no easy way to fix this movie — it is deeply flawed — but despite its short­comings, there are glimmers of what could have been. unfortunately, the movie is self-aware without providing commentary on the genre, more formu­laic than clever. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
“Gangster Squad” 
Village Roadshow Pictures 
Director: Ruben Fleischer 
Starring: Sean Penn, Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone 


By COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

anyone who has ever returned home from college for a long break with their parents probably knows how much moms love being moms. with so much physical space between them and their offspring they have tons of pent-up nag­ging that they just can’t stop themselves. 
“guilt Trip” is for anyone who has ever resented the microscope that is living with parents. 
seth rogen plays andy brewster, the somewhat-dry creator of an all-natural cleaning agent called “scio-clean.” he returns to his childhood home for a few days before beginning a product tour that would take him from new Jersey through las vegas. 
his long-widowed mother Joyce brewster, played by barbara streisand, has a solid group of girlfriends but after realizing how alone she is without a man in her life, andy begins to feel guilty for never returning home after college. 
To make up for lost time he invites her along on his road trip, and what ensues is essentially a 90-minute summation of any parent-child relationship. 
once they get going andy realizes what a huge mistake he has made. between Joyce’s insistence that he get every bargain possible, her odd choice of in-car entertainment and her oblivious­ly embarrassing habits, andy is clearly the portrait of silent suffering. 
as they go on in their journey andy learns tricks that help improve his busi­ness pitch and he teaches Joyce that she needs to open up her life for new men to come into her life and make her happy once again. 
The movie was almost universally ripped to shreds by critics, but it does have something that tends to be over­looked by most of the people who panned it. it’s charming in a way that many family comedies haven’t been able to pull off. 
it captures the love between a family despite all the times it might seem ap­pealing to have parents who are quiet and essentially not obnoxious. 
streisand and rogen have chemistry perfectly akin to any overbearing moth­er and her son. he is polite and reserved, never losing his patience with her mis­placed concern until it becomes alto­gether too much. 
what i was most nervous about go­ing into the film is that streisand would be forced to play an entirely unlovable shrew with very few redeemable quali­ties. luckily it was quite the opposite. 
she was just like any normal mother who wants the best for her son. 
The supporting cast was intention­ally weak. There were truly no stand­out characters aside from rogen and streisand and that made the bond be­tween them much more apparent. 
The story itself may not have been groundbreaking. That’s true. but that was never the intention. it wasn’t a piece of high cinema, but instead a lightheart­ed silly movie about how hard it is to be a parent when your kids leave the nest and on the flipside how hard it is to be an adult when your parents just want you to stay a kid forever. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
“Guilt Trip” 
Paramount Pictures 
Director: Anne Fletcher 
Starring: Barbra Streisand, Seth Rogen and Julene Renee-Preciado 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Reality television hurts athletes 
Mary Green 
sports writer 
with the rise in social media in the last few years, athletes and fans are more connected now than ever. your average Joe the plumber can tweet at lebron James, like Tim Tebow’s sunday bible passage, and watch chris bosh’s used car salesman at­tempt on repeat on youTube. 
of course, all good things can turn ugly when they are over­done. in the world of athlete-fan interactions, that shadowy place is the land of the reality televi­sion show. 
last week, america’s favorite grill-donning gold medalist, ryan lochte, announced that he would debut a new reality series, “what would ryan lochte do,” on e! in april. it’s one thing for the olympian to cameo in Team usa’s “call me maybe” music video or even to trademark his signature phrase, “Jeah!” (which, by the way, has yet to really take off). 
however, lochte’s seemingly witless persona has descended into pure annoyance with this new series. it’s fair to say that americans got their fill of be­fuddled laughs at the swimmer’s expense when he picked auburn as the winner of the Texas a&m-lsu matchup on college gameday last october. hearing more foolish remarks from lochte on a regular basis will change his appearance from an endearing goofball to an over­exposed nuisance, if he has not crossed that line already. 
The problem with reality Tv series is that they take self-pro­motion to a new level that need not be reached. For the most part, the athletes appearing on these shows have sunk into some phase of obscurity and want to hoist themselves back to relevance. Terrell owens, always one to stir up feelings of disdain and irritation, will participate in Fox’s “stars in danger: The high dive,” a celebrity diving competition this spring with the likes of other has-beens, includ­ing Jwoww and multiple real housewives of beverly hills. T.o. needs a show like this to stay relevant in pop culture since no team picked him up from free agency this fall. in lochte’s case, he can only make major head­lines every four years, so the fame-seeking olympian needs another source of notoriety. 
regardless of their motiva­tions for trying to reenter the minds of americans, there is a reason that these stars have faded from the spotlight. perhaps they should heed that fact instead of making fools of themselves on national televi­sion, or in the cases of owens and lochte, making fools of themselves once more. 
not only do reality shows hurt athletes’ images in the eyes of the fans, but they also seem to affect their game. Take a look at the kardashian series alone. lamar odom certainly has not prospered in the time since his ascent from support­ing role on “keeping up with the kardashians” to star of the aptly-titled “khloe and lamar” with his wife, khloe kardashian odom. his points-per-game average dropped from 14.4 to 
6.6 post-trade from the lakers to the mavericks and post-debut the spinoff, and his activity on the clippers this season has di­minished even more, currently netting 3.6 points per game, a career low. 
Two other stars, reggie bush and miles austin, have also seen their numbers shrink on the gridiron immediately af­ter frequent appearances on kardashian shows. (i would say three, but that would mean ad­mitting kris humphries was a star in the first place.) 
of course, the connection be­tween gaining fame and losing game in conjunction with reality television series is not scien­tifically proven by any means. however, it is hard to ignore this burgeoning trend. For america’s sake and sanity, lochte should keep off the small screen and stay in the pool, reappearing only when necessary, with the next time being rio in 2016. Fans should want their favorite play­ers to stick to what brought them renown in the first place, athlet­ics, before they take this gift for granted and lose it altogether. That being said, i’m sure there are a few nFl fans who wouldn’t mind ndamukong suh starring in his own new series next fall. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NBA 

knicks win in london 
Associated Press 

london — back in london and back on the basketball court, carmelo anthony went right back to his winning ways. 
The knicks star was the main attraction at the o2 arena on Thursday, five months after he helped the united states win the olympic gold medal at the same venue. 
This time, he led the new york knicks over the detroit pistons, 102-87 in the third regular-sea­son nba game played in the british capital. 
“it felt good out there,” said anthony, who scored 18 points in the first half as the knicks (25-13) jumped out to a big ear­ly lead. “i definitely had some flashbacks out there. running out there on the court, just be­ing in the o2 arena.” 
part of anthony’s strong showing against the pistons (14-25) may be attributed to his diet. he recently ended a two-week fasting period, and defi­nitely seems to be getting his strength back. 
“i felt better than i was the last couple of games,” anthony said. “i’m back eating right, eat­ing what i’m supposed to be eating.” 
anthony has now scored at least 20 points in 25 straight games, extending the longest such streak of his career. 
“he got off to such a hot start, and then he just kind of played as the game came to him,” knicks coach mike woodson said. “he was getting double-teamed and i thought he did a great job in sacrificing the bas­ketball, which he has to do.” 
anthony’s hot start was no surprise for pistons coach lawrence Frank. 
“you know going in, there’s no secrets, he’s the best first-quarter scorer in the league,” Frank said. 
amare stoudemire added 17 points for the knicks and J.r. smith scored 16. will bynum led the pistons with 22 points. 
The pistons were the home team at the o2 arena, but the crowd certainly 

FOR SALE 

Move in ready townhome near ND. $75K. 574-532-5961 
7 month old MacBook Pro. Very little use. $3K of software for graphic design. Magnetic char­ger. 15&quot; screen. $1800. Call 574-370-0801 

favored the knicks and anthony. it helped. 
“This goes to show you, our sport is global, there’s no doubt about that,” woodson said. “The fans tonight were fantastic both ways, especially for us.” 
after Tayshaun prince net­ted a pair of free throws for the opening points of the game, the knicks went on tear. 
Tyson chandler started it off with a dunk, and anthony soon followed with a pair of 3-point­ers sandwiched between Jason kidd’s 3-pointer and chris copeland’s layup. 
iman shumpert, in his sea­son debut after recovering from knee surgery, nailed another 3-pointer soon after to com­plete the 16-0 run and put the knicks in control. 
“The knicks got off to a great start,” bynum said. “we were kind of playing catch up from then on.” 
Trailing 56-41 at the half, the pistons mounted a third-quar­ter comeback. They scored 10 straight points midway through the period amid their own 16-2 run to cut the lead to 67-63. 
anthony ended the run with a pass rather than another basket. 
The knicks forward drilled a pass across the baseline to steve novak, who nailed a jumper. stoudemire then sank a free throw before smith hit a jump shot after running the court with his own rebound. anthony finished off the third quarter with a lay-in to make it 75-63. 
in the fourth, the pistons briefly cut the lead to single digits when bynum scored sev­en straight points to make it 83­75, but the knicks pulled away again — this time for good. 
“we came here to win a game, so it’s very, very disappoint­ing,” Frank said. “This is not a vacation. we’re not tourists. we came here to play a com­petition ... on an international stage, which is a privilege and an honor to be selected, so it’s disappointing that we came up short and didn’t play our best.” 
The knicks had won only three of their last eight games heading into Thursday’s ac­tion, but they now have won two straight and next host the brooklyn nets on monday. 
For the pistons, who next host the boston celtics on sunday, it’s their second loss in a row. but they have still won five of the last eight. 
The crowd at the o2 cheered loudly at times, but there were stretches of silence during some portions of the game. There was even a quiet mo­ment before the game started, though it appeared to be an accident. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 

Commencement rental. Beautiful house on Notre Dame Ave., 1 block from campus and Eddy St Commons. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for photos and additional info. 
WANTED 

Personal trainer to supervise work­outs at Rock exercise room once or twice/week. Must have experience; Polequin background preferred. Call 314-583-4191 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | The observer 

MEN’S SOCCER 

Two players drafted by mls 

Observer Staff Report 
Two notre dame men’s soc­cer players were drafted in the first round of major league soccer’s 2013 superdraft on Thursday. 
The columbus crew se­lected senior forward ryan Finley with the ninth overall selection. Two picks later, the colorado rapids selected se­nior midfielder dillon powers. This is the first year two irish players have been selected in the first round. 

Finley played his first two collegiate seasons at duke before transferring to notre dame. despite coming off the bench in all 22 matches this season, he led the team in both goals (21) and points (46). both those totals were also second nationally. his 21 goals were the fifth-highest single season total in program history. 
powers served as a team 
paid adverTisemenT 

captain for the second straight season, and started all 22 games. he finished with ca­reer-highs in goals (five), assists (nine), and points (19). Three of his goals were game-winners. 
both players finished their senior seasons on the nscaa all-america First Team and all-big east First Team and helped the irish to 17 wins, notre dame’s highest total in a season since 1988. 
MLB 

Rangers re-sign Harrison, Feliz 
Associated Press 

arlingTon, Texas — matt harrison has gone from a pitch­er the Texas rangers left off their postseason roster to one they believe can become one of the league’s best left-handers. 
The rangers finalized a $55 million, five-year contract with the all-star lefty Thursday. The deal includes a 2018 club option that could become guaranteed depending on the number of innings harrison pitches. 
“This is a testament to all the hard work he puts in,” said Thad levine, the team’s as­sistant general manager. “The talent shows up every time he pitches. ... The more we’ve got­ten to know matt harrison, the more we believe in matt harrison. and we believe the best is yet to come.” 
hours later, the rangers agreed with right-hander neftali Feliz on a $2.9 million, one-year contract to avoid sal­ary arbitration. 
harrison was 18-11 with a 
3.29 era and four complete games in 32 starts last year, and his 3.10 era in 18 road starts was the lowest in the american league. over the past two sea­sons, since being left off the rangers’ postseason roster in 2010, he is 32-20 while throwing 399 innings. 
Texas acquired harrison, Feliz and shortstop elvis andrus from atlanta in July 2007 in a seven-player deal that sent mark Teixeira to the braves. 
The 27-year-old harrison made his major league debut in July 2008, going 9-3 in 15 starts after being called up. after starting the 2009 season in the rotation, he started having is­sues with his left shoulder that eventually required season-ending surgery for Thoracic outlet syndrome to remove a rib to alleviate the situation. 
“i was definitely on the other end of the spectrum than i am now. Things weren’t really go­ing my way and i had a lot of hit-and-miss starts,” harrison said. “The biggest thing that led up to where i am today is just figuring out that mental tough­ness and the mental part of the game. The talent was there, it was just figuring out how to use it and use it the right way.” 
The real turning point for harrison was the 2010 postsea­son. after being used primarily as a reliever throughout the reg­ular season while coming back from surgery, he was left off the roster in the playoffs. he trav­eled with the team throughout the postseason, but was never active while the rangers went to their first world series. 
“That moment of being left off the roster was a tough, tough month for me, a tough offseason,” he said. “i finally grew up as a person and a man. mentally things started turning around for me, i started having more confidence in myself, suc­cess coming around. i started seeing another level come out of me. hopefully, i can continue to go from that and get better.” 
harrison has a career record of 48-30 with a 4.08 era in 126 games over the past five years, all with Texas. 
his deal calls for a $1 mil­lion signing bonus and salaries of $5 million this year, $8 mil­lion in 2014 and $13 million in each of the following three sea­sons. The agreement includes a $13.25 million team option for 2018 with a $2 million buyout, and the option would become guaranteed if harrison has 600 innings pitched or more from 2015-17, including at least 200 in 2017. The option price would increase by $250,000 each time he reaches 200 innings in the first five years, up to $15.75 mil­lion. That would increase the value of the deal to $68.75 mil­lion over six seasons. 
harrison’s agreement, nego­tiated by agents sam and seth levinson, got finalized two days after he had filed for salary arbitration, and also after he turned down an opportunity to pitch for the united states in the world baseball classic. 
Feliz, the 24-year-old former closer who was moved to the rotation last spring, is recover­ing from Tommy John surgery to repair a tear in his right el­bow and likely will be sidelined until at least this summer. he was 3-1 with a 3.16 era in eight games last season, including seven starts, before going on the disabled list in may. 
david murphy, expected to be the everyday left fielder, also filed for salary arbitration this week. general manager Jon daniels said the rangers felt they were close enough to think a deal would be reached, even if not completed, before they are required to exchange proposed salaries Friday. 
with harrison under con­tract, the rangers have three of their starting pitchers signed for at least four more seasons with another under control for at least that long. 
Japanese ace yu darvish last year signed a $56 million, six-year deal with the rangers and then won 16 games as a major league rookie. There are provi­sions in his contract that could allow the 26-year-old righty to become a free agent after the 2016 season. 
Texas has 26-year-old left-hander derek holland under contract through at least 2016, with club options for two more years after that. holland is planning to pitch in the wbc this spring. 



The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

irish open spring season at home 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after a stellar fall, the irish will kick off the spring sea­son when they host bowling green today at 4 p.m. 
notre  dame,  which  is  
ranked  19th  in  iTa  pre­ 
season  rankings,  is  look­ 

ing for its sixth straight big east championship this sea­son. The irish have defeated bowling green all four times the teams have met, but they have not competed against the Falcons in team play since the 1988 season. 
The irish have not lost an opening-season match since 2004 and plan on extending that record. Junior Jennifer kellner said the team has been working their minds as well as their bodies in preparation. 
“we’ve been playing a lot [and] doing condition as well as mental training with the sports psychologist here,” kellner said. 
kellner said the irish plan on being one of the top teams in the country this season, with a berth in the ncaa tournament is always on the top of the list of team goals. 
entering the season, notre dame has players in the pre­season rankings for singles and doubles. Junior britney sanders reached the highest ranking of her career, sit­ting at 58th in the iTa singles poll. The duo of sanders and junior doubles partner Julie sabacinski is ranked 20th in the preseason after com­pleting their first fall season together. 
kellner and sophomore doubles partner molly o’koniewski will make their regular season debut as part­ners ranked 40th. kellner said she looks forward to see what her team will bring to every competition this season. 
“i think this team is really talented,” she said. “more than anything we are ex­tremely driven. i’m excited for what everyone has to bring.” 
while the start of a new sea­son can be stressful, kellner said the irish are eager to hit the court and see what they can do. 
“The start of a new sea­son is really exciting,” she said. “but it can also be very nerve wracking. i think we’ve all put in the hard work and tough training, so i think everyone on the team de­serves to be prepared for this conversation.” 
The irish will welcome bowling green to the eck Tennis pavillon on Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Team travels to cleveland for final dual meet 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 

after returning from the sunny skies of puerto rico, no. 20 notre dame will kick off 2013 by renewing its long-standing rivalry with cleveland state in its final dual meet of the season. 
undefeated in two-team contests, the irish (5-0) head east to the busbey natatorium in cleveland to face the vikings (11-2-1), and coach Tim welsh hopes they maintain the prog­ress they made over the break. 
“i hope they take confidence from the trip and trust that they have done a whole lot of hard work and are ready to race really, really fast,” welsh said. “i want them to be eager to race.” 
The team last swam in an official meet at the hawkeye invitational in iowa in the be­ginning of december, where they finished second over­all behind no. 1 michigan. Though the copa coqui meet, which took place during the team’s winter break training trip to puerto rico, counted only as an exhibition, the squad swam to a first-place finish over tough competition. 
in that contest against army, connecticut and several puerto rican schools, junior colin babcock, sophomore cameron miller and freshman bogac ayhan took home in­
“Cleveland State is one of our longest-running rivalries, and they’ve had a great season so far, so we’re looking forward to having a strong meet.” 
Tim Welsh 
Irish coach 

dividual wins in the 200-yard individual medley, 100-yard breaststroke and 100-yard backstroke, respectively. 
reflecting on the season thus far, welsh remains im­pressed by his team’s growth and improvement since their first meet. 
“we’ve gotten faster, we’ve had more training, we’re in better shape, we’ve gotten a little more experience, espe­cially our younger swimmers, and we’ve really competed 
paid adverTisemenT 
well, especially right before christmas,” he said. 
welsh says that his swim­mers will use this last, finals-only meet to prepare for their two invitational events, the shamrock invitational at the rolfs aquatic center and the northwestern invitational in evanston, ill., before they head to the big east championship meet in late February. 
“This is our last tune-up meet since the next two weeks are both multiple-session meets, so this is our last dress rehearsal before we go live [for the big east championships],” he said. 
The team will look to use this matchup against a familiar foe as a springboard into those bigger meets. 
“cleveland state is one of our longest-running rivalries, and they’ve had a great season so far, so we’re looking forward to having a strong meet,” welsh said. 
The irish will seek to remain undefeated in dual meets when they face the vikings on Friday at 4 p.m. at the busbey natatorium in cleveland. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | The observer 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame looks to extend winning streak 
By MATT UNGER 
sports writer 
Fresh off wins against michigan and northwestern, the irish women’s swimming and diving squad looks to de­feat another big Ten foe when they travel to bloomington to face indiana on saturday at the counsilman-billingsley aquatic center. no. 19 notre dame will face the hoosiers in the first meet between the in-state rivals since the 2002-03 season. 
The two schools competed at the ohio state invitational in early december, with the irish finishing in fifth place and the hoosiers taking seventh with their b squad. however, the hoosiers will present more of a chal­lenge in this meet, accord­ing to sophomore emma reaney, with a full comple­ment of swimmers racing on saturday. 
“They’ve been known for a while to be a strong swim­ming program,” reaney said. “but i think we’re well prepared from our meet last weekend to take them on.” 
last saturday, notre dame won 11 events en route to a 185-115 victory over the wolverines and a 205-95 de­feat of the wildcats. 
reaney attributed the irish success to the team’s annual Florida training trip during christmas break. 
“The training trip worked out really well,” reaney said. “it was nice just to focus only on swimming during the trip, which made it real easy to see all the things to improve on.” 
against michigan and northwestern, reaney and senior kim holden each led the irish squad with three individual event wins to lead the team to their first team victory against either big Ten opponent since the 2005-06 season. 

reaney set rolfs aquatic center records in the 100­yard and 200-yard breast­stroke events, shattering record times previously set by usc and us olympic swimmer rebecca soni in 2007. 
her third win came in the 200-yard im, and all three of her victories earned ncaa b-cut times. Following her weekend successes, reaney was named big east women’s swimming and diving athlete of the week for the third time this season. 
meanwhile, holden won the 100 and 200-yard back­stroke and 100-yard fly and finished with ncaa b-cut times in the first two. 
“kim is one of the hardest workers i’ve met,” reaney said. “she dealt with shoul­der injuries last year, and it’s been inspiring to watch her swim this season.” 
notre dame and indiana hit the pool at 11 a.m. saturday in bloomington, ind. Following the meet against indiana, the irish will host Towson in the an­nual shamrock invitational on Jan. 25-26 at the rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
MEN’S TENNIS 

newly-ranked irish return to court saturday 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
after a two-month break, notre dame return to the courts saturday for its sea­son opener and final sea­son with irish coach bob bayliss before his retire­ment. They enter this season ranked no. 30 in the nation, the highest among big east squads. notre dame will host marquette and western illinois, marking their first official team competition since early november. 
“we’ve played a lot of practice matches to simu­late the real thing and dou­bles is always a key focus as well,” senior blas moros said of preparation during the offseason. 
notre dame’s secured its national ranking recently, when four singles players and one doubles pair earned preseason rankings. Junior greg andrews, who record­ed a 7-5 record during the fall season, leads the way at no. 80. he went 4-2 against ranked opponents. 
Junior billy pecor comes next behind andrews, ranked no. 88, with moros and sophomore wyatt mccoy ranked no. 110 and no. 120, respectively. 
The doubles pair of andrews and senior spencer Talmadge is ranked no. 51 to begin the spring after finish­ing the fall season 10-5. 
now, the irish look to carry their preseason accomplish­ments to the court. 
“during the season, prac­tice tends to be more skill focused than fitness since we are playing and traveling so much,” moros said. “it’s a fine line between pushing our guys to the point of fa­tigue or injury and making sure we are in prime shape, but our coaches and strength coach know what they are doing and take great care of us.” 

notre dame will first face marquette, a team that went 10-13 in dual matches last season. The golden eagles seek leadership mainly from experienced juniors logon collins and dan mamalat. 
The irish will also face western illinois, allowing leatherneck coach chris kane to return to his alma mater for the weekend. kane’s squad finds leadership from freshman christoph haertel and senior patrick hammers, both of whom competed in the singles bracket of the iTa midwest regionals at the end of october. 


This first weekend back will give notre dame an op­portunity to showcase its hard work. 
“we’ve been focusing a lot on becoming well rounded and complete players with everyone of course having their own specific talents and shot-making abilities,” moros said. 
play will begin with dou­bles competition at 11 a.m. saturday against marquette, followed by western illinois at 5 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

TRACK AND FIELD 
FENCING 

Irish to host 
Fencers begin spring season 
By BRENDAN BELL 

weekend invite 
sports writer 


By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish are looking to con­tinue the success they experi­enced at grand valley state’s bob eubanks open when they host the notre dame invitational on saturday. 
south Florida, michigan state and depaul will all be traveling to the loftus center for the event. 
notre dame senior pole vault­er and captain chrissy Finkel said that this weekend’s meet will serve as a good stepping stone for the team, as they con­tinue to prepare for the big east championships in February. 
“The notre dame invitational is a smaller meet in relation to the other [meets] we’ll be com­peting in this season,” she said. “south Florida is also in the big east so it’s great to compete against them with less pressure.” 
since the meet at grand valley state, the team has focused on staying consistent with their lift­ing and workouts. because the track and field season is so long, it is important for the athletes to train carefully, Finkel said. 
“certain individuals have been decreasing workouts in preparation for the meet, but there is a fine line between train­ing for improvement and over-training, which decreases meet performance,” she said. “our coaches do a great job of balanc­ing the two.” 
The irish will attempt to feed off of their recent victories and continue to perform at a high lev­el this weekend. For the women’s squad, junior middle distance runner alexa aragon and her freshman sister danielle aragon, who also competes in middle distance events, are expected to have strong races. The men’s side is expecting big things out of a pair of freshmen, distance run­ner michael clevenger and mid­dle distance runner eric gebeke. 
because the some of the ath­letes have not competed since early december, it is important for the athletes to regain con­fidence and compete well this weekend, Finkel said. This is also the first time the distance runners will be competing this winter, so the team hopes to see a strong performance to kick off their season. 
“it’s great to have the entire team back for this meet, as only a small number of individuals returned for last weekend’s com­petition at grand valley state,” Finkel said. “we are a large team, and it’s fun when you get into a competition and can watch each member realize the result of all their hard work.” 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

notre dame kicks off its 2013 campaign with the united states Fencing associations’ Junior Tournament in louisville, ky., today followed by a pair of dual meets at saint John’s and new york university. Thanks to an off­season of preparation and condi­tioning, the irish feel confident and prepared for the upcoming spring season. sophomore foil madison Zeiss, who placed 8th at ncaa nationals last spring, says the team has a great outlook for the spring season. 
“last semester we focused mostly on conditioning,” Zeiss said. “we did a lot of drilling and it has been now more about focus­ing on tournament formats and preparation for competition.” 
Zeiss noted the biggest chal­lenge of the upcoming meets stems from the hectic nature of returning to school while also preparing for the season. 
“Two weeks isn’t exactly enough time and it is difficult to get everyone on track,” Zeiss said, “but i think we have been working really hard on it and we will be ready to go for the meets.” 
The irish have not competed since november, when women’s sophomore epee nicole ameli and men’s senior sabre Jason choy picked up a pair of silver medals during the garret open at pennsylvania state university. 

The irish now start their spring campaign over the next two weeks. The primary events for the entire fencing team this month will take place on Jan. 26 and 27, when notre dame trav­els to saint John’s then new york university. 
during the last few months, the irish aligned their goals for the upcoming season, both indi­vidually and, more importantly, as a team. 
“our main goal is to win the national championship,” Zeiss said. “we have a bunch of re­turning olympians, and a much more unified team and a stron­ger presence from the captains this year.” 
“we want to win ncaa 
paid adverTisemenT 
championships,” she said. “under that we each have our own goals as well.  we are really balanced and have traveled in­ternationally and domestically gaining experience.” 
many of the bright spots for notre dame this year use the foil. The women are hoping one of their youngest members, freshman foil lee keifer, will lead the team. The men, on the other hand, hope to close out matches with senior foil gerek meinhardt. 
The usFa Junior championships starts today and concludes monday, in louisville, ky. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Junior guard Eric Atkins goes in for a basket during Notre Dame’s 92-65 home win over Chicago State on Nov. 26. 

Johns 
conTinued From page 20 
that,” he said. “i think we are a mature group enough to where we understand we can’t let this slip away from us.” 
Johns said the defense can pick up the slack, but the irish see this weekend as an opportunity to reestablish themselves. 
“it’s the first time we have lost two in a row all year,” Johns said. “you could defi­nitely tell guys were kind of in shock. we didn’t expect to lose. i mean we never ex­pect to lose, but to lose two in a row to teams we knew we should have beat, i think guys after the bowling green game were already looking to this weekend to get ven­geance on other opponents.” 

Johns said this mindset has been remained since the bowling green game on Jan. 15 and the irish are prepared for the nanooks on Friday and saturday. 
“we have some great lead­ers on this team who were reiterating how important this weekend is to us,” he said. “This could be a major decider for the rest of our season. so, the guys are re­ally making sure we play this weekend like it is our last weekend of the year. ... i think it is a huge weekend for us.” 
Johns said returning home will be positive for notre dame, which has not played in the compton Family ice 

McGraw 
conTinued From page 20 
we need to come out and get off to a good start.” 
in its contest wednesday, st. John’s received contributions arena for more than a month. 

“playing at home is awe­some,” Johns said. “you feel more comfortable and you get to go through your own routines in your own rink. Just being at home you feel better about yourself. ... you feel more confident, es­pecially with the fans, not cheering alaska, not cheer­ing other chants. we have been good at home this year and we are looking to keep it up.” 
The irish begin a four-game home stand this Friday at 7:35 pm at compton Family ice arena, where they look to get back on track against alaska. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
first-year red storm coach Joe Tartamella has maintained most of the same schemes as his pre­decessor kim barnes arico while navigating much of the early sea­son without a full roster. 
“i think they are doing a lot of the same things [as last season], mcgraw said. “[Tartamella] has done a really good job with them. They had some injuries early in the year and they have respond­ed well since then. i think per-sonnel-wise it’s just really similar and the style of play i think is similar, also.” 
in their 79-64 victory against georgetown on Tuesday, the irish turned the ball over a season-high 28 times. mcgraw thinks notre dame will be able to easily correct their mistakes sunday. 
“you know, [the turnovers] were interesting,” she said. “i watched all 28 of the turnovers and kind of categorized them. To me, it’s about if it’s a good deci­sion and we weren’t successful at it or if it’s a bad decision, and i thought 25 of them were good de­cisions. we just, we lost the han­dle on the ball, we weren’t sharp 
Brey 
conTinued From page 20 

to value every one of them,’” brey said. “it’s the ebb and flow of what happens in league play. you have to be careful not to overreact … but, you know, to get a Jack cooley going again, to get [graduate student forward] scott martin going again, you need two good practices. They need to stick their nose in there, compete and hit the reset but­ton — which happens in league play.” 
against the scarlet knights (11-4, 2-2), the irish will need to contend with a talented duo of sophomore guards in eli carter and myles mack. inside, cooley will matchup with another se­nior noted for his physical play, austin Johnson. 
“against [former irish all­
american  forward  luke]  
harangody,  against  cooley,  
[Johnson]  has  been  a  guy  

that’s been hard for us,” brey said. “certainly we’re going to have to have a special focus of 
really just with the passing and catching part but the decision making was good, so i think we can fix that pretty quickly.” 
notre dame will attempt to move its big east record to 5-0 sunday at purcell pavilion. The ball tips against the red storm at noon. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
keeping him off the backboard and not letting him run wild in the paint.” 
rutgers coach mike rice re­turned from suspension Jan. 2 and has his team at 2-2 in big east play, even with the irish. brey said his team will be up for the challenge from the scarlet knights off the disappointment of it’s recent play. 
“we’re in that mode that so many teams in this league get into right now, where we’re in search of one of those valu­able one-game win streaks in big east play,” he said. “we’re thrilled to get back home and see if we can calibrate ourselves on saturday night against rutgers. 
“i think we’ll be very pre­pared to play because we were disappointed, not only that we lost Tuesday, but that we lost at home to connecticut.” 
notre dame and rutgers will tip-off saturday night at 8 p.m. in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 

from all ten healthy players, as every participant in the game scored point. Freshman guard aliyyah handford in particular has been on a roll. she registered her fourth straight game in dou­ble figures against the panthers (9-7, 0-3). according to mcgraw, 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | The observer 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zooey deschanel, 33; maksim chmerkovskiy, 33; Jim carrey, 51; betty white, 91. 
Happy Birthday: don’t let emotional insecurity ruin your plans. strategize how you want to move forward throughout the year and strive to incorporate what’s most important to you. achieving your goals will take discipline, and letting uncertainty stand in your way must not be allowed. Take control and do whatever has to be done. your numbers are 6, 17, 23, 28, 34, 37, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t give in to emotional blackmail. you must stand up for your rights. a change may be necessary in order to get back on track and reach old goals that have been stifled due to other people’s demands. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take charge and get on with what needs to be done. Travel if it will help you reach your goals. someone from your professional past will offer you a favor you should consider. making a geographical move will improve your quality of life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): add new skills to your resume. communication and education will go hand-in-hand, allowing you to pick and choose from a wider variety of options available to you in your area. don’t sell yourself short when you have so much to gain. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Just because someone else makes changes doesn’t mean you should. evaluate your situation and consider how you can take advantage of what others give up or leave behind. recycle, redo and reuse, and you will establish a better position. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a change at work should push you to take action before you end up in an awkward position. don’t set limits on what you can do. waiting for things to happen instead of making them happen will be your downfall. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): attend an entertaining function that will lead to encoun­ters that can alter your future positively. if you can imagine something, you can turn it into a reality. don’t gamble, but do invest in your skills, talents and future. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t feel guilty about the way you feel. put anyone trying to control you in place so that you can take advantage of a course, event or challenge that helps you advance. you will appreciate someone from your past and should reconnect if possible. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): mix and mingle with people from different back­grounds. remembering past experiences will help you understand a situation you face now. nurture a relationship that you cherish before it’s too late to salvage. say what’s on your mind. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): look for adventure. getting together with people who share your love of life will also help you recognize what you need to incorporate into your life in order to enjoy it more. mix business with pleasure and see what happens. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Question your associates as well as your own mo­tives before you make a move that can alter your life permanently. check the pos­sibility of altering the way you approach something or someone and you will find a way to make a necessary transition smoothly. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): discuss your feelings and address issues from your past that you have yet to resolve. clearing your mind from worry and regrets will help you realize what you want to do next. it’s never too late to make a change or revisit a goal. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): do for others and you will receive a reward or favor that will help you out financially or contractually. Follow your intuition and you could come across an unlikely choice or situation that will turn a past loss into a winning situation. 


Birthday Baby: you are passionate, sensitive and unpredictable. you are aggressive and determined. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 




The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
HOCKEY 

Knight time 

Squad looks to avoid third straight loss 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
after a disappointing road loss to st. John’s in new york on Jan. 15 brought the notre dame losing streak to two, the irish will look to rebound saturday night with a home contest against rutgers. 
irish coach mike brey said his squad was discouraged to lose to the red storm. 
“we had a disappointing night in new york. st. John’s re­ally defended us,” brey said in a teleconference Thursday. “you have to give them a lot of credit, the way they came out and de­fended the three-point line and made us more into drivers. i was disappointed with how we de­fended, certainly, at key times in the game. we had a chance to escape with a win.” 
in the loss to st. John’s, notre dame (14-3, 2-2 big east) played the deciding minutes of the sec­ond half with senior forward Tom knight on the floor in favor of senior captain and forward Jack cooley. cooley played only 18 minutes and scored 10 points in the loss. brey said knight will be the first big man off the bench, ahead of fellow senior garrick sherman. 
“i think there was a pretty strong message sent the other night when we finished the game with [senior forward] Tom knight and not [cooley], had a chance to win the game and Tom knight gave us great minutes,” brey said. “i think Jack as a senior, and a captain, looking at him this morning i think there was a different bounce about him.” 

notre dame began big east play with impressive victories over seton hall and cincinnati before taking a step back 
against 
Team aims to end recent slide 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 

after completing a four-game road trip in seven days with a 1-3 record, the irish look to return to their win­ning ways against alaska at home tonight. while away, notre dame (15-7-0, 11-3­0 ccha) lost back-to-back games for the first time this season, to michigan state and bowling green. 
The rough spell on the road does not worry irish coach Jeff Jackson heading into the series with alaska (7-8-5, 6-7-3 ccha). 
“well, it’s not a fluke,” Jackson said. “but it’s not a trend either. bowling green is playing the best hockey they’ve been playing all sea­son. michigan state, we have played four times within a month. and it’s hard to beat a team four times within a month. we had chances in that game but we self-destructed a little bit in the second period. 
connecticut at home “minnesota is a game unto 
during the beginning of the season, the irish strug­gled to match the intensity from the first to second pe­riod. Jackson said the team must maintain level of play throughout the game. 
“i think that it’s almost a little déjà vu, not from last season, but from the begin­ning of this season,” Jackson said. “we overcame it dur­ing that stretch where we were winning games, but it’s about keeping that emotion­al level for three periods. right now, our second pe­riods hurt us in each one of the four games and we had that issue early in the year. it’s a competitive thing and a mindset. when we come off the ice at the end of the first, we have to make sure that mentally we are ready for that second period.” 
Junior defenseman stephen Johns said a suc­cessful weekend series against alaska will help se­cure notre dame’s spot atop the ccha, and, even more importantly, determine the trajectory of the team for the rest of the season. 
“especially with our ju­niors and seniors this year, we all made it to the Frozen Four my freshman year and then the season we had last year, we don’t want to go through another thing like 
see Johns PAGE 18 

and against the red storm. in a competitive and deep league, brey said he took steps to re-en­ergize his team in practice. 
“one thing i talked about in front of our team with our se­niors is, ‘Fellas, you only have 15 guaranteed college games left in your career. i think we need 
see brey PAGE 18 

itself, because they are such a high-quality opponent on the road and we weren’t as sharp as we needed to be early in the stages of that game. ... They are all differ­ent games. i am not nervous at this point. i am just want­ing to get through this week­end and get back to a normal routine.” 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Squad prepares for Red Storm defense 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
The irish have begun their big east season with four straight wins, including a victory over then-top-ranked connecticut Jan. 5. on paper, no. 2 notre dame (15-1, 4-0 big east) should easily handle unranked st. John’s on sunday at purcell pavilion. 
according to irish coach muffet mcgraw, however, the red storm (9-6, 3-0) possess the talent and poise to challenge the irish this weekend. 
“They have got great guard play,” mcgraw said of st. John’s. “They beat connecticut last year . a huge win for them . and so they have the kind of players that have the kind of confidence to come in, especially to another opponent’s gym, and play really well. They have got some good players in­side, also, so they have really got a great balance to their team. They are good defensively, they can score a lot of points. They present a lot of challenges for us.” 
in its last two contests, st. John’s has blown out its opponents en route to an unblemished league record. The red storm topped seton hall 72-46 on saturday and routed pittsburgh 61-32 on wednesday. mcgraw said the irish will need to start fast in or­der to take advantage of their home court advantage and quell the red storm’s confidence. 
“i think it’s important for us to keep our crowd in the game,” she said. “[st. John’s is] undefeated in big east play, so they are coming in with a high level of confidence. 
see mcgraw PAGE 18 


MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer 
Freshman guard Jewell Loyd, center, dribbles down court during Notre Dame’s 79-64 win over Georgetown at Purcell Pavilion on Jan. 15. 






