thE iNDEpENDENt to uNcoVEr NEWspApEr sErViNg thE truth NotrE DAmE AND AND rEport sAiNt mAry’s it AccurAtELy 

VoLumE 46, issuE 131 | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 
B.o.B keeps crowd wanting more 
Rapper headlines inaugural SUB concert in Compton Family Ice Arena, entertains energetic students 
By PETER DURBIN 
News Writer 
Atlanta rapper B.o.B enter­tained students at the annual suB concert Friday evening in the compton Family ice Arena. 
this year’s event marked the first time the concert was held in compton. in past years, stepan center housed the concert. 
“i have been to the suB concert the past two years and i definitely liked having it held in compton better than the stepan center,” junior Briana cortez said. 
senior celso Diaz said compton was an exceptional venue to host the concert on an annual basis. 
“it allows more students to attend the suB concert and is a much nicer venue than stepan,” Diaz said. 
B.o.B proved to be quite the performer, as he engaged the crowd throughout his setlist. 
“i thought the show was re­ally well-done,” junior shannon Lewry said.  “B.o.B is a great per­former and i love how he inter­acted with the crowd. … i loved when he stood up on the speakers in front of the crowd. he singled out one of my friends and sang to her, so that was definitely a highlight.” 
cortez agreed B.o.B’s crowd in­teraction was one of the concert’s highlights. 
see B.o.B PAGE 5 



Dept. of Academic Affairs updates policies 
administration through articu-and Brown said he attends the you’re interested in it but don’t with a chance to safely ex-
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

News Editor lation of resolutions and promo-meetings as a full voting mem-want to negatively affect your plore the academic options tion of academics in and outside ber with speaking rights, rep-gpA, … and then you can con-available in a “highly com-
the Department of Academic of the classroom to enhance the resenting the undergraduate tinue [the minor] and use the petitive research and career Affairs within student govern-undergraduate-student experi-student interests. first course even though you environment.” ment spent the past year as a li-ence,” Brown said. As a result of one of the revi-took it pass/fail. Another key development was aison between undergraduates Brown, who is serving his sions to the Academic code “that way, you can just take improving the advocacy for stu­and Notre Dame administra-second term as director of this year, Brown said students the four other courses required dents put on academic proba­tors, and department director Academic Affairs, said several will now be able to take the first to complete the minor instead tion, Brown said. maxwell Brown said a newly-of last year’s major initiatives course of a minor pass/fail. of having to do all five, when “We’re working to make developed mission statement involved collaboration with the “[this initiative] is really to that might not fit into your the academic system and the has offered direction for the university’s Academic council, allow students to be able to schedule if you’re a junior or se-Academic council as a whole group’s future initiatives. a group headed by university comfortably explore things, to nior,” he said. more transparent [so] stu­
“the Department of president Fr. John Jenkins. the encourage this intellectual ex-Brown said the new legisla-dents know what changes are Academic Affairs is the offi-council oversees the Academic ploration,” Brown said. “you ture does not overly pad gpAs cial link between students and code, among other things, can take a course pass/fail if but instead provides students see AFFAirs PAGE 4 



Cadets prepare to join ranks 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 
When the 2013 class of Army rotc cadets graduates next month, a group that has fol­lowed a similar path at Notre Dame will disperse to all cor­ners of the country to begin serving in the united states Army. 
senior michael Dompierre will head to Ft. huachuca, Arizona, in early June to begin officer intelligence training and will then proceed to his 
see rotc PAGE 5 



ND grads create scouting program 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
Endorse.me, a technology startup created by two 2011 Notre Dame graduates, pro­vides employers with con­fidential information about potential employees, offering an advantage to students in strengthening their candi­dacy and to employers in hir­ing the very best talent before their competitors. 
James ingallinera and trey griffith piloted the idea in spring 2012 and introduced approximately 2,000 students to it in its initial stages. today, Endorse.me is available on 18 college campuses, including Notre Dame. 

“We are the platform for this confidential information that is invaluable for recruiters in helping them find the best candidates and for students in dramatically strengthening 
see ENDorsE PAGE 5 


NEWs PAGE 4 ViEWpoiNt PAGE 8 scENE PAGE 10 BookstorE BBALL pAGE 20 NFL DrAFt PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, Notre Dame, iN 46556 024 south Dining hall, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan thomassen  Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole michels 
News Editor: Ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie Daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant tobin Graphics Editor: steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: Emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter Woo Systems Administrator: William heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
Dame du Lac and saint mary’s college.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-chief, managing Editor, Assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south Dining hall Notre Dame, iN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices postmAstEr send address corrections to: the observer p.o. Box 779 024 south Dining hall Notre Dame, iN 46556-077 the observer is a member of the Associated press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How much trouble are you in for finals week? 

Shea Smith 


Nina Jones 
freshman 

freshman 
ryan hall 

mcglinn hall 
“hopefully not too bad.” 

“Beyond screwed.” 
Caitlin Gruis 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“on a scale from one to 10, eight.” 


Kaitlin Whelan 
freshman ryan hall 
“mildly.” 
Paul Amiri 
graduate student 
morrissey manor 
“i only have one, grad Life.” 


Taylor Freeman 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“i’m Arts and Letters so i can’t be too screwed, right?” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel Flanagan mike monaco Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: meg handelman Vicky Jacobsen Nicole mcAlee kit Loughran 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday. Friday 
maria massa gabriela Leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

CSC Open House MFA Candidate Men’s Baseball Take Ten Festival Write First 
grant tobin Dan Brombach 
Geddes Hall Gallery Talks Eck Baseball Stadium Stepan Center Coleman-Morse 
4:30p.m.-6 p.m. Snite Museum of Art 5:35 p.m.-7:35 p.m. 3 p.m.-5 p.m. Center Celebrate the CSC’s 12 p.m.-12:45 p.m. The Irish take on Local students 8 a.m.-10 a.m. 
Corrections 

30th anniversary. MFA students speak. Eastern Michigan. celebrate nonviolence. Work on dissertations. 
the observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Lecture: The Spring Concert Film: “Brothers on “Procrastination: National Endowment 
strives for the highest standards 
ABEGHH’tH DeBartolo Performing the Line” Ain’t Nobody Got for Humanities 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Revolution Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Time for That” Seminar 
however, recognize that we will make 
Jordan Hall of Science 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Arts Center Haggar Hall Flanner Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. Several Notre Dame 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Speaker Sylvester Jazz Bands will Documentary showing Mental wellness Lecture by Malcolm 
we can correct our error. 

James Gates, Jr. perform. and panel discussion. workshop. Sen, Ph.D. 


SMC appoints student to Board of Trustees 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s Editor 
the saint mary’s Board of trustees appointed junior malea schulte, a studio art ma­jor, as the 2013-2014 student trustee April 19. 
schulte will begin her term in June. 
saint mary’s is one of very few colleges to have a student on the Board of trustees, current student trustee Alyssa Vinluan said. the student trustee is a full voting member and her opinion is weighted as much as that of every other Board member. 
“i think the fact that the college has a student trustee speaks to the mission of the college,” Vinluan, a spanish and secondary education dou­ble major, said. “the mission strives to help women develop their talents and make a dif­ference in the world, and the student trustee position is a perfect example of that.” 
Vinluan, who served on the Board for the 2012-2013 term year, said she was on both the mission and student Life committees. schulte said she has not yet been assigned to a 

pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 

committee. 
“Being on the Board gave me a different perspective of the reasoning behind every deci­sion that the college makes,” Vinluan said. “Every decision that is made is made with the 
“I think the fact that the College has a student trustee speaks to the mission of the College. The mission strives to help women develop their talents and make a difference in the world, and the student trustee position is a perfect example of that.” 
Alyssa Vinluan 
student trustee 

[college’s] mission in mind.” 
college president carol Ann mooney said it is important for the college to have a student trustee so students’ voices can be heard. 
“having a student on the Board provides the ongoing op­portunity for the Board to hear student perspectives, some­thing that is obviously key to their work,” mooney said. “But just as important is that having students on most major college committees provides an impor­tant educational opportunity for our students.” 
Vinluan said her experience with the Board taught her a lot and influenced her post-gradu­ation plans. 
“What interested me the most about being on the Board was the fundraising aspect,” Vinluan said. “i was able to participate in the Faith Always, Action Now campaign, and it made me realize i have a knack for development.” 
Vinluan said being on the Board enabled her to meet great people who are passion­ate about saint mary’s. 
“the Board members are so inspiring,” Vinluan said. “they include some saint mary’s and Notre Dame graduates who have done a lot for the college and are excellent role models. i was very happy to introduce [schulte] to them at the last meeting.” 
schulte participates in several activities on campus, including Bellacapella, the intercultural Leadership certificate program and campus ministry. mooney said this extent of involvement 
“In addition, [Schulte’s] maturity, thoughtfulness and very strong letters of nomination helped me make my decision.” 
Carol Ann Mooney 
president 
Saint Mary’s College 

made schulte an excellent can­didate for the position of stu­dent trustee. 
“[schulte] was chosen from an unusually-strong pool of candidates for the breadth of her campus activities,” mooney said. “this gives her knowledge of a cross-section of students and their interests and activi­ties. in addition, her maturity, thoughtfulness and very strong letters of nomination helped me make my decision.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 




Dining halls seek to decrease waste 
By WEI LIN 
News Writer 
the semi-annual Waste-Free Wednesdays campaign, which took place during April, aimed to decrease the food and liquid waste produced at Notre Dame. 
campaign co-chair Anna gorman said the project seeks to educate students about the number of Americans who struggles to put food on the table.
 “one in six Americans strug­gle with hunger, and the statis­tic is even higher for children,” she said. “We waste roughly enough food in our country to provide food for all those who are hungry.” 
Each Wednesday in April from 6 to 7 p.m., volunteers handed out raffle tickets to stu­dents who cleared their trays at the dining halls. the winner of the raffle is awarded 100 Flex points. 
gorman said the campaign, which is co-sponsored by the office of sustainability, Notre Dame Food services, greeND and the hunger coalition, had a total of about 1,200 participants in the past four weeks. 
prior to the start of the Waste-Free Wednesdays campaign in 2008, the average student wast­ed about five ounces of food per meal, adding up to nearly two tons of food wasted each day. By the end of the fall 2012 semester, the waste dropped to 3.26 ounc­es per meal, gorman said. 
this semester, gorman said the waste is slightly higher, with an average of 3.5 ounces per student, but it has still drasti­cally decreased compared to the 2008 statistics. 
the office of sustainability has also contributed to reducing waste by posting educational posters in the dining halls to en­courage students and faculty to only take what they can finish. 

According to the office’ web­site, “Food scraps from the main Food service facility are used for cattle feed, totaling about 37,000 pounds per year. Leftover cooked food is donated to two local homeless shelters.” 
gorman is similarly con­cerned about the impact of food waste to the environment. 
“We are forcing our farms to produce more than we need, hurting our land. in addition, food waste produces meth­ane, a potent greenhouse gas,” gorman said. 
With the combined efforts of the co-sponsors of Waste-Free Wednesdays, gorman said the university can provide more food to the needy, answer a so­cial responsibility and avoid 
SMC honors former student 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s Editor 
on sunday, the legacy of former saint mary’s student Lizzy seeberg was honored at a blessing and dedication of a memorial garden in her name. 
the ceremony was held in riedinger garden, and stu­dents, faculty and members of seeberg’s family were in attendance. 
“these young people are al­ways going to have a place to remember Lizzy,” her father, tom seeberg, said. “it gives us a neat little place. to me, she is everywhere, but it is nice to have little spots where you can just sit and reflect.” 
he said the family has thought about donating the bench for the past two years, but until now, the timing was never quite right. 
“We think this turned out to be perfect timing,” tom seeberg said. “it allowed time for life messages of Lizzy to sink in to her classmates. it worked out well because her friends who are now seniors can enjoy the spot for a couple of weeks and then her friends that are now juniors will have the spot for another year.” 
Junior carolyn Backes, who was seeberg’s roommate at the time of her death in september 2010, said this spot is symbol­ic of the strong commitment both the college and the fam­ily have to ensuring the legacy of her former roommate. 
“i think it was a big tragedy, but both the college and this family grew out of it,” Backes said. “it did affect a lot of peo­ple and was very sad, but it also amplified the college’s commitment to mental health awareness. We want to prevent things like this from happen­ing again, but this spot helps us remember the good things about Lizzy. 

“Everyone is more aware of these real issues. remembering Lizzy makes it real for us.” 
Backes said the spot is a place where those dealing with anxiety, depression or similar mental illnesses can go to re­flect and “get away from all the little worries in life”. 
“Lizzy obviously struggled with anxiety and things,” Backes said. “i think this new bench and spot is such a serene place. it can be one of those places someone can go to think or to not think, deal with anxi­ety or really just calm down. “ 
senior megan carey, a for­mer friend of Lizzy’s, said this bench depicts the strong sister­hood that accompanies every saint mary’s Belle. 
“At saint mary’s we always say, ‘once a Belle, Always a Belle,’” carey said. “Even though Lizzy had only been here for a little over two weeks, she really embodied being a smick chick.” 
During the memorial, carey shared one of her favorite Lizzy memories. 
“one of my favorite stories of Lizzy is looking back at the first week of school when she marched into the bookstore and bought herself a French cross necklace,” carey said. “she wanted to show the world how much she loved saint mary’s and how much it meant to her.” 
carey said she is thank­ful Lizzy’s family has done so much to continue her legacy. 
“i think it is wonderful that her family created something at saint mary’s to remember her,” carey said. “Even if some­one didn’t know Lizzy, they could go to this spot and em­brace its beauty.” 
tom seeberg said Lizzy had strong feelings of affection for the college, emphasizing how important it is for the family to have connections to the place she once called home. 
“saint mary’s has such fan­tastic women and we know that Lizzy knew she was in the right place,” tom seeberg said. “she loved this college.” 
he said this dedicated spot is a place where her peers could stop by for a moment and re­flect on their short time with Lizzy. 
“it is a nice spot to just stop by for a moment,” tom seeberg said. “this is great because it can represent the moment she was in some of these girls’ lives.” 
it is important for the fam­ily to stay in touch with Lizzy’s classmates, he said. 
“We enjoy staying in touch with the young women Lizzy came to call her friends,” tom seeberg said. “As a parent, the death of a child is different than coping with other deaths. you have hopes and dreams for your child and those dreams died. it is nice to see her friends go forth and pursue their dreams.” 
the college’s student government Association would like to continue to work with the family and raise more awareness about issues of mental illness, sexual assault, violence and stalking, kat sullivan, 2013-2014 class presi­dent, said. 
“this fall, we want to place a metal ribbon tree in the student center for victims and their loved ones to tie ribbons on it,” sullivan said. “it will be a permanent, architectural dis­play in the center of campus.” 
carey said the college must continue to take steps to raise awareness of mental illness. 
“We should feel responsible as a college community to help our fellow sisters,” carey said. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

putting unnecessary strains on “Waste-Free Wednesdays the environment. could be more effective if we 
the challenge is letting were better able to educate stu­people know they can easily dents,” she said. have a large impact on hunger, gorman said. Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
Affairs 
coNtiNuED From pAgE 1 
happening,” he said. “overall, with these changes there is a lot more attention to advocacy for students and not only stream­lining language to make it more efficient and effective, but also to really support the students 
“Overall, with these changes there is a lot more attention to advocacy for students and not only streamlining language to make it more efficient and effective, but also to really support the students and advance their interests .” 
Maxwell Brown 
director of Academic Affairs 
student government 

and advance their interests.” 
the upcoming library reno­vation plans were another ma­jor accomplishment for the department, Brown said, which was committed to making sure “students’ voices are being heard.” 
“the survey that went out was extremely helpful … and we had a very effective response [from students],” Brown said. “the information really provided a positive framework to move for­ward, and it’s really been taken under advisement not only by the librarians themselves who are organizing the renovations, but also the architects who will actually work on it.” 
Brown said the survey showed student feedback on both the physical aspects of the library and the “intangible re­sources” available online. 
“this is one of the parts of the survey that was really interest­ing, [because] the students who were able to effectively use the [online] resources and meet with the research librarians found that to be overwhelming­ly useful,” he said. “But then the other group of students had just never used them or not heard of them, so that’s something that’s really important for us to work on.” 
in additions to renovating the library building, Brown said the department is also planning to expand the librarian in-resi­dence program in dorms. 
“the program brings a li­brarian to the dorms, someone who is available to help with research or answering ques­tions about library databases,” he said. “We just want to help students become more familiar with and utilize the resources available them.” 
Brown said his department welcomes comments and sug­gestions from students on all initiatives pursued by student government.  
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



seniors Arthur kostendt which made adjustment a
ROTC 

and Abigail Nichols followed breeze.” 
coNtiNuED From pAgE 1 

a slightly different path than kostendt said pride keeps first assignment with the 4th most cadets. they were not him moving forward toward infantry Division, 1st Brigade involved in the program their becoming an armor officer in based at Ft. carson, colorado. freshmen and sophomore the ohio National guard. 
Dompierre said he knew years but instead attended “i experience a real sense he wanted to join the Army a Leader’s training course of honor, camaraderie and rotc when he was a high-(Ltc) in Fort knox, kentucky, fulfillment when wear-school student and joined as a the summer between their ing the uniform, which isn’t freshman.  sophomore and junior years. something i totally bought 
“When i received the schol-this qualified them for en-into before joining, and it’s arship, i decided it was a no-rolment in the Army rotc not something i expected to brainer,” he said. “the Army Advanced course, allowing motivate me once i was in,” would pay for school, and them to commission with the kostendt said. “though ad-i would have the chance to four-year cadets. venture and scholarship mon­serve the nation afterwards, kostendt said he decided ey were powerful enticements which is something i had al-to commission after gradu-to join, pride has been a tre­ways wanted to do — espe-ation during the summer mendous reward.” cially after 9/11.” of his sophomore year. the Nichols said she also de-
Dompierre said he was sur-university’s Ltc program al-cided to join Army rotc after prised by the amount of lead-lowed him the opportunity to attending the Ltc program in ership skills he developed join the program. the summer before her junior 
“the low point of the concert after four years as a university “For me, joining Army rotc year. 

B.o.B 
for me was when B.o.B left and al­cadet. was a perfect storm of circum-“it took a little while to 

coNtiNuED From pAgE 1 
lowed his friend to rap one of his 

“Looking back on who i was stances. Although my older adjust to a military state of “i loved when he started sing-own songs,” Diaz said.  “Everyone 
freshman year, it seems hard brother has been involved mind, but after a while i de­ing “Beautiful girls [Nothin’ in the audience seemed to stop 
to imagine that i am the same with the marine corps for veloped a more intuitive sense on you]” with the ladies in the paying attention and it took away 
person today as i was then. almost eight years, military of the Army’s very particular crowd,” cortez said. “my friends from the energy and excitement 
our program excels at taking service was not really on my culture, which promotes hard and i were up front, so it was fun of the crowd.” 
intelligent followers as fresh-radar until sophomore year,” work and creativity but is also to sing along with him.” some students also strug­
men and turning them into kostendt said. “i received a extremely structured,” she Despite being relatively un-gled with crowd-pushing and 
even more intelligent and ca-mass-blast email from the said. known, the opening act, elec-rowdiness. 
pable leaders by senior year,” Army rotc unit, advertising Nichols said the time com­tronic artists Dzeko and torres, “[the crowd] was a little diffi-
Dompierre said. the Ltc. it seemed like a great mitment has been the most succeeded in getting the crowd cult to deal with when everyone 
Dompierre said he is grate-way to entertain my new as-demanding aspect of being a hyped for the energetic night. is trying to push to the front, but 
ful to the rotc program for pirations, while getting some cadet. “i had no idea who the opening that is expected at a concert,” 
preparing him as a cadet and money for college at the same “What took me most by sur-DJs were, but they did a great job,” cortez said. 
as an adult. time.” prise was the amount of in-Lewry said. “their music was overall, students agreed the 
“throughout my time in kostendt said he was appre-volvement rotc requires. it is great, but it lasted a little too long, new venue and combination of 
Army rotc, i have been hensive about adjusting to a not just a twice a week activity especially compared to B.o.B’s hip-hop and electronic dance 
pushed and trained to suc-junior class of cadets that al-but has rather evolved into a set.” music provided for an enjoyable 
cessfully exert my influence ready had two years to bond, full-time job, like it will be af­cortez also said the set should concert experience. 
as a leader and to get out-but he said he found that life ter we graduate,” Nichols said. have been shorter. “As soon as B.o.B threw water 
side of my comfort zone,” as a cadet at Notre Dame Nichols will attend the Basic “they got the crowd kind of at the crowd, i knew it was going 
Dompierre said. “i feel pre-was far less stressful than he officers course for military pumped, but i feel like it could to be a great show,” cortez said. 
pared, as the academic year anticipated. intelligence this summer un­have been better,” cortez said. “i “the energy of the show swept 
comes to a close and my time “Both rotc cadre and my til she goes to her first duty think that their act was a little too me up.  B.o.B really engaged the 
at Notre Dame ends, to be-fellow cadets made a great post with the 201st Battlefield long.” crowd and proved he was a great 
come an Army officer and effort to ensure that i was up surveillance Brigade in Fort students agreed B.o.B’s set was performer.” 
lead soldiers for the purpose to speed,” he said. “the Army Lewis, Wash., in october. far too short for a headlining act, 
of accomplishing our mission, has high standards, and our especially when the opening act’s Contact Peter Durbin at 
whatever the American peo-battalion is composed of very Contact Carolina Wilson at set was the same length. pdurbin@nd.edu 
ple determine that to be.” high-quality individuals, cwilso16@nd.edu 
Endorse 
coNtiNuED From pAgE 1 
their candidacy, that can’t be on Linkedin,” ingallinera, cEo of Endorse.me, said. “it’s a big market opportuni­ty that’s been overlooked and bucks the trend of informa­tion becoming more social and open in the online pro­fessional space today.” 
ingallinera said the startup raised $300,000 in may 2012 from angel investors and continued to test different applications for the software to discover where the great­est demand was located. 
“ultimately, there was the most demand in the online professional space, specifi­cally within campus recruit­ing, and we focused our efforts on that,” he said. 
techcrunch, a media prop­erty dedicated to profiling startups, described Endorse. me as, “a secure, online plat­form through which [stu­dents] can share confidential information with prospec­tive employers, and, in turn, give companies a better way to identify and hire top collegiate talent.” 

Freshman Anna gebhardt began working as the Notre Dame campus Liaison in mid-February. 
“once i heard of the oppor­tunity to work for a startup 
“The goal is to have students providing the link on their résumé, during interviews, on LinkedIn and all throughout the recruiting process.” 
James Ingallinera 
creator                                  
Endorse.me 

where i would be able to have a real impact and say in key decisions, i was eager to ap­ply and stand out among the other candidates,” she said. 
gebhardt said they are tar­geting college students at the top universities and colleges who are interested in work­ing in today’s most competi­tive industries: technology and finance. 
“We are expecting stu­dents to adopt the idea as more useful way of sharing necessary information that recruiters may not be able to access without Endorse. me,” ingallinera said. “the goal is to have students pro­viding the link on their ré­sumé, during interviews, on Linkedin and all throughout the recruiting process.” 
in the long term, ingallinera said the company wants to expand beyond campus re­cruiting to the rest of the workforce until Endorse.me is something that is used in every hiring decision for the broader job market. 
“We’re especially inter­ested in students who are currently juniors and will be entering internship pro­grams on Wall street or in silicon Valley for this sum­mer,” ingallinera said. 
students interested in join­ing the Endorse.me team can contact ingallinera at james@endorse.me 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
Armed men storm Libyan ministry 
Associated Press 
tripoLi, Libya — Libya’s prime minister warned of a perilous security situation sunday after armed men stormed the interior ministry and a state-owned television station after blocking access to the Foreign ministry. 
two years after the coun­try’s civil war, Libya is struggling to maintain se­curity, build a unified army and reign in militias, which include rebels who fought to oust longtime dictator moammar gadhafi in 2011. 
About 200 armed men surrounded the Foreign ministry building in tripoli, demanding the ministry hire former fighters who helped overthrow gadhafi. the men allege that many support­ers of the old regime are still holding senior positions in the ministry and its missions abroad. 
About 38 trucks, some with machine guns, surrounded the ministry all day. After sundown, gunmen were still blocking access to the building. 
some in Libya are calling for a political isolation law that would ban members of the former regime from po­litical roles. others counter that such a law would oust experienced technocrats, in­cluding the current prime minister, who served in gov­ernment under gadhafi years ago. 
in another bold move sunday, gunmen stormed the interior ministry, which over­sees police, and forced em­ployees out. the men charge that the ministry is not pay­ing them their salaries, ac­cording to an official in the ministry who spoke anony­mously for fear of reprisal. 

thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 

‘Iron Man 3’ rules world, ‘Pain & Gain’ takes U.S. 
Associated Press 
Los ANgELEs — “iron man 3” was the heavy-lifter at the­aters with a colossal overseas debut that overshadowed a gang of mercenary body­builders in a sleepy pre-sum­mer weekend at the domestic box office. 
the marvel studios super­hero sequel starring robert Downey Jr. got a head-start on its domestic launch next Friday with a $195.3 million opening in 42 overseas mar­kets, distributor Disney re­ported sunday. 
that topped the $185.1 mil­lion start for marvel’s “the Avengers,” which opened in 39 markets over the same week­end last year a week ahead of its record-breaking domestic debut of $207.4 million. 
“you don’t know that you could ever repeat the kind of experience we had a year ago, and here the marvel team brought together another in­credible movie,” said Dave hollis, head of distribution for Disney. “We’ve had this as a pattern for marvel films to kind of let momentum inter­nationally help signal to the domestic audience that the film is coming, something big is coming.” 
Director michael Bay’s “pain & gain,” a true-crime tale of bodybuilders on the make, muscled into first-place domestically with a $20 million debut. 
the paramount release star­ring mark Wahlberg, Dwayne Johnson and Anthony mackie knocked off tom cruise’s sci­fi adventure “oblivion” af­ter a week in the No. 1 spot. universal’s “oblivion” slipped to second-place with $17.4 million, raising its domestic total to $64.7 million. 

Lionsgate’s all-star nuptial comedy “the Big Wedding” tanked at No. 4 with just $7.5 million. the ensem­ble cast includes robert De Niro, Diane keaton, robin Williams, susan sarandon and katherine heigl, but the movie was almost universally trashed by critics and held lit­tle interest for audiences. 
paramount, which distrib­uted the earlier “iron man” movies and still has a finan­cial stake in the comic-book flicks after Disney bought marvel, had a small-scale success with “pain & gain.” 
A passion project for Bay, who has made paramount a for­tune with his “transformers” franchise, “pain & gain” was shot for a modest $26 million, spare change compared to the director’s usual budgets. 
the movie has the direc­tor taking a breather from his usual sci-fi action spectacles for a story based on a kidnap­ping-extortion caper carried out by bodybuilders in the 1990s. yet “pain & gain” still has Bay’s usual visual flair, and the reviews generally were better than what he’s used to. 
“With that kind of bud­get, to open to $20 million the first weekend is a very strong opening,” said Don harris, paramount’s head of distribution. “you see what a director really in his prime, at the top of his game, can do with a small budget, what he can make a movie look like.” 
“oblivion” was down a fairly steep 53 percent from the movie’s $37.1 million do­mestic debut the previous weekend. 
overseas, “oblivion” took in $12.8 million to lift its inter­national haul to $134.1 mil­lion and worldwide total to just under $200 million. 
hollywood’s domestic downturn continued, with revenues totaling $90 mil­lion, off 18.5 percent from the same weekend last year, when “think Like a man” led with $17.6 million, according to box-office tracker hollywood. com. 
pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 
rolling stones rock LA club 
across town earlier saturday built up camaraderie during 
Associated Press 

for a chance to attend the the confusing ticket lottery 
Los ANgELEs — For one spontaneous show. Buyers earlier in the day. night only, the rolling stones were limited to one ticket, and toward the end of saturday’s were an up-and-coming band they were required to pay with show, the band was joined again. cash, show a government-by former stones guitarist 
the legendary group rocked issued iD, wear a wristband mick taylor for their version a small club in Los Angeles on with their name on it and be of robert Johnson’s “Love in saturday night for a miniscule photographed. their names Vain,” as well as “midnight crowd compared to the thou-were verified at the venue, rambler.” sands set to see them launch which has a capacity of about the band, which was backed their “50 and counting” an-700. by Darryll Jones on bass, niversary tour a week later on cameras and smartphones chuck Leavell on keys, Bobby may 3 at the staples center. weren’t allowed inside the keys on sax and Bernard 
the band kicked off Echoplex, which usually Fowler and Lisa Fischer as saturday’s hush-hush plays host to hipster bands back-up singers, encored with 90-minute concert at the and mash-up dance parties. the hits “Brown sugar” and Echoplex in the hip Echo park the lack of personal record-“Jumpin’ Jack Flash.” neighborhood with “you got ing devices made the stones’ “(this is) the first show of me rocking” before catapult-performance feel even more the tour, probably the best ing into a mix of new and exclusive and old school, free-one,” Jagger said at the end of old material, as well as their ing concertgoers’ hands of the 90-minute set. blusey covers of classics from the gizmos that have become Bruce Willis, gwen stefani otis redding (“that’s how commonplace at concerts and skrillex were among the strong my Love is”), chuck nowadays, and further bond-famous faces in the sold-out Berry (“Little Queenie”) and ing the crowd, many of whom crowd. the temptations (“Just my 
pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 
imagination”). 
“Welcome to Echo park, a neighborhood that’s always coming up — and i’m glad you’re here to welcome an up­and-coming band,” lead sing­er mick Jagger joked after the second song of the evening, “respectable.” 
Despite clocking in sev­eral decades as band, Jagger, drummer charlie Watts and guitarists keith richards and ronnie Wood showed no signs of slowing down saturday. 
Jagger, who promptly ditched a black-and-white track jacket emblazoned with the band’s logo after the first few songs, worked the crowd into a sing-a-long frenzy with “miss you,” complete with a harmonica solo from the strutting frontman. 
tickets to the Echoplex con­cert were sold earlier in the day for $20 each — a fraction of what tickets to the tour cost. 
hundreds of fans lined up outside the El rey theatre 





Bomb suspects’ mother called deeply spiritual 
Associated Press 
BostoN — in photos of her as a younger woman, Zubeidat tsarnaeva wears a low-cut blouse and has her hair teased like a 1980s rock star. After she arrived in the u.s. from russia in 2002, she went to beauty school and did facials at a sub­urban day spa. 
But in recent years, people noticed a change. she began wearing a hijab and cited con­spiracy theories about 9/11 be­ing a plot against muslims. 
Now known as the angry and grieving mother of the Boston marathon bombing suspects, tsarnaeva is drawing increased attention after federal officials say russian authorities inter­cepted her phone calls, includ­ing one in which she vaguely discussed jihad with her elder son. in another, she was re-tsarnaev, say they have put off for food stamps and were corded talking to someone in the idea of any trip to the u.s. to on and off public assistance southern russia who is under reclaim their elder son’s body benefits for years. the large FBi investigation in an unre-or try to visit Dzhokhar in jail. family squeezed itself into a lated case, u.s. officials said. tsarnaev told the Ap on sunday third-floor apartment. 

tsarnaeva insists there is no he was too ill to travel to the Zubeidat took classes at the mystery. she’s no terrorist, just u.s. tsarnaeva faces a 2012 catherine hinds institute of someone who found a deeper shoplifting charge in a Boston Esthetics, before becoming a spirituality. she insists her sons suburb, though it was unclear state-licensed aesthetician. 
— tamerlan, who was killed whether that was a deterrent. Anzor, who had studied law, in a gunfight with police, and At a news conference in fixed cars. Dzhokhar, who was wounded Dagestan with Anzor last week, By some accounts, the family and captured — are innocent. tsarnaeva appeared over-was tolerant. 
“it’s all lies and hypocrisy,” whelmed with grief one mo-Bethany smith, a New yorker she told the Associated press ment, defiant the next. who befriended Zubeidat’s two in Dagestan. “i’m sick and tired “they already are talking daughters, said in an interview of all this nonsense that they about that we are terrorists, i with Newsday that when she make up about me and my am terrorist,” she said. “they stayed with the family for a children. people know me as a already want me, him and all of month in 2008 while she looked regular person, and i’ve never us to look (like) terrorists.” at colleges, she was welcomed been mixed up in any crimi-tsarnaeva arrived in the u.s. even though she was christian nal intentions, especially any in 2002, settling in a working-and had tattoos. linked to terrorism.” class section of cambridge, “i had nothing but love over 
Amid the scrutiny, tsarnaeva mass. With four children, there. they accepted me for and her ex-husband, Anzor Anzor and Zubeidat qualified who i was,” smith told the 
pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 

newspaper. “their mother, Zubeidat, she considered me to be a part of the family. she called me her third daughter.” 
Zubeidat said she and tamerlan began to turn more deeply into their muslim faith about five years ago after being influenced by a fam­ily friend, named “misha.” the man, whose full name she didn’t reveal, impressed her with a religious devotion that was far greater than her own, even though he was an ethnic Armenian who converted to islam. 
“i wasn’t praying until he prayed in our house, so i just got really ashamed that i am not praying, being a muslim, being born muslim. i am not praying. misha, who convert­ed, was praying,” she said. 
By then, she had left her job at the day spa and was giving facials in her apartment. one client, Alyssa kilzer, noticed the change when tsarnaeva put on a head scarf before leav­ing the apartment. 
“she had never worn a hijab while working at the spa previ­ously, or inside the house, and i was really surprised,” kilzer wrote in a post on her blog. “she started to refuse to see boys that had gone through puberty, as she had consulted a religious figure and he had told her it was sacrilegious. she was often fasting.” 
kilzer wrote that tsarnaeva was a loving and supportive mother, and she felt sympathy for her plight after the April 15 bombings. But she stopped vis­iting the family’s home for spa treatments in late 2011 or early 2012 when, during one session, she “started quoting a conspir­acy theory, telling me that she thought 9/11 was purposefully created by the American gov­ernment to make America hate muslims.” 
“it’s real,” tsarnaeva said, according to kilzer. “my son knows all about it. you can read on the internet.” 
in the spring of 2010, Zubeidat’s eldest son got mar­ried in a ceremony at a Boston mosque that no one in the family had previously attend­ed. tamerlan and his wife, katherine russell, a rhode island native and convert from christianity, now have a child who is about 3 years old. 
Zubeidat married into a chechen family but was an out­sider. she is an Avar, from one of the dozens of ethnic groups in Dagestan. her native village is now a hotbed of an ultracon­servative strain of islam known as salafism or Wahabbism. 
it is unclear whether reli­gious differences fueled ten­sion in their family. Anzor and Zubeidat divorced in 2011. 
About the same time, there was a brief FBi investiga­tion into tamerlan tsarnaev, prompted by a tip from russia’s security service. 

thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

stand with all humanity 

Carolyn Hutyra 
News Writer 

We are all one people. this statement was a key point of a homily i heard a priest give a few weekends back after the Boston bombings. he said we should pray for the families injured in the at­tacks because even though we do not know them, we are all linked through our humanity. 
Earlier that day, i saw a posting on Facebook of a group of syrian men and children in front of a half destroyed building holding a sign that read, “Boston bombings represent a sorrowful scene of what happens everyday in syria. Do accept our condolences.” 
standing in mass, i had this image stuck in my head. i did not disagree with the priest about his message, but the two situations seemed, in a way, to clash. 
if humanity really is one, if we are all called to pray and help one another, why is it those close to home receive our sup­port while those an ocean apart do not? 
there is, of course, a loyalty we have to our own people. chances are a large number of people knew someone di­rectly or indirectly in the Boston area who was impacted by these chain of events. We care because in some way we are linked. 
our nation was traumatized by this event. Bombings are not the norm here, and a very distinct fear becomes evident whenever something like this occurs. And at the end of the day, we know our government will not tolerate this sort of action. 
there are those overseas, however, who live with this every single day. it is the norm to hear bombs go off, to walk past buildings crumpled to pieces or to lose family and friends in a life sur­rounded by combat. 
the government does not come to their aid. their leaders do not visit the families of those who have died. outcries of anger and injustice fall on deaf ears. 
if humanity truly is one, these are our brothers and sisters as well. i believe we should mourn the bombings in Boston, help who we can and pray often. But our prayers and aid should not end at the shores of our home and they should, at the very least, reach that far. 
“Never underestimate the difference you can make in the lives of others. step forward, reach out and help. this week, reach to someone that might need a lift.” this quote by pablo Valle presents a strong example of a way to live this life of care. 
though we should always remember those harmed close to our own homes, we should also remember those over­seas. humanity may never solve these problems of violence, but through prayer and aid we truly can make a difference. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Prayer, not just silence 
one of my strongest memories in my six years near the Dome was the reaction of our community after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001. the mass on south Quad that afternoon was a profound spiritual experience, one that moved me then and is something i cherish deeply in my heart to this day. 
When football resumed on september 23, 2001, it was a moving and emotional day, though i remember finding it odd that at the university of Notre Dame, with the attention of many (including the 80,000 in the stands) all together, public prayer was not a part of events at the stadium when remembering those who died so tragically. We did, however, observe a moment of silence together. 
At the time, the issue was not on my personal pe­riphery, but the issue of prayer (or lack thereof) at Notre Dame stadium is a debate i have heard from many, especially as a part of the continuing discus­sion regarding Notre Dame’s catholic identity. it’s something that definitely was on my mind when vis­iting Brigham young university’s cougar stadium in 2004 and seeing their community come together for prayer before the game, with the reason being that’s what they do. it’s something that has remained on my mind, especially when i wonder why catholics seem so hesitant to be evangelical (the word alone makes many catholics cringe with regard to christianity, myself included), or even at times embarrassed to show their faith. 
After the tragic death of Declan sullivan two years ago, i was encouraged to see the Notre Dame commu­nity come together spiritually, including in prayer at the next football game. 
Now, as a teacher at a catholic school as well as a partner with Notre Dame’s “play Like a champion” character education program which touts coaches as ministers, one of the accomplishments i am very proud of is when our athletic directors in san Diego’s North county parochial League “mandated” pre­game prayer. What i find ironic is, why during the annual Blue/gold game did the university opt for a “moment of silence,” a more secular practice, rather than a prayer? Was there fear a prayer from a religious university would offend the victims of the Boston marathon bombing? the university of Notre Dame is the most visible catholic university in the united states and perhaps in the whole world, so it is perplex­ing why it does not openly lead prayer at its games, especially in instances where it believes a “moment of silence” will suffice? 
Steven Granados 
alumnus class of 2003 April 22 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“i would rather be accused of breaking precedents than breaking promises.” 
John F. Kennedy 

United States president 



thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

What happened to welcoming the ‘stranger?’ 
the front page of the April 22 issue of the observer had a headline that read, “‘provide welcome to the stranger.’” the attached article highlighted the steps being taken to create a welcoming space for undocumented immigrant students within the university. ironically, 10 pages later was a feature titled “#thirdworldsolutions to #firstworld­problems.” As an international student who is a different type of immigrant and a different type of stranger, i found this article in its entirety to be offensive. As such, i hope to highlight how features such as “#thirdworldsolutions to #firstworldproblems” fracture and divide our increasingly diverse Notre Dame community. 
First and foremost, the term “third world” is highly problematic and far from ideal. this offensive term is no longer in widespread use due to its condemnation of cer­tain nations to their own separate “world.” critics of the term have discussed how in normalizing  the stark dif­ferences between “first world,” “second world” and “third world,” we erase the important historical and contem­poraneous socio-economic ties between regions, hemi­spheres, nations, ethnicities and language groups. these phrases have been purposefully replaced by the terms “developed” and “developing” nations. But my criticisms of the article extend far deeper than word choice. 
more disappointing was that under the veneer of humor, the feature affirmed a mass of stereotypes and misinformation. granted, there are some who may use the excuse of humor to dispel this critique as just another complaint from another minority, but these are genuine concerns. the power of stereotypes is we hear them so often and presented in a number of creative forms to the point they become a version of the truth and our per­ceived realities. they may be funny, but for the subjects of these stereotypes they merely succeed in painting an entire group as only one thing. in the case of this article, the so-called “third world” is made up of backward “oth­ers” and primitive landscapes.
 “#thirdworldsolutions to #firstworldproblems” also reflects a trend widespread across this campus in which certain groups of people who are considered different are constantly stereotyped. this situation is exacerbated by the silence of those who are subjected to these uncomfort­able situations on a daily basis. this silence should not be misunderstood as a sign of endorsement of such insensi­tivity, but should be read as a sense of widespread frustra­tion and exhaustion. When these stereotypes are then published in a newspaper that prides itself on uncovering the truth and reporting it accurately, it creates a situation where silence is not an option. it’s an issue we need to actively address.
 When you consider the university is making strides to enroll more international students, articles like this pose a barrier to the inclusive environment the university is trying to promote. the online version of the observer is accessible to prospective students from developing na­tions and it reflects the image of an unwelcoming envi­ronment. such articles merely shed a negative light on the inclusive nature of our campus, perpetuating the already existing bad image of Notre Dame’s approach to matters surrounding diversity. 
What is especially discouraging is this feature was written by someone who actually spent some significant time in morocco, a developing nation, where she met people and hopefully established relationships with them. however, she still managed to dedicate a whole page to reducing a population of people and an entire region into seven stereotypes. i hope that is not a reflection on her person or her experience in morocco, but perhaps points to the troubling limitations of these global immersion pro­grams we students take part in. however, that is a problem for another day and platform. Additionally, it should be noted many of the stereotypes circulated in “#thirdworld­solutions to #firstworldproblems” could be used to dispar­age less-privileged communities in the highly developed nations of North America and Europe. my main aim in taking time out to share these thoughts is to encourage this newspaper to cherish the power it has in penning news. it’s a privilege that comes with responsibility. in the case of the published article, this involved creating reali­ties for those students who may never have been exposed to moroccans or anyone from a developing nation. 
i am confident the observer will continue to publish features and articles about developing nations. As a citi­zen of one of these nations, i urge you not to forget we are people with dignity. i am confident in the future you will remember there is more to our existence than the nega­tive stereotypes that plague us. many of the problems that impact some communities in our respective countries are tied to complex issues and histories which exist beyond the scope of anyone’s tasteless jokes. Neither do these problems define our countries, cultures and identities. my sincere hope is your newspaper will grow in terms of cul­tural sensitivity and respect of people who hold passports of a different color. i hope in the future, the sentiments expressed in your articles will align with the mission of this institution so Notre Dame can truly be a home for a wider range of people. 
Geraldine Mukumbi 
freshman Lewis hall April 28 

girls’ dorms deserve same atmosphere of respect 
thank you for publishing mark sonnick’s ar-their side doors locked on football weekends. parietals, at least trust us to follow it instead ticle about the double standard in men’s and i understand the concerns about a “safety is-of walking around with ear-splitting jingles at women’s dorms (“resolve the double standard,” sue,” but why does the university treat girls midnight when we are trying to sleep, study or April 24) though Notre Dame has come a very differently than guys when it comes to safety? hang out with friends. the trusting and more long way since accepting girls in the 1970s and i’m definitely not advocating for guys’ dorms to relaxed environment in guys’ dorms creates a many positive changes have been made, i think have their side doors locked too, but i think the much more welcoming atmosphere, as mark says this issue reflects how Notre Dame still has not university needs to change its policy to make in his article, and we women deserve to have as fully evolved to the point of treating both gen-things equal across the board. there is much much of a welcoming home as the guys do. ders equally. more of a culture of trust in guys’ dorms than in 
it is not fair that it is so much harder to have girls’ dorms between the students and the hall Charlotte Anderson a party in a women’s dorm than in a men’s staff, and we girls deserve the same degree of freshman dorm.  it is not fair parietals are way more strict trust. We are all adults here. pasquerilla West hall in girls’ dorms and that only girls’ dorms have if the university is going to have a rule like April 25 
UWIRE 
All clichés aside, go out and seize the day 
Katie Winkel 
collegian 
studying abroad is synonymous with learning experience, both in and out of the classroom. 
throughout the novels of “Don Quijote de la mancha,” whose author miguel de cervantes was born in the city in which i studied, the character sancho panza transforms through a process of Quijotization — becoming more like his idealistic friend Don Quijote simply by spending a lot of time with him. 
spain has done the same to me  — i am undoubtedly more spanish. the changes are subtle, like the way i pronounce the language, or my new-found liking for coffee and wine. i’ve also learned, or rather reaffirmed, the idea of taking advan­tage of every opportunity to create memories, accompanied by countless photographs and blog posts. 
studying abroad is the perfect motivator for the mentality of “you only live once.” As cliche as the phrase has become, there is still a grain of truth  — that when an opportunity presents itself, you’d better go for it now or forever wish you had. 
Whenever a spaniard serves a meal (whether at home or in a restaurant), i invariably hear the phrase “que aproveche,” before the recipient digs in. Although used here in a manner similar to “bon appetit,” the phrase means more than just “enjoy.” the verb “aprovechar” means “to take advantage of” and became my new motto during my time in spain. my goal: to live and learn deliberately. 
if it weren’t for my reaffirmed carpe diem attitude, i would never have pulled an all-nighter in a London pub while wait­ing for a flight the day before a midterm. i would never have joined the university choir and met the prince of spain. i would never have hopped on countless planes, trains and buses with people i barely knew to travel across spain and in the process form connections with those people and those places. 
one doesn’t have to travel to a far-off land in order to seize the day, although having a set time period in a place is a constant reminder that circumstances can soon change. there are different ways to “y.o.L.o.” (yes, now i’ve made it a verb). my study abroad experience was a long-term, carefully planned method of spending my time wisely. other times, “y.o.L.o.-ing” is spontaneous: pushing off studying for an hour to get tapas with friends. 
college provides a similar environment for taking advan­tage of a wealth of opportunities: joining clubs and orga­nizations, spending time with friends, learning new skills. sometimes, “y.o.L.o.” is justifiable procrastination. 
Although it’s important to make wise decisions and keep up with schoolwork (or at least accept any consequences of substituting life experiences for studying), it’s equally impor­tant to build relationships and create memories that will last longer than a knowledge of the krebs cycle. 
Just think: never again will you be able to have the same experience at the same moment with the same group of people ever again. Every day is a new adventure. Enjoy it. Live it. Learn from it. remember it. 
This column originally ran in the Apri 26 edition of Collegian, serving  Colorado State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 



By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Editor-In-Chief 

It was a simple, yet iconic scene in the tunnels of Compton Family Ice Arena. While the walls echoed the 2,000-plus chants of his name from the floor, B.o.B gathered his team in the stagnant backstage shadows for a pep talk and maybe even a quick prayer or two. 
Then off he went, bolting onto the stage with a furor of vibrant energy. And he never let up. 
The 24-year old Atlanta rapper kicked off the first SUB spring concert to be held in the hockey arena, which opened in 2011. And with his dynamic perfor­mance, the bar has been set higher than the rafters. 
Opening with “Beast Mode” — the opening track off his 2010 mixed-tape No Genre — B.o.B set the tone for the hour-long concert with a relentless, spirited display of smash hits. He soon glided his way through the set list with hit singles “Magic” and “Strange Clouds,” which warped the crowd with its intensely violent bass line. 
Having headlined tours for the past three years, one could tell B.o.B had the crowd-pleasing live perfor­mance expertise of a concert veteran. 
Some of the more intimate moments showed him at his greatest. He serenaded the front rows during “Nothin’ on You,” which turned into the artist’s big break in 2010 after Atlantic Records label-mate Lupe Fiasco passed on the beat. He performed an acoustic version of “Where Are You (B.o.B vs. Bobby Ray),” an introspective look into how the artist’s persona has changed for better or for worse when the luxuries of fame are finally embraced. 
Complete with a DJ, dancers and Playboy Tre, 
B.o.B took out all the stops to give the crowd a complete concert experience and a maybe a few memories to go with it. The only lasting regret was the lack of instru­mentation and live music that makes B.o.B’s atmo­spheric sound so unique, rather than a DJ playing tracks off a computer. Songs like “Don’t Let Me Fall,” “Both of Us” and “Airplanes” would have flourished with live drums, guitars and pianos to accompany the booming stacks of speakers throughout the floor. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 




Throughout the night, he would even bridge the gap between the stage and to interact with the crowd, taking “selfie” pictures with bystanders’ phones, dancing on the rail overlooking the floor audience, and crowdsurfing toward the show’s finale. To debut a new unreleased song, “Headband” featuring 2 Chainz, B.o.B even brought students from the crowd on stage to dance to the sure-to-be hit with a catchy whistling melody in the same vein of a Tyga jam. As a whole, student’s can expect a lot from B.o.B in the future as the rapper has plans to release a collaborative mixtape “Grand Hustle” on May 7, his third studio album and a rock EP to top it all off. 
Saving the biggest hits for last, B.o.B ended his set with the catchy, anthemic hit single “Airplanes” and the song of summer 2012 “So Good,” both perfect for the stadium-sound acoustics of Compton Family Ice Arena. 
With the move to Compton Family Ice Arena, organization and planning was at a fast-paced hustle and bustle. Organizers worked all night Thursday and into Friday, doing everything from prepping the three locker-rooms-turned-dressing-rooms to assembling a massive screen behind the stage to complement the act with effervescent, flowing videos. 
With the move, SUB organizers finally embraced student requests to leave the outdated and stuffy Stepan Center, but students hardly acted on their request. The quota for general admission floor tickets could have been expanded. There was such a great divide between the raucous floor atmosphere and the bland arena-style seating that it truly looked more like the crowd for an intramural hockey game than an animated spring concert. The fact remains students didn’t follow through on their end of the deal, which turned out to be more of their loss than SUB’s. 
SUB also hit a chord with the selection of their opener, Dzeko and Torres, an exhilarating Canadian DJ duo that played remixes of hit party songs such as Icona Pop’s “I Love It” and Kid Cudi’s “Pursuit of Happiness” along with club-oriented original material. The duo’s vigor and wall-shaking beats gave the crowd a much-needed jolt, keeping the stage warm and the energy on the rise leading up to the headlining act. 
As a whole, the Compton experiment turned out to be a success. SUB made it the complete student experience, starting back in the fall when it sent out a survey asking students to vote on a headliner. It’s just too bad most of Notre Dame wasn’t there to appreciate the feat that it was. 



Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Instant analysis is entertainment 

Mike Monaco 
sports Editor 
We live in a world built on speed. if i don’t respond to a text within 10 minutes, i must be kidnapped, dead or incarcerated. 
twenty-four hour news coverage gives us instant re­action and “analysis” to hap­penings around the world. the same is true in the world of sports, thanks first to EspN and now the other sports net­works trying to cut the pie into multiple pieces. 
But we all need to slow down when it comes to in­stantaneous reaction in sports. i’m as guilty as any­one. i almost wrote this col­umn on the winners and losers from this weekend’s NFL Draft. sure, it’s enter­taining to grade a team’s draft performance much the same way it’s entertain­ing to conduct a mock draft three weeks or months before the actual draft. But that’s precisely what such instant “analysis” is: entertainment. 
We can’t really say whether the rams filled their needs by drafting tavon Austin and Alec ogletree, or if the chargers got great value in the draft by selecting manti te’o, as well as D.J. Fluker and keenan Allen. We don’t know what value is because we don’t know much about the marketplace. 
the Buffalo Bills chose E.J. manuel with the 16th overall pick of the draft in a move that was considered a reach by pundits and casual fans alike. i’m not going to pre­tend i know which of the 11 drafted quarterbacks — or even the undrafted quarter­backs like former tennessee signal-called tyler Bray — will turn into pro Bowlers. the quarterback crop was a crapshoot this season, and manuel may very well turn into the best of the bunch. i don’t fault the choice of the player and i can’t even fault the “value” of the pick. there may not have been another team who would have select­ed manuel in the top 25 picks, but the Bills don’t know that and neither do we. 
After the second day of the draft, Bill Belichick was asked if he could have gotten a player later in the weekend. his response? “i don’t know what other teams, how they have their boards stacked or anything else. there’s no way to predict that — 31 other teams. i think you have to take the players you feel like can help your team. that’s what we did.” What’s more interesting than getting a slightly interesting answer from Belichick is the mindset he has. the patriots can’t per­fectly predict what the other teams will do, so is it really fair to say they reached for a player and got bad value? maybe it is. 

But the process of scouting players, ranking them on an overall board and then pre­dicting where they will be drafted is inherently inexact. so too is the performance of players and teams when we get to the games themselves. 
Accurately predicting the winners in the NBA playoffs is just as difficult and chance-driven as ana­lyzing the NFL Draft, espe­cially when the randomness of injuries jumbles what looked like a clear picture at the start of the postseason. russell Westbrook’s knee in­jury has changed the context of the playoffs, just as Derrick rose’s knee injury and rajon rondo’s knee injury did ear­lier in the season. 
if at the beginning of the season you had the Lakers making a run to the Western conference Finals, where they would square off against the thunder in a riveting se­ries for the right to take on LeBron in the NBA Finals, well, things look a lot dif­ferent now. No kobe. No Westbrook. 
so why get caught up in the instant analysis enveloping television, twitter, blogs and newspapers when the Lakers put together what looked like a championship-caliber team? Why get sucked into a mock draft six months be­fore thursday’s first round, or a report card the day af­ter saying this team blew the draft. Don’t get me wrong; it’s entertaining. But it’s purely speculative, fueled by the instantaneous nature of our mass media and our society as a whole. 
Who really knows what’s on the other 31 draft boards, and who really knows what an injury will mean to a team? more important­ly, who knows when such gamechangers will occur? 
chance is a variable of­ten left unaccounted, but it drives the sporting world. And though, by definition, there’s no way to predict it, there’s always a way to be aware of it. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC GOLF | NcAA QuALiFiErs 
Belles wrap up season 
Observer Staff Report 

saint mary’s wrapped its season up at the second and third miAA NcAA qualifiers, finishing in third and sec­ond place, respectively, in after two well-played rounds at the medalist golf club in marshall, mich. 
Following a team score of 360 on Friday, the Belles came out hungry on saturday, and managed to turn in a 25-stroke improve­ment by shooting a 335. 
Leading the way for the Belles on Friday were junior paige pollak and sophomore Janice heffernan, who both tied for seventh individually by shooting an 87. Not far behind was freshman claire Boyle, who finished in ninth place with an 88. Junior Alexi Brown and senior cap­tain Jessica kinnick tied for 22nd with matching rounds of 98. 
olivet extended its lead and set a course record with a team score of 319 on Friday. on saturday, the comets nearly matched that score when they shot a champi­onship-clinching 322. the junior tandem of theresa Damico and Adrienne plourde dominated over the weekend, as both neared par by shooting weekend-lows of 76 and 74, respec­tively. the juniors turned in weekend stroke averages of 78, and plourde’s 74 was a season-low. 

saturday was also success­ful for the Belles, who fin­ished in second-place with a score of 335. pollak and heffernan dominated again with fifth and sixth-place scores of 82 and 83, respec­tively, while Brown came in eighth with an 84 and Boyle came in 11th with an 86 — both of which were im­provements on the previous round. kinnick was close be­hind, too, with a 14th-place score of 90. 
overall, saint mary’s wrapped up the three-round qualifier in second, nar­rowly edging hope by three strokes with a combined team score of 1,048. the to­tal was 71 strokes behind olivet, who won the quali­fier in convincing fashion 
with  a  three-round  sum  of  
just 971.  
the  weekend’s  rounds  

were the last of a fairly suc­cessful spring season for the Belles, 
Four of the five golfers will be back in action with the Belles when they return to the links next fall. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 

Available May 1st. Clean 2BR 1BA. Garage and fenced yard. 1326 E. Chalfant St. $675/mo Call 574-340-6789 
1 BR furnished apt with utilities. $550/mo + deposit. Near airport. 574-233-3565 
Grad student in Chicago looking to share 2BR/2Bath apartment in South Loop near Prairie/15th streets - $800/ mo.Contact: kallsop@ciber.com 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
“22” -Taylor Swift It feels like a perfect night to dress up like hipsters/ And make fun of our exes, uh uh uh uh/ It feels like a perfect night for breakfast at midnight/ To fall in love with strangers uh uh uh uh/ Yeaaaah/ We’re happy free confused and lonely at the same time/ It’s miserable and magical oh yeah/ Tonight’s the night when we forget about the deadlines, it’s time uh uh/ I don’t know about you but im feeling 22/ Everything will be alright if you keep me next to you/ You don’t know about me but I bet you want to 



SMC SOFTBALL 

offense silenced as Belles lose four to end year 
was a home run by freshman first baseman Jillian Busfield, her team-leading 11th of the season. Even then, trine dominated the Belles, 22-2, which was ended by the mercy rule after 5 innings. 
Even after the being swept by trine, the Belles still had a chance to make the tournament with wins against Alma (25-9, 13-3). But their hitting woes contin­ued, and only collected one hit off scots senior pitcher Louise rezmer. senior captain and catcher morgan Bedan was re­sponsible for the lone hit, a single, in what would be her and co-cap­tain shortstop Emily sherwood’s final day in a Belles uniform. Even though the season ended with­out a postseason run, sullivan had nothing but praise for the veterans. 
“they have been an integral part of our program and person­ally, a great part of my life and my coaching philosophy,” sullivan said. “they have been fantastic, given so much of themselves, been incredibly selfless, and sac­rificed so much to make our team successful.” 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports Writer 
the Belles’ season came to an end this weekend after four straight losses to trine and Alma left them on the outside of the miAA tournament looking in. 
the Belles (19-17, 9-7 miAA) opened the weekend with a doubleheader against miAA powerhouse No. 4 trine (33-3, 16-0), and were no match for the reigning conference champs. the thunder were kept in check by junior pitcher callie selner in game one, but the Belles were un­able to get their bats going against trine senior pitcher Andi gasco. gasco was one walk away from a perfect game, giving the Belles their first loss in a no-hitter since 

pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 
2003. According to Belles coach Erin sullivan, saint mary’s offen­sive struggles this weekend was due both a poor approach at the plate and great pitching by the opposition. 
“it was a combination of both really,” sullivan said. “We didn’t jump on the good strikes and the pitchers moved the ball really well and kept our hitters guessing.” 
While the Belles were able to score in the second game of the doubleheader, freshman pitcher sarah Burke struggled mightily to contain the thunder offense. Behind home runs from second baseman Amy Newell and third baseman rachel harris, both sophomores, trine was able to pile up 22 runs against Burke. All the Belles were able to muster 


selner was solid in the circle once again, only allowing two runs to the scots, but took the 2-0 loss due to her unproductive of­fense. she started the next game as well, pitching all seven innings and allowing six runs with eight strikeouts. the Belles mustered five hits in game two, but were unable to tie them together in order to start a rally. the 6-0 loss tied them with hope college for the final miAA tournament spot, and hope advanced via tiebreak­er. Despite the disappointing end to the season, sullivan does not 
SMC TENNIS | kALAmAZoo 7, smc 2 

Loss ends tournament hopes 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports Writer 
the finale didn’t quite de­mand a curtain call. the Belles fell to kalamazoo 7-2 on saturday in their final regular-season match to drop into a tie for fourth place in the confer­ence with calvin. 
the top four squads make the 

conference tournament, but 
saint mary’s (10-8, 4-4 miAA) 
pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 
came out on the losing end of the tiebreaker with calvin and will not participate in the miAA tournament. 
A win saturday would have earned saint mary’s the final tournament spot outright. the winner of the conference tour­nament automatically qualifies for the NcAA tournament. the Belles last appeared in the miAA tournament in 2008. calvin nar­rowly beat saint mary’s, 5-4, on believe her players wilted under pressure. however, she does plan to use the four game skid as inspi­ration for next year. 
“We talked about this finish be­ing motivation to work hard dur­ing the off season,” sullivan said. “i definitely don’t think there was too much pressure for [the younger players], we just played very seasoned teams and didn’t have the offensive support we are used to.” 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
Wednesday to earn the head-to­head tiebreaker. 
Belles coach Dale campbell praised his team’s effort against kalamazoo (12-7, 7-1 miAA), especially since the Belles were coming off the heartbreaking loss to calvin. 
“We played with heart despite the fact we had a tough loss with calvin,” campbell said. 
saturday’s victories came at No. 5 singles and No. 2 doubles. sophomore Jackie kjolhede won 6-2, 6-3. sophomores shannon Elliott and Audrey kiefer sup­plied the 8-4 doubles victory. kiefer nearly secured a third point for saint mary’s at No. 4 singles, but ended up falling narrowly 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 10-6. 
campbell said doubles play was not aggressive enough for the Belles to win. campbell said he hopes saint mary’s will be able to take the lessons from the loss into next season. 
“We are still not aggressive enough at net in doubles, and we don’t play with enough energy at times,” campbell said. “We will start over and try to improve.” 
Despite the loss, campbell said he wanted to keep a posi­tive perspective during his post-game comments to his team. 
“i just told them they gave it all they had, and that is all you can do,” campbell said. “i think you have to look at the positives and analyze what you can do going into the next season.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE | ND 14, mu 5 
Irish roll past Golden Eagles in Senior-Day surge 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports Writer 
on senior Day at Arlotta stadium, it was only fitting that the bulk of No. 10 Notre Dame’s offensive production came from its fourth-year players. 
senior attackers Betsy mastropieri, Jaimie morrison and Jenny granger combined to score eight goals and lead the irish to a 14-5 victory over marquette on saturday. 
“you want your team to show up and have a little extra motiva­tion to give those seven seniors that have worked so hard for four years what they want,” irish coach christine halfpenny said. “[the seniors] came here to win, and we gave them that win on senior Day.” 
marquette freshman midfield­er hayley Baas put the golden Eagles (2-15) on the board with a goal 48 seconds into the game. But the irish (12-4, 6-3 Big East) quick­ly struck back, as mastropieri scored on an assist from granger at the 28:31 mark, and sophomore midfielder caitlin gargan added a goal off a granger assist just 22 seconds later. 
“i think the game got started in the right fashion with seniors put­ting the ball in the back of the net right of the gate, with the one-two punch from Betsy and Jenny again having a hand in the next assist to caitlin gargan,” halfpenny said. 
From there, Notre Dame never looked back, as it scored the next four goals to open up a 6-1 lead. After Baas added another goal, the irish found the net twice at the end of the half to take an 8-2 lead into halftime. 
Notre Dame continued its scor­ing streak into the second half, scoring the first three goals of the half. the irish outscored the golden Eagles, 6-3, in the second frame to earn the 14-5 victory. 
halfpenny said she was proud of her team’s effort against the golden Eagles, who are in their inaugural season at the Division i level. 
“obviously, we were playing a first-year program today, and they gave us everything they had and showed up to compete, so credit to marquette that they did really show up and play hard,” halfpenny said. “But for our team to show up and play hard for our seniors, that was a really special thing for us.” 
mastropieri scored four goals on the day, while morrison had a hat trick and granger added a goal and four assists. Junior attacker Lindsay powell finished with three goals, and gargan contrib­uted two of her own. 
senior goalkeeper Ellie hilling, who has the most wins of any goalkeeper in irish program history, earned her 44th career victory. 
overall, all 31 players on the irish roster, including senior mid­fielder mckenzie Brown, senior goalkeeper Adele Bruggeman and senior defender Emily conner, saw playing time against the golden Eagles. 
halfpenny said the extra play­ing time also benefitted many of the team’s freshmen and sophomores. 
“i think we continue to see 

TRACK AND FIELD | thirD pLAcE 
squad excels in iowa and mich. 

confidence grow [in the freshmen and sophomores],” halfpenny said. “When we see the ball hit the back of the net where most of our youth is, which is down on offense and in the midfield, they just get more belief in the system we’re running.” 
As a result of No. 7 georgetown’s 9-6 victory over No. 16 connecticut on Friday night, the irish will not make the four-team Big East tour­nament, which begins thursday in Washington D.c. With its rpi of 10, Notre Dame will likely receive an at-large bid to the 26-team NcAA tournament, which begins may 10. 
halfpenny said the irish would use the extra time off to work on improving areas of their game in preparation for postseason play. 
“the first thing we’re going to do is rest and recover, and the sec­ond thing we’re going to do is get comfortable in going back to the drawing board and fine-tuning pieces of our game that we haven’t fine-tuned in the last month’s stretch,” halfpenny said. “We’re excited to go back to the drawing board and build off all the posi­tives we’ve seen in the last nine games.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports Writer 

in the final meets of the regular season before the Big East championships, the irish finished strong with 15 top-five finishes at the Drake relays and the hillsdale college gina relays. 
the quartet of sopho­more chris giesting, ju­niors Jarrod Buchanon and patrick Feeney and senior Brendan Dougherty led the irish in Des moines, iowa, at the Drake relays. the team came in fifth in the 4x400­meter relay, an event that afforded the sprinters to compete as a team. 
“i love running with my teammates instead of competing against them,” giesting said. “i have to compete against my team­mates at almost every meet we go to so it is great to run relays where you are com­peting with them.” 
giesting said the relay team is confident heading into the Big East champion­ships, which begin Friday. 
“it gives us confidence and shows us that our training is coming together,” giesting said. “our 4-by-4 just set the school record, so we are all confident heading into the Big East championship.” 
Not to be outdone, the women’s 4x400-meter re­lay team of freshman phe­nom margaret Bamgbose, sophomore Amber Lalla and juniors megan yanik and michelle Brown won the prelims with a time of 
3:36.77 and placed second in the finals with a 3:34.39 mark. in similar fashion, the team of freshman Danielle Aragon, juniors kelly curran and Alexa Aragon and senior rebecca tracy took the win in its 4x800-meter relay, edging second-place illinois by nearly four seconds. in addition to its triumph in the 4x800-meter relay, the sister duo of Danielle and Alexa Aragon took fourth and sixth, respectively, in the 1,500-meter race. 
over at the hillsdale (mich.) college gina relays, the 46-athlete irish con­tinued the strong perfor­mances as four competitors placed in the top-15 for multiple events. Freshman Lena madison had an espe­cially great day, with top­15 finishes in the shot put, hammer throw and discus, where she placed seventh, 10th and 15th, respectively. Junior Emily kujawski hung tight with madison, plac­ing sixth and 11th in the shot put and hammer throw, respectively. 
For the men, seniors ted glasnow and Anthony thomas also turned in mul­tiple top-15 finishes. For glasnow, an 11th-place fin­ish in the 110-meter hurdles and a 12th-place finish in the 100-meter sprint primed the decathlon for the confer­ence championship, while thomas’ second and third-place performances stood out in the hammer throw and the discus. 
this weekend, the irish will travel to piscataway, N.J., for the Big East cham­pionships. in the indoor season, the women’s team won the conference title, while the men came in sec­ond. championship action gets under way Friday in New Jersey and continues through sunday. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 

MEN’S GOLF | 288 (EVEN); First pLAcE 
good weather, good scores for ND in round one 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports Writer 
Although Notre Dame is the third seed at the Big East cham­pionships, it sits in first place af­ter one day of play at the reunion resort Watson course in orlando, Fla. the irish take a two-stroke lead over usF into the second round of the three-day tournament. 
Notre Dame shot a total team score of 288, even score on the par­72 course. Notre Dame coach Jim kubinski said each of his players had a steady performance. 
“We seemed to do everything pretty well,” kubinski said. “We had a couple guys come out with some extra adrenaline and maybe a few early nerves, but for the most part we played consistently well throughout the round.” 
senior paul mcNamara shot two-under-par for a score of 70 and is tied for second place. Junior Niall platt also had a great show­ing, shooting a one-under 71, good for a share of sixth place. 
Freshman cory sciupider also had a good day and is tied for 10th place after shooting an even-par 
72. Another irish freshman, Zach toste is tied for 27th after shooting a three-over-par score of 75. Junior Andrew Lane placed last on the team in the first round and stands in 59th place with an 11-over-par score of 83. 
kubinski said the weather has aided the team’s success in the tournament. 
“Weather has been great,” kubinski said. “it was windy near the end of the round, which makes it a bit trickier in terms of club se­lection but overall i think all the teams feel good about being in warm weather. We haven’t expe­rienced this at a tournament since september.” 
kubinski also said the team’s focus is one reason why they are currently in first place, saying the team attempts to focus only on its playing on the course, not on how other teams are playing. 
“you’re playing against the golf course, and what it presents on each shot, and sometimes trying to battle your mind a bit,” kubinski said. “you can’t worry about what you cannot control, namely what your opponents are doing. We’re going to play each shot to the best of our abilities and accept the results.” 
kubinski also said the team was well-prepared for the tournament and hopes its winning streak will continue today. 
“the guys understand what they need to do and did a nice job of do­ing so today. We’ll just show up to­morrow and play the golf course as best we can,” kubinski said. “We understand 54 holes is a long time, so we’ll just be patient with our ap­proach and trust our game plan.” 
Notre Dame will tee off again to­day at 8 a.m. and finish the tourna­ment tuesday. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 2, hAiti 1 
First-half goals power irish in final exhibition 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports Writer 
For the second time this spring season, Notre Dame earned a win against international competition, defeating the haiti national team 2-1 on Friday at Alumni stadium. 
But irish coach randy Waldrum said the victory revealed more flaws than positives for his team. 
“to be honest, i was really pretty disappointed in the overall perfor­mance,” he said. “i didn’t think we were nearly dangerous enough, even though we had the ball a lot, and it looked like we were in con­trol of things. i felt like we didn’t handle [opportunities] very well, and i didn’t think we were very good in midfield or up front today.” 
Notre Dame scored both of its goals in the first half. After junior forward Lauren Bohaboy’s shot hit the crossbar, sophomore forward crystal thomas gathered the re­bound and knocked it past haiti goalkeeper geralda saintilus in the 19th minute to put the irish on the board. 
sophomore midfielder cari roccaro added to Notre Dame’s lead in the 44th minute when she recovered a loose ball and drove it into the empty net from eight yards out. 
roccaro, who attended the united states under-20 women’s national team camp earlier this month, has continued to benefit from exposure to top competition, Waldrum said. 
“i just think every time she gets called into camp, it’s one more international week and one more experience playing with top-level players, so it only makes her better when she comes back,” Waldrum said. 
haiti scored the only goal of the second half in the 69th minute, as midfielder samantha Brand redi­rected a shot from midfielder Dina Jean-pierre past irish sophomore goalkeeper Naomi Willett. 
“[it was] disappointing to give up the late goal and make a game close when it shouldn’t have been close,” Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame dominated the of­fensive statistics, finishing with a 22-6 edge in shots and a 6-1 advantage in corner kicks. 

the irish, however, missed key opportunities in both halves. thomas had a point-blank shot in the 34th minute, but she directed it right to saintilus. similarly, Bohaboy had a one-on-one oppor­tunity in the 90th minute, but she couldn’t get it past saintilus and knocked the rebound wide of the net. 
saintilus finished with eight saves, while Willett did not record a save in 90 minutes of action. 
With the victory, the irish fin­ish the spring season with a 3-1-2 mark that included a 4-3 victory over the mexico under-20 national team. Notre Dame’s lone loss of the spring season came to the chicago red stars of the National Women’s soccer League on April 3. 
Looking forward, Waldrum said the irish need to find new ways to generate offense in their first sea­son of Acc competition. 
“We’ve got to get better offen­sively,” he said. “it was an area this year where we struggled to score goals regularly enough, and it’s the same thing in the spring. i’m 

anxious to see if we have some new  them up front.”  
kids that will add challenges to the  
returning players and if not, i’ve  Contact Brian Hartnett at  
got to do a better job of coaching  bhartnet@nd.edu  

MEN’S SOCCER | ND 3, mExico 2 
Forwards lead ND past Mexico in second half 
it was important because these over senior keeper patrick Wall. in the 60th minute, junior de-land, starting a footrace to the 
By ISAAC LORTON 

sports Writer games prepare you for any team Both sides had opportunities to fender max Lachowecki got a ball. cicciarelli beat out the third we will play this year. that’s the take the lead in the remainder of throw-in on the left side of the mexican defender, took the ball 
Alumni stadium was a sea of toughest opponent we will face.” the half, but none of the chances field, just inside the offensive half. across the box to avoid the second green, but not for the usual reasons the irish struck first in the 19th amounted to anything but loud Lachowecki launched the ball to a defender, and hit a low shot into the as the irish beat the u-20 mexican minute. A through ball was played groans or cheers from the crowd. streaking shipp; the ball bounced left side of the net for the 3-1 irish National team, 3-2, in front of a from the back to senior forward irish senior forward harrison twice and on the peak of the sec-lead. cicciarelli was out all of the sellout crowd. Alex priede, who ripped a shot on shipp carried the ball down the ond bounce shipp hit a laser volley fall season due to a torn AcL, but 
While most of the green-clad goal. goalkeeper richard sanchez pitch on a counter and passed off from 25 yards out and buried it in clark was pleased to see him mak­supporters were actually support-dove to his right and punched the to hodan, who slotted it low past the right side of the goal to put the ing a difference on the pitch. ing mexico, irish coach Bobby ball away, but sophomore mid-sanchez, but mexico defender irish up 2-1. “it was good to get him back and clark said the friendly match win fielder patrick hodan followed up hedgardo marin came from be-“We spent a fair bit of time with-get him playing,” clark said. “that over a team like mexico in a buzz-on the rebound and finished the hind to clear the would-be goal out the ball because [mexico] was special.” ing atmosphere will prepare the play for the 1-0 irish lead. away. mexico had a chance of its possess[es] the ball well, but our the insurance goal proved use­irish for any game and environ-mexico was quick to respond, own in extra time of the first half transition was superb,” clark said. ful later on, as mexico made a late ment next season. knotting the game at one-all in the when a cross was served into the “We defended well as a unit and surge in the three minutes of extra­
“i thought it was a really good 22nd minute. the ball was played box and Luna found himself wide transitioned superbly. harry shipp time and Bueno scored his second team performance against a very down the right side of the pitch to open on the right side of the six-was fantastic tonight.” goal of the night. shortly after, the good opponent,” clark said. “it’s a mexico midfielder uvaldo Luna, yard box. he headed the ball to the irish junior forward Vince referee blew his whistle, as the irish friendly game, but to go into a game who hit a low cross into the box. left side of the net, but Wall came cicciarelli added an insurance held off mexico for a 3-2 victory. in an environment like this, it was the ball pin-balled around in the across the box and made a sprawl-goal in the 73rd minute. the ball fantastic. And can the team handle box before mexico forward marco ing save to keep the game even go-was cleared from the back of Contact Isaac Lorton at themselves in this environment? Bueno finally knocked in a shot ing into half. the irish defense into no-mans ilorton@nd.edu 
ROWING | 118 poiNts; First pLAcE 
team glides to first-place showing in Bloomington 
By BRENDAN BELL 
sports Writer 
Notre Dame had a successful weekend in Bloomington, ind., earning 118 points and placing first in the Dale England cup. the irish finished ahead of iowa, indiana and Alabama for the title. 
on Lake mellon — where the race was held — Notre Dame dominated the racing circuit. the irish faced each of the other three competing schools in dual races. Notre Dame’s first varsity eight, second varsity eight, first varsity four and second varsity four boats all earned victories over the two-day event. senior kelsey murphy, a member of the first varsity four, said the Dale England invitational was a spe­cial event for the team. 
“the most exciting part was that we had the opportunity to bring the whole team and ev­eryone had a chance to race,” murphy said. “We had big vic­tories over Alabama, iowa and indiana who hosted the race.” 

iowa finished second in the event, while indiana and Alabama finished in third and fourth respectively. 
“We had some definitive victo­ries,” murphy said. “During some races there were terrible condi­tions and water was coming into the boat, which made it extreme­ly difficult to race, but we did a great job handling the situation.” 
murphy emphasized the spe­cial opportunity the irish had to bring most of the team at the race. 
“the most exciting part was just having everyone there,” murphy said. “We could not have done it without the entire team and all the girls.” 
Now the irish will shift their at­tention to one of the most impor­tant races of the year, the Big East championships. murphy said the irish will work hard to fine tune the boats and get ready.
 “We hope to improve our speed a little bit,” murphy said. “Also we just want to continue to work on technique, but at this point we have done most of the work.” 
Notre Dame will hope to use the momentum gained at the Dale England cup in the Big East championships, which begin may 19. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 

BASEBALL | ND 12, coNN 2; ND 4, coNN 3; ND 12, coNN 5 
Offense catches fire as squad sweeps UConn 

By MARY GREEN and VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports Writers 
the irish broke out the brooms and picked up a crucial three-game sweep of connecticut over the weekend at Frank Eck stadium. 
Notre Dame (26-16, 7-8 Big East) set the tone for the week­end by besting the huskies in a big 12-2 win Friday, came back from an early deficit to claim a 4-3 victory saturday and closed out the series with sunday’s 12-5 win. 
A current four-game win streak comes at the right mo­ment for Notre Dame, who en­tered the weekend with a 4-8 Big East record, but closes it with three more conference victories as the season approaches its fi­nal month. 
“What i talk to these guys go­ing down the stretch is that it is playoff baseball,” irish coach mik Aoki said. “it doesn’t mean that we have to be perfect, but any margin for error that we created with the start of the season that we had in those first 20 games, we kind of used up in our next 20 games. so really as it comes down the stretch, these last 16 games are going to be critically important for us.” 
With spots in both the Big East tournament and the NcAA tour­nament in their sights, the irish got off to a strong start in the se­ries’ first game. 
Not even a 25-minute official delay could slow down a Notre Dame lineup that knocked out a season-high 17 hits. Although sophomore right-hander pat connaughton struggled early on, giving up a run in each of the first two innings, his teammates put seven runs on the board before he came back for the top of the third. connaughton, who even­tually earned the win to bring his record to 2-2, allowed just three more base runners before handing the ball to freshman right-hander Nick mccarty in the sixth. 
the pitching change did not go smoothly, however. Although mccarty was listed on the 25­man roster, he was not on the lineup card, and the game was delayed while the umpires veri­fied that a player need only be listed on the 25-man roster to play. 
“our kids responded phenom­enally well to it — we tacked on another five runs and kept them right where they were,” Aoki said. “At some level or another every kid that has ever played baseball and gets to this level has some kind of a delay during the course of his game — a weather delay, a lightning delay, an injury delay, a something delay. so you just kind of get used to that part of it.” 

it was the two through five hit­ters who did most of the dam­age on Friday. sophomore left fielder mac hudgins, junior third baseman Eric Jagielo, junior first baseman trey mancini and sophomore right fielder ryan Bull had a combined 12 hits and eight rBis en route to a 12-2 win. 
Aoki said he hoped his players would step up at the plate for the last part of the season to make a push for the postseason, espe­cially after a rough stretch in the middle of the year in which the irish drop six straight games. 
“We just kind of got together and we get together with the team as a group and i basically lit them up like christmas trees, challenged them a little bit,” he said. “they responded great. And i think part of why they re­sponded great, to be honest with you, is that i think they agreed with me. We talked about hold­ing each other accountable and talked about being the one that throws the first punch and we talked about going out there and winning pitches rather than hoping that we were going to win pitches.” 
if dominant hitting won the game for Notre Dame on Friday, on saturday the irish got some help from connecticut’s miscues in the field. senior right-hander Adam Norton gave the huskies (25-19, 8-10 Big East) a two-run lead in the first, but the irish gained back a run in the bottom of the fourth when Jagielo, who had gotten on base after being hit by connecticut starter Anthony marzi, came home from third on a balk. 
the huskies scored one more run in the fifth when leadoff hitter tom Verdi hit a solo shot off Norton, but Jagielo, who had once again gotten on base after being hit by a pitch, scored again in the sixth when a sharply-hit ball from Bull skipped past the glove of senior second baseman 
L.J. mazzilli. the irish took the lead for good in the bottom of 
pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 
the eighth when Jagielo scored after sophomore pinch hit­ter conor Biggio hit a swinging bunt to connecticut first base­man Bobby melley, who dropped the ball, and the irish closed the middle game with a 4-3 come­back victory. 
the weekend’s final matchup saw the two squads use a com­bined 11 pitchers throughout the afternoon. connecticut jumped out to a quick lead, grab­bing three runs in the first two innings off junior starter sean Fitzgerald, who was relieved by freshman right-hander David hearne after 1.2 innings. 
A leadoff home run off the bat of senior second baseman Frank Desico put the irish on the board in the first, and the team made up the early deficit by scoring three more runs in the second inning to take a 4-3 lead. 
in the third inning, the huskies tied it up at four, a score that held until they crossed the plate again in the top of the fifth to reclaim the lead over the irish and junior right-hander Donnie hissa. 
Notre Dame finally opened the floodgates in the bottom of the fifth inning, when eight irish batters tagged connecticut for four runs, starting with junior first baseman trey mancini’s single to right field. the All-American candidate picked up nine hits in 12 at-bats over the weekend and has racked up 15 hits in his last 18 at-bats in a weeklong span, boosting his av­erage to .374. 
Notre Dame picked up four more runs to take the finale by a score of 12-5. 
mancini’s efforts reflected the overall offense of Notre Dame in the series, leaving Aoki im­pressed with his team. 
“our hitters, i think they’ve been really good,” he said. “i just felt like we were attack­ing. [Against] michigan state [on April 24], we attacked. this weekend, we’ve attacked. We’ve been the aggressor, we’ve been the one to throw the first punch.” 
With their bats finally clicking, the irish return to the diamond tuesday to face central michigan at theunissen stadium in mount pleasant, mich., at 4:05 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu and Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 




ND SOFTBALL | ND 6, Du 3; ND 5, Du 2; Du 5, ND 2 
‘Peaking’ Irish win another league series 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports Writer 
Despite a 5-2 loss sunday, the irish claimed their seventh Big East series win of the season with two wins saturday against Depaul and remained in a tie for first place in the conference. 
senior pitcher Brittany o’Donnell said despite the final loss, the caliber of play over the weekend proved how good of a team the irish (37-11, 17-2 Big East) have this year. 
“We all had our moments of bril­liance,” o’Donnell said. “that’s the sign of a really good team. i feel confident we are peaking at the right time.” 
in game one, after falling behind 1-0, a solo home run by irish junior pitcher Laura Winter tied the score in the top of the second. sophomore outfielder Emilee koerner then blasted a two-run shot in the third inning to give the irish a 3-1 lead. 
the Blue Demons (28-18, 14-5) scored once more in the bottom of the third, but with the score at 3-2, irish senior catcher Amy Buntin hit a sacrifice fly in the top of the seventh to score senior outfielder kelsey thornton and Winter hit a two-run single to give the irish a 6-2 advantage en route to the series-opening victory. 
in game two, o’Donnell man­aged to keep the Blue Demon at bay, as the senior spun seven in­nings of two-run ball. Winter hit a home run in the top of the first, scoring Buntin and giving the irish an immediate 2-0 lead. 
sophomore third baseman katey haus roped a two-run triple in the fifth inning to give the irish a 4-1 advantage. sophomore catcher cassidy Whidden followed im­mediately with another rBi triple and the irish finished the inning leading 5-1. Depaul managed a run in the bottom of the fifth off o’Donnell, but the irish held on to secure the 5-2 victory. 
in their final game of the series, o’Donnell acknowledged the irish were unable to get their offense moving. 
“the last game was most difficult this weekend,” o’Donnell said. “We had the lead and didn’t get it done. We were not successful in execut­ing when we had runners in scor­ing position.” 
Notre Dame pulled ahead 2-0 through the first four innings, but five runs by Depaul in the fifth and sixth innings proved to be too much. Depaul junior pitcher hannah penna blasted a three-run home run over the left-field fence to put the Blue Demons in control in the bottom of the sixth. 


the irish are back in action 

pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 

tuesday with a 5 p.m. matchup against Eastern michigan at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
Men’s Lax 
coNtiNuED From pAgE 20 
opportunities on offense and you don’t take advantage of them,” corrigan said. “We didn’t handle the ball well at all and we turned it over too much.” 
the irish offense failed to score on any of its five man-up oppor­tunities and turned the ball over 17 times. kavanagh led the irish with two goals, but for the most part, the orange defense throt­tled the irish. 
As the postseason begins, the irish get the chance to im­mediately redeem themselves thursday in the first round of the Big East championship when they take on syracuse again. corrigan feels positive about his team’s ability to rebound. 
“[syracuse] is going to be feeling good about themselves, putting six on us in the fourth quarter, but i’m not worried about any hangover on our part,” he said. “We’ve shown that we’re a team that isn’t too affected by either wins or losses. We’ll just go out there and play.” 
As to what must change be­tween saturday’s performance and thursday, corrigan said there are no weaknesses that stand out from the rest and the team simply has to play better. 
“there’s no magic pill,” corrigan said. “We just need to play the good, consistent lacrosse we’ve been playing all year. When we play again thursday, the score is going to be 0-0 and that’s all that matters.” 
the irish begin postseason play thursday against syracuse at the Big East championship at Villanova. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 


Bookstore 
coNtiNuED From pAgE 20 
more physical medical clinic. 
“they were a lot bigger than us,” mcintyre said. “they were very physical down low. We had to use our speed and get out in transition.” 
Neither team gamed separa­tion during the course of the game. holy cross’s largest lead of the night came after romeo medical clinic junior tim Fulnecky came down awkward­ly on his right ankle while re­bounding and had to be treated on the court for several minutes. With Fulnecky slowed down sig­nificantly, holy cross took a 7-4 lead and looked primed to break open the game. however, romeo medical, composed of juniors Dominic romeo, tyler sonsalla, Jack gardner and tom hickey in addition to Fulnecky, rallied on the strong shooting of romeo and sonsalla to take a 11-9 lead at halftime. 
“tim showed a big heart to­night,” romeo said. “he came 
Holy Cross 
coNtiNuED From pAgE 20 
very humorous, shooting per­formance on at halftime. After the sophomores’ first basket, the smaller group drowned out the rest of the crowd with a tri­umphant roar. 
With the victory, sophomores at holy cross became the first team to win back-to-back Bookstore titles since Dos geses accomplished that feat in 1997. But sophomore Darrell mcintyre still took more pride in another accomplishment. 
“it feels really good to bring [the championship] back to holy cross,” mcintyre said. “it means a lot, because i love my school. they were very sup­portive, and we just came out here to get the win, make them proud.” 
mcintyre and three of his teammates play for the saints back and played really well. overall, the injury didn’t affect us and it wasn’t the reason we lost.” 
instead, romeo said the team was doomed by poor shooting inside and at the free throw line. holy cross encountered foul trouble early, but medical failed to take advantage, missing all of their free throws. this allowed the sophomores to rally back and take a narrow 19-17 lead. 
“We laid an egg,” romeo said. “tom hickey and i had to win the game down low, but we missed too many layups. it was a tough loss.” 
the game remained tight until the end, but mcintyre ultimately lifted his team to the title, lead­ing all scorers with 10 points in­cluding several key baskets in the final possessions. 
“it feels really good to bring [the championship] back to holy cross,” mcintyre said. “We had a lot of fun this year.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
basketball team, and their solidarity shined through. on both offense and defense they seemed to communicate seam­lessly, anticipating exactly where and when their team­mate would cut. mcintyre said it was a comfort level developed in the holy cross gyms. 
“We’re always around each other, so we always play basket­ball together,” mcintyre said. “it’s the same as the practice court, so we just carried it over and had fun.” 
the sophomores’ play lived up to logo on their white jer­seys that read, “holy cross Basketball: We play hard.” they played hard for the cham­pionship, they played hard for each other, and most impor­tantly, they played hard for their school. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 

pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 
drafted just due to my injury and getting hurt the third game of the season,” slaughter said saturday in a conference call with reporters. “i know i did well in my senior year, but my fifth year, sitting out the entire time, i knew that it would affect me. it was a surprise to me that i did get drafted.  i’m excited to be a cleveland Brown and i’m just ready to get back out there and get to work.” 
running back/receiver theo riddick was drafted by the Detroit Lions with the 31st pick of the sixth round (199th over­all). With the very next pick, the Baltimore ravens selected defensive end kapron Lewis­moore, who, like slaughter, is recovering from injury after tear­ing his AcL in the Bcs National championship game. 
“i know the knee kind of set me back a little bit, but hey, you can control only what you can control,” Lewis-moore said in a conference call saturday. “i’m rehabbing, working my butt off 


pAiD ADVErtisEmENt 
Draft 
coNtiNuED From pAgE 20 

round, which then set off a string of irish players whose names were called. Former safety Jamoris slaughter was selected by the cleveland Browns with the seventh pick of the sixth round (175th overall). slaughter, who missed much of the 2012 season after tearing his Achilles against michigan sate, was de­nied a sixth year of eligibility by the NcAA and then elected to enter the NFL Draft. 
“i was expecting to go un­to get right again. i’m just really happy for the opportunity.” 
Another irish safety came off the board when the Atlanta Falcons selected Zeke motta with the 38th pick of the seventh round (244th overall). motta told AtlantaFalcons.com the week­end was “nerve-wracking.” 
“i sat down and watched pret­ty much the whole draft from start to finish,” motta said. “i was keeping it quiet, staying with the [family]. certainly as the day wore on it was frustrating but at the same time what a relief it was to get that call and to be asked to be an Atlanta Falcon, it was just a huge relief and this is the dream come true.” 
Later on saturday, running back cierre Wood signed an un­drafted free-agent deal with the texans, and offensive linemen Braxston cave and mike golic Jr. signed with the Browns and steelers, respectively. on sunday, receiver John goodman signed with the cincinnati Bengals. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | WiLL shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | christophEr BruckEr 
SUDOKU | thE mEphAm group 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS | LENNYrAgo & pAtrick cross 


HOROSCOPE | EugENiA LAst 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jessica Alba, 32; penelope cruz, 39; Jay Leno, 63; Ann-margret, 72 
Happy Birthday: originality will help you turn a skill, talent or service into a profit­able endeavor. Don’t limit the possibilities, but accept that hard work, dedication and preparation will be required. taking charge of your life emotionally, physically and financially should be at the top of your list. personal and professional partner­ships must not be neglected. your numbers are 8, 14, 17, 23, 31, 34, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): share your thoughts. travel and communication should be high on your list. A day trip with someone you share interests with will bring you closer together. Don’t let professional pressures stand in your way. have some fun and ease your stress. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): scout for new ventures to increase your assets. A med­dler will not approve of an unusual change you want to make. Be secretive until you have thought your plan through and have all the components in place. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Network functions will open up new possibilities. your lifestyle will improve through the people you meet and the partnerships you form. get the details and check out the possibilities firsthand before you make a decision. Look over your personal papers. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something out of the ordinary. A creative boost will help you enhance your life and your relationships. participating in a good cause or lending a helping hand will lead to good fortune. Love and romance are on the rise 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): ups and downs can be expected. refuse to let someone’s bad mood or stubbornness ruin your plans. A change of pace or location will do wonders for you mentally, physically and emotionally. An adventure will lead you in a new direction. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): pursue your dreams. the thrill of letting go and having some fun will lead to interesting people and new possibilities. Love and romance are in the stars, but the realization of the lifestyle you want may not suit your current situation. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put your money in a safe place. Don’t lend, borrow or fall victim to a sob story. charity begins at home, and investing in your future or environment is your best bet. self-improvement projects will lead to a better you. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): partnerships will be the focus, especially if you want to follow a creative path. it’s important that you have the support of the people you care about most in order to move forward successfully. share your ideas and plans and proceed. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): think and take action. Don’t let an emotional situ­ation cloud your vision or cause you to miss out on something you want to pursue. relocation or fixing up a space to accommodate your goals will set the stage for what’s to come. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Alter your domestic situation to suit your needs. ro­mance and entertaining will enable you to touch base with people you want to share your future with and allow you to find out who is supportive and who is not. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect to face opposition. Don’t let what others think discourage you. Do what’s best for you and you’ll find your niche. An unusual idea will lead to a service, product or change that helps you out emotionally, financially or physically. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Don’t let emotions stifle your plans or keep you from making the changes. Approaching a contract, legal settlement or medical issue in a unique way will give you a better chance to reach your set goal. Love is highlighted. 


Birthday Baby: you are steadfast, inventive and open-minded. you are dedicated and aggressive. 
JUMBLE | DAViD hoyt AND JEFF kNurEk 

Work ArEA 


make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. Box 779 
Notre Dame, iN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

thE oBsErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2013 | NDsmcoBsErVEr.com 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Sophomores at Holy Cross wins back-to-back titles 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports Writer 
in a back-and-forth battle that went all the way to the wire, No. 1 sophomores at holy cross rode the hot shooting hand of sopho­more Darrell mcintyre to best No. 2 romeo medical clinic, 24-22, and claim their second Bookstore Basketball champion­ship in a row saturday evening. 
With the win, sophomores, composed of junior Dane okuda and sophomores mcintyre, george stainko, Alajowon Edwards and shawn Brown, becomes the first back-to-back champions since 1996-1997. okuda and Brown were substi­tutes filling in for brothers Zoe and Beau Bauer. 
But the victory wasn’t easy. romeo medical pushed the sophomores to the limit and even led 21-20 at one point. But the sophomores were bolstered by mcintyre’s dominating effort and offensive rebounding, pull­ing off the win against the bigger, 
see BookstorE PAGE 18 

Hoops, they did it again 

Squad wins in front of large contingent of Holy Cross fans 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports Writer 
As soon as the winning shot rattled home, the sophomores at holy cross rushed toward midcourt to celebrate, and they didn’t do it alone. 
they were met there by a throng of screaming fans, who circled the victorious players and began chanting. it wasn’t the players’ names they were yelling, however, but rather a jubilant chorus of “hoLy cross! hoLy cross!” 
the sophomores’ win was not just a repeat victory for more the team that won last year’s tournament under the moniker “hoops We Did it Again,” but a point of pride for their college. 
While a large segment of the crowd seemed to be rooting for romeo medical clinic, a siz­able group of saints students and fans gathered around one of the baskets. they were joined by the school’s mascot, who even put on a pathetic, yet 
see hoLy cross PAGE 18 

MEN’S LACROSSE | su 10, ND 4 
top-ranked irish fall to ‘cuse 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports Writer 
With the Big East regular season title on the line in the season’s final game, the No. 1 irish faltered in the fourth quarter against No. 7 syracuse on saturday. the irish defense gave up six unanswered goals as Notre Dame lost 10-4 to the orange at the konica minolta Big city classic at metLife stadium in East rutherford, N.J. 
With the loss, the irish (10-3, 4-2 Big East) finish the season third in the Big East and will play syracuse (11-3, 5-1) again in the Big East tournament at Villanova on thursday. 
up 3-1 at halftime, the irish had no answer for the orange in the second half, surrender­ing three goals early in the third quarter before freshman attack matt kavanagh tied the game with his second goal. in the fourth quarter, the orange broke the tie within the first minute and did not let up, ending with their 10th goal of the night with 
1:24 left to go. 
“Defensively, we had a stretch of good play in the first half, but we just fell apart in the fourth quarter,” irish coach kevin corrigan said. “i wish i could tell you what happened. We just broke down completely.” 
the game started off promis­ingly for Notre Dame as the first quarter ended with no score. the irish struck first on a goal by se­nior midfielder ryan Foley with 
11:04 to go in the second quar­ter, and after the orange scored an equalizer, junior attack Westy hopkins scored to regain the lead. Notre Dame was unable to generate any offense in the sec­ond half, however, adding just one goal over the third and forth quarters. 
corrigan was displeased with his offense’s effort. syracuse out-shot the squad 32-24 and led 29­19 in ground balls. 
“it’s a problem when you have 
see mEN’s LAx PAGE 17 
NFL DRAFT 

Five more ND players chosen 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports Editor 

After the Bengals selected tyler Eifert in the first round of the NFL Draft, five more Notre Dame players, including line­backer manti te’o, were drafted over the weekend. 
te’o, the heisman runner-up and a projected first-round pick by many draft experts, fell to the sixth pick of the second round (38th overall), when the san Diego chargers traded up to se­lect the hawaii native. 
“manti te’o is a once-in-a­generation type kid,” irish coach Brian kelly said in a press release. “i’ve not been associated with a better player, leader and man in my tenure as a college football coach. “ 
te’o, who said his fall out of the first round will motivate him in san Diego, expressed excitement about the chance to replace the late Junior seau, a 12-time pro Bowler who spent 13 illustrious seasons with the chargers. 
“it means i’m going to do whatever it takes to carry on that tradition that guys like him started,” te’o told chargers. com after being selected Friday. “i want to make [seau] proud. he was a dominant linebacker, and that’s what i want to be. this team has a history of great linebackers and i want to be a part of that tradition.” 

the next Notre Dame selec­tion didn’t come until the sixth 
see DrAFt PAGE 18 




