The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 92 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Bringing parents home 
Junior Parents Weekend offers families a look into everyday life at Notre Dame 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
more than 1,300 juniors and seniors spent this past week­end providing their parents with an intimate look into their lives and experiences at notre dame at Junior parents weekend (Jpw). 
Junior parents weekend allows students to both cel­ebrate with their friends and give their parents inside ac­cess to their academic, social and professional activities. 
“[my parents] live down the road from notre dame, so i see them enough and they know campus very well,” ju­nior grace hatfield said. “but showing them the lab i am a research assistant at, intro­ducing them to my favorite professors and just hanging out where i love and study were things i’ve never been able to do before.” 
hatfield and the other Jpw participants began the weekend’s events with an opening gala held Friday night in the purcell pavilion at the Joyce athletic and convocation center and Joyce center Fieldhouse. 

saturday’s events includ­ed collegiate workshops for the individual colleges and luncheons in each residence hall. university president Fr. John Jenkins celebrated Jpw mass on saturday night and 

see Junior PAGE 4 



council reviews discipline 
Observer Staff Report 
The campus life council convened Friday afternoon to conduct a process review of resi­dential life and rector-student relationships, incorporating student feedback with input from university officials, ac­cording to the minutes from the meeting. 
The council discussed the possibility of different settings for disciplinary meetings, the need for communication with students and the role of hall staff, the minutes stated. The guiding themes for the revised office of community standards will be transparency, educa­tion and a foundation in the congregation of holy cross. 
The group planned a 
see council PAGE 3 




graduate students celebrate inaugural  appreciation week 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
This week’s first an­nual graduate student appreciation week offers grad­uate students the opportunity to develop their professional, academic and social lives in an effort to help them feel more included in the notre dame community. 
mimi beck, program direc­tor of graduate student life, said the graduate population often feels invisible at notre dame, a place whose identity is defined by the undergradu­ate experience. 

“The hope is that our post-baccalaureates — who com­prise nearly a third of the notre dame student body — will come to feel as welcome, beck said. as valued and as much a part The week opens today with of the university community as free coffee and donuts in the any other student on campus,” c1 and d2 parking lots and 

ends sunday with an oscar night party at the Fischer 
see graduaTe PAGE 4 



‘MMMBop’ fundraiser returns 
By JILL BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
diners at the noble Family dining hall were treated to the song “mmmbop” by popular 1990s boy band hanson during lunch hours Feb. 11 — all of the lunch hours. 
Junior annie kennedy, morale committee chair for dance marathon, was the driving force behind the marathon’s new fundrais­ing event, “stop the bop.” 
“we’re playing hanson’s song ‘mmmbop’ on repeat until we meet our fundrais­ing goal,” kennedy said. “The premise of the fund­raiser is that people will get so annoyed with the song that they will be willing to donate in order to turn off the song.” 
senior bridgid hurley, morale committee mem­ber for the marathon, also worked toward the imple­mentation of “stop the bop.” 
“between this past ‘stop the bop’ and the next one, which is scheduled for the monday before the mara­thon [which is schedule for march 23], we hope to col­lectively raise $500,” hurley said. “once we reach $500, the song will stop playing on repeat.” 
kennedy said the dance marathon organizers wanted to try something new to garner the atten­tion of the saint mary’s community members who had yet to donate to dance marathon. The first “stop the bop” kicked off dance marathon’s riley week, and 
see bop PAGE 5 


Fundraising PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 11 men’s hockey PAGE 20 men’s baskeTball PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Girl Scout cookie? 

Amanda Kotey 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“samoas.” 

Devlin Anes 
sophomore 
keenan hall 
“shortbread.” 

Shanice Cox 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“peppermint patties.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Dre Smith 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“all-about-me’s.” 

Naomi Igboanugo 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“i have never had one.” 

Tim Pusateri 
freshman 
sorin college 
“Tag-a-longs.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel Flanagan Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: carolyn hutyra brian hartnett nicole mcalee alex wilcox 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive Engineering Seminar Laughter Yoga Sewing Circle “Train Your Inner 
suzanna pratt dan brombach 
Rolfs Sports Geddes Hall St. Liam Hall Snite Museum of Art Jedi!” Recreation Center 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 1 p.m.-2 p.m. 10 a.m.-7:30 p.m. St. Liam Hall 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Presentation by Part of the Wellness Artist Marie Watt 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Give blood and receive Professor Xueying Wednesdays series. hosts a day-long Use biofeedback tools 
The observer regards itself as a free t-shirt. Deng. All are welcome. sewing circle. to manage stress. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Keeping Calm and Four:7 Catholic Bengal Bouts “Band of Sisters” “Shadows of the 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Carrying On” Fellowship Quarterfinals DeBartolo Performing Reef” 
however, recognize that we will make 
St. Liam Hall Cavanaugh Hall Joyce Center Arts Center DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5:30p.m.-6:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Workshop for grad Student-led Catholic The men’s boxing Documentary by Mary 7:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

students. fellowship. tournament continues. Fishman (ND ‘82). Play by Anton Juan. 


medical club plans film screening 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
on Feb. 21, the social Justice in american medicine club (sJam) will screen a film out­lining the various workings of the american health care sys­tem, one of the key aspects of the club’s focus. 
The Frontline documen­tary, “sick around america,” explores the intricacies of the health care system prior to the affordable care act, which was passed in march 2010. 
“The documentary presents the viewer with several differ­ent cases in which our health care system has succeeded or failed,” sophomore sJam member kathleen anthony said. 
The club aims to approach the new health care system with a nonpartisan view, and anthony said she hopes the movie watch will present stu­dents with a chance to exam­ine the impending changes to health care in the next few years. 
at its biweekly meetings, the members of sJam focus on analyzing social and po­litical rights issues of patients in today’s health care system, anthony said.
 “we promote growth in our members through education, discussion and advice from our senior members and doc­tors,” she said. 
anthony said the club at­tracts not just members who are interested in a career in health care, but also those in­terested in public policy, social justice, service and morality. 
“The club is interdisciplin­ary in nature, and we hope to continue to broaden our appeal by working with dif­ferent majors to gain different perspective on pertinent is­sues,” she said. 

although many members of the club are pursuing careers in medical and political fields, sJam also boasts economics and philosophy majors who are avid members. 
“i joined the club because my knowledge of the american health care system was lim­ited, and i didn’t understand the great need that exists in our country for health care,” anthony said. 
The club’s mission has fos­tered growth in all of its mem­bers, anthony said, specifically in their striving to greater serv­ing the community. 
“our club helps us to un­derstand what it is we can do to serve the sick, needy and vulnerable in our society,” she said. “it produces informed, driven and compassionate individuals who can make a difference in the health care system.” 
anthony said she hopes the club’s members will effect change in their various fields through their knowledge of the inner workings of the health care system. 
“we promote growth in our members through education and discussions,” anthony said. “Through service in the south bend community, we act upon our beliefs and serve.” 
sJam meets every other Thursday at 8 p.m. in the laFortune student center. “sick around america” will be screened this Thursday at 8 
p.m. in 136 debartolo hall. 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
Students ready for Mad event 

By JILL BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
Though the weather re­mains cold, saint mary’s students can look forward to heating up the competi­tion between classes as the annual midnight madness approaches. 
midnight madness, to be held Feb. 28, pits each class against each other in a night of minute-to-win-it games and a student and faculty dodgeball game that earn points for each class. at the end of the night, the class with the most points wins a pizza party and bragging rights. 
The student activities board (sab) Traditional events committee is coordi­nating this year’s midnight madness. 
“we really hope that stu­dents will gain a sense of bonding with their class­mates and engage in some friendly competition,” senior committee member megan kloc said. “most of all, we hope they continue to show pride in our school.” 
kloc is the only member of the Traditional events committee that has previ­ous experience planning midnight madness. in the 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ ndsmcobserv­er 

past, the athletics depart­ment sponsored midnight madness, but student activities took over in 2011 in an attempt to revive the an­nual event. 
“i have been lending my expertise on how to run the 
“Midnight Madness is an event that was popular many years ago and was revived so that a new generation of students could enjoy it as much as alumnae have in the past.” 
Megan Kloc 
senior 
event and how to improve it from previous years,” kloc said. “midnight madness is an event that was popular many years ago and was re­vived so that a new genera­tion of students could enjoy it as much as alumnae have in the past.” 
liz robbins, co-chair of the sab Traditional events committee, said the night will feature a dJ, guest student emcee and a performance by saint mary’s cheerleaders. representatives from each class will be picked to com­pete in the different games throughout the night to win points and prizes for their class. 
“at the end of the night, stu­dents will learn who the top-secret artist is for this year’s Tostal,” robbins said. 
robbins hopes students will find themselves united amongst classes as well as one student body, she said. students should each wear their class colors to the event 
— purple for freshman, pink for sophomores, green for ju­niors and blue for seniors. 
“There will also be face paint provided for girls to enhance their class spirit during the event,” kloc said. “come decked out in your class colors and show support for your year.” 
during the week of midnight madness, robbins said students should look out for pre-event games in the dining halls, which will pro­vide an opportunity to earn points in advance. 
midnight madness will be held Feb. 28 at 9:30 p.m. in the angela athletic Facility. 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@nd.edu 


Council 
conTinued From page 1 
comprehensive approach to these relationships between hall staff members and students, emphasizing an approach based on individual conversations with students. 
members of the group also discussed the procedural changes that apply to rectors dealing with first-time policy violations, additional meeting settings and more educational processes, the minutes stated. another major topic discussed at the meeting was technology and the possible methods of re­laying information to students in a timelier manner. 
Towards the meeting’s end, the council discussed the role of other students in the disci­plinary process, both as peer advocates and members of an advisory board comprised of students, faculty and staff. 
The minutes stated the group talked about education and transparency in medical amnesty, as well as the commu­nication gap between students and rectors and the appropriate­ness of service as a punishment. 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Junior 
conTinued From page 1 
the evening was capped off by the president’s dinner. 
The mass and dinner rep­resented the highlight of the weekend for junior pat laskowski. 
“it made my parents and i feel … important,” he said. “we got all dressed up, expe­rienced a grand celebration of the mass, enjoyed delicious food and heard Fr. Jenkins speak about the significance of the weekend.” 
The weekend concluded sunday morning with the closing brunch in the Joyce center Fieldhouse. 
Jpw junior co-chair elizabeth owers said the weekend’s events went smoothly. 
“There were no major mis­haps, everything went off without a hitch and, most im­portantly, the students and their parents all seemed to have a great time,” she said. “given that so many stu­dents are abroad, we are very pleased with the turnout.” 
The weekend was challeng­ing to plan, owers said, but well worth the time and effort to provide parents with an idea of what their sons’ and daughters’ everyday lives are like. 
“it is structured so that our parents can see our dorms and classrooms, meet our professors and most impor­tantly meet the people we’re sharing our experience with,” 
Graduate 
conTinued From page 1 
o’hara-grace graduate residences. 
social events include the rock-n-reckers dinner and concert monday night, when rock band The standard deviants will perform while students enjoy free pizza. The standard deviants is com­posed of brian baker, associate professor in the department of chemistry and biochemistry, and ben ridenhour and shaun lee, both assistant profes­sors in the department of biological sciences. 
on the professional side, beck said associate dean of students John lubker will host grad school game plan on Thursday, during which he will teach skills for time management, overcoming distractions and maximizing productivity. 
Tamara shaya, a graduate student working toward her master’s in international peace studies, said the graduate student appreciation week demonstrates notre dame’s commitment to its post-bac­calaureate students and their contributions.
 “i’m hoping the week will be a great opportunity for my friends and i to experience fun events, enjoy free giveaways, she said. “at this point in our college careers, we’ve estab­lished ourselves pretty well academically and socially, so we can give our parents a good idea of what we love about notre dame and why we call this place home.” 
Junior co-chair melissa hallihan said the Jpw executive committee and ad­visors were instrumental in the planning process. 
“it’s been such an amazing opportunity as i got to meet many of my fellow juniors, communicated with parents and university staff and got an inside look into all the work that goes into planning events here at notre dame,” she said. 
For some students, Jpw was not an opportunity to meet their fellow juniors, but a chance to take advantage of an opportunity they previ­ously had missed out on. The university invites seniors who missed Jpw while they were abroad to participate in the events during the follow­ing year. 
senior colleen heberlein was abroad in london last spring, but said her parents still wanted to visit her on a weekend that was not occu­pied entirely by football. 
“it seemed like the perfect opportunity for my parents to visit before the craziness of graduation,” she said. “also, my parents heard great things about Jpw from par­ents of my older friends and did not want to miss out on 


learn new skills and get to know other members of the graduate student communi­ty,” shaya said. 
The graduate school and the division of student affairs partnered to create graduate student life in the summer of 2012, beck said. The division aims to enhance the educa­tional experience and quality of life for notre dame’s post-baccalaureate population. 
“hosting an appreciation week was seen as a great way to celebrate the accomplish­ments of our graduate and professional students while providing greater campus-wide awareness at the same time,” beck said. 
graduate student life has been laying foundations for future growth during its first year of existence, beck said. This includes the administra­tion of a comprehensive sur­vey of graduate student life, the first of its kind since 2006, to help guide decisions for programs and services in the future. 
additional projects in­clude the creation of a grad ambassadors program to bring greater awareness to the needs, challenges and contri­butions of graduate and pro­fessional students. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
fewer students are studying abroad. 
“i wish my friends and i had been able to experience it to­gether last year, but my par­ents were still able to meet a few of my friends and we had a great time,” she said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
the experience.” 
heberlein signed up for Jpw with one other senior and met up with others at the events. despite being in the minority, she said she felt very included at the three major events. 
“i did feel a little out of place and old at first, but i sat with senior friends at the events which helped,” she said. “it was obviously geared toward the class of 2014, as it should be, but we never felt left out.” 


although she enjoyed her experience at Jpw, heberlein said she and fellow seniors wondered why the university doesn’t hold a parent’s week­end sophomore year when far 
paid adverTisemenT 




Bop 
conTinued From page 1 
hurley said its proceeds will go toward riley hospital for children. 
The event also contributes to the dance marathon’s Zero Zeroes effort, she said.
 “Zero Zeroes is a cam­paign to encourage all danc­ers to donate money so that no person at the marathon will have zero donations next to their name,” hurley said. “‘stop the bop’ accepts any and all donations, so it really helps Zero Zeroes since people can donate loose change.” 
kennedy hopes “stop the bop” brought more atten­tion to dance marathon for students who were unsure of what the event is all about. 
“it is something different from what we’ve done in the past, so hopefully it will not only help dance marathon as an organization, but will prompt girls at [saint mary’s] to get more involved in [the marathon],” kennedy said. 
kennedy said the community definitely heard the message the dance marathon organizers were trying to convey by playing “mmmbop” on repeat. 
“people were tweeting and putting up Facebook posts 
“Ultimately we hope to raise awareness and get people excited about the marathon. ‘Stop the Bop’ is a fun and creative way to raise awareness and raise money.” 
Bridgid Hurley 
senior 
about ‘stop the bop’ dur­ing the event, and even now some people still talk about it,” kennedy said. “students were commenting that it was annoying, and that was the point.” 
hurley said diners were confused when they first en­tered the hall for lunch, but the confusion resulted in many questions regarding the marathon. she and other dance marathon members approached tables of girls to spread awareness, but hurley said students sought out the organizers as well. 
“There were girls who were coming up to our table to learn about dance marathon and riley hospital, to ask what ‘stop the bop’ was and to help us with our goal,” she said. “The fact that it got so much attention was a great thing for dance marathon because we were able to spread awareness.” 
as dance marathon’s main event draws nearer, kennedy, hurley and the other committee members are looking forward to more people wanting to get in­volved in any way they can. 
“ultimately we hope to raise awareness and get peo­ple excited about the mara­thon,” hurley said. “‘stop the bop’ is a fun and creative way to raise awareness and raise money.” 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Family receives Army medals 
Associated Press 
los angeles — hyla merin grew up without a father and for a long time never knew why. 
her mother never spoke about the army officer who died be­fore hyla was born. The scraps of information she gathered from other relatives were hazy: 2nd lt. hyman markel was a rabbi's son, brilliant at math­ematics, the brave winner of a purple heart who died some­time in 1945. 
aside from wedding photos of markel in uniform, merin never glimpsed him. 
but on sunday, decades af­ter he won it, merin received her father's purple heart, along with a silver star she never knew he'd won and a half-dozen other medals. 
merin wiped away tears as the silver star was pinned to her la­pel during a short ceremony at­tended by friends and family at her home in westlake village, a community straddling the ventura and los angeles county lines. The other medals were presented on a plaque. 
"it just confirms what a great man he was," merin said tear­fully. "he gave up his life for our country and our freedom. i'll put it up in my house as a me­morial to him and to those who served." 
merin's mother, celia, mar­ried markel in 1941 when he already was in the military. They met at a Jewish temple in buffalo, n.y. 
about four months ago, the manager of a west hollywood apartment building where merin's mother lived in the 1960s found a box containing papers and the purple heart while cleaning out some lockers in the laundry room, merin said. 
The manager contacted purple hearts reunited, a non­profit organization that returns 
“The accounts suggest that he was out on patrol and he got ambushed and he charged ahead and basically took out a machine gun position to save the rest of his guys.” 
Zachariah Fike 
captain 
Army National Guard 
lost or stolen medals to vets or 
their families. 
a search led to merin. 
she became "kind of emo­tional, because i don't have a lot of pictures, i don't have a lot of stories, and i've always been a crier," she said. "my mother was always the stoic one, very strong." 
markel was killed in the last days of world war ii on may 3, 1945, in italy's po valley while fighting german troops as an officer with the 88th division of the 351st infantry regiment, said Zachariah Fike, the vermont army national guard captain who founded purple hearts reunited. 
"The accounts suggest that he was out on patrol and he got am­bushed and he charged ahead and basically took out a machine gun position to save the rest of his guys," said Fike, whose orga­nization has returned some two dozen medals. "For that, he paid the ultimate sacrifice." 
he was awarded the purple heart and silver star posthu­mously, but for some reason the family never was told about the silver star and it was never sent to them, Fike said. 
merin's mother never talked in detail to her daughter about markel. 
"it was a very difficult topic for her. when my father died, she was seven months pregnant with me," merin said. 
her mother briefly remar­ried when merin was 10 but her stepfather died three years later, merin said. 
her mother moved into the apartment in 1960 and may have placed the purple heart in the locker then, merin said. her mother lived there until 1975 before moving away, and merin's aunt lived there until 2005. another aunt lived there until 2009. 
They never spoke about what was in the locker, and the fam­ily must have missed the box when they took away the aunts' possessions in 2005 and 2009, merin said. 
merin said that in addition to the purple heart, which pike kept for framing, the box con­tained letters and other papers, and her father's Jewish prayer book. 
"i found it very hard to look at. a lot of them were condo­lence letters," she said. 
merin's mother was told about the discovery of the purple heart but didn't live to see it — she died Feb. 1 at age 94. 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Gun raffles cause controversy 

concord, n.h. — police chiefs in new hampshire wanted more money for their youth training program. a youth hockey team in north dakota needed more ice time. 
both saw giving away guns as the answer. 
From car dealerships to po­litical parties to hockey teams to yes, even police chiefs, gun giveaways are an attractive way to make money or draw in customers. but in the wake of the deadly shooting rampage in a connecticut elementary school, such raffles are draw­ing criticism as the ease of obtaining firearms fuels gun-control debates nationwide. 
The new hampshire association of chiefs of police is raffling off a gun every day in may, including a ruger ar­15-style rifle with 30-round magazine similar to the one used in the sandy hook elementary school shooting that killed 20 children and six educators in december. The players in west Fargo’s youth hockey association will raffle off 200 guns and an all-terrain vehicle next month. up for grabs are shotguns, handguns hunting rifles and semi-auto­matic rifles. 
both were planned long be­fore the shooting in newtown invigorated calls for increased gun control. That didn’t stop critics from blasting the raf­fles as, at best, in poor taste and, at worst, criminal. 
John rosenthal, found­er and director of the massachusetts-based stop handgun violence, called the chiefs’ raffle “insane” and “criminally irresponsible.” 
“in 33 states, including maine, new hampshire and vermont, the winner of this ar-15 can turn around the same day and sell it to anyone without an id or background check,” rosenthal said. “They should cancel their raffle and give away a nice mountain bike or snowmobile.” 
Jonathan lowy, director of the legal action program at the brady center to prevent gun violence, said he knows of no state in which the raffle would be illegal. but “having these gun giveaways and gun raffles can trivialize the se­riousness of firearms,” lowy said. 
in a letter posted on the chiefs association website, salem police chief paul donovan extended his sym­pathies to the families of those killed in newtown but stressed it and other tragic shootings “are contrary to lawful and responsible gun ownership.” 
donovan, who did not re­spond to interview requests, wrote that the raffle’s rules require winners meet all ap­plicable state and federal laws, including background checks. The goal of the raffle 
— 
to raise $30,000 to offset the cost of the weeklong po­lice cadet training academy 

—
 has already been met. The 1,000 raffle tickets, at $30 apiece, sold out last month. 


Three of the guns being raf­fled off are named on a list of weapons that would be pro­hibited under a proposed ban introduced by sen. dianne Feinstein, d-calif., in the wake of the sandy hook ram­page. That proposal would also ban ammunition maga­zines that hold more than 10 rounds. 
while the newtown shoot­ing has intensified the criti­cism of the chiefs’ raffle, other giveaways have had similarly inauspicious timing. 
after a 2011 shooting ram­page in arizona wounded rep. gabrielle giffords and killed six others, the coun­ty republican party raffled off a glock handgun to raise money for voter outreach. its slogan was “help pima gop get out the vote and maybe help yourself to a new glock.” The county gop interim chairman said at the time he didn’t think there was any­thing inappropriate about the promotion. 

Fatal shooting ends manhunt 
grapevine, Texas — The Florida prisoner who es­caped in Texas after stab­bing a detective with his eyeglasses was fatally shot early saturday after refusing to cooperate with officers and lunging at them, police said. 
alberto morales was shot in a wooded area of grapevine, a community near the dallas-Fort worth international airport. it put an end to a massive five-day manhunt that started when he escaped monday from a wal-mart parking lot after attacking the miami-dade, Fla., detective. 
grapevine police sgt. robert eberling said at a saturday news conference that officers instructed morales to lie on the ground and show his hands, but he rushed toward them. morales, 42, was unarmed at the time of the shooting and was not wearing handcuffs. he was holding some sticks, eberling said. 
“he was very skilled and crafty as far as making make­shift edged weapons inside the prison. That was in the forethoughts of the officers. he was able to almost kill an officer with some eyeglasses,” eberling added. 
police said morales used a sharp piece from his eye­glasses to stab miami-dade detective Jaime pardinas, who was transferring him by car to nevada, where morales was to serve a sentence of 30 years to life after being con­victed of a sexual assault. 
pardinas was treated at a dallas hospital for deep stab wounds to the neck, shoul­der and back and a collapsed lung. parkland memorial hospital spokeswoman april Foran said pardinas was re­leased saturday. 
Two hours before morales was shot, officers responded to a report that jewelry and men’s clothing had been sto­len during a break-in at a nearby home. eberling said morales was still wearing part of his prison-issued jumpsuit as well as jogging pants, but couldn’t comment on wheth­er the stolen clothing and jewelry were found with him. 
pardinas was accompanied by miami-dade detective david carrero during the transfer. They flew to houston with morales and then decid­ed to drive the rest of the way after he became disruptive on the flight. They had stopped near the store while waiting for a third officer who was fly­ing to the dallas area to join them. department policy requires three officers to be present for ground transfers of prisoners. 
on a recording of a 911 call of the incident released wednesday, pardinas can be heard breathing heavily as he tells the operator that he’s been stabbed. he described morales’ height, weight and appearance and then added, “he’s a schizophrenic.” 
miami-dade police department director J.d. patterson commended pardinas in an emailed state­ment saturday and thanked the law enforcement agen­cies that took part in the manhunt. 

Cruise ships lack regulation 
miami — a byzantine maze of maritime rules and regula­tions, fragmented oversight and a patchwork quilt of na­tions that do business with cruise lines make it tough for consumers to assess the health and safety record of the ship they’re about to board in what for many is the vacation of a lifetime. 
want to know about a ship’s track record for being clean? want to assess how sanitary the food is? it’s not that easy to find, in part because there’s no one entity or country that over­sees or regulates the industry with its fleet of ships that are like mini cities floating at sea. 
in the case of carnival cruise lines, the owner of the carnival Triumph that spent days in the gulf of mexico dis­abled after an engine fire, the company is incorporated in panama, its offices are based in miami and its ships fly un­der the bahamian flag — a ma­trix that is not unusual in the cruise line industry. 
For potential passengers seeking ship information, there’s no central database that can be viewed to determine a track record of safety or health inspections. no one agency regulates everything from the cruise line’s mechanical wor­thiness to the sanitation of its kitchens. 
The u.s. coast guard in­spects each cruise ship that docks in the u.s. every year for a range of issues, from op­eration of backup generators to the lifeboats. The centers for disease control and prevention maintains a database of recent disease outbreaks and other health inspection information for cruise ships. had Triumph vacationers looked up infor­mation about the cruise ship through those two agencies be­fore boarding, they would have found mostly clean marks and few red flags. 

and when something goes wrong, as it did on Triumph, there are limits to how much the coast guard can investigate. 
These are not new issues — they had been raised by mem­bers of congress before the Triumph incident. 
“This horrible situation in­volving the carnival Triumph is just the latest example in a long string of serious and troubling incidents involv­ing cruise ships,” said sen. Jay rockefeller, d-w.va., who led a committee hearing on cruise safety last year. 
last year, after the costa concordia ran aground off the coast of giglio, italy, rockefeller held a commerce committee hearing to examine deficien­cies in the cruise line indus­try’s compliance with federal safety, security, and environ­mental standards and review industry regulations. 
“as i remarked then, they seem to have two lives: one is at port, where the coast guard can monitor their operations; the other is at sea where, it ap­pears once they are beyond three nautical miles from shore, the world is theirs,” rockefeller said in letter he wrote this week to admiral robert J. papp Jr., the commandant of the coast guard. “The carnival Triumph incident only serves to further validate this view.” 



Community memorializes victims of fire 
Survivors and relatives of victims mark 10th anniversary of Rhode Island nightclub fire that killed 100 
wesT warwick, r.i. — survivors of a 2003 nightclub fire that killed 100 people and relatives of those killed hud­dled together in bitter cold sunday at the site of the blaze to mark the 10th anniversary of it. 
some brought flowers and paid their respects at the hand­made crosses that dot the site for each person who died. others cried and spoke of miss­ing their loved ones and the difficulty of moving past such trauma. 
“people that weren’t here re­ally don’t understand why we can’t let this stuff go. i was 30 seconds away from dying,” said walter castle Jr., 39, a survi­vor who suffered third-degree burns in his lungs, throat and bronchial tubes. he said he lost many friends and was in coun­seling until 2009. recently, as the 10th anniversary ap­proached, he began having ter­rible nightmares and had to go back into counseling. 
“it’s just very tough,” he said. 
The anniversary of the blaze is wednesday. The fire broke out when pyrotechnics for the rock band great white ignited flammable packing foam that had been installed in the club as soundproofing. last month, a fire at a nightclub in brazil killed more than 230 people under circumstances that were eerily similar: a band’s pyrotechnic display set fire to soundproofing foam. 
among those who spoke sunday was former gov. don carcieri, who took office the month before the fire and still gets choked up when speak­ing about it. he remembered the days families waited at a hotel for word that their loved ones’ remains had been iden­tified, and the anger everyone felt, asking how the tragedy could have happened. but he also remembered how people in rhode island, a state with a population of just 1 million, pulled together to help each other. 
“at a time of our state’s worst tragedy, in some sense, it was our people’s finest hour,” he said. 
angela bogart, who was 19 when her mother, Jude henault, was killed in the fire, said she has come to know and understand her mother more in the 10 years since she died, es­pecially since she has become a mother herself. 
“my mom lives in me in ev­erything i do. i hear her voice wherever i go,” she said. “when i walk hand-in-hand with my little girl, my mother is holding her other hand.” 
The ceremony also featured musical performances, a read­ing of the names of the people who died and 100 seconds of silence. 
while somber, the annual gathering at the fire site took on a more hopeful tone this year than in years past be­cause a foundation set up to build a permanent memorial secured ownership of the site in september after years of try­ing. on sunday, the station Fire memorial Foundation released final plans for the memorial. 


VATICAN CITY 

pope blesses huge crowds 
vaTican ciTy — his arms outstretched in a symbolic embrace, pope benedict Xvi blessed tens of thousands of cheering people on sunday in one of his last appearanc­es as pontiff from his win­dow overlooking st. peter’s square. 
last week, 85-year-old benedict shocked the world by announcing his resigna­tion. he will step down on Feb. 28, planning to retreat to a life of prayer in a mon­astery behind the vatican’s ancient walls. 
The noontime appoint­ment in the vast cobblestone square also served as a kind of trial run for how rome will handle the logistics, includ­ing crowd security, as the city braces for faithful to flock to rome for the election and installation of the cardinal who will succeed benedict as leader of the world’s 1.2 bil­lion catholics. 
rome mayor gianni alemanno said upward of 100,000 people turned out sunday and that everything went smoothly. but while there was still space in st. peter’s square for more, many couldn’t get in — or easily out 


AP 

A priest displays a message for Pope Benedict XVI as the Pope recites the Angelus prayer from the window of his apartments Sunday. 
—
 because entrances from the main boulevard were just too narrow. 

The huge crowd — includ­ing parents with babies in carriages and strollers, elder­ly people using canes, and the disabled in wheelchairs 

—
 tried to squeeze through two spaces police left open in the metal barricades edg­ing the square. some people panicked or called out to po­lice to help them get in or out of the square. 


pilgrims and tourists had an easier time if they en­tered through spaces in the elegant colonnade that ar­chitect gianlorenzo bernini designed to cradle the sides of the st. peter’s square. 

benedict seemed touched by the outpouring of affec­tion after his decision to go down in history as the first pontiff in some 600 years to resign. The pontiff told car­dinals last week that he no longer has the mental and physical stamina to vigor­ously shepherd the church. 
They call for a 30-foot-high entrance gate topped by an aeolian harp. wind passing through the harp will create music, a reminder that it was music that brought people to­gether that night. 
The permanent memorial will include an individual me­morial for each person who died and commemorate the survivors, first responders and those who helped care for fam­ilies of the dead and survivors in the weeks and months after the fire. it will also include a pavilion as a gathering place. 
Families are being asked to remove the crosses and other personal mementos that have been left at the site at the make­shift memorial that has devel­oped over the years. The items left behind will be buried in a capsule under an area that is now the parking lot. There will be no digging on the land un­der where the club once stood because of the fear of disturb­ing human remains. 

East Coast works to remove debris 
manToloking, n.J. — on the surface, things look calm and placid. Just beneath the waterline, however, it’s a dif­ferent story. 
cars and sunken boats. patio furniture. pieces of docks. entire houses. a grandfather clock, deposited in a marsh a mile from solid land. hot tubs. Tons of sand. all displaced by superstorm sandy. 
“we did a cleanup three weeks ago. Then when we went back the other day, you could still see junk coming up in the wash,” said paul harris, president of the new Jersey beach buggy association, which helps take care of beaches on which the group goes surf fishing. “They go and clean it again, and two days later, you have the same thing again. There’s nothing you can do about it; you can’t vacuum the ocean.” 
coastal areas of new Jersey, new york and connecticut are racing to remove untold tons of debris from waters hardest hit by the oct. 29 storm be­fore the summer swimming and boating seasons begin 
— two of the main reasons people flock there each year and the underpinning of the region’s multibillion-dollar tourist industry. 
The sunken debris pres­ents an urgent safety issue. swimmers could cut them­selves on submerged junk, step on one of thousands of boardwalk nails ripped loose, or suffer neck or spi­nal injuries diving into solid objects. boats could hit de­bris, pitching their occupants overboard, or in severe cases, sinking. 
The cleanup won’t be easy, fast or cheap. 
“The amount of debris that needs to be removed is mind-boggling,” new Jersey gov. chris christie said, ticking off the statistics in his state: 1,400 vessels sunk, broken loose or destroyed during the storm. in just one shore town alone, mantoloking, 58 buildings were washed into barnegat bay, along with eight vehicles, and a stagger­ing amount of sand carried from the ocean beaches into the bay. 
“everything you can imag­ine is sitting in our water­ways,” he said. 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

cherish every day 

Carolyn Hutyra 
news writer 

This past week, one of my best friend’s neighbors passed away. The week before, the mother of a family friend died and a few weeks earlier another close friend of mine found out a teammate from high school was failing in his fight against cancer. 
i say this not to cause sadness or despair, but rather to motivate. each and every day we surround ourselves with people who have so much to offer this world. our friends will grow up to be doctors, lawyers, teachers, engineers, scientists and so much more. we are blessed to know them, and i hope we all appreciate them. 
Furthermore, i hope this encourages us to lead our lives to the fullest. Think of any high school or college graduation speech. The speakers are so quick to encourage us, and tell us the number of opportunities that await us. do we seize them? They say challenges will come our way, but will we be able to overcome them? 
To answer these questions, i go back to one of my favorite quotes delivered by leonardo dicaprio in “Titanic.” “i figure life’s a gift and i don’t intend on wasting it,” he says. “you don’t know what hand you’re gonna get dealt next. you learn to take life as it comes at you ... to make each day count.” 
i wish we really could make each day count. if i asked people to think back to last year, i wonder if they could list 50 great mo­ments from 2012 they will remember for the rest of their lives. people tend to remember the big moments, the cool vacations, the athletic accomplishments, but the truth is that after a while even those begin to fade. 
as college students, a good number of us have begun our third decade of life on this earth. our generation still has time to make a difference, and i wonder at the impact we may have. 
last week i saw a posting on Facebook about an 87-year-old college student named rose. whether or not the story is true is debatable, but the lesson remains powerful nonetheless. despite her age, rose decided to enroll in college courses and over the course of the year she became a popular fig­ure around the campus she attended. she told people she was completing the college degree that she was never able to finish all those years ago. 
The story ends with her receiving an invitation to speak at a football banquet. her speech centers on finding a way to laugh every day and having dreams to fol­low throughout life. at the end of the story there is a quote that goes, “we make a living by what we get; we make a life by what we give.” 
say we live to a ripe old age. will we be able to look back and say we lived without regrets? say that if we could go back there would not be a single thing we would change? i hope so. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Standing in solidarity 
on Feb. 6, you once again showed what it means to be a community that stands for so much more than itself. on that cold wednesday, you all came together with the men of siegfried hall and helped to raise more than $5,400 for the south bend center for the homeless. seeing our state of cold for one day, you all reached into your pockets and pulled out so much to help those who must brave the cold every day. on behalf of the men of siegfried hall, we can­not thank you enough for your donations. 
what exactly do we do on the day of man? are we try­ing to prove our masculinity by showing off our muscles and enduring the cold without flinching? we would much rather describe the day of man as a time when the men of siegfried stand together to be the men we wish to become: men who stand for something bigger than one person and one action, men who brave the cold to stand in solidar­ity with those who may need a helping hand. This vision defines the day of man and guides us into the elements on that cold February day. 
once more, we offer our gratitude for your help. This year, the day of man is once again a success because of your kindness. Thanks for standing alongside us in soli­darity with those who may have fallen on hard times. Thanks for affirming our efforts and helping us to become the best men that we can be. 
Andrew Ritter 
senior siegfried hall 
Johnny Dang 
junior siegfried hall 

Campaign emails are ethical 
i write in response to the letter to the editor written by sam Zappa (“campaign solicitation: taking things too far,” Feb. 12) that was published in last wednesday’s observer. in his letter, Zappa expressed discontent with receiving unsolicited emails from campaigns during the student body presidential election, implying that such ac­tions were unethical. 
i was fairly unsurprised to read such a complaint in The observer. however, i must object to the implied accusa­tion of unethical behavior with Zappa’s letter. if sending a campaign email rises to the level of unethical behavior, then our world is truly in trouble. i find it amusing that Zappa’s reaction to receiving an unsolicited email that he had to take all of 10 seconds to delete from his inbox was to accuse candidates of lacking ethics. 
This was an election. people campaign, be it with posters, emails or debates. i applaud both tickets for finding ways to do so within the rules established by the student senate and enforced by the Judicial council. i apologize profusely to mr. Zappa for having to take the time to delete an unwanted email, something no notre dame student ever has to do. perhaps instead of leveling serious accusations of ethical violations at campaigns be­cause they emailed someone, mr. Zappa can submit a for­mal petition to student government to enact the change he clamors for in his martyr-like fashion. i hope you recover from receiving that email, mr. Zappa. it must have been absolutely devastating. 
Ben Noe 
senior off campus 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 20123 | ndsmcobserver.com 
End the war on drugs 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet. 

Throughout american history, politicians have always curbed the use of particular substances by the general population — we’ve always had a “war on drugs,” so to speak. legislation making it illegal to smoke, ingest or drink certain chemicals has been consistently passed under the idea that it benefits society, but the american people are starting to real­ize that the war on drugs is a failure and is inconsistent with the ideology of the declaration of independence and the united states constitution. as you have heard before, the Founding Fathers created this country on the principle of classic liberalism — meaning that individual rights reign supreme. having just escaped and fought off the tyrant king george iii, the Fathers knew that emphasizing individual rights would foster a stron­ger a nation built on liberty. The rea­soning that follows explains why we protect and defend the right to private property and freedom of speech: if your neighbor has his property dam­aged without compensation or is unable to criticize his government, we know the same thing can happen to us  — so through individualism, society actually is made better off and communities are strengthened through these ties. 
an issue i have with the american government is that if we are truly the land of the free, why am i not able to completely control what i put in my body? Thomas Jefferson has many memorable quotes, but i believe one in particular applies to the phi­losophy of self-ownership. he once said, “but it does me no injury for my neighbor to say there are 20 gods or no god. it neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg.” while in context Jefferson was discussing religious tolerance, the same philosophy can be applied to the use of marijuana and other drugs — including alcohol. if my neighbors choose to smoke in their basement or at a club in denver, who am i to tell them how to live their lives? i may or may not agree with that decision, but as a human being each of us is inherently born with the right to ownership of our body; the differ­ence in lawmaking obviously occurs when external events occur outside of the smoking or drinking. if someone gets high and then gets behind the wheel of a car, the situation is obvi­ously completely different, just as it is with alcohol. in the end, i believe ev­erything can boil down to Jefferson’s analysis of private property — so long as other people do not affect you fi­nancially or do you bodily harm, they should be free to act on their own will. 
The federal government has spent $51 billion fighting the “war” on drugs, all of which instead could have gone to help prevent violent crimes — or even more radically, stay in the hands of the people. according to drugpolicy.org, in 2009 there were 2,424,279 citizens in federal, state or local prisons. This is equivalent to one out of every 99.1 adults — the highest incarceration rate in the world. also, 
1.53 million people were imprisoned for nonviolent drug charges in 2011 and roughly 650,000 were arrested for simple possession of marijuana. it is well known that african-americans and latinos end up suffering the con­sequences of our current system and are disproportionately represented in prisons too; even rapper Tupac shakur understood that the war on drugs is a failure and wrote in one of his songs, “They got a war on drugs just so the police can bother me.” so i’m still wondering how it’s possible that “the land of the free” has the highest percentage of its citizens be­hind bars — is this not enough infor­mation to compel society to rethink some of its policies on drugs? 
i would argue that we should legal­ize marijuana federally and allow states to regulate its use as we do alcohol, but inevitably there will be a significant amount of people who will oppose this legislation. some irratio­nally say that “america will become the next red light district” while oth­ers just say they don’t think others should be able to do it. legalization would be a radical change for our na­tion but we should encourage mak­ing people more free on all accounts; we don’t have a First amendment so we can talk about the weather and we don’t have a right to self owner­ship without the ability to control our own personal habits. censoring ideas through book burning has never solved any problems — putting issues out in the open for debate and edu­cating people is how we can change a culture’s perspective. during pro­hibition, speakeasies became more popular than grocery stores; outlaw­ing particular goods just makes the black market more profitable. many positive outcomes of legalization ex­ist besides eradicating underground trade — drug cartels would fall apart due to legalization of their product, leading to less violence across the country; there would be more people freed from jails in which they were placed for committing nonviolent crimes; more people would stay in school knowing they would need to rely on education rather than illegal deals to be successful. you think our current president would understand the need to reform this issue con­sidering the results you’ll find after google searching “obama smoking blunt,” but maybe his previous state­ments on the matter were just smoke and mirrors too. 
in a gop presidential nomination debate, former Texas congressman ron paul was (jokingly?) asked if he would support the legalization of heroin, in addition to marijuana. he replied rhetorically, “yes … if we le­galize heroin, how many people here would use heroin tomorrow?” and received a wild round of applause from thousands of south carolinians. while that is quite a step past mari­juana reform, i think what he’s saying is correct. we don’t need a paternal government telling us what we should or shouldn’t do at the threat of a gun to make decisions. if you want to de­crease drug use in society, you should be for legalization instead of threat­ening to use force on other people. it’s time to step back from the mentality that has shaped mankind for centu­ries; it’s time to stop telling people what to do or how to live their lives. i think if someone wants to have a smoke and they aren’t going to “break my leg or pick my pocket,” we should let them. it’s that simple. 
Connor Roth is a sophomore econom­ics major and constitutional studies minor. He can be reached at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Sanctions on North Korea must be uniform 
The Oracle Editorial Board 
The oracle 

The democratic republic of korea (dprk) con­firmed Tuesday that it conducted its third nuclear test in an underground testing facility after south korean monitors detected seismic activity coming from the north. 
The test came just two months after north korea angered international powers over a successful bal­listic missile launch that landed a weather satellite into orbit and sparked even more united nations sanctions on the self-proclaimed “self-reliant” state. 
The u.n. security council denounced the test and is planning future sanctions, but their actions will continue to be in vain unless all of the security council’s member states can uniformly sanction north korea, isolating it from international aid until it ceases nuclear programs. 
The problem is that, though most of the world’s powers are allied in efforts to ostracize the dprk and its antics, china has continued an economic relationship with pyongyang, despite the fact that it has voted in favor of implementing the last three sanctions. any international trade with north korea strengthens kim Jong-un’s regime and his despera­tion for making a name for himself — not the im­poverished north korean population that has an abysmal gdp of $40 billion as of 2011, according to the cia world Factbook. 
north korea has made it abundantly clear that sanctions, embargoes or any other international ac­tions will not deter its plans of developing weapons of mass destruction. 
even after the missile launch in december, the dprk boasted their actions were posed to create a nuclear warhead capable of traveling as far as the u.s. 
when a government as oppressive and ill-advised as north korea continually ignores international stability the way it has since the end of the korean war, there needs to be serious and relentless pres­sure placed on it until it complies. 
ignoring the severity of the dprk’s persistence to­ward nuclear weapons by only suggesting u.n. sanc­tions that it continues to ignore is shameful. 
Though nobody wants the events of the korean war to be repeated, the ineffectiveness of u.n. sanc­tions needs to be considered when thinking about future plans regarding north korea. 
if china is unwilling to participate in implement­ing the sanctions, perhaps it is worthy of consider­ation to implement sanctions upon bystander, but enabling, nations. 
This column originally ran in the Feb. 13 edition of The Oracle, serving  the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

cloud nothings, an indie-rock group consisting of singer-songwriter dylan baldi, drummer Jason gerycz, guitar­ist Joe boyer and bassist TJ duke took to the stage at legends this past Friday. 
cloud nothings entered their per­formance with no introduction, no acknowledgment of the audience what­soever, in a fashion that i mistook as enigmatic and possibly exciting. 
This style of “let’s-just-rock-and-roll” with no interaction with the crowd seemed to be a point of focus for cloud nothings, as it continued on after the first song, then after the second, then after the third. 
soon enough i began to wonder if they would ever address us. however, they just jammed away, almost refusing to look at us. instead of being a presence on stage, they appeared engrossed in their instruments. 
cloud nothings’ setlist from Friday night consisted songs from their newest release “attack on memory,” released in January 2012. “attack on memory” was well received, scoring an 83 out of 100 on metacritic — although i wouldn’t know it from their performance. 
no, i learned this from searching up their set list at legends, and it just seems so frustratingly unnecessary that i even had to go to such lengths such as that to discern whether they were seen as good. 
The performance itself admitted­ly was not too bad — at first. cloud nothings’ opening did seem to set the stage for what many thought to be a powerful, emotional set. 
Their opening song “Fall in” opened with a thunderous ambiance. baldi’s powerful riffs on the guitar seemed to be interlaced within the track, as gerycz’s drums seemed to thunder and pulsate throughout the venue. 
however, from the start it already seemed apparent to me that this was not the indie-rock performance that i (or really anyone unfamiliar with cloud nothings) seemed to expect; it seemed like an odd hybrid between metal and angsty-teen rock. The singing by baldi was definitely a plus, though it seemed stifled by the band’s own instruments. 
perhaps it was simply due to the equipment, or perhaps it was some­thing that was not made a focal point 
— either way, it was truly unfortunate that baldi’s voice was lost to the in­struments, whereas they should have played complementary parts to each other. i’m certainly not saying that the music was bad per se, but definitely unexpected. 
as the set list continued to progress on, the songs seemed to mesh into each other. This was certainly not helped by the fact that again, there was no introduction of the songs, and of course no clear indication from the performers to the audience. 
now i admit, perhaps i am just not as familiar with the band’s style as i should be. perhaps this style of minimal-inter­action and maximum-music is actu­ally what’s expected in the indie-rock scene. but to me, the average attendee at a concert, i would think that a live performance would entail a bit more than what i saw from cloud nothings this past Friday night. 
i appreciate that they came to legends to perform for us, and i do wish cloud nothings the best, because i know that the band is a lot better than what i saw Friday night. however, i just couldn’t buy into their performance, which sadly seemed to just blow up in a cloud of nothing. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

a bit of a disclaimer: i had absolutely no idea what second city was prior to Friday night. when i heard they were a comedy/improvisation group— “you know, kind of like snl” — i had to see it for myself. and i was so glad i went to washington hall that night, because second city easily earned first place in my book. 
second city’s performance was eas­ily memorable, a complete, all-around show that featured a cast of five come­dian actors and one pianist. at first the stage definitely seemed a bit too large for five average-looking comedians. however, they shined in their appar­ent normalcy, and the sum of their per­formance was greater than their parts, as they let their humor fill the entire stage. 
The show opened with a few skits, something similar to — you guessed it —“snl,” and they were all very well done. second city seemed to pay at­tention to the little things during these skits: the ever-effective stone-faced look, while jokes brought out roaring laughter from the audience. 
The skits themselves covered a wide variety of unpredictable jokes and most importantly, each skit felt like a skit — that is, no scene seemed to over­stay its welcome. 
The performances seemed to find all sorts of ways to press all the right buttons in the audience, whether it addressed immigration issues in arizona, or the awkward “maybe she likes me, maybe she doesn’t” phase in a date. These skits were extremely topical and, to be quite honest, never seemed to fall flat. The lone dull mo­ment during the entire night was the intermission. 
however, where second city truly shined was in its improvisational com­edy. The comedians seemed to take everything in stride, even when some less-than-desirable suggestions were made from the audience for the improv skits. The cast handled it tastefully, di­verting all of the heat of the tension and doing what they do best — turn it into a joke. 
second city offered three memorable improv skits. The first had four of the five comedians split up into rotating pairs and act out the skits offered from the audience.  The second had the au­dience assist the cast in telling “a nev­er-before-told tale,” showcasing their quick wit and ingenuity. however, the third was truly their most entertain­ing. it forced three members from the audience to take on different roles in one of the cast members’ “script.” here we saw the audience try their best to emulate the actors’ brilliance to great approval of the rest of the audience. 
as a testament to how largely attend­ed second city’s performance was, one of the audience-actors recounted how easily recognized he was all night, as he was faced with the same greeting from a wide array of people: “hey, you were the one on stage tonight, right?” indeed, he was. 
second city’s performance was nothing short of brilliant and every­one from the lead comedian to the pia­nist contributed to the performance as a whole, leaving everyone in the audience in either two positions: ei­ther sitting halfway out of their seat from laughing too hard, or standing in ovation.  
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

in the wake of her lights out super bowl halftime show, beyoncé’s long awaited documentary “life is but a dream” pre­miered on hbo this saturday. 
directed by beyoncé and her pet film­maker ed burke, the film focused on the period between beyoncé firing her father as a manager and becoming a mother for the first time. it was a testa­ment both to her ideas of parenthood as well as her idea of music as an art form. 
The documentary opened with slow pans of suburban imagery as beyoncé described her relationship with her fa­ther growing up. she was always search­ing for his approval but he never gave it to her and he pushed her to constantly be better. 
when she describes her decision to let go of her father as a manager she high­lights the importance of family as her motivation. with such a stressful career all she wanted from her father was a sup­port system, not another member of her team. 
when she decided to manage herself she said the biggest problem was de­ciding for the first time what she really wanted. 
it’s impossible to imagine a person be­coming so commercially successful that they need to step back and change what success might actually mean in order to find fulfillment. 
beyoncé needed to decide what kind of music she wanted to make now that she was in control of her path. 
one of the most entertaining parts of the documentary is the amount of foot­age that comes from beyoncé herself. it’s as if they’ve taken a video diary she cre­ated herself and interlaced it with foot­age of her performing onstage and one interview of her relaxed and at home. 
she confesses that she’s obsessed with her computer and you can tell that at least 40 percent of the footage you see comes from her filming herself and the events of her life. 
There’s only one interview with her done by the filmmakers, but it’s essen­tially asking her to describe in more de­tail the things she already reveals in her home footage. she is forthcoming in a way that is almost jarring from a woman who seems completely untouchable. 
she discusses this phenomenon of celebrity as superwoman in the film as well. she talks about how we must as­sume that a celebrities life is perfect when all we see is an image on a gossip website but in reality she’s a vulnerable person just like everyone else. 
we get to see some of those vulnerable moments very clearly in the footage of beyoncé talking openly about her first pregnancy that resulted in a miscar­riage. she described hearing the heart­beat, picking out names and telling her family the good news only to be crushed when she found out she would not be a mother yet. 
The film does not dwell on the nega­tive. we see her at her happiest when she’s talking about her pregnancy with blue ivy. she shows herself talking to her computer in the middle of the night when she feels nauseous just a week af­ter discovering she is pregnant. 
we see her talk about the first time she felt the baby kick and how magical it was for her. she breaks out of the calm and collected image she has been holding for just a second to show how truly excited she is. 
we even see loving moments between her and her husband Jay-Z as they sit along the riverbank eating dinner and singing “yellow” by coldplay. 
The entire documentary is about how she balances the fast paced life of a per­former and preparing for motherhood, but the most fascinating part isn’t any of that; it’s just watching beyonce be the living barbie doll we’ve all come to revere. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
“Life is but a Dream” 
HBO 
Starring: Beyoncé Knowles and Jay-Z 
Directed by: Beyoncé Knowles and Ed Burke 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Comic relief in sports’ best names 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
it’s been about a week since pitchers and catchers reported to spring training, and for many baseball fans that means it’s time to start researching for their fan­tasy team draft. but not me — if i wanted to devote the time and effort that it takes to play gm, i’d want to be paid as a professional scout. more importantly, i’d be no good. Forget about talent or value, my drafting strategy would be based purely on how much i enjoy a player’s name. That might not be the best plan if you want to win your fantasy league, but if you’re a sports writer trying to maintain sanity finding joy in unusual names is sometimes a crucial survival skill. here are a few of my favorites: 
Best names to come out of the SEC 
on their own, barkevious and mingo are both stellar names. Together, the defensive end from lsu can pretty much ensure that no name will jump to mind before his at the nFl draft this spring, and even as he embar­rassed notre dame in the bcs national championship game, there was no way to keep from smiling when sophomore de­fensive back ha ha clinton-dix was involved in a play. honorable mention: Former lady vol’s bas­ketball player nicky anosike and lsu great shaquille o’neal are reminders that it’s great to have a name that rhymes — at least when you’ve got game. 
Best names from the state of Hawaii 
There’s an awful lot of compe­tition here, but naval academy football coach ken niumatalolo has to take the cake. Try and say his name without smiling. seriously, try it. honorable men­tion: Tennessee Titans safety and oregon state product al afalava shares niumatalolo’s hometown of laie, and he has two things going for his name. Firstly, his first and last names begin with the same letter, which is always a plus. more importantly, his last name has the word “lava” in it, which is especially fitting as hawaii still has active volcanoes. 
Best names in the world of soccer 
There was a time during the last world cup when my best friend convinced me i should marry german midfielder bastian schweinsteiger for the sole purpose of adopting his last name, and i was highly disap­pointed a few months later when i learned that he is not at all single. my dream may be dead, but the name is still awesome. honorable mention: based on his first name alone i thought herculez gomez had pretty cool parents. Then i discovered that the american forward has a brother named ulysses, a professional mixed-martial artist. is anyone else re­ally curious about the people who named these guys? 
Best nickname generators Falcons running back Jacquizz rodgers earned the nickname “Quizz show” during his col­lege years at oregon state. oddly enough, he has an older brother who’s simply named James. honorable mention: bengals run­ning back benJarvus green-ellis is also known as “The law Firm” because, well, his name sounds like that of a law firm. 
Best name, “How do you spell that?” division 
T.J. houshmandzadeh, best known as a bengals wide re­ceiver, has a persian last name that translates as “son of wisdom or intelligence.” but he tops this list because you can sing his name to the tune of “barracuda.” honorable mention: i suppose there are some people, prob­ably all of them living in north carolina, who can spell duke coach mike krzyzewski’s name correctly on the first try. but i think i’ll just stick to calling him coach k. 
Best names of retired Red Sox players 
Former red sox third base­man arquimedez pozo hasn’t played since 1997, but the Fenway Faithful have yet to find an­other player whose name is even comparable to his. honorable mention: let’s face it, if he hadn’t become known as one of the best catchers of all time, yogi berra would’ve been remembered as that yankee player with the funky name. 
Best names discovered in the minors 
i’m still sorry that the marlins released minor league out­fielder sequoyah Trueblood stonecipher a few years ago, but i will never understand how he lost to eventual winner rowdy hardy in the minors monkier madness championship back in 2010. honorable mention: seth schwindenhammer, a left-hand­ed pitcher who came in second in moniker madness, would be­come the longest-named major leaguer in history if he is ever called up to the big leagues. his name literally means “swing the hammer.” it just doesn’t get better than that. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
NHL 

nash, rangers come back to defeat capitals 
Associated Press 

new york — rick nash’s availability for a key matchup with the washington capitals wasn’t confirmed until the new york rangers star got through the pregame warmup unscathed. 
while no one was willing to talk about what is ailing the top forward, whatever it is didn’t seem to slow him down sunday night. 
nash assisted on surging line-mate carl hagelin’s tying goal in the second period and registered a game-high eight shots on goalie braden holtby in new york’s come-from-behind 2-1 victory. 
nash has been limited to three goals and nine assists in his first 14 games with the rangers, fol­lowing a blockbuster offseason trade. but his mere presence is opening up lots of space for those on the ice with him. 
“They’re not going in, but i’m getting the chances,” nash said. “a couple of posts and point-blanks. i thought they were going in for sure. The exciting thing is carl is putting them in.” 
The rangers (8-5-1) tied it when hagelin scored at 7:39 of the second. ryan mcdonagh fired a drive from the middle of the ice, just inside the blue line, that was tipped into the net on new york’s 30th shot. 
hagelin has scored five of his six goals in the past four games — netting at least one in each. That led coach John Tortorella to call him “probably our best forward” recently. 
“he is one of the few guys who can beat his guy one-on-one most of the time,” hagelin said of nash. “That’s why you can hide a bit on the ice and try to disappear. when he makes that move, the d who is supposed to be on me goes over to him, and i am wide open. 
“when you feel good, you con­tinue playing well, and goals are going to come.” 
one on the power play finally did for new york when derek stepan scored the winner early in the third period. 
it was the only time the rangers’ power-play unit con­nected in five chances, but it came at the right moment and 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 

helped snap the capitals’ season-high winning streak at three. 
washington (5-9-1), which lost to new york in the second round of last year’s playoffs, had been 11-5-2 in its last 18 regular-season games against the rangers. 
“we could have played better,” capitals coach adam oates said. “we took too many penalties. we spent so much energy killing penalties. it took away from the rest of our game.” 
defenseman John carlson put washington ahead in the first, despite the capitals being out-shot 20-8. 
washington went 2-1 on its trip and will play its next three at home. 
“They played better than us,” capitals forward nicklas backstrom said. “They had bet­ter chances. it’s tough, one-goal games coming down to the wire.” 
new york improved to 5-1-1 in its past seven, despite entering the game with an nhl-worst power play that connected on only 10 percent of its chances. 
The deciding advantage lasted only 7 seconds before clicking 
4:25 into the third. 

brad richards, benched for all but one shift in the third period of the rangers’ shootout loss to the islanders on Thursday, won a faceoff and then made a pass to michael del Zotto in the right circle. del Zotto quickly found stepan with a diagonal pass to the left post, where stepan scored while down on a knee. 
henrik lundqvist stopped 27 shots for his seventh win. holtby made 38 saves to earn third star of the game honors. 
“i thought we were a lot bet­ter than them in the first period, but they had the lead,” lundqvist said. “The key for us was to stay patient, and we did.” 
The capitals’ power play, which has been surging recently, was held in check on four chanc­es. its final opportunity came with under 7 minutes left when nash was called for tripping. washington had scored a power-play goal in each of its previous six games, connecting on 8 of 15 opportunities. 
The capitals put instant pressure on the rangers and lundqvist and nearly scored even before carlson’s second goal of the season at 1:19. mike ribeiro got the puck to carlson for a hard drive from the right circle that got past lundqvist. 
The rangers dominated in shots in the first period, but had nothing to show for it despite three power plays that generated five shots. new york registered a season-high 20, but was denied each time by holtby. 
marian gaborik had perhaps the rangers’ best scoring chance during washington’s lone power play of the period, but he was stuffed twice in front. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Love Like Crazy” by Lee Brice Never let your prayin’ knees get lazy And love like crazy 
Just ask him how he made it He’ll tell you faith and sweat Always treat your woman like a lady And the heart of a faithful woman Never get to old to call her baby Who never let him forget Never let your prayin’ knees get lazy 
And love like crazy Be a best friend, tell the truth And overuse “I love you” Go to work, do your best Don’t outsmart your common sense 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF | sevenTh place 
Weaver leads team in first spring tournament 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
in their season-opening ap­pearance, the irish finished seventh in the seminole match-up on sunday at southwood golf course in Tallahassee, Fla. The irish concluded the tournament with a 54-hole score of 906 (+42). 
The irish ended the first round of the tournament Friday with a 12-over par 300, which put them in eighth place at the start the second round. Freshman lindsey weaver led the irish with an even-par 72 to open the tournament. right behind weaver sophomore ashley armstrong shot a two-over par 74. 
after a slightly-improved score of 299 (+11), the irish women advanced to seventh place at the end of the second round. The course conditions were tough and significantly affected the team’s perfor­mance, irish coach susan holt said. 
“it was very windy and chilly,” holt said. “we battled and tried to hang in there, but we gave a lot of shots back in the end of the round.” 
despite the harsh weather conditions, freshman Talia campbell completed the sec­ond round with a par score of 72 to lead the irish. she fin­ished the round with three birdies, three bogeys and 12 pars, landing her the 26th spot in the tournament af­ter two rounds with a score of 152 (+8). weaver followed right behind campbell at 73 (+1). she shot one-under par on the front nine and posted a birdie, a bogey, a double bogey and six-pars  to post a two-over-par on the back nine. armstrong and junior krista nhim both contribut­ed a 77 (+5) to the team tally. 
The irish posted a third round score of 307 (+19) to finish the tournament in seventh place. georgia came back to win the 12-team tour­nament with a score of 54­hole score of 877 (+13). The irish women were unable to gain the momentum in the fi­nal round needed to pull out a higher finish, holt said. 
“we couldn’t get it going to­day,” holt said. “it was disap­pointing and we didn’t do as well as we had hoped.” 
weaver again led the team in the final round with a 73 (+1), which secured her a 218 (+2) overall and put her in eighth place overall for indi­vidual golfers. weaver shot four-over par on the opening nine holes but quickly recov­ered with four birdies and two pars to finish the round at one-over par. 
There is great room for the irish to improve going for­ward, holt said. 
“we definitely have a lot to work on,” holt said. “great individual rounds have to be more consistent. everyone has her own things to work on, and when we get back, we will address those issues.” 
The irish have two weeks to address these team and player-specific issues before they head to the clover cup in mesa, ariz., on mar. 8. 


Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
NASCAR 

patrick is first woman to win sprint cup pole 
dayTona beach, Fla. — “i was brought up to be the lucky enough to make history, only four-time cup champion sport. congratulations to her. 
danica patrick has made his-fastest driver, not the fastest be the first woman to do many Jeff gordon even came close to proud to be on there with her.” 
tory before — as a woman and a girl,” she said. “That was in-things. i really just hope that i knocking her off. gordon was The rest of the field will be 
racer, in indianapolis and Japan. stilled in me from very young, don’t stop doing that. we have a the only other driver who topped set in duel qualifying races The spotlight is nothing new. from the beginning. Then i feel lot more history to make. we are 196 mph in qualifying. he locked Thursday. 
but never has it been this bright like thriving in those moments, excited to do it.” up the other guaranteed spot however the lineup unfolds, 
before. where the pressure’s on, has also her latest stamp in the his-in next week’s season-opening all drivers will line up behind patrick won the daytona 500 been a help for me. i also feel like tory books came with a lap at daytona 500. patrick’s no. 10 chevrolet ss. 
pole sunday, becoming the first i’ve been lucky in my career to be 196.434 mph around daytona “it’s great to be a part of history and she knows her latest 
woman to secure the top spot for with good teams and have good international speedway. patrick with danica being on the pole,” achievement will mean more 
any race in nascar’s premier people around me. i don’t think went out eighth in the qualifying said gordon, who joked that at public relations work. 
circuit. it’s by far the biggest any of it would have been pos-session, then had to wait about least he was the fastest guy. “i The routine is nothing new for 
achievement of her stock-car sible without that. two hours as 37 fellow drivers think we all know how popular patrick, who was the first woman 
career. “For those reasons, i’ve been tried to take her spot. she is, what this will do for our to lead laps in the indianapolis 
500. she finished third in 2009, 

paid adverTisemenT 

the highest finish in that illustri­ous race for a woman. and she became the only woman to win an indycar race when she did it in Japan in 2008. 
hardly anyone witnessed that victory. 
leading the field to the green flag in nascar’s showcase event should be must-watch television. 
“That’s a huge accomplish­ment,” team owner and fellow driver Tony stewart said. “it’s not like it’s been 15 or 20 years she’s been trying to do this. it’s her second trip to daytona here in a cup car. she’s made history in the sport. That’s stuff that we’re proud of being a part of with her. it’s something she should have a huge amount of pride in. 
“it’s never been done. There’s only one person that can be the first to do anything. doesn’t matter how many do it after you do, accomplish that same goal. The first one that does always has that little bit more signifi­cance to it because you were the first.” 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | purdue 4, nd 3; norThwesTern 5, nd 2 
Squad drops close matches 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
living on the edge finally caught up with the no. 19 irish, as they lost to purdue, 4-3, at home on Friday and then dropped their sunday match at northwestern, 5-2. 
notre dame (5-3) lost the doubles point in both matches. The irish have now lost the dou­bles point, an area in which they have historically succeeded, in six of their eight dual matches this semester. 

“our coaches have been try­ing to mix things up to see who plays good with who, but i think we really need to get our confi­dence back in doubles,” junior britney sanders said. “it means so much going into singles, and of Friday’s marathon match. it starts by knowing we can win although the irish try to treat it.” matches against northwestern 
Friday’s match was the fifth like any other, the wildcats have one this season decided by a 4-3 been a major roadblock for the score, but it was only the second irish in recent years. time the irish couldn’t find a “playing northwestern is al­way to win. but they didn’t give ways nerve-racking,” sanders up easily — the match lasted said. “They’ve beaten us in for four and a half hours before ncaas the past two year on purdue freshman Tess bernard-their home court, so it’s tough Feigenhaum bested irish se-going back.” nior chrissie mcgaffigan, 6-2, The northwestern no. 15 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, giving the no. 24 doubles duo comprised of ju­boilermakers (3-1) the win. nior nida hamilton and senior 
sanders, junior Jennifer linda abu mushrefova made kellner and freshman Quinn the first move of the afternoon, gleason each earned indi-beating notre dame’s no. 30 vidual wins, while sophomore pair of sabacinski and sanders, molly o’koniewski and junior 8-6. kellner and mcgaffigan Julie sabacinski lost to the bot-tied up the doubles point by tom of the boilermaker lineup. beating freshman alicia barnett o’koniewski’s 6-2, 6-2 loss to and junior veronica corning, senior imogen golder was her 8-6, but the wildcats captured first singles loss in a dual meet the doubles point when junior as a member of the notre dame belinda niu and senior kate team. Turvy defeated gleason and 
if the irish had trouble re-freshman Jule vrabel, 9-8 (7-5). gaining their footing sunday, The irish didn’t score a point sanders said it was due to the before the result was already efforts of the no. 10 wildcats decided. mushrefova beat (5-3) instead of the after effects o’koniewski, 6-3, 6-1, corning got the best of kellner in two sets, winning 6-4, 6-1, and barnett took down sabacinski 7-5, 6-4. 

although the outcome was no long in doubt, the irish won two of the remaining singles match­es, as no. 74 sanders defeated no. 41 Turvy, 7-5, 6-4, to win her second singles match of the weekend. mcgaffigan went into a tiebreak for the second time in three days, this time beating se­nior brittany wowchuk 6-3, 7-6 (7-4). gleason forced a third set against niu, but the irish fresh­man took the loss, 4-6, 6-4, 1-0 (10-2). 
“obviously, losing means there are things we need to work, on, but we didn’t get blown off the courts,” sanders said. “it just wasn’t our day.” 
The irish will try to get back on their feet at home when they host no. 18 baylor. The irish and bears will square off at the eck Tennis pavilion on Friday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, michigan 3 
irish take down wolverines 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
no. 29 notre dame saw their momentum swing in the right direction as they came out on top of an exciting 4-3 match against no. 21 michigan on saturday in the eck Tennis pavilion. 
This contest marked the high­est ranked opponent that notre dame (6-4) has triumphed over this season. prior to this week­end the squad fell in another close 4-3 match against no. 7 kentucky. 
“i think we were just more motivated after the loss to kentucky, and our guys fought really hard to beat michigan,” junior ryan bandy said. 
The fight against the wolverines (4-3) lasted more than three hours and required three sets in four of the singles matches and tiebreakers in two of the doubles contests. 
notre dame took a rough first step, losing the doubles point. Junior billy pecor and freshman alex lawson successfully won in the no. 2 slot, but michigan’s no. 9 senior evan king and ju­nior shaun bernstein took down the irish pair of junior greg andrews and senior spencer Talmadge. wolverines sopho­mores alex petrone and michael Zhu secured the doubles point by taking down bandy and ju­nior matt dooley. 
in the three previous compe­titions when the irish have lost the doubles point, they have lost the match. but this week­end for the first time the team carried lessons from previous losses and took the win solely in singles play. 
“To be honest we didn’t do too much differently [to prepare],” senior blas moros said. “we suf­fered some really close losses, but they were all very good teams and i think we learned a lot from them.” 
moros added the first irish point, soaring past sophomore vlad stefan 6-3, 6-1, on the no. 3 court to tie the overall score at one. bandy then suffered an injury during the no. 6 match, falling 4-6, 6-2, 6-1, to junior barrett Franks. 
down 2-1, sophomore wyatt mccoy stepped up in the no. 5 spot to take a comeback win, battling bernstein 6-5, 7-6 (7­
5) after being down 5-2 in the second set. Freshman Quentin monaghan adapted exception­ally on the no. 2 court, beating petrone 6-4, 1-6, 6-2, to give notre dame the lead for the first time. 
michigan’s no. 16 king lived up to his ranking in the no. 1 spot, taking down andrews. The match was one of the lon­gest of the afternoon, pushing to three sets and a tiebreaker until king took the win 6-2, 6-7 (10-12), 6-2. 
Tied once again, pecor fought to the last point against Zhu. once again, play went to three sets and a tiebreaker on the no. 4 court until pecor clinched his individual win 6-4, 6-7 (4-7), 6-4. This win gave notre dame its fourth point, securing the win for the irish. 
“we were able to step up when we most needed it and get that close win,” moros said. 
The irish next travel to columbus to face ohio state on saturday afternoon. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

SOFTBALL | oklahoma 7, nd 5 
ND falls to top-ranked Oklahoma in extras 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
Though they left the campbell/cartier classic with a record of 2-3, the irish nearly knocked no. 1 oklahoma from their pedestal in a 7-5 loss that went to extra innings. prior to their match against the irish, the sooners (10-0) had not given up a run in four games at the classic. 
The sooners led the irish 2-0 at the end of the fifth inning, but the irish (4-5) were right back in it in the bottom of the sixth, finishing the inning up 3-2. 
in the top of the seventh, the sooners tied things up when oklahoma sophomore laura chamberlain beat the throw to home plate from irish sophomore outfielder emilee koerner. 
The game went to extra in­nings from there. oklahoma scored four in the top of the ninth, bringing the score to 7-3. in their last chance to gain the advantage, notre dame senior catcher amy buntin belted a two-run home run to right-center field to cut the sooner lead in half. oklahoma got out of that jam though and retired the next three batters to seal the victory. 
buntin said the matchup against oklahoma was good proof of how talented the irish can be. 
“[The game against] oklahoma was a great show­ing of our fight,” buntin said. 
“even though the scoreboard didn’t show it, we had a great game.” 
despite the tough game, senior pitcher brittany o’donnell said the team’s big­gest challenge was playing up to their potential. 
“The biggest competition this week was against our­selves,” o’donnell said. “we are able to beat any team on a given day when we play to our fullest potential.” 
The other games in the campbell/cartier classic weren’t quite as close for the irish. in their first game, the irish lost 5-1 to no. 16 washington. The irish fell be­hind early when washington took a 2-0 lead in the top of the third. notre dame responded when freshman infielder carly piccinich scored off of a wide throw by the huskies catcher, but were unable to generate any offense after that. 
From there, the irish were able to change their momen­tum around in a doubleheader against cal poly (1-8), fin­ishing ahead in both games with top performances by o’donnell and koerner. 
in the second game against cal poly, the irish were down 2-1 in the bottom of the sixth. Junior outfielder lauren stuhr hit her first home run of the year to bring the game to 2-2 and the irish finished the in­ning with two more runs. The mustangs (1-8) attempted to come back in the seventh in­ning, but the irish defense clenched the 4-3 victory. 
rounding out the weekend was a 4-0 loss to san diego state. 
o’donnell said the irish will need to take the small victo­ries to heart to keep up their confidence going into the bulk of the season. 
“after this weekend we fig­ured out what we need to do to get our energy going game by game,” o’donnell said. “in a game like softball you need to celebrate the small victories within the game in order to win the big picture.” 
The irish will be back in ac­tion saturday in the pirate invitational in greenville, n.c. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



BASEBALL | nd 6, Florida gulF coasT  5; nd 13, ohio sTaTe 3, mercer 5, nd 4 
Team sweeps opening doubleheader, drops finale 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 87, marQueTTe 49 
irish pull away with second-half run 

By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports writer 
notre dame kicked off its 2013 campaign in sarasota, Fla., this weekend with back-to-back wins against Florida gulf coast and ohio state on saturday before suffering a loss to mercer on sunday. 
saturday’s doubleheader wins marked the first time since 1992 that the irish swept their opponents on opening day. 
in the season opener, the irish (2-1) fell behind early to Florida gulf coast (2-1). notre dame trailed 4-0 un­til the bottom of the third, when the irish scored once. in the fourth, a solo home run by junior first baseman Trey mancini and a sacrifice fly by freshman shortstop lane richards brought the irish within one. 
in the bottom of the ninth, notre dame trailed 5-3 when junior infielder/outfielder eric Jagielo launched a two-run home run beyond the fence in centerfield, tying the ballgame at five apiece. The irish held the eagles to no runs in the top of the tenth and, in the bottom half of the inning, an rbi single by se­nior infielder Frank desico brought in freshman outfield­er kyle richardson to seal a 6-5 victory for notre dame. 
“i was walking up to the plate, and i just had this calm­ness and confidence come over me,” desico said. “i’ve been in that situation before and i just told [sophomore outfielder] conor [biggio] as he was walking back to the dugout that i was going to pick him up. 
“i knew it was a situation where i was going to see some off-speed. … i just told myself throughout the at bat to stay calm and stay clear-headed. … i stayed short to the ball and did what i do best, which is hit line drives.” 

Junior right-hander sean Fitzgerald started on the mound for the irish, giving up five runs on seven hits in five innings pitched. Freshman reliever nick mccarty earned the win in relief, throwing five innings and giving up no runs on four hits. 
The nightcap against ohio state (1-2) wasn’t as sus­penseful as the first game of the day, but the irish came away on top of a 13-3 rout. desico’s game winning hit in the opener propelled him into the second contest, and he produced four hits, includ­ing a double and a homerun. 
The irish logged 16 total hits against the buckeyes. Jagielo homered and racked up five rbis, while sopho­more infielder/catcher phil mosey also homered. notre dame led 8-3 after six in­nings played and then tacked on five more runs to end the game. 
“we just had a confidence after a big win, coming back after being down pretty much the whole game,” desico said. “we brought that confidence into the second game. i was really proud of the guys being able to flush the victory be­fore and being able to refocus and get after ohio state.” 
senior starter adam norton, who is desico’s roommate, earned the credit for the win. norton threw seven innings, giving up three runs on 10 hits and walking none. 
“every single game adam norton pitches, you know he’s going to come out and com­pete,” desico said. “he has four or five pitches that he throws consistently that are all very effective. For a pitch­er to be able to locate four or five pitches in college, even at the highest level, no team can handle that.” 

in the sunday finale, notre dame again staged a late-in­ning rally. Trailing by one in the ninth, Jagielo drew a two-out walk. mancini stepped into the box for the poten­tial winning run and drove a ball to deep left-centerfield, but the ball couldn’t fight the strong Florida winds and fell for the final out, as notre dame lost, 5-4. 
The notre dame offense sputtered against mercer (3-0) until the seventh in­ning. Trailing 5-2, biggio and desico both reached base to start the inning. Two batters later, Jagielo doubled, bring­ing in biggio. mancini fol­lowed with a sacrifice fly to make the score 5-4. 
despite trailing, desico said notre dame was confi­dent they could come back as they had the prior day. 
“we kind of had some slow bats, but, even with that, we had some loud outs early,” desico said. “There’s no real panic factor that sets in [when notre dame trails early]. There’s a calmness over the whole team that really unex­plainable. it’s awesome to be a part of it and as a leader it really makes your job easy.” 
Freshman starter david hearne saddled the loss in his collegiate debut but turned in a solid performance. hearne threw five innings, giving up three earned runs on four hits, while walking two and striking out eight. 
Junior reliever dan slania also made his first appear­ance the season sunday, throwing the eighth and ninth innings. The junior right-hander allowed no runs and no hits, while striking out three and walking one mercer batter. 
“it’s a good thing to have that sort of humbling experi­ence, knowing you aren’t go­ing to win every close game,” desico said. “but, as long as you give your best effort and you’re willing to compete, that’s going to take you a long way. you’ll win more games than you lose if you have that mentality.” 
The irish will now turn their attention to a week of practice before traveling to new orleans to play Tulane on Friday. 
Contact John Sandberg at jsandbe1@nd.edu 

By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame led by 19 at the half and never looked back sunday afternoon as se­nior guard skylar diggins led the irish to a dominant second half and an 87-49 victory over marquette at the al mcguire center in milwaukee. 
diggins played a historic game as she scored 23 points to push her career total to 2,131 and take over second place on notre dame’s all-time scoring list. with three rebounds in the game, diggins also became the first woman at notre dame to record 2,000 points, 500 assists and 500 rebounds in her career. 
diggins’s talent and leader­ship have played a major role in notre dame’s success over the past four years, irish coach muffet mcgraw said. 
“i think that’s the sign of a good player: when someone makes those around her bet­ter,” mcgraw said. “[diggins] has a hand in every aspect of the game: scoring, assists, re­bounds. it’s a remarkable ac­complishment for her, and it says a lot that she is the only player to have ever done that.” 
diggins also showed her skill on defense, where she frus­trated golden eagles freshman guard brooklyn pumroy by forcing turnovers and convert­ing several breakaway layups. 
The irish have typically had a stable lineup, but mcgraw broke up her starting five when she gave sophomore guard madison cable a start in place of junior forward ariel braker. 
cable has averaged 18.4 min­utes per game off the bench. against marquette (12-13, 4-8), she played most of the game, grabbing seven rebounds in 27 minutes. notre dame has devel­oped a much deeper bench than many expected, mcgraw said, which provides the team with a great deal of security. 
“That’ll be really impor­tant for us next week with four games in eight or nine days,” she said. “[sophomore guard] whitney holloway and [fresh­man guard] hannah huffman gave us good minutes off the bench. it was a good game for us to get the bench some work, and they played really well.” 
Junior forward natalie achonwa added 17 points and 10 rebounds to bolster the irish down low. achonwa’s post pres­ence helped take pressure off diggins and notre dame’s other guards. 
marquette did not have the of­fensive tools to answer the irish’s fast-paced play. marquette se­nior forward sarina simmons scored 12 points, and sopho­more guard arlesia morse put up 11, but their efforts were not enough to keep the golden eagles from being blown out. notre dame did not let up in the second half, as the irish contin­ued to score in transition and never let their lead shrink to less than 19 points. 
notre dame has been lights-out when leading after the first half, and this game proved to be no different. The irish know how to close out games, a skill mcgraw attributes to her team’s basketball intelligence. 
“we’re a smart team,” mcgraw said. “we have a re­ally smart point guard. They know shot selection is impor­tant, and they know how to play with a lead. we continue to play hard for the entire game. i think that’s important to have. we definitely got a lift off the bench. sometimes when it’s late in the game, and you’re up 20, you want to relax, but they kept up the intensity.” 
notre dame’s next takes the floor against depaul on sunday at the mcgrath-phillips arena in chicago. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 12, sTanFord 10 
Team recovers from slow start to best Cardinal 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
it was not how no. 9 notre dame envisioned starting its season. 
getting off to slow starts on both ends of the field, the team trailed 7-2 to stanford after its first 30 minutes of play. but the irish (1-0) re­bounded quickly in the sec­ond half, outscoring the cardinal (0-1) 10-3 to pull out a victory saturday at laird Q. cagan stadium at maloney Field in palo alto, calif. 
notre dame got on the board first when senior at­tack Jaimie morrison scored off a feed from senior at­tack Jenny granger minutes into the game. The irish of­fense then fell into a 17-min­ute scoreless stretch, while stanford went on a 3-0 run. 
after irish freshman mid­fielder brie custis scored with 8:36 left in the half, the cardinal scored four consec­utive goals to take a 7-2 edge into halftime. 
Junior defender molly shawan said the mood in the irish locker room was sur­prisingly relaxed after the lackluster first half. 
“at halftime, [irish] coach [christine] halfpenny sat us all down and told us, ‘alright, we got that first half out,’” shawan said. “we weren’t playing like the team we had been practicing as for the past five weeks of preseason. but we’re really good at re­sponding in times like that, so we all knew we would be fine in the second half now that we had the chance to cool off.” 
The two squads traded goals to start the second half, but notre dame quick­ly heated up, going on a 5-0 run to tie the game at eight. stanford soon reclaimed the lead on a goal from freshman midfielder lucy dikeou, but the irish tied it back up after junior attack kaitlyn brosco found the net. 
“i think we definitely in­creased our energy level in the second half and as a team, all looked to each oth­er for plays,” shawan said. “every single play we made, there were four or five people helping to make it happen. both sides of the ball stepped it up in the second half.” 
with the game deadlocked at nine, junior attack lindsay powell gave notre dame its first lead since the 25:50 mark of the first half when she scored with 11:32 to go. less than three minutes later, stanford clawed right back on an equalizing goal from junior attack rachel 


“even when things were going bad, we just turned around and said, ‘we can do this,’ and i’m sure it will be the same next game.” 
after a long layoff, the irish will meet ohio state on Feb. 27 at either arlotta stadium or loftus sports center, weather pending. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
The irish diving team broke out on its own when it competed in the michigan First chance meet at the canham natatorium in ann arbor, mich. on saturday, earn­ing four top-three finishes in the 1-meter and platform dives. 
The irish have not had many chances to practice their plat­form dives, but that didn’t stop them from taking two of the top three spots in the competition. Freshman lindsey streepey took second place, earning her team 248 points, while freshman emma gaboury followed her with 236.2 points and placed third. 
“The most challenging part was competing in the platform,” streepey said. ”we do not have platform at notre dame, so we have only gotten to practice it twice this year. most schools, like michigan, practice it twice a week because they have platforms at their pool.” 
The competition was streepey’s first collegiate platform competi­tion, and she said she felt confi­dent in her dives. 
“i felt pretty good about my per­formance, but there’s always room for improvement,” she said. 
rounding out the performers for the irish were senior Jenny chiang, who took second in the 1-meter dive and earned 296.4 points, and sophomore allison casareto, who finished right be­hind her with a score of 291.45. 
casareto mixed things up in the competition, but said she wasn’t sure they paid off. 
“i tried diving with a new order of my list of dives, to see if it had any positive effects,” casareto said. “but i learned that i should probably stick to other list orders i have used in past meets.” 
casareto said she also used the larger meet to get acclimated to the kind of environment she will experience when she com­petes in the upcoming big east championships. 
The irish will be back in ac­tion when both swimmers and divers compete in the big east championships, beginning Feb. 27 in indianapolis. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
ozer. 
senior attack betsy mastropieri put the irish ahead for good when she scored on a free-position shot with 5:40 left in the game. Junior attack grace dooley helped seal the notre dame victory when she scored on an insurance goal just sec­onds later to extend the lead to 12-10. 
notre dame saw a bal­anced attack on the offensive end, as nine different players scored for the irish. powell, dooley and junior attack lauren sullivan each had a pair of goals, while brosco led the team with two assists. 
“before every season, we come up with team goals, and one of ours is to have eight different scorers,” shawan said. “everyone was just sharing the ball, and one person didn’t try to do it all — we all had each other’s backs.” 
on the defensive end, the irish held stanford to eight shots in the second half. senior goalkeeper ellie hilling made five saves in the victory, while freshman de­fender stephanie peragallo claimed four ground balls and two caused turnovers in her college debut. 
shawan said she believes the momentum from the second half will carry over to notre dame’s next game, a matchup with no. 13 ohio state. 
“i think we’re all excited that we got the first game jit­ters out of the way, and we know how to play and what we need to do,” she said. “we’ve been preparing all along for these kinds of games, and it was awesome to see everyone come together. 
paid adverTisemenT 

ND WOMEN’S DIVING | michigan FirsT chance meeT 
divers take top spots in michigan 


MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 13, duke 5 
Irish open season with win over No. 4 Duke 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
Junior midfielder Jim marlatt exploded for a career-high five goals and freshman attackman matt kavanagh added four more in his first career game as no.  3 notre dame knocked off no. 4 duke 13-5 on the road in the team’s season opener. 
as a team centered around its all-american goaltender and stifling defense, notre dame (1-0) effectively shut down duke’s (1-2) offensive attack in durham, n.c., on saturday. 
“i thought our guys just made really good decisions,” irish coach kevin corrigan said. “i thought [senior goal­tender] John kemp played really well. i thought the com­bination of those two things was pretty effective.” 
The first game of the season can expose some weaknesses in teams, but notre dame has now won 11 straight season openers, and has now beat­en duke to open the year for two straight years. The irish may not have played a perfect game, but they made plays when necessary, corrigan said. 
“it wasn’t a pretty day,” corrigan said. “it wasn’t going to be a pretty offensive day for anybody. it was really about making plays more than play­ing well, just because of the conditions. i thought that was what we did extremely well.” 
Those sorts of plays aided the offensive outburst by marlatt and kavanagh. senior attackman sean rogers and senior midfielder steve murphy both added two goals apiece. 
“Those guys were terrific in scoring the ball,” corrigan said. “but i thought they were also the beneficiaries of us playing good, hard lacrosse.” 
kemp faced 15 shots on goal and stopped 10 of them. in its first two contests of the year, duke had averaged 16.5 goals per game. 
corrigan chalks up notre dame’s early-season suc­cess to its offseason and pre­season preparation. under his tutelage, the irish are 20-5 in season openers. 
“i think our guys work extremely hard in the pre­season,” corrigan said. “we have optimal conditions to do that in the loftus center, so i think we go into that game well prepared.” 
notre dame opened up a 6-0 lead and did not allow a goal until the closing min­ute of the first half. but the irish answered right away with goals by marlatt and kavanagh before the halftime horn. 
on paper, duke played bet­ter than the score indicated. The blue devils had the ad­vantage in ground balls and faceoffs and the two teams were even in the turnover de­partment. but notre dame managed eight more shots 15 nittany lions on Feb. 24. 


“There’s a lot of things i think we can clean up and be a lot better at,” corrigan said. “but for a first time and with the conditions we were in, i thought it was a really good effort. i thought our guys competed well. now the trick is to see if we can play better.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
than the blue devils. 
duke shuffled three dif­ferent goaltenders into the game, but none of them were able to slow marlatt and the notre dame offense down. 
recently, notre dame and duke have developed a non-conference rivalry. in 2010, duke beat notre dame in overtime to win the national championship. in 2011, the blue devils bounced notre dame from the ncaa tourna­ment in the quarterfinals. but the irish have won the last two meetings. 
“They’re a good team, and a team that we’ve kind of be­come rivals with, and i think continue to be rivals with,” corrigan said. 
with eight days between games, notre dame has plen­ty to work on before they head to penn state to face the no. 


paid adverTisemenT TRACK AND FIELD | big easT championships 
women win third title 
By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 
The irish displayed their supremacy among confer­ence competition when they competed at the big east championships at the spire institute in geneva, ohio, over the weekend. 
The irish women’s team took the title home to south bend, winning its third con­ference championship in notre dame school history, while the men’s squad fin­ished in second place behind connecticut. 
“This weekend was an in­credible experience for ev­eryone involved,” freshman middle distance runner eric gebeke said. “we had a ton of outstanding performances against some very impressive competition.” 
The women’s team, which defeated second-place connecticut by over 30 points, totaled 141 points over the two days of competition. 
sophomore sprinter Jade barber was named the co­women’s most outstanding Track performer of the meet after winning the 60-meter hurdles and running the first leg for the victorious 4x400­meter relay team. barber also placed second in the 200-me­


“This weekend was an incredible 
experience 
for everyone 
involved.” 
Eric Gebeke 
freshman 
middle distance runner 
ter dash with a time of 24.04. 
Junior sprinter michelle brown finished first in the 400-meter event with a time of 53.30, good enough for the 11th-fastest time in the na­tion. senior middle distance runner rebecca Tracy ran the fastest mile out of confer­ence competitors, recording a time of 4:40.72. 
The irish did not defend their men’s title, but they compiled 105.5 points overall and finished in the top three of the conference for the 18th-straight time. 
senior multi-event ath­lete Ted glasnow won the heptathlon with a total of 5,493 points. Junior sprinter patrick Feeney won his third consecutive 400-meter race at the championships and junior dJ Thornton earned honors in the big east with a standout time of 4:09.58 in the mile. 
“we were missing some of our best distance members due to injury this weekend, but we look forward to big east outdoors and beating connecticut in the near-fu­ture,” gebeke said. 
notre  dame  will  con­ 
tinue  its  bid  for  ncaa  
championship  success  at  

loftus sports center in the alex wilson invitational on mar. 1. 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 




Lee 
conTinued From page 20 
rebounded off mckay’s right knee pad, a trailing irish ju­nior left wing Jeff costello gained inside position on his defender and netted his eighth goal of the season. 
as has been notre dame’s problem in the second half of the season, miami quick­ly returned fire, scoring its own goal a minute later. but still holding a one-goal lead, notre dame played tight de­fense and avoided penalties the remainder of the third pe­riod to secure the 2-1 victory. 
neither team scored a pow­er play goal in the game, but special teams, particularly the irish penalty kill, played an important role in notre dame’s victory. with 90 sec­onds left in the first period, irish junior right wing mike voran received a five-min­ute major penalty and game misconduct for hitting from behind. The irish, helped by a miami penalty splitting up the five minutes, held the redhawks without a goal. 
“our penalty killing was obviously huge for us,” Jackson said. “we made some changes and had some guys that elevated their game and that’s what we have to have the rest of the way.” 
although the irish won the tough match sunday, they were on losing side of the close contest Friday night at steve cady arena. miami 
January struggles, Jackson re-
Simple 
peatedly called for his players 
conTinued From page 20 
to get back to their identity and 

play irish hockey, something to set the table for lucia at the that eluded them during that top of the crease. stretch of games. but, with 
The irish continued to dump sunday’s simplistic win, the and chase with the lead and irish have now won four of their 
The Irish usually pride themselves on puck possession and surgical passing, but on the soft, bumpy ice they went with a decidedly more blunt game, stressing dump-ins, hard checks and getting pucks and bodies to the net. 
controlled the pace of play with their hard work along the boards. Their second goal came in a similar fashion, as junior captain anders lee threw a backhand at the net, where junior left winger Jeff costello charged in to send the rebound home. 
The redhawks scored in the third period to make the game 2-1, but the irish closed out the game with more hustle and checking. with miami’s extra attacker on the ice, it was the gritty costello who trapped the puck in the corner, fighting off anyone who came after it un­til — and through — the final whistle. 
For irish coach Jeff Jackson, the win had to be a thing of beauty. during the team’s last five and seem to be hitting their stride at the right time. 
with four games left to play, the irish are just three points behind first-place miami in the ccha standings and the play­offs are just around the corner. The homestretch of the season tore the irish apart last year, but, if sunday’s outdoor win was any indication, the irish have found a little formula for success on the big stage: 
Focus on the simple things, and let everything else take care of itself. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of  The Observer. 
netted two goals in the sec­ond period of Friday’s game and notre dame couldn’t overcome the two-goal defi­cit, despite a late goal by irish freshman steven Fogarty in the third period. 
“i thought we played a de­cent game,” Jackson said. “defensively, without the puck, we were pretty good. we didn’t give them a whole lot.” 
The irish held the redhawks to 22 shots on goal, 10 less than miami av­erages in conference play. however, notre dame was not able to generate much on offense either, with 21 shots on goal and just two in the first period. 
“you have to be able to make plays under pressure to score goals, especially teams that pressure like miami,” Jackson said. “They’re a great team and we didn’t have much opportunity to score until the third period when we finally turned it up a notch and played with a little bit more grit.” 
The irish have now won four of their last five games after going 2-6 in the month of January. next weekend will present another chal­lenge, but also an opportu­nity as the team will travel to kalamazoo, mich., to face no. 6 western michigan, who holds a one-point advantage in the standings over the irish. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Providence 
conTinued From page 20 

sherman and senior forwards Jack cooley and Tom knight were the only players in double figures for the irish. sherman and knight scored 11 points each, while cooley led notre dame with 12. 
providence outrebounded the irish 43-32, including a 16­10 advantage on the offensive glass. 
“i was disappointed in our energy early in the game de­fensively,” brey said. “and [providence] got confident. and i know that’s a team that put 51 on the board in their last game in the second half. i’m re­ally impressed with them and i’m glad we don’t repeat them. and i hope we don’t see them in new york [for the big east tournament]. They’re really good.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
The irish have a quick turn­around, as they square off with no. 16 pittsburgh on monday night. The panthers (20-6, 8-5) lost to no. 18 marquette 79-69 on saturday and have the same record as notre dame. The two squads sit tied for fifth in the congested conference, one­and-a-half games back of first place. 
pittsburgh had won three consecutive games, includ­ing victories over then-no. 6 syracuse and then-no. 17 cincinnati, before falling to the golden eagles. senior guard Tray woodall paces the panthers with nearly 11 points per game to go along with 5.4 assists per contest. 
The irish face off with pittsburgh on monday at 7 p.m. at the petersen events center in pittsburgh. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: celebriTies born on This day: chord overstreet, 24; lupe Fiasco, 31; Joseph gordon-levitt, 32; billie Joe armstrong, 41 
Happy Birthday: Forward motion will be required. recognize how you can contribute to any job, group or endeavor you take part in and you will make new acquaintances. let your intuition guide you when it comes to partner­ships. your ability to act quickly will spare you from loss. stay in control instead of being controlled. your numbers are 4, 17, 21, 25, 32, 38, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take the high road when faced with adversity. of­fering information and being helpful will be your ticket to success. an interest­ing partnership will help you out mentally, emotionally and financially. make romance the highlight of your day.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get involved in something that you feel passionate about. Take a leadership position and prepare to face any challenge or opposi­tion you meet head-on. your courage will not go unnoticed and will lead to an interesting encounter with someone special. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do your own thing and back away from anyone who is trying to control you. a lack of respect and trust is apparent. before you help someone, find out if the recipient is as deserving as you are led to believe.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take hold of whatever situation you face. voice your opinion and refer to past experiences to make your point. don’t let a creative opportunity pass you by because you are lacking in motivation. once you begin, you will be glad you did. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): it’s fine to have plenty of ideas, but if you don’t follow through with at least some of them, the time spent mulling over them will be a waste. your thoughts must be followed by actions if you want to excel. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t take someone else’s word. investigate what’s being said and find out firsthand how you can deal with any changes that might influence your life. staying on top of what’s happening will make a difference. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): be unique, imaginative and engaging and you will be noticed. your ability to pull things together will result in greater interest from someone who can offer you either personal or professional assistance. love and romance are heading your way.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): size up your situation as well as anyone influ­encing your life. wager the consequence of making a personal change. The outcome may be costly if you don’t go about doing things in accordance with the standards you usually live by. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):put love, pampering and having fun first. you deserve a break and should follow your heart when it comes to love and romance. changes at home will be beneficial and contribute to maintaining a positive attitude and a brighter future. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t jump just because someone puts de­mands on you. separate your emotions from what you know you must do and proceed without hesitation. practical application will help you cut your losses and allow you to make improvements. don’t back down. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen, but don’t make decisions based on what someone tells you. emotional ups and downs can be expected, causing you to appear inconsistent or out of control. keep your feelings a secret and observe what’s going on around you with caution.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t go overboard and you will get your way. look over contracts or your personal papers and you will find a way to save money. a chance to use your talent must be displayed. someone will recognize what you have to offer. 


Birthday Baby: you are inventive and popular. you are insightful and a team player. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY | miami (oh) 3, nd 1; nd 2, miami (oh) 1 
Great outdoors 
Notre Dame tops Miami in game at Soldier Field 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
it was a big venue, but a bigger game. 
playing outdoors at soldier Field on sunday, no. 12 notre dame defeated no. 3 miami, 2-1, to split the weekend series after losing 3-1 on Friday night in oxford, ohio. 
sunday’s victory in the officemax hockey city classic marks the first time the irish (19-12-1, 15-8-1-1 ccha) have beaten the redhawks (19-8-5, 14-6-4-4) since 2010. The win also allows notre dame to re­main in the hunt for a ccha regular season championship, as the team sits three points behind first-place miami and one point behind second-place western michigan. 
“[sunday’s win] is important for us in a big way as far as where we want to finish the season,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “To win a game against miami on the road is a challenging feat, and we’re fortunate that we were on the road but not in their building.” 
The game at soldier Field was the first outdoor game for the irish since their varsity program started in 1968. while the out­door game presented a few chal­lenges, the team handled the conditions well and stuck to its game plan of simplicity, Jackson said. 

“The weather was beautiful,” Jackson said. “it was actually a perfect day, but the ice was soft in some areas and a little bumpy and you just have to play a smart game in that situation and our guys did. 
“we talked to our guys about just keeping our game simple, not trying to do too much. … They kept it simple and i felt really good about the way we played.” 

after a scoreless but well-fought first period, the irish found the net first when fresh­man left wing mario lucia put away a pass from irish junior right wing bryan rust midway through the second period. rust took the puck after the irish won a faceoff in the miami zone, maneuvered past a redhawk defenseman near the left side of the net and made a short pass to lucia, who banged it home. 
“i think scoring the first goal important when you’ve got tough ice conditions,” Jackson said. “you never know when you’re going to get those kind of opportunities again.” 

The irish held the 1-0 ad­vantage until the 8:33 mark of the third period. irish junior center and captain anders lee advanced the puck against miami’s defense and put a shot on redhawk freshman goalie ryan mckay. after the puck 
is huge, but it’s also even more see lee PAGE 18 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
a lethargic notre dame squad never led against providence on saturday, and the Friars domi­nated the no. 21 irish in the sec­ond half en route to a 71-54 win at the dunkin’ donuts center in providence, r.i. 
notre dame (20-6, 8-5 big east) only trailed by eight at half­time, but providence (14-11, 6-7) stormed out of the gates to begin the second half, embarking on a 31-15 run in the first 10 minutes of the half to claim a 65-41 lead. 
“They’re really good, and they were waiting on us today … and they delivered the blow,” brey said in a postgame press confer­ence. “That was the varsity ver­sus the J.v. a little bit today.” 
notre dame had won five of its last six games, including a pair of overtime victories in its last two tilts. providence, meanwhile, had won three consecutive games entering saturday and has now won four in a row for the first time since 2004, which was also the last time the Friars had beaten the irish. 
notre dame had played six overtimes in its previous two games. nonetheless, brey was quick to credit the Friars. 
“we’ve invested a lot emotion­ally and physically over the last week and my demeanor was certainly not to rant and rave,” brey said. “i’m thinking, ‘we’ve got another one monday night [at pittsburgh] and we need to get out of dodge and try to get our energy back and see if we can get some juices back for ‘big monday.’ it’s been a long week, but i’d say 95 percent of today was providence’s performance and they were fabulous.” 
providence junior forward kadeem batts scored 20 points, and junior guard bryce cotton, the big east’s leading scorer, poured in 19 of his own. Friars senior guard vincent council flirted with a triple-double, recording seven points, 11 re­bounds and 11 assists. 
“i think they are the most un­derrated team in our league, quite frankly,” brey said of providence. “They’re really hard to guard. i think [providence coach] ed [cooley has] done a fabulous job with them, running their stuff. i don’t know if it was as much about us not playing great as it was them really play­ing well. 
“and when batts is doing that inside — he’s a pro — it’s just al­most impossible to stop him.” 
notre dame trailed by five in the waning moments of the first half, but Friars junior for­ward lee goldsbrough drained a buzzer-beating three to extend the lead to eight heading into the intermission. providence carried that momentum into its 
Irish succeed by keeping it simple, returning to basics 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
walking around soldier Field with its greco-roman columns and retro signs feels like a trip to the past — to a simpler time when stadiums were named after war heroes, not websites. 
it was fitting, then, that the 90-year-old stadium in chicago played host to the hockey city classic on sunday, as the out­door games were billed as a re­turn to hockey’s most basic roots of childhood games out on the pond. 
and, keeping with the theme, no. 12 notre dame upset no. 3 miami on sunday by taking its game back to its simplest elements. 
The irish usually pride them­selves on puck possession and surgical passing, but on the soft, bumpy ice they went with a decidedly more blunt game, stressing dump-ins, hard checks and getting pucks and bodies to the net. 
Freshman left wing mario lucia will go down as the first goal-scorer in soldier Field his­tory, but the real work on that tally was done by junior right winger bryan rust, who drove through the redhawk defense 
see simple PAGE 18 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | providence 71, nd 54 
Irish offense sputters in loss to Providence 

second-half run. senior center garrick 
see providence PAGE 18 






