The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 111 | TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Office of the Registrar to change class times 
Senior associate provost says 2013-2014 changes should reduce scheduling conflicts 
By CRISTINA SANCHEZ 
news writer 
The office of the registrar recently introduced a series of scheduling revisions it will implement next academic year. senior associate provost christine maziar said the changes aim to reduce the number of course conflicts. 
“what we have done is opened up more scheduling slots, particularly on monday and wednesday mornings, that allow for classes previ­ously held on Tuesdays and Thursdays to be held on 




SMC names Allison Sherman as valedictorian 
each student receives was very im-she hired sherman as a teaching 
By KELLY KONYA 

news writer portant in my final decision to at-assistant after having her as a “star student” in calculus iii. “sherman 

chemistry professor honored as cottrell scholar 

on Friday, saint mary’s an­
nounced the valedictorian of 
the class of 2013 will be allison 
sherman of batavia, ill. 
sherman, a computational 
mathematics major, said she 
originally liked saint mary’s be­
cause of the professors’ 
com-has the rare ability to explain con­

cepts that she clearly has mastered 
outside community that i’m 


By HENRY GENS 

to other students who have not yet on the right track.” 
news writer 

achieved the same level of under­
schultz said his research 

standing,” snow said. 
The research corporation currently focuses on develop­
sherman said her experiences as 

for science advancement ing analytical instrumentation 
a teaching assistant in the depart-
chemistry (rcsa) recently for biomedical applications. 
ment have encouraged her to pur­
scientists use these novel 
mitment to teaching and the 

sue a career in education. she is in 

methods to understand dis­
eases such as diabetes and 
cancer by characterizing mol­
ecules on the surface of cells college’s small class sizes. tend saint mary’s,” sherman said. the process of applying to several 

“There is a strong sense of commu-professor Joanne snow, chair of 
nity and the personal attention that the mathematics department, said 
see sherman PAGE 4 


students accepted to study 
and honing in on micro-parti­cles shed from distressed cells into the bloodstream. 
schultz said the research he accumulates 
in his labs outlines how he 
tries to teach his classes for 
undergraduate chemistry 
named notre dame profes­


abroad programs for 2013 
sor Zachary schultz one of 13 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
in a few months’ time, many notre dame students will disperse to locations as far-flung as london, hong Kong and perth through the university’s diverse study abroad opportunities. 
Kathleen opel, director of international studies, 
see abroad PAGE 2 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
cottrell scholars for 2013, a prestigious early-career award recognizing excellence in teaching and research in the physical sciences. 
The rcsa is a philanthropic foundation that provides sci­ence funding for top early-ca­reer teacher-scholars. 
“it’s nice because the cottrell scholar award is from people who have succeeded, recognizing what i’m trying to do is important,” schultz said. “it’s confirmation from the majors. 
“in my instrumental anal­ysis course, one of the re­quirements is a term project using actual state-of-the-art chemical instrumentation on campus to answer a research question,” schultz said. 
promoting undergraduate science education is one of the key components of the cottrell scholar selection criteria and something schultz said he 
see scholar PAGE 3 


inTernships PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6  scene PAGE 8 women’s basKeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastell@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Do you think Pigtostal will happen? 

Steven Hayworth 
senior 
o’neill hall 
“why wouldn’t it?” 
Gabrielle Muzzarelli 
senior 
lyons hall 
“yes, it has to happen. it’s my senior year!” 
Allison Kerin 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“i’m a freshman. i don’t know what that is.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Rob Weir 
freshman 
Keough hall 
“what is that?” 
Jon Olansen 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“pinktostal?” 
Luke Grey 
freshman 
Keough hall 
“no, it didn’t happen last year.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kaitlyn rabach chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Katie mccarty Katie heit Kelly Konya greg hadley 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemake maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Film: “The Weight of Colloquium: Zen Meditation Celebration of the Men’s Lacrosse 
wei lin caroline schurz 
the Oath” Neutrinos Coleman-Morse Lord’s Passion Arlotta Stadium Snite Museum of Art Nieuwland Science Center Basilica of the Sacred 1 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Hall 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Heart Game vs. St. John’s. 
Corrections 

Hunters in West Africa 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Practice sitting and 3 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as live by their own rules. Physics lecture. walking meditation. Good Friday service. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Four:7 Catholic Borderlands Poetry Adoration Stations of the Cross Paschal Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fellowship Reading Project Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall DeBartolo Hall Heart Heart Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-11 p.m. 7:15 p.m. 9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Student-led Catholic Poetry about borders, Adoration for Holy Meditate on the Celebrated by Rev. 
we can correct our error. 

fellowship. migration and home. Thursday. Passion. Peter Rocca. 


Center grants funding for summer 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
although deadlines for 
many  summer  programs  
have  passed,  loriann  
edinborough,  program  

director of the global internship initiative at the career center, said students can still find internships through the center. 
edinborough said the go irish system, accessible on the career center website, is a good place to start and of­fers internships applicable to a number of careers. 
“The internships range the full gamut of functions and industries from film post-production in chicago, to investment research ana­lyst in connecticut, to busi­ness development in south bend,” edinborough said. 
aside from the career centerwebsite,edinborough said potential interns can find openings on websites such as internship.com and internmatch.com. she said students can also create unique internship opportu­nities for themselves. 
“some types of intern­ships that students want might not be posted online anywhere, so we work a lot with students on how to cre­ate your own internship, too,” edinborough said. “The non-profit virtual career Fair also connects interns with organizations, 


Abroad 
conTinued From page 1 
said this year the office of international studies (ois) received 1,250 appli­cations for programs from 904 unique applicants, most of whom are current­ly sophomores. she said applicants could apply for a first- and a second-choice program. 
“[The number of appli­cations we received] was around what we usually get but just slightly lower than it was last year,” opel said.  
ois notified sophomores of their acceptance to an international program Feb. 8 and gave them one week to confirm their participation. 
opel said the acceptance rate for all study abroad programs was between 80 and 81 percent. because of the competitive nature of some programs, she said not all students were placed in their first-choice program. 
“in [some] cases, we had great applicants where we only had a certain num­ber of beds,” opel said. “oxford is a great exam­ple  we only have room 

accessible on the Jobs/ internships tab of go irish.” The career center grants funding for stu­
“The bottom line is to connect with the Career Center.” 
LoriAnn Edinborough 
program director 
Global Internship Initiative 

dents interested in customizing their own in­ternships, edinborough said. applications for this funding are on the career center’s website and the deadline is april 19. edinborough said students can receive up to $3,000 for unpaid internships and up to $1,000 for paid internships. 
summer opportunities ought to focus on developing the skills employers want to see, including communica­tion skills, personal initia­tive and strong work ethic, edinborough said. 
“during the summer, try to think about how to incor­porate enhancing some of those skills,” she said. 
edinborough said stu­dents should also pursue job-shadowing opportuni­ties, conduct mock inter­views and network. 
“statistics say 70 to 80 per­cent of jobs are not posted, 

for seven students. … and therefore, even if we have 24 great applicants who meet all of our criteria, there are only seven spac­es. That happens in a num­ber of our programs.” 
students can choose from 40 programs in 30 countries, opel said. some locations, such as dublin and hong Kong, host mul­tiple programs. 
“london, dublin, and perth are the three most popular programs,” opel said.  “There are also pop­ular programs in Toledo, spain and rome, italy, as well as smaller programs such as those in puebla, mexico; nagoya, Japan and dakar, senegal.” For the second year in a row, notre dame ranks ninth among american institutions of higher learning in the per­centage of students partic­ipating in a study abroad program, opel said. This they are developed through networking,” edinborough said. “The same logic ap­plies to internships.” 
edinborough said it may be difficult to find an in­ternship that fits a person perfectly, but for those who show initiative and can navigate the various career search sites, summer in­ternships present a stellar chance to bolster a résumé and develop job skills. 
“The bottom line is to con­nect with the career center,” edinborough said. “it’s no exaggeration to say that as far as internship opportuni­ties, they have it covered.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 
ranking was released as part of a report by the institute for international education (iie), which monitors study abroad and international education opportunities for students. 
“[iie waits] one year af­ter they tabulate it, and then they announce it the next year. so we are actu­ally seeing the results this year from our study abroad period from 2010 to 2011, i believe,” opel said. 
opel said studying abroad can be formative personally and profes­sionally. she said it can broaden students’ per­spectives and teach them both about the world and about themselves. 
“The kinds of things that you learn, if you embrace studying abroad, are re­ally important in your fu­ture career,” opel said. “employers are looking for someone with good com­munication skills, with adaptability, someone who has some grit and de­termination. and one of the things that studying abroad does for you is that it builds all of those sorts of skills.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 
Scholar 
conTinued From page 1 
actively seeks to encourage. 
“in the course i teach, i al­low them to choose whatever question they want to answer because if they choose some­thing that they’re interested in then they’ll be much more engaged in learning,” schultz said. “The result is a pretty diverse range of projects over the two years i’ve taught this, from imaging the roughness of finishes to quantifying caf­feine content in soft drinks.” 
The cottrell scholar recog­nition includes a $75,000 mon­etary award split over three years, schultz said. he said this will then enable him to pay some of his undergraduate students to work in his lab over the summer. 
“i tell [my students], ‘if you’re going to work for me in the summer, you’re going to get paid because people get paid to do science,’” schultz said. 
schultz said the students were one of the main reasons he chose to join notre dame’s faculty in 2009.  “it’s always fun to work with bright stu­dents and the university is heading in a really positive direction in terms of pushing science and science educa­tion,” he said. 
althoughy schultz said notre dame has only recently begun focusing more on sci­ence initiatives, he said sci­ence has always been a part ofethe universite’s history. 
“one of the stories i al­ways tell people is about how Knute rockne was a part-time football coach and part-time graduate student in chemis­try,” schultz said. “he gave up chemistry to pursue foot­ball full-time and i think that worked out all right for him. but it just shows that science has always been an integral part of the university.” 
schultz said he discovered he wanted to pursue a career in research when he was a sopho­more at ohio state university. 
“i was initially a pre-med student, but i didn’t enjoy dealing with sick people very much,” schultz said. “i found doing research to be fun and when i realized you could ac­tually do that for a living, the choice was pretty clear.” 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Fulbright scholar describes hometown in China 
By  REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
yan song, a Fulbright teach­ing assistant at saint mary’s, of­fered a firsthand account of life in lanzhou, china in the mother pauline room of cushwa­leighton library on march 25. 
The presentation, sponsored by the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil), gave faculty members and stu­dents a dose of chinese culture. 
home to song and three mil­lion others, lanzhou marks the geometrical center of china and is the capital of gansu, one of the country’s 34 provinces. 
“it’s a great tourist location because of the surrounding his­torical sites,” song said. “with the maiji mountain caves to the east and the buddha caves to the west, it attracts a lot of visitors.” 
once a key point in the silk road, lanzhou remains central to surrounding regions’ trans­portation and telecommunica­tion, song said. she attributed this reliance to the capital’s loca­tion on the yellow river, the sec­ond largest river in asia. 
“it’s vital because it’s the only provincial city that the river runs through,” song said. 
Though motorboats are acces­sible, song said many lanzhou residents use sheepskin rafts to conveniently navigate the city’s veins. unique to the yellow river, these simple rafts are made of in­flated sheep or pigskins. 
The floating devices are not the only interesting sights available on the yellow river’s banks, song said. The city is teeming with artwork. 
song said she believes the yellow river mother sculpture, located symbolically along the river, is the most significant of expositions. 
“The yellow river is often re­ferred to as the mother of china,” she said. 
many other structures flank the river’s shore, song said, such as lanzhou’s waterwheel park, a water conservation system for­merly used to irrigate local crops, and the Zhongshan bridge, the yellow river’s first iron bridge. 
“lanzhou adds the grand beauty of northern chinese cities to the quaintness of the south,” song said. “it’s a harmonious combination of the modern and the old.” 
song said her hometown also offers religious diversity. gansu province is roughly 10 percent muslim, she said. 
song said lanzhou currently has 1,000 muslim noodle shops that, combined, serve 1,000,000 bowls of hand-pulled beef noo­dles a day. The elastic noodles are boiled in beef-liver broth and have extra potassium carbonate added to them. 
“it is the most loved food in china. it’s so delicious,” song said. “many people in china eat 
Sherman 
conTinued From page 1 
teaching certificate programs and has not decided which program she will attend after graduation in may. “in the future, i hope to teach at the collegiate level and further my study of mathematics,” sherman said. “i want to always be learning new things and i hope to inspire my own students to do the same.” 
mary connolly, professor of mathematics, said she helped sherman develop her love for math­ematics and encouraged her to decide on a math major. connolly said sherman’s skills extend beyond academics. 
“computational mathematics is a major which combines significant computer science with higher-level mathematics classes,” connolly said. “allison is a very talented com­puter scientist, but one of her truly outstanding qualities is her generos­ity towards other students.” 
sherman said her key to success is entertaining a healthy balance of friends, academics and extracurric­ular activities. she balances school with her roles as treasurer of the mathematics club, president of the saint mary’s chapter of pi mu epsilo, and participant in the national mathematics honorary society. 
sherman’s former roommate erin masko said sherman is a diligent student. 
“she never puts off work for the next day, but instead tackles it right away,” masko said. “she is won­derful, and deserves this honor of valedictorian.” 
sherman said she is grateful to be honored as her class’s valedictorian. “i was extremely surprised, and i feel incredibly honored to represent my class,” sherman said.  “i owe a great deal of gratitude to the entire mathematics department faculty at saint mary’, and in particular, professor snow, who has encour­aged me throughout my collegiate career.” 
 Contact Kelly Konya  at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

it, but it all comes from my city.” although song said she feels privileged to be studying in the 
“Lanzhou adds the grand beauty of northern Chinese cities to the quaintness of the south.” 
Yan Song 
Fulbright teaching assistant 

united states, she admitted she missed the food of her city the most. elaine meyer lee, direc­tor of the cwil, said most of the “chinese” food in the united states is cantonese style, which is more common in the southern part of china. 
song studied english for ten years in lanzhou but said she had felt deprived of understand­ing american culture because she was not immersed in it. 
“i did not have a real vivid im­age of what christmas was,” she said. “now i have experienced christmas and halloween. it has furthered my education to see the different kinds of western fes­tivals and celebrations. 
“we cannot learn basic cultur­al differences from our textbooks. we must cherish diversity of all the people here, and respect their rights.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



new Jersey man wins $338 million jackpot 
Associated Press 
passaic, n.J. — The winner of a $338 million powerball jackpot told several media outlets monday that his first priority will be helping his family. 
pedro Quezada, 44, entered eagle liquors store, where the ticket was sold, late monday afternoon. The passaic store owner ran Quezada's ticket through the lottery machine to validate that it was a winner as a newspaper and television outlets recorded the moment. 
The new Jersey lottery con­firmed that the winning ticket was validated at the store at 
4:30 p.m. monday, but offi­cials said they didn't yet know the winner's name. 
Quezada, an immigrant from the dominican republic, told reporters in spanish that he was "very happy" and that he intends to help his family. 

his wife, ines sanchez, told The record in bergen county that Quezada called her with the news monday afternoon. 
"i still can't believe it," she said. "we never expected it but thank god." 
The numbers drawn saturday were 17, 29, 31, 52, 53 and powerball 31. a lump sum payout would be $221 million, or about $152 million after taxes. it's the fourth-largest jackpot in powerball history. 
The family's apartment sits at the end of a short dead end block that abuts a highway in passaic, 15 miles northwest of new york city. neighbors spoke with pride that one of their own had struck it rich. 
eladia vazquez has lived across the street from Quezada's building for the past 25 years. The block has a half-dozen three-story brick apartment buildings on each side, and vazquez says it's a neighborhood where everyone knows everyone, including what car they drive and what parking space they use. 


vazquez described Quezada and his wife as "quiet and not overly talkative" but sensed that they seemed to be work­ing all the time. 
paid adverTisemenT 

Registrar 
conTinued From page 1 
approve that scheduling, she said. 
“when courses are sched­uled outside of standard times, it creates a series of conflicts for students,” maziar said. “students en­countered difficulties in scheduling standard courses they needed or desired be­cause non-standard courses created conflicts in their schedules, blocking them from taking the necessary standard courses.” 
The revised system will minimize these conflicts, maziar said. 
“i would imagine that the ability to offer monday­wednesday classes on the same course offering pat­tern as Tuesday-Thursday classes will open up more opportunities for students to put together their sched­ules,” she said. “The sched­uling change means that all classes will fit into stan­dard slots, either a monday­wednesday-Friday pattern, a monday-wednesday pat­tern or a Tuesday-Thursday pattern, although there are important exceptions like language courses that 
meet five days a week or laboratory courses that re­quire a three-hour class period.” 
maziar said she expects college of arts and letters students, in particular, to benefit from these chang­es because the Tuesday-Thursday course pattern is so popular within the college. 
maziar said professors brought The current schedu­lingtconflict to her atten­tion last fall when they were unable to schedule certain classes because teaching space was largely unavailablr. upon further investigation, she said she noticedsclass­rooms were being used un­productively and proposed adjusting class times in or­der to increase classroom availability. 
students likely will wel­come the scheduling revi­sions, maziar said. she said it was important the adjust­ment occur at the beginning and not in the middle of an academic year so as to ensure a smooth transition to the new system 
“we worked diligently so that the scheduling frame­work would be in place before students registered for class­es at the end of this spring se­mester,” maziar said. 
Contact Cristina Sanchez at csanchez@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 


summer fever 
Samantha Zuba 
sports writer 

i start saying it’s almost summer new year’s day. allow me to explain. 
This is not because the sun has started to come out and i feel the hope of warmth. That’s just not how chicago or south bend works. Jan. 1 means it’s almost time for pitchers and catchers to report to spring training, which means it’s almost time for spring training games, which means it’s almost time for opening day, which means it’s almost summer. 
i really like baseball. 

as my dad (hi, dad!) likes to say, “it’s spring training again, and hope springs eternal.” even if you are a cubs fan, you can get excited during spring training and say, “maybe, maybe, this is the yea-” never mind. you all should give up. 
but everyone else, even astros fans (all seven of you), can hope. baseball fans everywhere are hoping the next mike Trout will emerge for their team and that maybe, just maybe, they will be cheering well into october. many are also laugh­ing at the yankees for acquiring vernon wells. 
i am. a lot. he’s 34, and the yankees will fork over $13 million of the $21 mil­lion owed him next season. For a guy that hit .230 last season. and clubbed a whop­ping 11 home runs. That’s some business sense, new york. 
granted, wells only played 77 games last season. so let’s travel back to 2011 when he played a full season. and hit .218. 
but that’s the beauty of the days lead­ing up to opening day. you can ignore the numbers. when it comes to the hometown team, hope reigns over bat­ting averages and eras. For example, i am blind to the fact that my dear white sox paid adam dunn approximately one gazillion dollars to hit .204 last year. i will be less blind come July when he’s doing it again and the white sox are on pace for astounding mediocrity, but right now, it’s all sunshine and happiness. i can pretend the white sox have a legitimate chance of winning the world series even though their big free agent acquisition this winter was Jeff Keppinger. 
he had a solid season last year for the rays, but he’s not exactly a blockbuster who will put the team on his back and carry them all the way to an a.l. pen­nant. i know this. but i can’t help ignor­ing it because it’s spring, and anything can still happen. maybe he will have a season for the centuries and lead a band of misfits to a world series title. paul Konerko will add banner numbers, and they’ll do it all without a catcher. because after a.J. pierzynski walked, the white sox did little to fill the position. 
sit down, Tyler Flowers, you do not count. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jen Gallic 
ideas of a university 

Three years ago, i arrived at school an overeager freshman excited for new experiences and, more than anything, excited to meet new people. Freshman orientation was a blur of activity, and i quickly hit the ground running, in­volved in just about every club i could find. about two months into school, i remember walking into the library feeling completely overwhelmed and a little exhausted. i had finally hit a wall. looking around for somewhere to sit, a friend i hadn’t seen since orientation called me over to sit with him. although we hadn’t seen each other since then, we got to talking and eventually started hanging out more. 
with this friend, i noticed something unique. For a reason i couldn’t quite explain, i immediately felt at home with him and found him trustworthy. we would study in the library together often, and whenever we were there late, he would insist on walking me back to my dorm even though it required going completely out of his way. it was only a few minutes every night, but during those moments when we were together outside of the context of class or study­ing, we really started to bond. we’d talk about just about anything and eventu­ally became best friends. 
reflecting back on the start of that friendship today, i realize that the rea­son i felt so comfortable with him was because he was constantly showing me how much he respected me as a woman. not in an obvious manner, but in the small things. he always insisted on walking me back and made sure to open the door for me. he didn’t do these things because he thought me defective or weak, and he didn’t do them because 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
he was interested in dating me (later in the year he started dating a mutual friend). he did them because he was a gentleman. as a gentlemen, he sought to show respect to me as a woman. 
acts of chivalry have changed since chivalry’s original association with knighthood. however, the idea of chiv­alry should not be lost. chivalry is about showing respect, and it is through learn­ing how to respect all women that men become gentlemen. so hold open a door, walk a girl back (and it doesn’t have to be a girlfriend or someone you’re interested in), smile, respect her as a woman and see what happens! 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 
Frosh-o used to consist of a lot of dancing. men and women would run across campus, singing and dancing for each other. one welsh Family Freshman orientation co-coordinator wrote on her blog in 2010, “The dances always involve lots of hip-thrusting, booty-popping, body-rolling and shimmying.” The men responded with their own performances. i remember backstreet boys and hip-thrusting ... lots of hip-thrusting. 
but things have changed. one women’s dorm decided to censor these dances because, it was argued, they rein­force “heteronormativity.” That is, these dances reinforce the idea that everyone is heterosexual and discriminate against sexual minorities. year after year, i’ve spoken with students who were offended by these orientation rituals. it didn’t take long for me to decide that i’d had enough during my Frosh-o. after the first eve­ning of dancing and being danced at, i decided to spend the rest of the time in my room. 
neither my friends nor i, however, found such antics to be unacceptable because of a reinforcement of heteronor­mativity. rather, they reinforced gender stereotypes from a culture at odds with our christian faith. This is a culture that says we can dance on each other, make out and sleep together saturday night and then move on sunday morning as if nothing happened. it is a culture that says the most important body parts (and the ones that the opposite sex ought to pay most attention to) are the ones con­nected to hips and chests. it is a culture that insists at the heart of all interaction between men and women is the need and desire for sex. 
surely this culture is at odds with a catholic university that prides itself on excellence. while providing an in­clusive, open environment for “sexual minorities,” it is important this nation’s preeminent catholic university teach its students to form healthy relationships between men and women consisting of self-gift. notre dame’s pastoral plan notes that “the call to chastity represents a divine invitation to develop relation­ships characterized by equality, mutu­ality and respect, qualities of a deeply spiritual nature.” 
we ought to cultivate these charac­teristics in freshman orientation and other introductions to the university. we ought to teach men and women to treat each other with respect, not merely out of a desire for a romantic relationship, but out of a holistic understanding of what it means to be man and woman. 
Jen Gallic is a junior studying econom­ics. She can be reached at jgallic@nd.edu 
Christopher Damian is a senior study­ing philosophy. He can be reached at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“civilization is the process of reducing the infinite to the finite.” 
Oliver Wendell Holmes 
American author and physician 


The opacity of hope 
Shaaya Ellis 
reason will prevail 

on april 16, 2009, the united states department of Justice, at the behest of president obama, released cia memos that the bush administration used to justify using enhanced interrogation techniques to solicit information that is vital to national security against suspected terrorists. The information provid­ed in the memos was released with such detail that several watchdogs groups, including cause of action, lauded obama for his campaign promise to achieve absolute government transparency. 
last week, a watchdog group, the Foundation for the defense of democracies, one of the groups that praised obama for his transparency, derided his ad­ministration for its lack of clarity with its drone poli­cy. Jay carney, obama’s press secretary, perpetuated the hoax that the memos do not exist and described the memos as “alleged memos that simply do not ex­ist” when asked about the drone memos. 
on may 8, 2011, The new york Times reported the existence of the drone memos. The new york Times said these memos were written in 2010 followed by months of extensive interagency deliberations and offer a glimpse into the legal rationale of the most significant decision made by the obama administra­tion — to move ahead with the killing of an american citizen without due process. 
This is a troubling aspect of the war with no end in sight. even more problematic than what can be considered victory in the war on Terror is the importance of transparency in government, espe­cially when a president asserts dictatorial powers and authorizes extrajudicial killings by directing the launching of a remote-controlled drone. 
in order to get a direct and concise response from the obama administration, republican senator rand paul from Kentucky took to the senate floor and commenced with a nearly 13-hour filibuster. after the filibuster, attorney general eric holder provided senator paul with a letter that clearly stated the united states could not kill americans on u.s. soil without due process. 
under no circumstance should the killing of an american on united states soil be held up as clas­sified information. while certain information that is collected by intelligence agencies and pertinent to the war on Terror needs to remain classified, the standards by which the united states government decides when to take an american life is not one of them. The mere fact that this administration is kept in secrecy when it come to the drone wars and ex­trajudicial killings should disgust all americans the same way many were in uproar about abu ghraib. 
The lack of transparency by this administration about drone strikes is staggering. even after drone strikes were already being conducted and reported on around the world, former white house press secretary robert gibbs was told by the obama ad­ministration to act as if there were no such thing as an active us drone program — regurgitating the hoax that the entire project was completely nonexistent. 
“when i went through the process of becoming press secretary, one of the first things they told me was, you’re not even to acknowledge the drone pro­gram,” gibbs said last month on chris hayes’ morn­ing show on msnbc 
military action without a formal declaration of war and targeted killings without a letters of marque and reprisal undermine our system of checks and balances and should be grounds for impeachment. obama made a promise to be the most transparent administration in history. even upon taking office, president obama claimed, “Transparency promotes accountability, which encourages public engagement and furthers collaborative government,” but with respect to the hundreds of drone strikes that have taken roughly 5,000 lives, he has left the american people in the dark. 
The president railed heavily against the bush administration’s use of enhanced interrogation techniques to solicit information that is critical to national security, but he goes on to expand the use of drones to kill people with no regard for the judicial process or the united states constitution. with all the unconstitutional drone strikes throughout his presidency, it’s hard to believe that barack obama was not only a teacher of constitutional law but also a recipient of the nobel peace prize in 2009, a feat not even mohandas gandhi accomplished.
 Shaaya Ellis is a sophomore political science ma­jor with a classics minor. He can be contacted at sellis2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 
israel-u.s. bromance must keep it real 
Jacob Sorrells 
The hoya 

although i’ve had my share of fond broman­tic escapades, it doesn’t take a fratstar to know a bonafide bromance when he sees one. we’re all familiar with the telltale signs: the effusion of en­dearing personal titles (e.g. “bro,” “dude,” “man”), constant reaffirmations of commitment (e.g. “i love you, dude”) and the consistent flow of inno­cent favors (e.g. wingmanning, bench-spotting, shampoo-sharing).
 That is why, petty personal politics between benjamin netanyahu and obama aside, the re­lationship between the united states and israel appears nothing short of bromantic — and ap­propriately so. it satisfies all the aforementioned criteria. we lavish israel with affectionate monikers like “our strongest ally in the middle east.” u.s. politicians from both sides of the aisle constantly compete to see who can more eloquently flex their “i love israel” muscles. The nations are continually exchanging technology and information. 
according to this analysis, one assumes the united states and israel will be bros for life, just like harry and ron, scooby and shaggy, Jay-Z and Kanye and the countless other stalwart bromances since cain and abel — or at least since before things got sticky. right? well, not so fast. 
a real bromance is defined by something far deeper than nicknames, gushy utterances, favors and other flirtations. it’s defined by a mutual and honest concern for each other’s long-term welfare and, at times, can require a constructive — but more critical — type of brotherly support. u.s. ac­tions undoubtedly reflect a concern for israel’s security in the future. but what about israel’s fu­ture as a democratic Jewish homeland? unless the united states acts soon, it will neglect to meet its bromantic obligations. 
as both parties become more and more en­trenched in hawkish pessimism, the window of opportunity for a two-state solution to the israeli and palestinian conflict is closing fast. if peace prospects die, israel as we know it will soon cease to exist. israel’s occupation of the west bank will be­come a permanent de facto annexation. israel will either grant citizenship to all the people between the Jordan river and the mediterranean sea, losing its Jewish majority and thereby ending the dream of a Jewish homeland, or it will withhold rights to vote and uproot its cherished democratic foundation. 
in either situation, the palestinians lose as well, as even the former scenario wouldn’t give them true self-governance. For these reasons — and many more — a two-state solution is the only option. 
To save its bromance and to save israel, u.s. lead­ers must create a framework for bringing the two sides together to mediate a two-state solution. 
obama’s current visit to israel and the west bank could be a great step in that direction, but we must urge the president to make this trip substan­tive and not merely ceremonial. both israelis and palestinians are distrustful of the other side, soured by decades of violence and failed peace attempts. 
it is unlikely that they will come to the table with­out a mediator. obama must make peace a prior­ity in his discussions with israeli and palestinian leadership. Two-state diplomacy cannot be over­shadowed by other issues. we must seize this op­portunity before the clock strikes midnight. This is no time to break the bro code. 
This column originally ran in the March 18 edition of The Hoya, serving Georgetown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By WILL NEAL 
scene writer 

oh, “spring breakers.” where do i begin? well, i’ll start by saying that, like it or not, this is one film you are never going to forget. From the crazed mind of harmony Korine, the story of four wild college girls and their ad­venture down to Tampa, Florida, reaches the point of dream-like insanity from the opening montage. it’s hard to sum up my feelings for this movie, but i can say with complete certainty this is one of the funniest and most outrageous films i’ve seen in years. if the sheer hilarity of the movie wasn’t surprising enough, “spring breakers” offers a rather bold underlying reflection on the current state of youth in america. who would’ve guessed? 
before we get into breaking this film down, let’s quickly jump into what this movie is all about. “spring breakers” follows the misadventures of Faith (selena gomez), candy (vanessa hudgens), brit (ashley benson) and cotty (rachel Korine) — four girls just looking for a good time. 
as much as these girls are dying to go to Florida to join in the march madness, they don’t exactly have the funds to pay for the trip. so, what do they do? steal a car, put on ski masks and rob a chicken shack, of course. next thing you know, the girls are packing up to go down south and cut loose from the “boring” and repetitive college lives they’ve been suffocated by for too long. From the bus ride to their beach party destination, their world tran­sitions into slow-motion, booze-filled montages to the tunes ofpdubstep. 
From here, “spring breakers” breaks into an art-house style music video as we see hoards of party-goers getting trashed on the beach, at the pool and on hotel balconies. The girls participate in every moment of the madness, from keg-stands and foam parties to neon raves and hotel-room trashing (everything you could ask for in a quality spring break, right?). Things get a little too out of hand after all four of the girls (yes, even selena gomez) are caught with cocaine and sent to jail. you’d think the party would be over, but everyone knows that when four pretty girls are in distress, there’s always a knight in shin­ing armor to come along and save the day. Thankfully, we get something Far better than the standard upstand­ing gentlemanly role.  we get James Franco in cornrows playing a wannabe rapper and straight-up gangster named alien (“my real name is al, but truf be told, i am not from this planet, y’all”). alien then decides to take the girls (minus Faith) under his wing and show them the hustler lifestyle. From here, the storyline becomes dangerous and hysterically quotable (“some people tell me i got to change. i am ‘bout sTacKin’ change!”) as the three remaining girls enter the adrenaline-fueled life­style of drugs, guns and gang wars. i won’t go into the ending, but just be aware the movie gets progressively crazier from start to finish. 
sure, the movie is out of control, but writer and direc­tor harmony Korine is a madman who sought to create a movie-going experience that comes off as a “poetic video game.” it’s certainly a bizarre intention for his film, but go on youTube and search for one of harmony Korine’s interviews with david letterman. you’ll get a great idea of where the insanity of “spring breakers” is coming from. 
There’s a moment in the movie’s beginning where Faith tells her friends she’s “tired of the same old thing” and wants to experience something new and different. This definitely reflects what Korine hopes to and does accomplish with his film, as it’s an experience that cer­tainly isn’t familiar. he’s been a part of the movie busi­ness since the age of 18 with his wild screenplay for the movie “Kids,” but even as a grown husband and father, Korine still strives to bring to life his chaotic concepts, which are always far from the norm. 
his bold filmmaking styles alternatively work for and against the film. nearly every piece of dialogue you hear is repeated and on loop two to three times over to set a dream-like tone for the audience. The pacing of the movie is spastic as almost half of the movie is made up of montages that are strung together with overlapping dia­logue. while most of the film is ridiculously entertain­ing, there are several moments that drag on for far too long and disrupt its fast-paced style. 
while he certainly isn’t conventional, Korine cre­ates some incredibly impressive moments, such as the chicken shack robbery where in one take, we see from the get-away driver’s perspective the whole robbery as she drives around the restaurant. what is even more bizarre than Korine’s directorial style is the film’s dia­logue. aside from alien’s endlessly quotable lines (“i’m made of money! look at my f***in’ teeth! They should call me ‘money!’”), the girls often get into extremely and unnaturally deep conversation topics about find­ing purpose in life ... right after drunkenly dancing in a parking lot in bikinis and high-top sneakers while sing­ing britney spears. These characters have aspects about them that seem genuine at times and completely exag­gerated at others. 
The four leading actresses give highly entertaining (if not overblown) performances, but ultimately they stand out stronger as a group than individually. ashley benson as brit is probably the weakest link in this en­semble due to a rather stale performance, even when energetic. selena gomez, though her character departs from the movie sooner than the other girls, gives a need­ed dose of emotion to her roll as the paranoid, good­hearted christian, appropriately named Faith. The roles of hudgens and gomez will frequently make your heads spin when you ask yourself, “These girls used to be on disney channel?” even with their g-rated starlet back­grounds, these two girls certainly shed away much of the personas we used to know them by. 
while this movie is by no means everyone’s cup of tea, i urge you to see “spring breakers” solely for James Franco’s performance. The guy completely transforms himself into the low-life alien as he steals every scene he’s in with a hysterical performance and delivery of his dialogue. The greatest scene of the film (and perhaps out of any movie this year) comes when the girls ask alien to play and sing them a “sensitive and inspiring song.” his song choice is britney spears’ “everytime,” which leads into a crime-filled montage with bed-jumping and gun-coddling. This scene is laugh-out-loud hilarious and may be enough of a reason to push people to see this movie. 
so, do you think you can handle the madness of “spring breakers?” Just be ready for a movie so weird, risqué, violent and ridiculously entertaining that you will consistently be turning to your friends asking what you are watching. This movie is not for most people. it’s frantic and all over the place, but because of its enter­tainment value, its crazed look into today’s youth cul­ture and James Franco’s hysterical performance, it may still be worth checking out. like it or not, you won’t for­get “spring breakers” after watching it. spring break fo­reva’, y’all. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
“Spring Breakers” 
AnnaPurna Pictures 
Director: Harmony Korine 
Starring: James Franco, Vanessa Hudgens, Selena Gomez 

The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By SHANE HANNON 
scene writer 

For the record, i have never been into Tv series. as cliché as it sounds, i am always more into watching sportscenter than a weekly drama or reality show. obviously, i watched “24” (who didn’t? it was only the single greatest television series of all time, besides, perhaps, “Friends”), but since that went off the air in 2010, i’ve resorted to espn’s “pardon the interruption” (pTi) and reruns of “Two and a half men.” 
however, this past spring break, instead of drinking on the beach with hundreds of wild and attractive college kids in the wee hours of the morning, i was lying in bed until 5 or 6 a.m., watching a show that has finally captivated my attention, “The walking dead.” 
currently in the latter half of its third season, “The walking dead” is an apoc­alyptic-zombie-horror drama that first aired oct. 2010 on amc. developed by 
By MAGGIE WAICKMAN 
scene writer 

Tired of listening to the same old iTunes collection? Top 40 not meeting your musical needs? looking for a new way to procrastinate that paper? expose your ears to notre dame’s on-campus, student-run radio stations, wsnd and wvFi. whether you are interested in new classical tracks, the latest indie re­lease or a funny talk show, these pro­grams can provide the aural pleasures you desire. The stations stream live at and wvfi.nd.edu. wsnd also broadcasts live at 88.9 Fm. 
Folk Music 

senior melissa Jordan hosts “Feelin’ Folky,” an hour-long program dedi­cated solely to folk music. Jordan has been with wvFi for the past three years, hosting a different show focusing on a different musical genre each semester. students looking for folk music select­ed by an experienced host can listen to Jordan every wednesday from 4 to 5 p.m. 
Frank darabont, who has directed such films as “The shawshank redemption” and “The green mile,” “The walking dead” centers around a man named rick grimes, played by actor andrew lincoln. grimes is the leader of a small group of people trying to survive in the rural out­skirts of atlanta after the world as they knew it was destroyed by a zombie apoca­lypse. There is no mention of how the zom­bie apocalypse originated. all we know is that the united states government has been overrun and citizens have been left to fend for themselves. infected people are stricken with a debilitating fever that kills them within days but brings them “back to life” as zombies. These “walkers” can­not run, are unintelligent, feel no pain and eat people. The only way they can truly be killed is with a fatal blow to the head. grimes’ job is to ensure the survival of the group, which includes his son and wife, as they attempt to find a safe haven to build a new life. 
Jazz 

wsnd’s program “Jazz Traditions” provides the opportunity to hear jazz music from a variety of traditions. “Jazz Traditions” broadcasts mondays and Tuesdays from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. and wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. hosts Joseph ahmad, sam Kaczmarek and benjamin pfeifer, all seniors, play bebop, swing, fu­sion, modal and cool. 
Indie Rock 

Junior cameron goodman, one of wvFi’s music directors, plays indie rock and alter­native music, with a focus on the obscure and the newly-released. his program, “spending warm summer days indoors,” broadcasts Thursdays from 9 to 10:30 p.m. Those look­ing to expand their musical palette into a more hipster territory can tune in for the cut­ting edge of indie rock. 
Symphony Orchestra 
every Thursday from 8 to 10 p.m., wsnd broadcasts highlights from the chicago symphony orchestra’s radio program. students looking to learn about classical 
The great part about “The walking dead” is it isn’t simply a shallow shoot­‘em-up series. Trust me, i didn’t watch 30 episodes in four days because of the mass zombie slaughter scenes. no, it actu­ally has an interesting plot with intrigu­ing characters and storylines. among the gore and suspense are storylines involving love, lust, joy, despair and betrayal. “The walking dead” producers have success­fully integrated all the features of modern dramas into an interesting and unprec­edented scenario. 
The part i personally find so addicting is the portrayal of human nature in the show. “The walking dead” brilliantly ex­plores the darker side of human nature, the side that surfaces in times of despera­tion — the dog-eat-dog mentality we all feel but rarely act on. The ethical and mor­al dilemmas grimes faces in every episode are so frustrating because i know what should be done, but i don’t know if that decision is actually the right one. contrary 
music can listen in for performances of both well-known and obscure pieces and a brief context for these pieces, including who wrote them and why. 
Student Comedy 
The “student stand-up sit-down radio show” broadcasts wednesdays from 10:30 
p.m. to 12 a.m. host robert reichle, a se­nior, and his guests provide listeners with a comedic study break, which usually fo­cuses on the various exploits of reichle’s life. students looking to hear some good comedy without taking a step outside their dorm room can listen to wvFi for this hu­morous stand-up-style talk show. 
Broadway 

Freshman Jenny poth hosts “nd on broadway” every Thursday from 6 to 7 p.m. students interested in belting out to their fa­vorite show tunes can listen in to hear a wide selection of original broadway recordings. 
Late-Night Listening 
students staying up late to finish that paper or cram for tomorrow’s exam can to what you may think, often the biggest threat to grimes and his crew is another competing group of survivors. decisions must be made regarding the life of an in­nocent stranger versus the safety of the group. This raw, survivalist portrayal of humanity adds a little something extra to the show. 
This show truly has something for ev­eryone. do you love action and violence? got it. how about romance, relationships and dramatic personal dilemmas? got it. sex? yup. The balance between the two ex­tremes of violence and drama makes “The walking dead” the most enjoyable show on Tv today. 
what i’m trying to say is, “The walking dead” is amazing.  if you care about grades, i wouldn’t start up until the sum­mer.  but if you know what’s good for you, you’ll at least give it a shot. 
Contact Shane Hannon at shannon1@nd.edu 
accompany their work with wsnd’s pro­gram “nocturne,” which broadcasts from 12 to 2 a.m. every night. students play their own musical libraries, music from indepen­dent rock labels and any requests listeners call in. “nocturne” can include any musical genre, from ‘80s exercise tunes to jam rock. 
Hip-Hop 
Junior mia lillis hosts “straight out the dungeons of rap” every monday from 12 to 2 a.m. lillis has been steadily building her knowledge of classical hip-hop since her early high school years. Those inter­ested learning about classical hip-hop or sharing an already-established love of the genre can tune in for this informative and interesting show on wvFi. 
don’t fear if your musical needs weren’t met by a program covered here. wsnd and wvFi have a slew of other genre-based programming just waiting to grace your ears. visit  nd.edu/~wsnd and wvfi.nd.edu for more information on programming. 
Contact Maggie Waickman at mwaickma@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Replay in NCAA needs improving 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
no matter if you watched four hours or 44 hours of basketball during the ncaa tournament four-day frenzy, your time was split into three neat categories 
— the game, the replays and the commercials. 
although seeing the same bud light blind date commercial dozens of times and learning about the “pickle roll” over and over again was not the ideal way to spend a saturday afternoon, the biggest detractor from some otherwise-exciting basketball was not the commercials, but ac­tually the replays — specifically the referee replay reviews. 
seeing replays of high-flying al­ley-oops by Florida gulf coast or re-watching the 3-point daggers by aaron craft, victor oladipo and shane larkin is not what has got me tied up in knots. rather, it’s the countless times the refer­ees stopped the game, moseyed on over to the official’s table and replayed the most recent series of events to make sure they made the correct call. 
The ncaa tournament is one of the greatest events in sports and it will continue to hold that status without any altera­tions. but if we are striving for perfection, then instant replay in college basketball needs an overhaul. 
official ncaa basketball rules allow referees to use replay equipment for situations involv­ing free throws, controversial 3-point baskets and flagrant fouls and also to adjust the game or shot clock if a mistake occurred. 
statistics on how many times referees review plays per game are not readily available, but judging from four days of basket­ball, each game averaged around three replay reviews, with a high­er frequency in close games near the end of regulation. 
The biggest issue with referee-replay review is the disruption to the game that comes along with the stoppage. at the end of a game, as many as three plays are reviewed in just a 30-second peri­od. any momentum shift caused by a big play can be cancelled out by the stoppage and, as davidson fans can attest to, these referee replays can also give teams dis­tinct advantages. 
on Thursday night no. 14 seed davidson was on the verge of upsetting no. 3 seed marquette, leading the golden eagles by one point with 10 seconds remaining. but an errant pass by davidson during the press break turned the ball over to marquette, who did not have any timeouts remaining. The referees reviewed the play to adjust the game clock though, essentially giving marquette a timeout. with the added 1.2 
seconds in hand, the golden eagles won the game on vander blue’s game-winning layup. 
davidson was doubly pun­ished by its critical turnover as the following replay review gave marquette time to huddle up and talk over a play. it’s certainly not the reason the wildcats lost, but the review of the game clock did impact the game. 
To reduce unnecessary stop­pages, reviews to adjust the clock should be almost completely eliminated. The majority of these reviews change the clock by less than a half second and clock er­rors should even themselves out over the course of an entire game anyways. 
anyone who watched one or two games last weekend prob­ably also learned the rules for flagrant fouls and the penalties they entail. The rule and penal­ties are another topic to discuss, but to avoid additional referee replays, flagrant fouls should be called during the action without instant replay. calling these fouls in the heat of the moment will help to differentiate inadvertent elbows from actual flagrant fouls caused by recklessness, malice or the particularly dangerous use of elbows above shoulder level. 
as a solution to the whole re­play review situation, the ncaa should adopt a similar system to the one used in the nFl. give each team one replay challenge for the entire game with the abil­ity to challenge any plays cur­rently reviewable under ncaa rules. unlike the nFl, though, don’t leave the last two minutes to the booth. Teams will almost certainly save their challenge un­til the end of the game anyways. The only exception should be automatic reviews for potential game-winning baskets at the end of a game. 
Finally, the ncaa should upgrade its replay equipment at tournament sites to speed up the process. as intriguing as it is to watch the referees watch themselves on Tv, depending on the actual game broadcast is not efficient. 
referee replay review is not infallible (just recall the mistake made Jan. 3 when colorado should have defeated arizona on a buzzer-beater that was called off). but these changes would go a long way towards perfect­ing and speeding up the process itself. 
once instant replay in college basketball is improved, the only thing standing between us and a perfect ncaa-tournament expe­rience will be those commercials. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Florida Gulf Coast steps into the spotlight 
Associated Press 

sherwood brown only wanted a bagel. 
The Florida gulf coast star walked into a restaurant on cam­pus monday and was quickly surrounded. people wanted au­tographs. people wanted photos. people just wanted to yell words of encouragement. 
a school that opened a mere 16 years ago finds itself front­and-center in march madness, one of only 16 college basketball teams left from a field of 68, hop­ing to win the ncaa national championship. 
“i had no idea it was going to be like this, but i’m loving it,” brown said as he made his escape from the shop. “i feel like we’re get­ting a lot of america behind us. i guess you could say we’re a part of america’s team at this point.” 
and the eagles spent the day savoring their moment. 
lines in the campus bookstore snaked from one side to the other, more than 100 people waiting for the chance to pay for their Fgcu shirts and hats. phone lines were jammed by those seeking tickets for this weekend’s south regional, and even the university presi­dent half-seriously wondered if he would be able to obtain what he needed. and as they arrived at classes, players were met with applause. 
“it’s so brand new,” eagles coach andy enfield said monday, as emails popped into his mailbox at a fairly dizzying rate. “no one knows — no one knew — what Fgcu stood for, the letters. now it puts our university in a national spotlight and rightly so, because this is a great place. it’s a young, vibrant university with just a lot of energy. i’ve been trying to tell that story to a lot of people.” 
The eagles play Florida in the south regional semifinals Friday night, two wins from a most-improbable trip to the Final Four. seeded 15th in their region, Fgcu knocked off both no. 2 georgetown and no. 7 san diego state in philadelphia over the weekend to keep their season going. 
enfield’s lone mistake so far 

FOR RENT 

COMMENCEMENT RENTAL-prime location on ND Ave. Beautiful house within walking distance to ev­erything. Email for additional info and photos nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 

Looking for used size 16 gym shoes. Call 574-291-6716 

in the ncaa tournament may have been what happened when he went to bed around 5:30 a.m. monday, roughly two hours after the eagles landed home in Fort myers after punching their ticket to the regional semifinals. 
before enfield went to sleep, he forgot to silence his ringer. suffice to say, he was awakened long be­fore he wanted. 
“it’s part of the moment,” enfield said. “we’re happy to sac­rifice a little sleep for the success of our program.” 
here’s maybe the best way to explain what’s happening right now with Fgcu: in a state where the gators are back in the region­al semifinals, where the miami hurricanes (who lost to Fgcu early this season) are still alive in the field and look very much like a title contender, and as the miami heat took a 26-game winning streak into their game at orlando on monday, it’s the eagles who might be the best story. 
lebron James picked them to win one game in his bracket. not two, though. 
“Just a hunch,” the nba’s reign­ing mvp said. 
The eagles — 26-10 over­all and 13-5 in the atlantic sun conference — are starting their own tradition, since they have no real tradition yet. of the 19 banners that sway in their gym to commemorate various accomplishments, the earliest en­try on them is for a women’s vol­leyball trip to the ncaa division ii tournament in 2004. 
“you come from a small school like that, and everyone just kind of looks at us like a mid-week prep game. ‘all right, we’ll get our win mid-week and then we’ll get ready for conference play,’” said chris sale, a former Fgcu pitcher now with the chicago white sox. “i don’t think that’s the way it’s go­ing to be from here on out.” 
The school has about 11,300 students, half of whom come from the state’s southwest sec­tion. The campus — which in­cludes a manmade lake and actual beach where students flock — sits on 760 acres of land donated by ben hill griffin iii. and that lends a certain irony to this eagles-gators matchup, given that Florida’s football team plays its home games in what ev­eryone calls The swamp but what officially is named for ben hill griffin Jr. 
Fgcu is in such infancy as a school that its oldest alumni probably have yet to turn 40. 
“i’ve been in higher ed for a long time, worked at several institutions, and i have not ex­perienced anything like this phenomenon,” Fgcu president wilson bradshaw said. “what has happened in the last three or four days has been exceptional.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
The man who invented it doesn’t 
PERSONAL 
want it. The man who bought it doesn’t need it. The man who 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? needs it doesn’t know it. What is it? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist “...We had to tip our hats to him. He was you. If you or someone you love lucky she hadn’t beat the **** out of him. needs confidential support or as-We wouldn’t have blamed her. What sistance, please call Ann Whitall he’d done was sneaky, rotten, and low... at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at and cool... He had kissed a woman. 1-5550. For more information, visit And he had kissed her long and good. ND’s website at: http://pregnancy­support@nd.edu Contact ghadley@nd.edu with the answer. 


NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Penn State, LSU prepare for tournament rematch 
Associated Press 
baTon rouge, la. — penn state coach coquese washington would like to be­lieve her team’s experience beating lsu on the lady Tigers’ home court in the second round of last year’s ncaa tournament would bode well for Tuesday night’s rematch. 
she’d be pleased if lsu’s rela­tive shortage of healthy players was something penn state could exploit. 
washington is also wise enough — she has undergradu­ate and law degrees from notre dame, after all — to be cautious about the lady lions’ favored status against an lsu team that has won eight of its last nine games. 
“They’re now playing their best basketball of the season, playing with a high level of con­fidence and playing on their home floor,” washington said of the lady Tigers. “That’s tough to play against, so we’ve got to be ready.” 
Third-seeded penn state (26­5), which advanced with an 85-55, first-round demolition of cal poly on sunday night, has a deeper lineup and better re­sume than lsu (21-11), which held on against green bay after nearly squandering an 18-point second-half lead. 
complicating matters for the lady Tigers is the uncertain sta­tus of junior guard and emotion­al leader Jeanne Kenney, who banged heads with teammate adrienne webb and was carried off the floor sunday night hold­ing a towel over her face. 
lsu coach nikki caldwell said tests were ongoing monday to determine if Kenney’s injury was serious enough to sideline her Tuesday night. if Kenney is out, lsu, whose motto has been “eight is enough,” (after the old Tv series) will have only seven available players. 
“The thing is, they’ve played with limited numbers all year. so they know how to play with seven people the whole game,” washington said. “They’ve dealt with it very, very well. 
“we want to dictate the tem­po,” washington continued. “it’s going to be a contrast in styles. we want it up-tempo, they prob­ably want it a little bit slower. so we’ll see which style can kind of win out.” 
washington added that when she was an assistant coach on notre dame’s 2001 national title team, the irish’s rotation was limited to eight players, “so i’m not feeling sorry for nikki caldwell. she’ll be fine.” 
working in the lady Tigers’ favor is that their short rotation has required the players who are available — including tal­ented freshman guard danielle ballard and 6-foot-4 fresh­man reserve center derreyal youngblood — to gain invalu­able experience. all the while, the team has jelled into a unit much more cohesive and formi­dable now than when it lost six of nine games from early January to early February. 
“we’ve fought through ad­versity all year long,” said all-southeastern conference forward Theresa plaisance. “This is just going to be another test.” 
The 40-year-old caldwell went so far as to compare her squad to the fictional youth baseball team depicted in the movie “The bad news bears,” the original version of which was a hit when she was a kid in the 1970s. 
“They weren’t really good ear­ly and they just plugged away, plugged away, and their confi­dence started to build,” caldwell said. “i’m proud of them for get­ting themselves into a position to compete again against a great team like penn state.” 
lsu has players versatile enough to jump between sev­eral positions, allowing them to match up well with opponents despite their lack of depth. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Tar heels future depends on rising freshmen 

tournament. The Tar heels duke, miami and Kansas — — during its late run before grew into unc’s top player. 
Associated Press 

only made it that far after and reached the acc tourna-topping villanova in its ncaa he averaged a team-high 18.2 
north carolina reversed williams switched from his ment final. opener. points after becoming a full-course from its early strug-post-centric offense to a four-“i really enjoyed coach-“it was certainly a roller-time starter and shot 40 per­gles only after coach roy guard lineup that spread ing my team. i really did,” coaster ride for me as a point cent from 3-point range. williams made a midseason the floor and shot lots of williams said after sunday’s guard trying to learn every-assuming hairston and strategic shift. whether the 3-pointers. loss to the Jayhawks in Kansas thing,” paige told reporters in junior guard reggie bullock hall of Fame coach stays with before the move, the Tar city, mo. “we had some tough, the locker room after sunday’s don’t flirt with the draft, the it will depend largely on who heels were a team with lop-tough losses early. They kept loss. “... we made some real Tar heels will return two elite returns for the Tar heels next sided losses to indiana, coming to practice every sin-big strides through the acc outside shooters along with season. Texas and miami to go with gle day and tried to do what tournament and even here key reserve leslie mcdonald 
north carolina (25-11) an 0-2 start in atlantic coast we wanted them to do.” for the majority of the way we — which could lead williams closed williams’ 10th sea-conference play. afterward, The Tar heels started the played in the ncaa tourna-to stay with the small-ball son at his alma mater with they won nine of 13 to close year with the challenge of re-ment. i’m pretty proud but at attack. sunday’s loss to Kansas in the season — the only loss-placing four nba first-round the same time — i’m not the regardless, incoming the third round of the ncaa es were to high ncaa seeds draft picks from a team that only one — we’re going to be freshmen isaiah hicks and 
had reached two straight pretty hungry to get better.” Kennedy meeks should pro-
paid adverTisemenT 
ncaa regional finals. They The Tar heels are only guar-vide a boost to the frontcourt reached as high as no. 9 na-anteed to lose one starter, se-that struggled to find steady tionally before an early loss to nior guard dexter strickland. production behind freshmen butler in which they fell be-sophomore forward James brice Johnson and Joel James, hind by 29 points — the first michael mcadoo had an up-and sophomore desmond sign that this year’s group and-down year in trying to hubert. filled with young and unprov-become unc’s go-to player as for williams, the 62-year­en big men would need time and will again have to de-old coach had a cancer scare to grow. cide whether to enter the nba just before the start of pre-
The promotion of sopho-draft or return to school. season practice but went on more guard p.J. hairston into mcadoo, a 6-foot-9 for-to earn his 700th career vic­the starting lineup sparked ward, was second on the tory against villanova and unc’s late-season surge team in scoring (14.4 points) reach 25 wins for the seventh along with the improvement to go with a team-high 7.3 time in 10 years at unc. of freshman point guard rebounds. but he shot just “we have a chance to be a marcus paige. 45 percent, including a 5-for-sensational basketball team 
still, north carolina beat 19 performance against the again,” he said, “but that’s not only one ncaa-bound team Jayhawks. going to help me get through 
— rival north carolina state instead, it was hairston who the spring.” 

The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Howland departs UCLA with gratitude 
Associated Press 
los angeles — ben howland kept it classy in departing as ucla basketball coach on monday, thanking the athletic director who had fired him a day earlier while noting the high expecta­tions that come with running a program that owns a record 11 national championships. 
howland was applauded by supporters as he walked into a news conference at pauley pavilion for the last time. The 55-year-old coach expressed gratitude for his 10-year run in westwood, the longest tenure since John wooden retired in 1975 after 27 years on the sideline. 
howland had a 233-107 record that included three consecu­tive Final Four appearances and four pac-12 titles, including this season, when the bruins were 25-10. Their season ended with a 20-point loss to minnesota in the second round of the ncaa tournament. 
“as a coach, you always re­member the losses way better than the wins,” he said. 
howland said he’s excited about his future and wants to coach again, although he doesn’t know where or when that will happen. 
“it’s where the best opportu­nity is,” he said afterward. “i can live anywhere. i want to compete at the highest level.” 
he said he took the unusual step of meeting the media after his firing because he wanted to publicly thank his current and former players and staff. he re­cited a laundry list of names, in­cluding his wife, Kim, who kissed him after he finished. 
no senior athletic department officials attended, including ath­letic director dan guerrero, who fired howland in a meeting on sunday. 
howland declined to discuss details of what was said. 
“i enjoyed our working rela­tionship, his support and his re­gard for all we accomplished,” howland said, reading from a prepared statement he had worked on after being dismissed. 
howland sidestepped a ques­tion on whether he was treated fairly, considering the bruins won the league’s regular-season title and lost in its tournament title game playing without fresh­man Jordan adams, who broke his foot in the semifinals. 
howland’s four league titles were the most by any ucla coach since wooden. 
“we had a great year. i was so proud of our players and coaches to win the pac-12 champion­ship,” he said. “i feel very good about leaving here with a good nucleus.” 
however, guerrero cited “a de­pleted roster” as one of the rea­sons he let howland go. 
attendance lagged at games this season despite a $138 million renovation of pauley pavilion, and ucla missed the ncaa tournament twice in howland’s last four seasons. The bruins haven’t reached the final 16 since 2008. 
“it’s very complex,” he said about coaching at ucla. “There’s a lot that goes into it.” 
a national search is under way for howland’s successor. 
“They’re not going to have a hard time finding a great coach to come in here. They’re not going to hire a rookie,” he said. “i just wish him the very best.” 
when he arrived in april 2003, howland said there would never be another wooden, who re­mained close to the program un­der howland’s stewardship until 
paid adverTisemenT 


he died in 2010. 
“it’s a place that has such high expectations and that’s under­standable,” howland said, call­ing ucla “the premier athletic program in the country.” 
howland pointed out that ev­ery player who stayed four years with him went on to graduate. 
he said he either met with or spoke by phone with his current players, who are on spring break this week. 
“i’ve encouraged them all to continue to work hard and to de­velop,” he said. “i’m nothing but supportive of these kids and their futures here at ucla.” 



ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame excels despite weather conditions 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
The irish entered the briar’s creek invitational in John’s island, s.c., as the highest ranked team in the field at no. 23 and the clear favorite. 
despite the pre-tournament accolades, the irish ended the first day of the tournament monday in a close-fought contest, tied for first place with coastal carolina and east carolina at 33 over par. rain and wind slowed the golf­ers until play was suspended due to darkness midway through the second round. The irish will complete the second round today and play the final third round. “[monday] was a very long day,” irish coach susan holt said. “The wind was consistently around 30 miles per hour, and the course was flooded yesterday, so we were playing it and really just seeing it for the first time.” 
sophomore ashley armstrong is in the midst of another strong performance, after winning the insperity lady Jaguar invitational last week. she is in third place individually after 12 holes in the second round. she currently leads all irish golfers at three shots over par, just one shot be­hind the leaders. 
Freshman Talia campbell also played well, rebounding from a tough first round to score one un­der par through the first 11 holes of the second round, catapulting her into a tie for seventh place. “ashley played excellent in tough conditions and managed the course very well,” holt said. “we didn’t play a practice round, so to be only three over par is just great.” however, the rest of the irish struggled throughout the day. Freshman lindsey weaver is the highest ranked individual in the field at no. 8 but double-bogeyed three holes en route to a 12 over par day. The rest of the irish all scored at least four shots over their season average. “we just didn’t play well as a team,” holt said. “There’s no other way to say it. every player had some problems. it was a little bit of everything overall.” after the first 18 holes, the irish were tied for seventh place, be­hind Kansas and costal carolina, both of whom they beat earlier this season. however, they managed to rally in the second round and put themselves in contention for the win heading into the final day. “The first round took [more than] six hours to finish,” holt said. “it was exhausting. we played a little better the second time through. we just need to rest and be ready for tomorrow.” The irish finish play today at the briar’s creek invitational. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


SMC SOFTBALL | smc 7, FranKlin 0; smc 3, FranKlin 5 
Belles take game one, drop second to Franklin 
error by the grizzlies center field-The belles took the win 7-0 and fifth inning when their shortstop-postseason play.” 
By MEREDITH KELLY 

sports writer er on a ball hit by senior morgan went into the second game feeling ddelivered a two-run single up the in terms of postseason play, bedan to make the score 2-0. confident. sullivan said they may middle, tying the game 3-3. sullivan said she believes her 
The belles split a non-con-with the grizzlies (4-12) still have been too confident. The grizzlies moved aheay in team has a lot more growing to ference doubleheader against scoreless in the top of the fifth in-“i think we went into the sec-the bottom of the sixth inning, do and a long road of hard work Franklin on saturday in Franklin, ning, the belles increased their ond game thinking that we al-taking advantage of twossaint ahead of it. ind. lead to 6-0. sophomore victoria ready had won it, when in reality, mary’s errors. Franklin scored “we need to turn it around, we 
saint mary’s (6-6) took the first connelly, sophomore callie we hadn’t,” she said two unearned runs to win 5-3 still have a lot of the season left,” game 7-0 before falling 5-3 in the selner and freshman Jillian The belles started off taking after splitting the doubleheader, sullivan said. “we don’t want second game. busfield all scored earned runs. advantage of Franklin’’ errors sullivan said non-conference to think about quitting right 
The first run of game one came belles coach erin sullivan said in the field in the second game. games create less pressure than now when we are only halfway in the top of the third inning, selner was the team’s standout sherwoodereached base oy an conference games — which may through.” courtesy of senior captain erin in the first game. selner pitched error bm Franklin’’ center fielder, have led to a letdown from her The belles are scheduled to face sherwood. sherwood hit an rbi a near-perfect game with no runs then was brought home after a team defiance on Thursday.in a home double down the left field line to allowed, one hit allowed, four throwing error bm Franklin’’ “maybe we needed that pres-doubleheader. bring freshman ashley watkins strikeouts and no walks. selner shortstop. sure to perform a little bit better,” home. also excelled at the plate with two The grizzlies started to pick up sullivan said. “but the only good Contact Meredith Kelly at 
sherwood then scored off an hits and one run. momentum in the bottom of the thing is that it doesn’t hurt you for mkelly29@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

snow ends irish competition in virginia 

intercollegiate tournament 
Observer Staff Report 

officials to end play early. For the second day in a row, notre dame was unable to snow forced the c&F bank take the course as scheduled 
paid adverTisemenT 
monday due to inclement weather. 
sunday the irish golf­ers were able to finish their rounds despite the weather, and notre dame tied for 9th place out of the teams that finished their rounds 
monday’s round was can-celled before the irish could begin, and notre dame’s sec­ond round of play will not be made up. 
The unplayable conditions forced officials to constrain the tournament, held in williamsburg, va., to an 18­hole contest. 
The unique circumstances mean notre dame is finished with play in the tournament. The teams that did not com­plete play sunday will finish play wednesday and the re­sults of the tournament will thereafter be determined. 
notre dame finished the tournament with a score of 289, six strokes behind cur­rent leader James madison. Junior andrew lane scored a 68 to lead the irish and place third on the individual lead­erboard at the conclusion of sunday’s round. 
notre dame will return to competition april 6 at the irish creek collegiate tour­nament in Kannapolis, n.c. 



Flashes 
conTinued From page 16 
six contests. The golden Flashes have bounced back as of late though, winning six of their last eight games. 
much like notre dame, the golden Flashes have faced several of the tough­est teams in the nation throughout the early part of their schedule, including virginia Tech, san diego and no. 10 louisville. 
Kent state is coming off a series win against northern illinois this past weekend. in the series finale sunday the golden Flashes routed the huskies 13-1. 
The golden Flashes sur­prised much of the college baseball world last year by making the first college world series appearance in the school’s history. 
while last year was their first trip to omaha, the golden Flashes are no strangers to postseason play, having made it to the ncaa tournament in each of the past four seasons. 

senior infielder evan campbell leads the way for Kent state on offense. campbell is batting .322 with 16 rbis and six stolen bases. 
on the mound, Kent state relies on junior right-hand­er Taylor williams, who is 4-1 this season with 2.09 era and 37 strikeouts. 
notre dame is coming off a series win this past week­end against seton hall in its first big east matchup of the season. 
The irish lost in a one-run contest  Friday night be­fore taking both games of a doubleheader on saturday afternoon. 
The irish will look to get the win in today’s game before resuming big east plan Friday against no. 10 louisville. 
First pitch for tonight’s game is scheduled for 6:35 p.m 
McGraw 
conTinued From page 16 
dame fans out there tonight to balance that out, but we’re ready to go.” 
much like notre dame, iowa looks to several differ­ent players to provide scor­ing. 6-foot-5 senior center morgan Johnson and 6-foot­4 sophomore center bethany doolittle anchor the paint for the hawkeyes. The frontcourt duo averages a combined 21.5 points and 13.1 rebounds per game. 
“They are very tall and lean. … They work well to­gether within their team and their motion,” achonwa said of Johnson and doolittle. “i think it’s just going to be about being physical. iowa’s physical, we’re going to play physical.” 
in addition to the two cen­ters, iowa relies on a trio of talented guards in sopho­more melissa dixon and samantha logic and senior Jaime printy. both dixon and printy average double-digit points per game, while logic has dished out 6.4 assists per game this season. 
irish freshman guard Jewell loyd said notre dame will have to play fundamentally sound defense to contain the hawkeyes’ perimeter players. 
“They are all good guards, they all can shoot the ball re­ally well,” loyd said. “logic is a really good passer, so con­taining the ball definitely with her. i think just being able to stay to our principles in our defense and we’ll see where that takes us.” 
mcgraw said logic and her teammates present a unique defensive challenge because the irish will not be able to assign a second defender to any one iowa player. 
“i think that [logic] is defi­nitely somebody that’s a chal­lenge for us,” mcgraw said. 


“you have printy and dixon with great 3-point shooting ability, so you got to go out and guard on the perimeter and then you have the inside presence, so they’ve got a re­ally good, balanced team. 
“i don’t think you can leave anyone to go double anyone else. i think you have to re­ally play them straight-up, so i think it’s a challenge for u, defensively.” 
notre dame and iowa will tif at 9:40 p.m. today in the second round of the ncaa tournament at carver­hawkeye arena in iowa city, iowa. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Faller 
conTinued From page 16 
campbell said. “it develops our confidence to fight till the end of the match.” 
sophomore Jackie Kjolhede and Kiefer provided domi­nant wins to round out the belles’ singles match wins. margaret Faller and sopho­more shannon elliott added a sixth victory in no. 3 dou­bles competition. 
campbell said the con­ference win was important but his team has to keep the whole season in perspective. 
“i think we have gained confidence, but we have talk­ed about the need to simply keep improving,” campbell said. “That will be important as we play our toughest con­ference opponents.” 
notably absent over the weekend were singles vic­tories from junior mary catherine Faller, who dropped both of her singles matches. campbell said he nevertheless maintains con­fidence in his team leader. 
“There have been some matches where she gets the only win for our team, and both of these opponents had difficult styles with their no. 1 players,” campbell said. “i have confidence that mary catherine will figure out how to beat this type of play­er, and i know she has the ability.” 
saint mary’s next match against Judson on wednesday was cancelled due to weather conditions. The belles will next play april 4 against olivet at 4 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &              paTricK cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: danica patrick, 31; sarah Jessica parker, 48; elton John, 66; aretha Franklin, 71. 
Happy Birthday: embrace change and challenge anyone who stands in your way. broaden your outlook and expand your friendships to include people from different backgrounds. silence your temper and refrain from complaining about what you cannot change. Focus on the present and how you can achieve the goals that will lead to your advancement. love is on the rise. your numbers are 7, 9, 16, 23, 32, 43, 69. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep busy and avoid temper tantrums. what you ac­complish will be what speaks volumes about who you are and how responsible and reliable you can be. There will be plenty of time for romance once you have taken care of business. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): express your feelings. learn all you can and you will be able to take advantage of a situation that develops with a partner or group. let your intuition guide you and you will secure your position and enhance your reputation. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): if you exaggerate, you will give someone the opportunity to make you look bad. excess will be your downfall and pitching in and lending a helping hand your salvation. you can get what you want if you take an honest ap­proach.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): by allowing changes to take place, you will lift what’s blocking you from getting ahead. learning a new skill or taking something you enjoy doing and turning it into a second income will help you get past any setback you face. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will attract attention. don’t miss out because someone is trying to monopolize your time. Focus on what you want to do and how you can get ahead. mastering something that will allow you greater opportunities should be your quest. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): hold on to your cash. don’t let anyone bully you into something you don’t want to do. do your own thing and stick to the people you know well and trust. someone is likely to make you an unrealistic promise. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep personal secrets and avoid an unpleasant situation. a change in an important relationship can be expected if you or the other person feels pressured. meeting new people or reuniting with someone from your past will change your outlook. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): listen to your intuition. Follow your heart and it will lead to a better relationship with the people in your life who mean the most to you. a contract, settlement or investment will turn out to be prosperous. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t be fooled by someone playing emotional games with you. concentrate on your home and domestic situation and you will bypass a temptation that can lead to trouble. love is on the rise, and the right partner will enhance your life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): caution must be taken. verbal confrontations can lead to mishaps that are difficult to rectify. put more effort into your job and your personal financial, medical and contractual obligations. injury is likely if you overdo it physically. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): good things come to those who wait. you will be able to finalize important plans. getting together with someone you love can lead to a promise that will improve your life. an innovative idea can turn into a lucrative pastime. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): set your standards high and follow your gut feelings. don’t let anyone push you or play with your emotions. an equal partnership is the only way you can move forward with anyone who wants to be in your life personally or professionally. 


Birthday Baby: you are powerful, proud and intuitive. you are observant and responsible. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

On the road again 
Irish square off against Iowa in Iowa City for Sweet 16 bid 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame may be the top seed in the norfolk region, but it will be the road team tonight. 
The irish (32-1, 16-0 big east) will face no. 9-seed­ed iowa at carver-hawkeye arena in iowa city, iowa, to­night with a birth in the sweet sixteen on the line. The game against the hawkeyes (21-12, 8-8 big Ten) marks the sec­ond time in three years notre dame has played a true road game early in the tourna­ment. in the first round of the 2011 ncaa tournament, the irish beat utah in salt lake city. 
Fortunately for the irish, they have not lost a road game this season. 
“iowa has a home-court ad­vantage here, everyone knows that,” notre dame junior for­ward natalie achonwa said. 
“and i think we’ve played a lot of great … away games this year and i think it’s just about focusing on what we’re going to do and how we’re go­ing to play and just trying to take the crowd out of it.” 
irish coach muffet mcgraw echoed achonwa’s confi­dence heading into a hostile environment. 
“i think we’ve been road-tested,” she said. “we’re bat­tle-tested, we’re undefeated on the road and so that’s kind of the message we’re sending out [to the] team. we’ve gone to connecticut, we’ve gone to Tennessee, we’ve gone to a lot of tough places on the road, so we know what that’s going to be like. 
“The crowd’s going to be against us, there are going to be a lot of people cheering against us. you would hope that we get some more notre 
see mcgraw PAGE 14 


BASEBALL 

Connaughton to debut 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 16 notre dame will take on Kent state this eve­ning — weather permit­ting — in a single-game matchup at the u.s. steel yard in gary, ind. 
monday night’s game with Kent state was can-celled due to inclement weather. 
a makeup game is not expected to be announced for what was supposed to be the first half of a two-game series against the golden Flashes. 
For the irish (14-6), sophomore right-hand­er pat connaughton will make his first start of the season on the mound. connaughton spent the first month of the baseball season in a different uni­form, playing for the men’s basketball team. 
connaughton was 4-4 in 10 starts last season, posting a 3.18 era with 40 strikeouts in 45 innings pitched. 
Kent state (8-12) strug­
gled at the start of this 
season, losing its first 
see Flashes PAGE 14 


SMC TENNIS | smc 5, sainT Francis 4; smc 4, Trine 3 
belles start miaa play with wins 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The belles came up big this weekend with back-to-back victories at home against saint Francis and Trine on Friday and saturday. 
saint mary’s (4-4, 1-0 miaa) evened its record and snagged an important con­ference win in the process. 
belles coach dale campbell said the productive weekend should have a positive effect on the team’s attitude. 
“it’s always good to get two wins, and i think it does help the spirit of the team,” campbell said. “it was good to win the first conference match against Trine as well.” 
Junior mary catherine Faller and sophomore Kayle sexton contributed two vic­tories at no. 1 doubles to lead the belles over saint Francis on Friday and confer­ence rival Trine on saturday. The pair cruised to victory over chelsea selking and elizabeth Faber of saint Francis 8-3, and defeated ju­nior Jessica huhnke and ju­nior chrissy uphaus of Trine (6-4, 0-1 miaa) 8-4. 
saint mary’s took an early lead against saint Francis (7­9, 3-5 crossroads league) on Friday, going up two match­es to none after an 8-0 no. 3 doubles victory and the win by Faller and sexton. The belles also benefited from strong matches at the no. 2, no. 3 and no. 5 singles slots. sexton, freshman margaret Faller and sophomore audrey Kiefer provided those three match victories to give the belles five points and the edge over saint Francis. 
saturday’s triumph was more secure. saint mary’s took six matches to Trine’s three. several of the individ­ual matches were nail-biters, however. 
sexton took a narrow 6-4, 6-4 victory. margaret Faller played an even closer, more up-and-down match but managed a 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 win. campbell said close wins are an important learning experiences for the belles. “i believe it is helpful to win some of the close matches,” 
see Faller PAGE 14 






