


Finals garner attention from ESPN 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports Writer 
Last year, the bengal bouts fi­nals were streamed for the first time online by Und.com. This year, esPn has joined the show. 
In mid-october, doug Loughrey, the head of boxing for esPn3, which includes the weekly production of “Friday night Fights,” contacted se­nior captain and president Alex oloriz. Loughrey was inclined to have esPn3 team up with Und.com to put on a produc­tion of the final round of bengal bouts. 
“Loughrey said he has been interested in doing [bengal bouts] in years past, but hasn’t been able to get enough mo­mentum to get it done,” oloriz said. “This year, he wanted to get a head start and really wanted to make it happen. I thought it would be a great thing for esPn to pick up and help produce and lift up the promotional value.” 
Although excited at the op­portunity, oloriz was skepti­cal and did not want to get his hopes up, he said. 
“The first phone call was pretty cool,” oloriz said. “but given the history of trying to do new stuff [with bengal bouts], it was going to be pretty tough. I was thinking it was a hyped dream. When he described it on the phone, it sounded awe­some and I really didn’t think it was going to happen. but as things progressed and we talk­ed to the right people, things just kept moving forward.” 
one camera angle was used by Und.com for all of the final fights last year. This year, there will be five cameras catching every bit of action. 
“There will be five camera angles, replays and zoom-out camera,” oloriz said. “It will be like ‘Friday night Fights’ production. And there’s going to be a logo on the mat of the bengal bouts Tiger. Those are the big additions. color com­mentary will be done by [Irish junior] Josh Whelan . a boxer. And the local radio morning show host John Thompson of ‘J.T. in the morning’ will be do­ing the emceeing. When they are streaming the video, both Und and esPn, esPn is pro­viding templates from Friday night Fights to provide intros for the fighters.” 
oloriz and senior market­ing vice president and captain Jeff Ulrich said there is a lot of potential in this partnership, especially for the missions in bangladesh. 
“The biggest possibility [for partnering with esPn], is get­ting the mission aspect of bengal bouts out there,” oloriz said. “one of the things that swung us, is [esPn] said they really want to promote the mis­sion aspect. They are going to be talking about how to donate and have details broadcasting on how to donate throughout the fight. It will highlight our mission and make it easy to donate. Advertising that pro­cess and getting that out to more people, will bring in good things for the missions later.” 
Ulrich said esPn will add to the overall experience of bengal bouts now and in the future. 
“one, [the partnership with esPn] increases the viewer­ship of the bengal bouts,” Ulrich said. “Whenever you can increase your viewership, you increase the people who can participate or can donate or want to come in the future. secondly, it increases the legiti­macy or classiness of the tour­nament. It makes it cooler.” 
As for why esPn wanted to partner with bengal bouts, 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

oloriz said he could only guess. 
“[esPn] came to us and wanted to emphasize what we do because ... it is unheard of,” oloriz said. “They are advertis­ing pure competition and the mission aspect. It’s refresh­ing, For the audience and the sport.” 
In new territory and with the whole world able to look on, there would seem to be an added pressure, but oloriz said he does not think esPn will change the essence of the fights.
 “There’s plenty of pressure anyway,” oloriz said. “can’t add anymore.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 






Oloriz ends Bengal Bouts ascent as president 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports Writer 
Looking out over Purcell Pavilion, senior captain Alex oloriz reminisced on his past fights there, and looked forward to returning one last time. 
“It takes six full months. If you stick it out, you can make it here,” oloriz said. “There’s noth­ing like it. every time the crowd roars you get an extra burst.” 
oloriz, who compares his fighting style to the rolling stones song “sympathy for the devil,” is no stranger to center stage at Purcell, having made it to the finals all three years he has been involved with bengal bouts. he entered the program as a freshman with no previous boxing experience, but quickly made an impact. his rapid as­cent surprised no one more than himself. 
“When I first sparred, I sparred a senior, and he wrecked my nose. I didn’t have any expec­tations going in, I was just go­ing to go out and do my best.” oloriz said. “I won my first fight, and it was hard. And the next one, I won, and it was hard, but I still kept going. And finally, I was like, ‘oh man, I won three fights, I’m in the finals!’ It just happened, I don’t know. I just worked hard.” 
oloriz was defeated by then senior captain John maier his freshman year, and again by senior matt enzweiller in his sophomore year. Last year how­ever, his first year as a junior captain, oloriz was finally able to pull out a victory by defeating Inoh choe. While oloriz savored his victory, his hunger for anoth­er title remains voracious. 
“The training doesn’t change. You still have to push yourself harder, think that there may be someone working as hard as you, or harder,” said oloriz. “When you’re [with the club], I think [the workouts] are easy, because there’s 200 guys going through the same thing as you.” 
Thanks to his stellar perfor­mance the last three years, and his overall contributions to the club, oloriz has been promoted to president. 
“There’s a lot more responsi­bility, in terms of running the club and also training. so bal­ancing that has been tough,” oloriz said. “After doing [box­ing] for four years, you know the technique … having to teach that to new boxers ... it can be frustrating. You have to explain it 50 different ways, but when you see a guy finally doing some­thing right, and using his tech­nique, and listening, you feel really good. It’s rewarding, but it tests your patience sometimes.” 
despite his emphasis on training, olorioz never forgets that bengal bouts are about more than just the fights. While he has never been able to go to bangladesh, he cited the chil­dren the bouts benefit as a major inspiration. 
“It’s not all about winning,” said oloriz. “It’s about the guys who don’t win, but still go out and raise money. It validates what you do in there, missing time in school. I think that’s something that has equal value as education, giving back. At the end of the fight, when you hear that bell ring, you know you’ve done something good.” 
As the end of his senior year approaches, oloriz faces the end of his involvement with bengal bouts as well. but the lessons he learned through fighting and training will always stick with him, he said. 

“There’s a ton of lessons from boxing. I’ve grown a lot these last fours years.” oloriz said. “I’ve learned to stick to my guns, to be confident in what I do, while also pushing my limits. You can always push yourself harder, that’s the lesson boxing has taught me. no complacency.” 
And while the end may feel bittersweet, oloriz is looking forward to walking out of the ring a champion one last time. 
“There’s no feeling in the world better than walking out of the ring with your hand held high, especially when you turn and see the friends who have come out to support you going wild,” oloriz said. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 





Lally fights for fourth title with broader focus 

MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer 
Senior captain and vice president Jack Lally, left, connects on a left hook in a quarterfinal fight against senior Nick Rowek on Feb. 20. Lally won the bout by unanimous decision. Lally has gone undefeated and has won his weight class for the past three years and is seeking the elusive fourth title. 
aspect of the program be-boxing career, but fun re-a mentor. for being able to participate 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports Writer came increasingly important, mains an important part “The moments that defined in bengal bouts and learn so 
Lally said. of the package, he said. For me the most as a boxer were much about his character. he 
senior captain Jack Lally “It used to be all about the Lally, winning his fights does weekend morning workouts said he hopes future boxers will continue his pursuit of a boxing when I was a fresh-not motivate him as much as with Fr. brian daley,” Lally will persevere and learn simi­fourth bengal bouts title in man and sophomore,” he the desire to enjoy his last said. “he took me under his lar lessons. the finals Friday night. but said. “It used to be all about tournament. he said he wants wing … and he showed me “If there’s one thing I would if you ask him why he has my own personal boxing and to exhibit the skills he has de-how to get good. want the younger boxers to stuck with boxing, success is fun. The focus was on me and veloped over his career and “boxing is one of the most know, it’s that they’re incred­not one of the reasons he will now the focus has changed to maintain the high standard difficult sports to practice. ibly lucky to have what they mention. For Lally, all of the the good of the club.” for success that he has set. It’s one of the most physically have and that they should memories count. since Lally became a cap-however, Lally said bengal demanding sports, mentally make the most of the oppor­
“The experience has been tain, he has been able to put bouts also means more than challenging sports … You can tunities they have now be-great,” Lally said. “I’ve met those words into action. he just the judge’s decision at the work incredibly hard and still cause they won’t be around some of my closest friends has dedicated himself to end of his fight. not succeed. That meant a forever,” Lally said. through the boxing program. helping young boxers develop “As the years moved on and lot to me to work with Father … Just being a part of a team their skills and understand I’ve developed technically daley.” Contact Samantha Zuba at is a cool thing. the mission of bengal bouts. and physically, the pressure Lally counts himself lucky szuba@nd.edu 
“having a mission and ensuring that the charitable is now to maintain that and PAId AdverTIsemenT 
working for a goal, whether legacy of bengal bouts en-stay in the position that I’ve that goal be my own personal dures is important to Lally put myself,” Lally said. “As far fitness, competition in the and his fellow captains, he as the whole idea of winning ring, or raising money for the said. a fourth title, that’s not really holy cross missions, … [it] “As a captain we’ve all been what’s driving me right now. has been something that has responsible for coordinating I’m trying to enjoy the tour-made my undergraduate ex-workouts and essentially de-nament because it’s the last perience here very fulfilling.” veloping novice boxers,” Lally time I’m going to be in the 
Lally’s goals have changed said. “Just getting them famil-ring, and it’s really my last during his years in the boxing iar with the sport, teaching time with these guys, so I just program. When he first start-them ring tactics and strategy want to soak it all up and have ed out, he said he focused on and then also with the other a lot of fun.” improving himself individu-side of the program: promot-Lally certainly has much ally as a boxer. As he invested ing the fundraising and get-to be proud of when he looks himself in bengal bouts, he ting guys excited about that back on his boxing career. gained a broader perspective. and showing them the work he has won three titles and The holy cross missions in we’re doing in bangladesh.” learned a lot about himself. bangladesh that the tourna-Lally has found consider-he credited much of his de­ment benefits and the team able success in his four-year velopment to time spent with 





Ulrich forges countless bonds through bouts 
By MARY GREEN 
sports Writer 

There’s a funny story about how bengal bouts senior captain Jeff Ulrich earned his nickname, “Little bear.” 
It started when he walked into his dorm, Knott hall, for the first time freshman year. Upon ar­rival, he went to the check-in table and told members of hall staff his name, noticing that they all turned their attention to him when he said he was Jeff. 
Unbeknownst to him, the Knott president that year was named Jeff Ullrich, only an extra L difference, and as a stocky guy with a beard, his nickname was “Grizz,” as in a grizzly bear. The attention startled Ulrich for a second before he could tell them his full name, which drew an even more unexpected response. 
“They smiled and looked at each other and said, ‘We’ve been wait­ing for you, Little bear’,” Ulrich said with a chuckle. 
despite his miniscule moniker, Ulrich has made a big impact on bengal bouts as a captain in both his junior and senior years. 
Along with junior captain daniel Yi, Ulrich is in charge of marketing for the annual boxing event, which has grown to in­volve people and groups outside of the borders of notre dame. Throughout the year, he has been in contact with various local orga­nizations that have an interest in helping with the tournament. 
“I’ve met so many people in south bend through bengal bouts because either they were involved in it or they want to donate to bengal bouts,” he said. 
For Ulrich, forming relation­ships is the best aspect of being involved in bengal bouts. There are bonds he builds with his fel­low captains as they plan and run one of the most popular events on the notre dame campus, put­ting in numerous hours of work to ensure its success. next are the connections he makes with his fellow boxers, especially the nov­ices, who look up to him for sup­port and advice as they develop into skilled fighters for the spring competition. 
And of course, there are the bonds he forged with the people of bangladesh when he travelled there a year and a half ago. 
Ulrich decided to take the International summer service Learning Program trip in 2011, after competing twice in bengal bouts. he wanted to witness major will take a fifth year to com­plete his studies, but per bengal bouts rules, will not be able to compete past a fourth year of eli­gibility. however, Ulrich still plans on staying active within the club next year, possibly as a judge or referee or helping to train boxers. 


The approaching end to fighting has motivated Ulrich to set a goal of winning the 166-pound weight class, in his final opportunity to do so. 
regardless of the outcome, Ulrich said that his ultimate objective, besides captaining an­other successful year of bengal bouts, is making sure that the pro­gram continues to grow larger and stronger each year. 

“A sign of a good leader is that once they’re gone, things still continue smoothly, not just when they’re present,” he said. 
Win or lose, “Little bear” has en­sured that his print will remain on bengal bouts for years to come. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

firsthand the nation that inspired the mission of the charity com­petition, now in its 83rd year, and came back to the United states with a new perspective. The trip has defined him as a captain. 
“before I went, doing bengal bouts was mostly about the com­petition, the skill, the adrenaline,” he said. “but after bangladesh, [there’s] definitely a new focus. every time some dilemma comes up or some big decision comes up … most times that decision comes down to, does it fit with our overall mission of serving the missions in bangladesh?” 
completing the trip helped Ulrich reaffirm the real reason behind why he, and over 150 other students, makes the commitment to fight in bengal bouts each year. 
“obviously I knew that that was the mission from the very begin­ning, but having been there and seen what it does and the people that it affects and the priests that dedicate their entire lives to serv­ing in bangladesh, it shows me how easy it is and how little it is to commit four years to it when some priests and other people have committed their entire lives to it,” he said. 
The chemical engineering and philosophy/theology double 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





138 pounds 144 pounds 
Jack Lally vs Mark Frego Ben Eichler vs Kevin Dunne 

PATH TO THE 


PATH TO THE FINALS FINALS 
Lally 


Eichler
   def. Matthew Fallon 

   def. Gong Weng in in preliminaries 
preliminaries   def. Jackie Garvin in    def. Kieran Carroll in 
quarterfinals 

quarterfinals Lally is all about Frego is a calculating Eichler is best when Dunne is a smart fighter
   def. Nick Rowek in    def. Tony Lucisano in speed. He has quick fighter, picking the on the attack. He who doesn’t allow 
semifinals semifinals feet, prefers to throw prime opportunities to typically will first early deficits to get him 

Frego Dunne 
quick jabs and utilizes go after his opponent. go for the body and down. He waits for the
   def. Derek    def. Jason fast combinations to He possesses a strong then follow up with other fighter to make 
Neidecker in  Kippenbrock in overwhelm his oppo-right hook, which he a head shot. Of all mistakes, jumping in 
preliminaries preliminaries nent. After attacking, throws mainly as a his combinations, with a strong jab when
   def. Matthew Badyna    def. John Iwanski in Lally jumps back to counter when his op-Eichler’s best is an a chance presents itself. 
in quarterfinals quarterfinals 
prevent his opponent ponent comes at him uppercut followed by He also uses his stamina
   def. Dan Collins in    def. Dan Rodriguez from countering. with jabs. a strong hook. to outlast his opponent. 
semifinals in semifinals 







148 pounds 155 pounds 
Devin Duffy vs Sean Hipskind Garrity McOsker vs Joey Kim 
PATH TO THE 


PATH TO THE FINALS 

FINALS 
Duffy 
McOsker
   def. Jack Taiclet in 

   def. Luke Miller in preliminaries 
preliminaries   def. Eric Tomarello 
   def. Michael Judd in 
in quarterfinals 

quarterfinals Duffy is an absolute Hipskind is a lanky McOsker fights with Kim is a tall, wiry fighter
   def. Brian Benedict   def. Kevin Kershisnik brawler. He relentlessly fighter who prefers poise and purpose, with a strong right 
in semifinals in semifinals 
attacks his opponent backing away from his relentlessly attacking his hook, which he uses to 

Hipskind Kim 
from the opening bell and opponent and using opponent with well-counter attacks. When
   def. Jackson Agraz in    def. Andrew Koester lives off the head shot. In his length to connect timed combinations of an opponent tries to 
preliminaries in preliminaries addition to his devastat-on jabs. His length jabs and uppercuts. He connect on head shots,
   def. Kyle Buckley in def. Brendan Andrew ing punches, Duffy also also prevents oppo-also displays impressive Kim counters with 
quarterfinals in semifinals 
possesses good stamina nents from connecting endurance as he typi-either his devastating
   def. Pete McGinley in    def. Jack Healy in that his opponent often on a high percentage cally shows no signs of hook or a quick jab to 
semifinals semifinals cannot match. of their counters. tiring deep into a fight. his opponent’s headgear. 







162 pounds 166 pounds 
Danny Leicht vs Chris DeLillo JJeff Ulrich vs Patrick Shea 
PATH TO THE 


PATH TO THE FINALS 

FINALS 
Leicht 
Ulrich
   def. Mansfield 

   def.Kobe Ampofo in Burlingame in 
preliminaries preliminaries
   def. Stephen Despins    def. Ryan Majsak in 
in quarterfinals 
Leicht is a smart DeLillo is a calculat-Ulrich has a defensive, Shea gets off to a 
quarterfinals   def. Jimmy Bowers in boxer, using his brain ing fighter. He doesn’t yet effective fighting strong start and 
   def. Mike Flanigan in semifinals to overcome what waste opportunities style. He protects his maintains good sepa­
semifinals Shea 
he may lack in size. and keeps himself away face with his gloves ration throughout 
DeLillo   def. Gion Handal in He uses a head-body from trouble. Op-throughout the fight, but the fight. He lands a 
   def. Sean Himel in preliminaries combination to tire ponents rarely catch as soon as he spots an high percentage of 
preliminaries   def. Brian Garvin in out his opponent DeLillo with his guard opportunity to advance his punches and is 
   def. Brian Reddy in semifinals before going for the down. He uses a body he does so with strong, particularly adept at 
quarterfinals   def. Gage O’Connell knockout with a big jab and a right hook as meticulous jabs to both connecting on head
   def. Scott Rousseau in semifinals head shot. his go-to combination. the body and face. shots. 
in semifinals 









168 pounds 176 pounds 
Sunoh Choe vs Alex Oloriz Brett Sassetti vs Pat Bishop 

PATH TO THE 

PATH TO THE FINALS FINALS 
Choe 

Sassetti
   def. Eric Krakowiak    def. Charles Magiera 
in quarterfinals in quarterfinals
   def. Zach Flint in    def. Joey Stromberg 
semifinals in semifinals 
Choe’s long reach and Oloriz is a quick Sassetti possesses Bishop is a well-

Oloriz Bishop 
tremendous strength al-fighter who constant-great strength which conditioned fighter
  def. Patrick    def. Andrew low him overwhelm op-ly dodges punches helps him deliver whose intensity re-
McFarlane  in Heldrich in ponents, especially with and moves around powerful hooks to the mains level from the 
quarterfinals quarterfinals hard jabs to the face. the ring. He jabs body and jabs to the first to the last round.
   def. Brett Geschke in    def. Bryan Cooley in Choe also relies on his with his right and face of his opponent. He is also a technical-
semifinals semifinals 
in-and-out method, proceeds to deliver a With superior endur-ly sound fighter who 
delivering quick one-combination of body ance, Sassetti also likes to move around 
two punches to the face shots followed by stays strong through-the ring and utilize a 
before retreating. powerful uppercuts. out the entire fight. strong right hook. 






185 pounds 194 pounds 
Ryan Alberdi vs Brian Salvi Bobby Manfreda vs Ricky Neville 
PATH TO THE 

PATH TO THE FINALS 

FINALS 
Alberdi 
Manfreda

   def. Taylor Stein in    def. Andrew 
quarterfinals 
Braumann in    def. Brian 
quarterfinals Hartnett in semifinals
   def. Tyler Plantz in Alberdi has a cautious Salvi is methodical and Manfreda uses his Neville typically gains 
Salvi semifinals fighting style and typical-chooses opportune strength and height to the early advantage with
   def. Hank Duden in Neville ly waits for his opponent times to throw punch-his advantage. He deliv-a quick start. By con-
quarterfinals   def. Sergi Filonow in to attack first.  Once the es. His punches, often ers hooks to the side of stantly moving his feet
   def. Andrew Greybar quarterfinals opponent does advance, hooks, are extremely his opponent’s head and and landing a high per-
in semifinals       def. Eamon McOsker Alberdi does not hold powerful and he goes hard jabs to the face. centage of his punches, 
in semifinals 

back. He utilizes strong for the knockout. He He also remains strong he gradually builds an one-two jabs to the uses feints regularly in through the entire advantage and prevents head and the body to order to find an open-match, allowing him to his opponent from gain-tire his opponent. ing to strike. fight to the final bell. ing any momentum. 






205 pounds Heavyweight 
Brian Ellixson vs Brian Salat Daniel Yi vs Mike Broghammer 
PATH TO THE 

PATH TO THE FINALS 

FINALS 
Ellixson 
Yi

   def. Erik Rayno in    def. Ruben Carrion 
quarterfinals in quarterfinals
   def. Evan Escobedo   def. Bob Burkett in 
in semifinals 
semifinals Ellixson uses his long Salat fights with Daniel Yi is a tough, Broghammer is an en-

Salat Broghammer 
strong arms to fight discipline. He tends aggressive fighter who ergetic fighter. He uses
   def.Robbie Hammer    def. Matt Boomer in advancements and to work inside for a is willing to stay in the his long reach to keep 
in quarterfinals quarterfinals 
deliver jabs on the one-two combina-middle of the ring and his opponent at bay
   def. Chris Sarkis in    def. Sean Lischke in offensive. He has the tion and sometimes trade shots with his with his jab and he is 
semifinals semifinals 
stamina to stay con-an uppercut before opponent rather than not shy about throwing sistent throughout the retreating. His up-chase and evade. He a series of dangerous entire match and mixes percut packs consid-has a heavy right hook, right hooks to back it in quick attacks with erable power and he which he compliments up. His straight right is longer engagements. uses it often. with a left-handed jab. effective as well. 









Bishop embodies dual mission of Bengal Bouts 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports Writer 
As a three-year boxer who served in bangladesh last sum­mer, senior captain Pat bishop is one of the best representatives of the dual mission of bengal bouts. While he may train for months to compete in the ring, bishop’s main focus and moti­vator is not boxing, but instead serving the holy cross mission in bangladesh, thousands of miles away, but still close to his heart. 
reflecting on his eight-week visit there last summer, bishop said serving in bangladesh helped provide perspective for his overall bengal bouts experience. 
“It made everything I’ve done the last three years, or the previ­ous two years and going forward this year, feel redeeming,” bishop said. “Just that experience alone was my favorite part of bengal bouts thus far, even though it didn’t involve boxing. my favorite memory from these three years, would definitely be being in bangladesh for eight weeks, really understanding why we fight, and seeing how much people appreci­ate it and what it does for them.” 
Fr. Leonard shankar rozario, one of the priests in bangladesh, helped bishop begin to under­stand bengal bouts’ importance with a message for bishop upon his arrival. 
“Your labor bears the fruit of the bengal bouts mission so that as we state ‘strong bodies fight that weak bodies may be nourished,’ I welcome you as a member of not only the notre dame men’s box­ing team, but also as a member of the holy cross community,” rozario said to bishop. “notre dame and bangladesh are 10,000 miles apart; you are the link be­tween the two.” 
bishop is also a respected lead­er among his peers, as his peers gave him the honor of serving as a bengal bouts captain. 
“The junior captains last year and seniors from last year get to­gether, and it’s really up to the juniors because they’re the guys that get to work with those [new captains],” bishop said. “I had people tell me that I could be asked. I didn’t want to give into that because regardless of wheth­er I was asked or not, I was going to be a big part of [bengal bouts this year] anyways.” 
even in high school, bishop was a leader in sports, as he was the captain of his high school track team and a member of the wres­tling team. In fact, bishop said the combination of these two inter­ests is what led him to boxing. 
“The fitness part of [wrestling] definitely got me into boxing, but it was more being part of a team,” bishop said. “In high school, I was captain of the track team, so I like to have that leadership role and I enjoy being part of the team. I came into boxing not knowing anything about it, but I just want­ed to be part of a team.” 
however, bishop did not box freshman year, as he tried to 


MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer 

Senior captain Pat Bishop, right, lands a convincing right jab on sophomore Bryan Cooley in a semifinals fight Tuesday. Bishop won by split decision. Bishop is seeking his first title in the 176-pound weight class against junior Brett Sassetti Friday. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

walk on to the notre dame track team. When he first went to watch bengal bouts though, bishop said he knew immediately that it was something he wanted to partici­pate in. 
“The first time I went to the bouts was the preliminaries round,” bishop said. “I was like ‘This is cool,’ so I went to all four rounds and I knew right there I was going to try next year.” 
Looking back on his deci­sion, bishop said he couldn’t be happier. 
“I’ve said all along, after last summer and my previous two years, that becoming part of the bengal bouts is the best decision I’ve made at notre dame, and it’s definitely my favorite experience,” bishop said. “I may not have done great in the tournament, but I was putting the time in and trying my best, and I think that it has been a great investment of my time. 
“The bengal bouts has taught me to do all you can, and that with the hope that hard work pays off in the end. I’ve really loved it, and would encourage anyone to participate.” 
bishop has put a lot of time and effort into bengal bouts, but has received just as much in return. From his hard work in “The Pit” to his devotion to the bengal bouts mission, bishop has worked tire­lessly to help not only himself, but also those around him. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 






Leicht’s Bouts experience centers on service 

MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 

Senior captain Danny Leicht, right, ducks a right punch thrown by senior Ryan Majsak and aims an uppercut in a quarterfinal fight Feb. 20. Along with his captaincy, Leicht did 
volunteer work in Bangladesh for eight weeks over the summer. Leicht will fight senior Chris DeLillo in the 162-pound finals. 
boxing requires a unique 


By KIT LOUGHRAN 
mindset. 
“It’s kind of a weird men-
After boxing for three years, tality that we have to want to senior captain danny Leicht box. maybe it’s just stupidity,” recognizes that the sport of Leicht said. 
sports Writer 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

To many people, boxing may seem foolish, as Leicht himself admitted. but while the idea of putting on a pair of gloves and stepping into a ring to fight another person may seem foolish, Leicht said there’s un­doubtedly a thrill that comes along with the sport. 
“The workout in boxing is in­credible,” Leicht said. “It’s un­like anything I’ve ever done.” 
Leicht said that his days of playing baseball and basket­ball in high school don’t com­pare to the intensity of boxing. 
Leicht has also found some­thing greater than just the workout through his experi­ence with bengal bouts be­cause the program has more to it than just boxing. bengal bouts and its mission gives boxers an inspiring reason to get in the ring and take some hits to the head and Leicht said that mission has significantly influenced his participation in bengal bouts. 
“I learned about the mis­sion sophomore year and be­came really interested when I found out the boxers could go to bangladesh to serve,” Leicht said. 
Leicht and three other bengal bouts boxers traveled to the country last summer for eight weeks to volunteer. They taught english to the children in the schools, visited villages and helped the priests and sisters of the catholic missionaries. 
“It was an awesome experi­ence,” Leicht said. 
Leicht said it was great to have the opportunity to see first-hand the impact bengal bouts has on the bengali community. 
now in his third year in bengal bouts, Leicht said he has really enjoyed being a cap­tain during his final year. 
“As a captain, I like that we have the responsibility of teaching the younger guys both about boxing and about the mission,” Leicht said. “And, having been to bangladesh, I’ve been happy to tell those guys what I can about my experiences.” 
As a captain preparing for the tournament, Leicht has been training since the middle of fall semester. 
“october is the beginning of novice season, so we have the younger guys come out earlier and teach them the ba­sic punches and try to get in shape,” Leicht. “Then, around right after Thanksgiving break, everyone is getting back into it.” 
Last year, Leicht made it to the semifinals, but lost to his good friend Joey Kim, one of his good friends. This year Leicht won his semifinals fight over sophomore mike Flanigan and will face fellow senior chris deLillo in finals of the 162-pound weight division. 
With the end of his senior year quickly approaching, Leicht has been reflecting on the end of his bengal bouts career, but said his favorite as­pect of notre dame is the peo­ple he has encountered. 
“It may sound cliché, but at a time when you’re on your own and figuring out who you are, being able to meet people from all different walks of life is definitely my favorite part,” he said. 
Leicht found a niche in bengal bouts that provided not only a great workout as­pect that got him to the gym, but also an opportunity to serve in bangladesh. While he may or may not take home the first-place hardware, Leicht will take his bengal bouts experience with him after graduation. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 





Alberdi’s hard work leads to memorable career 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports Writer 
ryan Alberdi lets his fists speak for him. The soft spoken, former sorin resident from clearwater, Fla. is not like the typical boxer when it comes to self-promotion outside of the ring — all of his talking begins when the bell rings. 
Alberdi’s defining feature is a mustache thicker than the brazilian Amazon — the only way to describe it is just plain awesome. A four-month project, Alberdi was clearly proud of his lip foliage. 
“It started for movember, and afterward I decided I’d keep it for bengal bouts,” Alberdi said. “I curl it now, like an old school 1920s boxer.” 
Like many bengal bouts par­ticipants, Alberdi wrestled all four years in high school. Upon his arrival to notre dame, bengal bouts filled the void wrestling left. 
“[one-on competition] was something I really missed … Just knowing that everyone’s watch­ing you, and that if you make a mistake there’s no one else to blame but yourself.” 
Unlike some other fighters who like to get pumped up before a fight, Alberdi claimed he fights better when he’s calm. In fact, Alberdi’s prefight routine is more like a lazy sunday afternoon than preparation for the intense one-on-one competition he so craves. 
“Going back to wrestling, I always make myself a peanut butter, banana and honey sand­wich,” he said. “I’ll listen to some mellow music and just lie down.” 
That calm nature translates to his fighting style as well. A de­fensive fighter, Alberdi waits for his opportunities, not forcing anything. 
“I just sit back, waiting on openings,” he said. “I try to let them come, let them attack me and wait for those opportunities to move forward.” 
As a freshman novice, Alberdi’s inaugural bengal bouts ended the way most novices do, with a first-round loss. Following the loss though, Alberdi turned his newfound hobby into a year round obsession. he started training at a boxing gym in his hometown of clearwater, which Alberdi said was a learning experience. 
“At the beginning of the sum­mer I sparred my trainer and I had a tendency to lean over in my stance from wrestling,” he said. “he broke my nose. Then I sparred him at the end of the summer, and he broke my nose again.” 
despite the broken bones, Alberdi came back a differ­ent fighter his sophomore year. Fighting in the 160-pound divi­sion, he advanced all the way to the finals before succumbing to the first seed robert Powers. After putting on weight in the summer, he came back as a junior with unfinished business, this time summer, steadily increasing the in the 171-pound division. In a rigor which peaked after winter defensive fight, Alberdi defeated break. since then, he has been Jake Joe to take the crown, cit-training six to seven days a week. ing it as his favorite memory of despite this being his last bengal bouts. bengal bouts as a boxer, Alberdi 
“It’s an awesome feeling, being was a accepted to notre dame’s in the finals,” he said. “And when grad school to pursue a Ph.d. in you win and you’re in the center, civil engineering. Alberdi said he everyone’s around you, it’s great.” has left the door open to coming 
It’s that feeling which has back as a coach. Alberdi wanting to ride off into “I couldn’t fight because you the sunset as a two-time champi-can only fight for four years,” he on. It won’t be easy, and Alberdi is said. “but I’d love to come back the first to say that. If the bracket as a coach or anyway I could help goes as expected, Alberdi will out.” face off with another past cham-Alberdi’s bengal bouts career pion, Joe salvi, in the 176 pound will end with the shaving of his division finals. mustache on Friday night, but 
still, Alberdi said he believes he’s thrilled with the opportuni­his training has set him up for ties and memories bengal bouts a repeat. despite the time com-has given him. mitment of his summer re­search, Alberdi was still able to Contact A.J. Godeaux at train a few days a week over the agodeaux@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 







Choe finishes long journey as senior captain 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports Writer 
sunoh choe’s path to his sec­ond bengal bouts tournament has been a long and interesting one. It started in hawaii, moved to santa clara, calif., then to mexico, and most recently cul­minated in a championship last year and a captainship this season. 
A senior from Kona, hawaii, choe won the 154-pound weight division last year, in his very first bengal bouts. It was not, however, his first experience with the sport. he started boxing as a freshman at santa clara University. 
“I was at santa clara and dur­ing my freshman year, my older brother who was here started do­ing bengal bouts and he got me into boxing,” choe said. “I did a year [of boxing] at santa clara and then I studied a year abroad. so I already had a year of experi­ence when I got here.” 
For his sophomore year, choe studied in mexico and continued to hone his boxing skills while immersing himself in the new culture. 
“I boxed a little bit while I was down there,” choe said. “I learned a little bit of the mexican style. I was the only one from my school there, so I immersed my­self with the locals. I stayed two semesters because I really want­ed to learn the language fully and have a more genuine experience.” 
choe then transferred to notre dame as a junior and immediate­ly got involved with bengal bouts. 
“my brother put bengal bouts in my head, and it was probably about 50 percent of the reason why I transferred here, I’m not going to lie,” he said. “In terms of weather, it was a bad choice, but the school is obviously bet­ter here, I have my siblings [and] bengal bouts.” 
choe’s experience at santa clara prepared him well for notre dame boxing. At santa clara, he was part of an “intense” team that competed against other col­leges and had more coaches than athletes. still, he said he prefers notre dame’s boxing club and the atmosphere of the team. 
“I definitely got more individu­al attention [at santa clara], but I like the program here better be­cause it’s going for a good cause and there are like 200 boxers… so you actually feel like you’re on a team,” choe said. “I really like training with other people around. I feel like I get more moti­vated when I see other guys work­ing out. I really like to work out with my friends as well.” 
Last season, choe and his brother both advanced to the fi­nals in their respective weight classes, where choe claimed the championship. 
“I was really grateful to have won,” choe said. “originally, my brother and I, our goal was to get the leather jacket, which you get if you make the finals, so both of us and a friend of ours got to the finals, and we said ‘now we got to win this too!’ It’s a great feel­ing. You get a little more cred­ibility. I’m not the biggest guy [on the team] so it’s nice to have the credibility that you’re a boxing champ.” 
After the season ended last year, choe received a call from a graduating captain, who asked him to take over as captain for the upcoming season. his one requirement? 
“he wanted me to help other 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

guys get better,” choe said. “his one condition was … he wanted me to start reaching out to every­one on the team.” 
As a captain, choe has more responsibilities than this though. In addition to training, and fighting, captains also have to organize advertising for the tournament and merchandise for the club. still, his biggest re­sponsibility remains helping other fighters. 
“I think one good thing about being captain is that if I do offer advice or corner people off [to talk to them], people don’t think I’m over my head or being arro­gant,” choe explains. 
however, when he enters the ring, choe ceases to be a captain and is solely a competitor, which means he has no mercy. his fight strategy revolves around deflat­ing his opponent’s hopes early on in the match. 
“It depends on who I’m going up against, but usually I try to be the aggressor,” choe said. “I have this saying; ‘everyone’s de­cent for the first 20 seconds until they get hit.’ so my goal is always to scare them early on. It sounds really mean, but that’s kind of a strategy. once you bring down their morale in a spar or a fight, it’s easier for the aggressor. I also like to box rather than brawl. I prefer technique over just slug­ging it out.” 
of course, bengal bouts is about more than just boxing, choe said. As captain, choe helps coordinate the fundraising aspect of the bouts. It is a duty that he said heappreciates but also finds easy, because it goes to such a good cause. 
“one hundred percent  of the proceeds go to the mission,” choe said. “That makes our fun­draising easier. When we tell people, [if] we say it’s just a box­ing club, most people wouldn’t buy our tickets or our ads but when I tell them that it goes to a mission and that last year we raised over $200,000 for people in bangladesh…it makes our job a lot easier, because people are more willing to buy a ticket if they know it goes to charity. And I like that, because at least I can say I’m not doing boxing just so I can hit people.” 
In only two years, choe has learned to appreciate the tra­dition and mission of bengal bouts. 
“If I throw out those num­bers, that [bengal bouts]’s been going on for over eighty years, there’s over 200 boxers, and the amount of money we raise, over a million [dollars] since we started, that’s the really impres­sive part of bengal bouts for me,” he said. “There was this random [stranger] from Germany who messaged me over Facebook, who follows bengal bouts and watches the videos and knows me. That’s the awesome thing about bengal bouts.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 




LILY KANG | The Observer 

Senior captain Sunoh Choe, right, connects lands a punch on Zach Flint during a semifinals fight Tuesday. Choe won the fight by unanimous decision and will face fellow senior captain Alex Oloriz in the 168-pound division finals. Choe won last year’s154-pound division finals by split decision over current sophomore Garrity McOsker. 

Ten captains led the Bengal Bouts program this year, including seven seniors, two juniors and one law student. All 10 captains advanced to the 


STRONG BODIES FIGHT 

finals of their respective weight classes this year. 









