
The independenT newspaper serving noTre dame and sainT mary’s 


‘Everyone saw him as the father’ 
Mandela’s legacy 


Students linked still felt in home to South Africa 
nation reflect on leader 

By MEG HANDELMAN 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer news writer 
The legacy of nelson mandela 

news of nelson mandela’s spreads so wide that notre dame 
death spread worldwide last students, professors and social jus-
Thursday night, and senior tice organizations connected to the 
south african native bertie university felt personally touched 
nel said the loss of the na­by his work. 
tion’s former leader was an paul horn, former communi­
event “we were never really cations director for notre dame’s 
prepared for.” center for social concerns, has 
nel said south africans an-spent 13 years living in south 
ticipated mandela’s death, africa and currently works in 
but it didn’t take away the Johannesburg. 
pain of the loss. after speak­“nelson mandela showed the 
ing with his family back world that a nation can be built on 
home, they told him the a foundation of dignity, restorative Photo courtesy of Emily Rojas country was mourning 
A memorial to Nelson Mandela in South Africa honors his legacy . The former president died Thursday, see legacy PAGE 5 and millions will gather in Johannesburg, South Africa , this week to remember him. see mandela PAGE 5 


ndoffersireland opportunities 
By GRACE McCORMACK 
news writer 
in 2014, more notre dame students than ever will travel across the ocean to spend the summer in ireland through programs offered by notre dame international studies, according to the Keough­naughton institute for irish studies and the career center. 
peggy weber, assistant director of off-campus 
see dublin PAGE 4 




professor inhabits lyons 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
when accounting profes­sor edward hums graduated from notre dame in 1975, he never imagined he would re­turn to campus as a resident, let alone in a women’s resi­dence hall. 
hums and his wife shirley have made lyons hall their home this academic year after the office of student affairs approached them last year about the possibility of moving into a residence hall and becoming notre dame’s first faculty-in-residence. The couple accepted the offer and moved into lyons in august, along with their cat squeak. 
“i hope it’s working out well,” hums said. “i think it is. my wife and myself have really enjoyed our time here [in lyons].” 
hums, who has taught at notre dame since 1989, said he and his wife are test driving the faculty-in-resi­dence program. 
“because we’re the only faculty-in-residence at notre dame, we’re kind of the point people, kind of the path­finders for this,” hums said. “hopefully, if things work out [in lyons], it’s an opportuni­ty to expand this program in other halls.” 
hums said it had not yet been determined whether he 
see hums PAGE 4 


students react to pinstripe bowl 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
The announcement that notre dame accepted a bid for the new era pinstripe bowl in new york’s yankee stadium thrilled irish fans from the big apple but left others comparing the bowl to last year’s bcs national championship at the orange bowl in miami. 
“from what i under­stand, the pinstripe bowl is a relatively new thing,” 
junior  chris  Tricarico  
said.  “obviously,  you  
want  the  bcs  national  

championship, but i feel like it’s a pretty prestigious bowl game.” 
sophomore heather fredrickson said she had made plans to visit new york before the bowl announce­ment was made saturday. she said she was “stoked” to have the opportunity to go to the game. 
“compared to last year, it’s not the same, but it’s a bowl game and i think it’s definitely where we are,” fredrickson said. “definitely colder, but it will also be a good experience.” 
sophomore brian miller said the bowl’s lack of prominence factored into his decision to stay home in chicago for the game. he said he would have consid­ered going to the bowl “if it were a more important game.” 
“i don’t think it’s a humon­gous deal for notre dame,” miller said. “probably for other schools, but for a school with expectations like we have, it’s not as big of a deal.” 
Tricarico, a long island native, said he plans to go to the game because he can travel to yankee stadium in a little more than an hour. 
“it’s super easy,” he said. “it’s so close to me that i couldn’t just not go. honestly, if it were anywhere else, i probably wouldn’t have gone, but now this is giving me an opportunity to see it firsthand.” 
see bowl PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s basKeTball PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite type of chocolate? 

Jun Kim 
sophomore 
stanford hall 
“dark.” 


Grace Mittelstaedt 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“ghiradelli chocolate.” 

Glory Kim 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“caramel Toffee sea salt.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Dougie Barnard 
junior 
st. edward’s hall 
“milk chocolate.” 

Clarice Juska 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“dark.” 


Austen Taylor 
sophomore 
carroll hall 
“cinnamon-roasted dark chocolate almonds.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski Katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie mccarty conor Kelly haleigh ehmsen meri Kelly 

Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 

emily danaher gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Snite Salon Series Yoga Zen Meditation President’s Vigil Mass 

wei lin austin Taliaferro 
Snite Museum of Art Rockne Memorial Coleman-Morse Christmas Reception Basilica of the Sacred 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. Center Main Building Heart Discuss and debate Free yoga as a part of 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 2 p.m.-4p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 
Corrections 
works of art. Wellness Wednesdays. Open to all faiths. For faculty and staff. Open to the public. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 
Cultural Differences Men’s Basktball Fall Concert Graduate Student Christmas Concert 
strives for the highest standards 
and Social Change Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Mass DeBartolo Performing 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. Arts Center Basilica of the Sacred Arts Center 

however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m.-7 p.m. The Irish take on North 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Heart 2:30 p.m. 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Student research Dakota State, as a Collegium Musicum 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. The Notre Dame 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
presentations about part of Gotham Classic features choral and Social in Coleman-Glee Club peforms to 
we can correct our error. 
developing countries. Regional Rounds. organ music. Morse Center to follow. benefit  local charities. 



clc discusses assault 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news writer 
The campus life council 
(clc) met monday after­noon at their final week­ly meeting of the fall semester. 
luis llanos, chair of the diversity council, updat­ed the clc about group’s resolution passed about a month and a half ago and passed on to administra­tors last Thursday. 
“i have been in contact with the administration [about the resolution],” llanos said.  “They’re going to meet up next week and then we will discuss all the points in depth. They have all been positive about it.” 
The focus of the meeting turned to student govern­ment’s campaign against sexual assault on campus. student body president 
alex coccia said plans are underway for a spring se­mester project. 
“when we come back in the spring semester, student government is facilitating a student engagement cam­paign,” coccia said. “The campaign title is ‘one is Too many.’” 
student government is getting four or five people will to run and facilitate a pledge against sexual as­sault in each residence hall, 
“When we come back in the spring semester, student government is facilitating a student engagement campaign. The campaign title is ‘One is Too Many.’” 
Alex Coccia 
student body president 
he said. student government will train the dorm rep­resentatives in the spring semester. 
“we want to make sure the people who are do­ing the conversations feel 

paid adverTisemenT 

comfortable talking about it,” he said. “we want them to feel knowledge­able about reporting and logistics of the dialogue. from there, we’re really going to try and adapt and evolve the campaign.” coccia said the campaign is open to as many people who want to be involved, with plans to weave the initiative into freshman orientation and dorm mass homilies in the future. 
“student government is facilitating [the cam­paign],” coccia said. “but we want anyone that wants to be involved to be involved.” 
llanos asked what is be­ing doing for off-campus students since sexual as­sault may happen there also. 
coccia said logistically, that aspect is more diffi­cult, but still possible. 
“we will focus on [university] edge and [irish] row, but we’re also looking at social media pledges and getting off-campus people involved,” he said. 
annie selak, walsh hall rector, said there is the potential of communica­tion breaking down since the campaign is on a rep­resentative basis in dif­ferent dorms. 
pasquerilla east hall rector cindy broderick said it will be important to make sure proper support structures are in place to maintain the campaign and also support  students who have been affected by sexual assault. 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzigm@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
smc nursing professor studies diabetes 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
results released this week from a loyola university chicago study suggest that vi­tamin d supplements can help decrease pain in women suf­fering from type-2 diabetes and depression. 
mary byrn, assistant professor of nursing at saint mary’s, was a member of the study’s original research team and said she has been involved in research since graduate school. 
“i got involved in that study as a graduate research assistant,” byrn said. “my area of work is [obstetrics]  — labor and deliv­ery — so since it’s women, it fit into my area.” 
byrn said the study was origi­nally looking at the impact of vi­tamin d supplements on moods. 
The subjects, women with type-2 diabetes and depression whose blood showed vitamin d deficiencies, were examined twice over the six-month sup­plement intake period, she said. Todd doyle, a chemical psychol­ogy fellow at loyola, conducted the analysis of the data byrn and her colleagues gathered, she said. 
“in the original study we were really focused on depression, weight and blood pressure,” she said. “we found that the vitamin d for women with type-2 diabe­tes improved mood, improved depression, improved weight and also decreased pain.” 
byrn said vitamin supple­ments could have a huge im­pact on daily health. she said the results of this study could significantly improve the lives of women currently suffering from the symptoms of type-2 diabetes. 
“people seem more willing to take a vitamin than a medi­cation, so i think if we can find this to be an effective treat­ment, people will be more likely to stick to that treatment,” she said. 
loyola researcher sue penckofer has been given a $1.49 million grant to conduct further studies into the ef­fects of vitamin d. according to a loyola press release, the vitamin d supplements in the study were provided in doses of 50,000 international units (iu) per week, which averages out to about 7,000 iu per day. compared to the normal rec­ommendation of 600 iu a day, byrn said this is a significant increase. 
“we work with an endocri­nologist and a cardiologist and [50,000 iu is] something they’ll use with their patients when their patients come in with in­sufficient vitamin d levels,” she said. “They’ll use this 50,000 to get them up into normal levels.” 
since the study will only in­volve women who meet the requirements, which includes having a demonstrable vitamin d deficiency, byrn said there is little risk of incurring the nega­tive side affects of too-high lev­els of vitamin d. 
she said penckofer’s new study would examine the im­pact of different amounts of supplementary vitamin d, to validate and further the results from the previous study. 
“The new study is going to be randomized, so half of the people will get 50,000 iu [of vi­tamin d] and half of the people will get a normal vitamin d dose [of 4,200 iu],” byrn said. “hopefully, since there will be two groups, we’ll be able to see if it’s really the high-dose vitamin d that’s contributing to these results.” 
although these studies have included only a small subset of the population, she said she be­lieves the results may end up be­ing applicable to people across the board. 
“with the next study, we’ll have more validated findings,” byrns said. “Then our conclu­sions of the effects of vitamin d will be stronger, and then we will hopefully be able to get general practice physicians to start checking people’s vitamin d levels when they come in for their regular check up.” 
she said she sees the results of this study as providing a cost-ef­fective treatment for a healthier population. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at trick01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Dublin 
conTinued from page 1 
programs, said the strong connection between the university and ireland offers students the chance to expe­rience the country through its summer study abroad pro­gram, sponsored internships or an eight-day guided trip. 
weber said the various pro­grams are particularly valu­able to students who are not able to study abroad during the normal school year.“we’re just trying to think of more opportunities and different opportunities for people,” she said.in addition to the six-week academic study abroad program that will host up to 25 students, weber said the eight-day trip to ireland could ac­commodate 100 students. 
“[it is a] compact trip, going places you couldn’t go your­self, or meeting people you couldn’t normally, especially packed into that period of time,” weber said. 
The trip itinerary includes visits to irish landmark and a personal visit with president of ireland michael d. higgins, an experience in which notre dame study abroad stu­dents and interns can also participate. 
“There is a lot of notre dame support, and for the short time that you’re there, whether for the internship or the eight-day trip, the days are packed with experiences so you can come back with a good idea about ireland,” weber said. 
students who cannot fit studying abroad into their college plans can still experi­ence irish culture through in­ternships sponsored by notre dame’s career center and the 
Hums 
conTinued from page 1 
will continue to live in lyons next year, and whether the faculty-in-residence program will be expanded. 
a native of mishawaka, hums said he did not live in a residence hall during his time at notre dame, so living in lyons marks his first time as an on-campus resident at the university. 
hums said he decided to move into the residence hall because he perceives as a growing disconnect between students and faculty. 
“i sense that somehow the faculty and students, when notre dame was a little smaller, were closer, and over time they have grown more apart,” hums said. “i just sense that more and more, students and faculty do not have the opportunity to meet as much as we used to, and i thought it was a good idea to take some steps to change the situation.” 
hums said he is used to making himself available to students, but living in a resi­dence hall is a good way to be Keough-naughton institute for irish studies, which weber said are open to juniors from almost all academic disciplines. 
“because we had the [navy football] game there last fall, more and more companies are interested in having notre dame students come and in­tern,” weber said. “There are also a lot of arts and letters internships.” 
currently, only six in­ternships sponsored by the Keough-naughton institute are available on the career center’s goirish website, but weber said more will be post­ed in the future. 
“an [irish] internship is dif­ferent than the type you would have in the u.s. because there you’re working with mentors at notre dame and ireland to really integrate the experi­ence,” she said. 
notre dame’s presence in ireland enhances the intern­ship opportunity and makes students more comfortable living abroad, according to weber. 
“The first week you’re going to be there is a welcome week when you tour around. Then, every Tuesday there’s a dinner, so there is no isolation ... [and] besides the Tuesday night din­ners, every weekend there are different trips,” she said. “There would be an internship coordinator who was available 24/7 to help and coordinate. 
“sometimes, [doing] an in­ternship in a city where you didn’t know anyone could be very isolating, no social life in the evening, and this way you can avoid that.” 
Contact Grace McCormack at gmccorm@nd.edu 
even more accessible. 
“The best thing about liv­ing in a dorm is surround­ing yourself with students,” he said. “i’m a notre dame graduate and my wife has a master’s degree from notre dame. it gives us an opportu­nity to be with students and gives us an opportunity to learn from students. it gives the students an opportunity to learn from us.” 
hums said that squeak the cat is a “great icebreaker” to encourage students to visit. 
“our secret weapon is our cat,” hums said. “students like to come over to pet the cat because they have pets at home and they miss their pets.” 
despite its benefits, dorm life still takes some getting used to, hums said. 
“it is a change. There are some challenge.,” he said. “obviously, student hours are not the same as faculty hours. some of us are up and teach­ing at eight in the morning. students don’t go to bed at 11 o’clock at night.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 
Bowl 
conTinued from page 1 
sophomore Jack szigety said he looks forward to in­corporating his hometown of ridgewood, n. J., into his game day experience and welcoming his notre dame friends into a part of his life they have never seen before. 
“The pinstripe bowl has provided the opportunity for myself and others from the new york metropolitan area the chance to be at home and close enough to a notre dame game, which is some­thing that the students from chicago get all the time,” szigety said. 
“another great thing is that i have a lot of new york pride and i love the city and the area that i’m from, and the pinstripe bowl has given me a chance to both attend and watch a football game as well as entertain my friends who are from different areas who are going to come,” he said. “so i get to show a piece of me off to people who nor­mally wouldn’t have the op­portunity to see where i’m from.” 
The president of the notre dame club of long island, John pennacchio, said the presidents of all the notre dame clubs in his region, which includes the tri-state area of new york, new Jersey and connecticut, found out during a previously sched­uled regional meeting that notre dame accepted the bid. he said they began making plans during the meeting. 
“we want to show we’re very supportive of notre dame out here,” pennacchio said. “we have a big alumni base out here so we’re very excited, and we want to do as much as we can to wel­come irish fans from across the country to this national 
“I’ve been a 
Yankee fan my 
whole life, so 
just being in the 
stadium is going 
to be an awesome 
experience.” 
Chris Tricarico 
junior 
game. we want to show the rest of the country that new york is a big irish supporter.” 
andrew wilson, president of the notre dame club of new york city, said his club was “happy” to welcome notre dame back to yankee stadium four years after their 2010 matchup with army. 
“The notre dame club of new york is excited to be the host club for the 2013 pinstripe bowl,” wilson said. “new york city is an amaz­ing place, especially, i think, during the holidays. 
“even if the temperature is 
paid adverTisemenT 
not traditional bowl weath­er, thousands of alumni and subway alumni in the new york city area are ready to hear the greatest of all uni­versity fight songs in the city soon.” 
Tricarico said yankee stadium would add a special significance to the game. 
“i’ve been a yankee fan my whole life, so just being in the stadium is going to be an awesome experience,” he said. 
sophomore James elliott said the bowl would be a departure from what he normally sees at yankee sstadium. 
“i’m pretty glad it’s at yankee stadium,” elliott said. “i’ve been there a lot, and it’s kind of cool because i’ve never been there for any­thing but baseball before.” 
students can purchase one or two tickets for $50 each through their stu­dent ticket accounts until wednesday, John breeden, ticketing associate director in the athletics department, said. he said the athletics department would not orga­nize a ticket lottery this year. 
“we feel we have enough supply this year to meet de­mand,” breeden said. “This is not always the case. we’re confident we can meet any student demands as long as [their tickets] are ordered by wednesday.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 




figure you could look up to, Zulu, from whatever part of disparity in the world, according to 
Legacy Mandela 

because he spoke so much the world, and i think that is their website. 
conTinued from page 1 conTinued from page 1 

about having people of dif-something the country itself 
Kelsie corriston, a senior sociol­collectively. ferent races, different na-embraces. The people who 
justice and compassion,” horn ogy major, spent eight weeks volun­while mandela’s presiden-tions come together and be really took what he said, it 
said. teering at a children’s home called cy ended in 1999, his impact unified.” helped themselves shape 
horn first became a volunteer open arms for children in Komga, on south africa is lasting, nel said while it would be into who they are.” 
teacher in south africa in 1997, he south africa, this summer through nel said. amazing to be back home for rojas said being in south 
said. the csc. “if it weren’t for him, a lot the ceremony commemorat-africa taught her more 
“This means i have had the op-“isslp lets you serve while fully of what’s going on in south ing mandela’s life at fnb about mandela’s legacy than 
portunity to live through much entering communities and build­africa wouldn’t be possible. stadium near soweto on anything she read before the 
of south africa’s first generation ing cross-cultural connections,” he was the big instigator Tuesday, he still feels he is trip. 
of democracy,” horn said. “much corriston said. “i think that’s just of [ending apartheid] and able to pay his respects from “[i realized] how much 
has changed from the early years, such a fundamental part of the hu­making sure that everyone afar. he shaped and molded the 
where there was great uncertainty man experience — being able to had equal opportunity,” nel “everyone knows who country, and i don’t think 
about how long peace would last. enter the lives of others and create said. “regardless of who you mandela is and i think to-that his legacy is going to 
“nelson mandela’s leadership relationships that are meaningful.” are, regardless of white or morrow’s ceremony is going end,” rojas said. “This is 
in those early years was critical to corriston said she chose to do black, it’s very important to attract so many viewers just the beginning toward 
laying the foundation for a lasting an isslp in south africa because that everyone have the same from across the world,” nel a more unified nation, and 
peace, and to creating a framework she would be able to live and serve opportunity and [mandela] said. “everyone around the that was his vision.” 
for truth and reconciliation.” at a children’s home, and because brought that to south africa. world revered him and knew nel said there are many 
horn said he spent friday eve-of her interest in the way apartheid “back home they call him that what he did was good positives things that can 
ning following mandela’s death operates today. ‘tata’ and that’s the word for for south africa.” come from mandela’s life, 
with the crowd gathered outside “The legacy of apartheid is still father. i think that’s very fit-nel said he thinks but he believes is forgive-
the former president’s home in evident in Komga today,” she said. ting. everyone saw him as mandela’s actions inspired ness is the most important. 
Johannesburg. “across from the open arms prop-the father, ‘tata.’” people around the world to “The biggest positive that 
“The reaction to nelson erty is the location, where the black saint mary’s sophomore stand up for their beliefs i think anyone can take of 
mandela’s life has been largely people live. so segregation still ex­emily rojas studied in south and accomplish good work. [his life] is his ability to for-
celebratory,” horn said. “mandela ists. it consists of small homes africa this semester but “he was a great man. he give people,” nel said. “yeah 
was 95 years old at the time of his in tight quarters. we only went had returned to the united did a lot for south africa,” they put him in prison for 27 
passing and lived a full and accom-there while driving twice … we states when she learned of nel said. “i don’t think we years, but as soon as he got 
plished life. hundreds danced and were really restricted to staying on mandela’s death. she said would be where we are with-out of it he forgave. he never 
sang in the streets, while others open arms property due to safety a friend still in the country out him and we are very held a grudge, and that’s just 
took a moment to light a candle and concerns.” called her and asked her if lucky to have a man of that amazing that he was able to 
write a message to ‘Tata’ on a me-following the death of nelson she had heard the news. caliber in south africa.” turn around like that.” 
morial wall that had been set up.” mandela, corriston said she wrote “i said ‘no,’ and she said rojas said she believes nel said that remembering 
horn now works as executive di-a reflection about her time in south ‘well, nelson mandela mandela’s legacy will con-mandela’s life is important 
rector of the Kgosi neighbourhood africa and how mandela’s legacy passed,’” rojas said. “There tinue to motivate the whole and while many are sad-
foundation, an organization that impacted the south africa she was a pause from both ends, world to take action. dened by his death, it should 
seeks to empower families from knew. and she said the country is “beyond the country, move people to take action. 
one of the most challenged neigh-“south africa still suffers; so do in a standstill and from Tv i think he impacted the “it’s now time for the rest 
borhoods in Johannesburg. he said the children that i lived with and to people in the streets, you world,” she said. “[everyone] of the world to step up and 
a number of notre dame students cared for,” corriston wrote. “This can feel the sadness, the should become educated follow his example and do 
have completed international past summer was incredibly diffi­mourning. on what he did because [he good in the world,” he said. 
summer service learning cult. i saw how structural poverty “it was something that taught] that we dignify ev­
programs (isslp) in the region. shapes the lives of children; i wit-really hit home. it hurt be-ery individual despite the Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at 
“Johannesburg is a city of socio-nessed the inequality and socio-cause he was like a father, a fact they are afrikaan or hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
economic extremes,” horn said. economic apartness that remains “i work in a community where post-apartheid. 
paid adverTisemenT 
families often do not have food at “yet the beauty of a country home, and their home is a small brought together by its past of room shared by many people with-separation which is committed out adequate sanitation, water or to a shared future is undeniable. electricity.” nelson mandela personified unity 
horn said the foundation’s ini-in a post-apartheid world. he was tiatives include educational pro-a hero, in ways that we can’t pos­grams for over 150 children from sibly begin to understand; he was a birth to six years old, a commu-father, south africa’s Tata.” nity garden, a sewing project and mandela’s work touched the lives the together+ anti-xenophobia of each of the children at open campaign. arms for children by giving them 
horn said the region is greatly an opportunity to grow into them-affected by xenophobia-fueled vio-selves, she wrote. lence. he said the segregation and in her reflection, corriston inequality that mandela devoted said mandela’s tribal birth name, his life to changing still exist in rolihlahla, means troublemaker. south africa today. “mandela made trouble — he 
“when i leave that community fought injustice and bigotry, he after a day of work — literally going brought a nation of systematic and right over a hill — i enter a com-deep-seated apartness together munity with large homes, good through justice and reconciliation. schools, shopping malls, restau-he helped made south africa a rants, public parks and excellent place where children can dream,” hospitals,” horn said. she wrote. 
horn said mandela brought Through the csc, junior sociol­these diverse groups together, ogy major Jackie paul completed united them and inspired the the isslp along with corriston. campaign. following the former presi­
“mandela’s belief in the transfor-dent’s death, paul wrote a reflec­mative power of education has also tion about mandela’s legacy. “one inspired my years of work to offer does not have to look far to realize orphaned and vulnerable children that mandela’s influence was not free schooling,” horn said. bounded by the borders of south 
africa,” paul wrote. “The world Notre Dame ISSLP continues to mourn the passing of participants reflect this international figure who con­
notre dame’s center for tinues to be a heroic example, and social concerns (csc) funds i continue to pray for the hopeful international summer service country of south africa.” learning projects (isslp) for students interested in broaden-Contact Meg Handelman at ing their views about economic mhandelm@nd.edu 


One nation under God 


INSIDE COLUMN 
rudy sucked 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

four years ago, almost to the day, i watched “rudy” with my mom to cel­ebrate my acceptance letter from notre dame. hugs were had, relatives were called, tears were shed; it was a pretty great day. 
for kids like me who grew up with golden domes dancing in their dreams, “rudy” was like a fifth gospel. The kid overcame all the odds to sneak into not just the university, but the legendary foot­ball team, even if just for that one glorious sack. 
now that i’m in college, “rudy” has a different kind of inspiration for me. i know now that the rudy in “rudy” is more in­spired by a person than the real thing. The jersey scene in dan devine’s office never happened. Joe montana says they carried rudy off the field as a joke. 
and, most importantly, rudy sucked. This is the fictional rudy i’m talking about, not the real life one, whom i have no interest in slandering in any way. i’m taking about the fake rudy, from the movie. he sucked. 
i find a lot of comfort in that. 

he wasn’t a very good student, barely scratched by with help from more talent­ed friends and by some miracle was even­tually accepted into and graduated from the university of notre dame. assuming i ever make it out of here, i can identify with fake rudy on that front. 
he was a no-talent, no-athleticism shrimp of a football player who toughed his way onto the football field and ended up making one inspirational play. i don’t think i’ve ever toughed my way into any­thing, but it eases my mind to think that this inspirational figure really wasn’t good at very much of anything beyond persevering. 
finals week is fast approaching, with final papers and projects littering my path to the end of my semester like a mine­field of group meetings in the lafortune basement. 
instead of stressing that i’ll fail any­thing and everything that comes before me, and worrying that really, if we’re be­ing honest, it’s entirely possible that i’ve faked my way the whole time up until this point, and all my luck is about to run out, i simply sit back and remember, rudy sucked. and he did okay. 
so, if you’re feeling stressed as finals approach, if you feel like you don’t belong and you don’t have any real talent and the whole world is crashing down around your head, take a break and watch “rudy.” 
at the end of the movie, when the team carries him off the field, and you feel that old, familiar heartwarming feeling come creeping up inside of you, realize what it really means — rudy sucked, and so can you. and everything’s going to be all right. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 
often times, trying to find visible evidence of the hand of god work­ing in our nation’s political system appears to be a hopeless endeavor. despite a few technical difficulties with the healthcare.gov website, where americans can browse prices and rates for medical insurance as an individual, family or business owner, The patient protection and affordable care act, commonly referred to as “obamacare”, has its pitfalls, but definitely has valu­able points that will help many people obtain health care. 
while the upholding of the hhs mandate, which requires health care plans to deliver coverage for all fda approved contraceptives as “preven­tive health services for women” for no cost, introduces complications to health insurance and ethical concerns, it is often confused or lumped in with obamacare, but the two are two dif­ferent entities. Thus, in my statements about obamacare, i do not include the horrendous, unconstitutional, immoral and sinful stipulations of the hhs mandate in this discussion. Thankfully, our lady’s university has this month re-filed the lawsuits against these immoral and, what i consider, unethical forces of health care. 
moving forward after that impor­tant distinction and clarification, obamacare may be one of the great­est tangible actions of the obama administration that seeks to estab­lish social justice and equity with an important attention to the common good along with a special focus for poorer americans and those marginal­ized in our society. however, there is much confusion about the provisions as well as the documented debacle of the registration process. specific principles of catholic social Teaching that obamacare appears to address are solidarity, the dignity of each human person, option for the poor and vulnerable, rights and responsibilities and the dignity of work and the rights of workers. while the launching of healthcare.gov with technical issues may not be the brightest moment of the obama administration, the thought, ideology, moral and ethics behind obamacare represents a great step towards a greater dignity and respect for all americans. 
statistically speaking according to a report from the census bureau on health insurance, there were approxi­mately 48 million americans who did not have medical insurance in the united states. according to the report, a small minority of these uninsured individuals choose not have medical insurance. The overwhelming majority of these uninsured individuals listed that they did not have health insurance because they simply could not afford health coverage. some individuals who had health care coverage before, but due to losing a job had lost health in­surance coverage as well. additionally, many individuals who have a pre­existing medical condition seeking to get an affordable health insurance plan cannot as they are either denied access all together or are offered prices too high for the individual to afford. a significant percentage of uninsured americans are children. obamacare seeks to effectively provide insurance for these people who are left out in the “supply and demand” capitalistic eco­nomic market for health insurance. 
how could anyone possibly object to this service? is it not our duty as americans to take care of our fellow citizens? is it not our duty as christians to be our sister’s and brother’s keeper? we live in a giving society. it is our hu­man nature to help others. so why is the debate over health care such a dif­ficult topic to discuss? we all know that health care is an important necessity in our society. yet, have we found the right formula of affordability, conve­nience, reliability and cost-effective­ness? probably not, but we owe it to everyone in need to give it a try and work together for the common good. it is a hard time for america for many reasons. lack of affordable health care and increasing poverty are part of the equation. 
yet, just providing affordable health insurance does not solve all the prob­lems. yes, it will be a support for many, but we need to focus on the common good for all, mentally, spiritually and physically. it is important to remember that just maybe obamacare will be an instrument for someone and their family to improve themselves in these areas. isn’t that what we are striving for? a quality of life that gives us a bal­ance of happiness as children of god would be nice for all of us to achieve. and, don’t we ultimately want that for others? This would all take time and, with the grace of god, we will be able to help others lead more productive lives with endless opportunities, just as we have here at notre dame. but, we need to be patient, us as the givers as well as the receivers. although it might take time to measure the results of obamacare, hopefully individuals will have a sense of some immediate relief in getting their pertinent health care needs met. 
in light of christian beliefs and morals operating under the idea that all human life deserves dignity and respect, it is interesting to reflect on the idea that anyone anywhere is even forced to pay for medical procedures and coverage. for, in a sense, by charg­ing for these services we put a price on human life, human life which is a priceless gift from the great god above in heaven. in putting a price on human life, we limit people from saving them­selves or loved ones. who will then redeem these people from the price our economic system has put on their head? This question unfortunately will have to be answered another time. for now, let’s see what impact obamacare has on the economy and welfare of our people. let’s be true to our words, be­ing one nation, under god. 
Carter Boyd is a sophomore studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The chocolate games, day 2 
Today is the day for your second clue The first one i gave left many confused. don’t worry yourself, you are on the right track To claim the jersey i once wore on my back. 
for clue #2, just one figure you’ll need. i know a guy who can lead you to it indeed. he is a single like me, but on the opposite side. if i said he’s not fast — well, then i lied. 
he is tall, dark and handsome —we are one and the     same. each saturday he and i ball out in the game also the same — we are both number 3! 
but that is not the figure you need. 
look to his back and the answer you’ll find. one step closer you’ll be to the jersey i’ve signed. 
Louis Nix 
senior in your hearts dec. 10 



hoping for love and bamboo 
Jon Schommer 
viewpoint columnist 
hello friends. guess what? it’s advent! 

“no,” you say, “it’s the week before finals and you have reading to do, a seminar paper to write and a concrete design project to finish. go back to the library and do your work.” 
This year, more than most, it seems to me that there is a lack of space for the appreciation of advent. it may be because my last final is less than five days before christmas or that the workload i have to carry to the end of the semester is heavier than normal, but i feel especially weighed down. i’m sure some of you have similar feelings. 
i think it is for reasons such as these that the seasons, both liturgical and natural, serve to slow us down and help us to remember what is most pressing. whether it is in a day of fasting or in a day where we need to bundle up to face the south bend winter, the seasons seem to say, “get your head out of your word document, textbook or class notes and remember you are a human being!” 
advent is cool because it also says, “The creator of the universe, love it­self, became a human being.” in light of this, we have four weeks in which to intentionally hope for love. it is this hope that helps us to better realize we are persons. 
speaking of people, this summer a wonderful person gifted my house with a bamboo tree. i promise this relates. it was really just a little six-inch stick in a small glass cup filled with rocks and water. as the branch sat on our table i thought about the huge bamboo trees i helped harvest to frame houses on a farm in el salvador and the saxophone-sounding bam­boo flutes i got to play in india during summers past. i wondered if our small plant would one day be a tree or a flute or some other cool bamboo thing. unfortunately, the aspirations i had for the little bamboo tree were soon forgotten and this semester we found it dry, dead and still six inches tall. 
we were going to just throw it away. but someone in the house decided to keep watering it for a while to see if anything happened. recently, we were surprised to see that a new shoot is starting to grow from the dead stick in the glass cup. 
at mass this sunday the bamboo plant surprised me once again — it sprouted in the first words of the first reading, “on that day, a shoot shall sprout from the stump of Jesse and from his roots a bud shall blossom.” The hopefulness of advent is like the hopefulness of watering a dead plant. 
i know that papers, projects and tests are important. but the whole rea­son why we do these things is because of our personhood. sometimes, i need to remind myself that the reason why i am at school is because i love to learn and have passions related to what i am studying. i’m not just a paper-writing, test-taking machine. i am a person. 
so how does one remember their personhood from behind a laptop because you really have to get this paper done? although the answers to this probably number as many as the different people in the world, i suppose one way could be that when we minimize the document, go get some food or shut our eyes for a few moments, we don’t do it out of pro­crastination, but out of an intentional hopefulness. 
not procrastination, but intentional hopefulness. what does that mean? i think at the heart of it, it means to not throw our hands up exasperated in the emptiness, but to search for love, to hope for love. when things seem dead or futile, we can do something like wa­tering a dried out bamboo plant while seeing the flute it will one day be. 
in this foolish anticipation we hope for love. as we are hoping for love, we realize the people around us are hop­ing for love too. in this recognition, we have the opportunity to do more than just water our own plants — we can be a little bamboo shoot for another. 
Jon Schommer is in his fifth year study­ing civil engineering and the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be contacted at jschomme@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

what might have been in san diego 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 

in national commentary on the subject and in more than one per­sonal conversation i have had, the sentiment among many americans remains the same: if ever the time was right for an independent politi­cal movement in the united states, it is now. 
given the frustration many have with the hyper-partisanship and gridlock in our political system, with a sound strategy, broad-based sup­port and enough funding, who knows how far the right candidate might go as an independent. 
The question is — what would that candidate look like? 
Three years ago, nathan fletcher was a california state assemblyman and a rising star in the republican party. 
he was a young, well-spoken legis­lator with a decorated military back­ground in the u.s. marine corps. a fiscal conservative and social moder­ate, fletcher helped get a remarkable 21 pieces of legislation passed in his first term in the california legisla­ture. he appeared destined for higher office. 
in 2012, fletcher ran for mayor of san diego. weeks after he failed to win the endorsement of the san diego county republican party, fletcher surprised many and an­nounced he was leaving the party and running as an independent. despite an initial bump in the polls, fletcher finished third in the election. 
in the spring of 2013, while work­ing in the private sector and with no immediate election in sight, fletcher announced he was registering as a democrat. it was a switch, fletcher said, that came about as the result of a variety of factors, personal and ideological. 
when then san diego mayor bob filner resigned in august amid rev­elations of harassment and miscon­duct, fletcher was the first candidate to file his paperwork to run in the special election to replace him. early polls showed fletcher leading the race. 
The special election was held on nov. 19, with the top two finishers scheduled to compete in a runoff election early next year to determine who would be the next san diego mayor. 
fletcher finished third. 
“This election marks the end of my time in politics,” fletcher said the day after the election. 
The man who three years ago seemed set in the fast lane to higher office is now walking away from the public spotlight. 
but while many (including myself) were disappointed to see fletcher leave the gop, it’s even more curious to wonder what would have happened if fletcher, a down-to-earth, decent man with working relationships on both sides of the aisle, had remained an independent. 
what if he successfully fielded criticisms from the left (he’s a con­servative in sheep’s clothing!) and the right (he’s a liberal phony!) and played them to his advantage, brand­ing himself as the “new breed” can­didate above the fray of partisanship, beholden only to the citizens? 
Though fletcher voiced a version of this message throughout his recent campaign, how much more convinc­ing would it have been coming from an independent? 
what if that message of responsi­bility, leadership and responsiveness to the citizens turned out to be a winner? 
seventy-one-year-old michael bloomberg, new york city’s independent mayor, is about to hand the keys to the big apple over to his liberal successor, and presum­ably, leave politics for good. what if a 37 year-old west coast mayor took over the title of “highest profile independent in america?” 
while it might be easy to wonder why these hypotheticals matter to anyone but political junkies anxious to see them play out, the truth is, what happened in america’s eighth largest city would have had implica­tions for others running for higher office around the united states. 
what if fletcher was the right can­didate, if not to run for president, to start that conversation? 
what if, what if… 
maybe it is impossible for a centrist to win major office when competing against well-funded attack machines on the left and right. or maybe the right candidate still hasn’t come along. 
maybe the case of san diego was the opportunity for independent leadership that slipped through america’s fingers. or maybe that op­portunity was never meant to be. 
we can only wonder what might have been in san diego. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

music is something that is easy to take for granted. it’s all around us, almost always available through our technology or voices. but just thinking back a year ago, there was so much music we didn’t have! here’s a list of 20 tunes you’ll be glad 2013 offered us, as well as a short description of each song. 
“Hold On, We’re Going Home” – Drake 
so there’s this loving, rich, famous guy singing to you as he takes you home. and he’s even polite and romantic instead of predatory and sexual. subdued, sexy, thick production and silky harmonies too? ladies… 
“Humiliation” – The National 
This song is like floating down a lazy river at mid­night with the stars shining off the water, and as time passes the river goes faster and faster until you fly out of the water and become immersed in the sky. 
“Dropla” – Youth Lagoon 

youth lagoon is riding on a unicorn through fields of flowery synthesizers and he wants you to come along to save the kingdom! 
“James” – Ex Cops 

The powerful guitar, driving drums and irresistible harmonies on this summery pop song make for a tune that is impossible not to like. yes, that is a challenge. 
“I Kill Giants” – The Naked and Famous 
This song is The song to kill giants to. a huge, thundering bass drum riff, a soaring chorus, and champion-level rhythm guitars make this song the shout-along anthem of the year. 
“Help Me Lose My Mind” – Disclosure 
you’re a classy, sunglass-wearing model in a com­mercial for a high-end clothing commercial. and you are the coolest person around. That’s this song, essentially. 
“One Half” – Julianna Barwick 
you know that really beautiful girl you looked at from across the room who seemed like she belonged to another world? This is her in song form: angelic, beautiful and mystical. 
“Mirrors” – Justin Timberlake 
if i could be another person for just one day, i would be Justin Timberlake so i could sing this song to my girlfriend. and so i could look at my beautiful face in the mirror and sing it to myself. 
“Lips and Limbs” – Waxahatchee 
another indie acoustic song? you’re probably like, go bacK To urban ouTfiTTers! but i’m like, this thing has a strumming, tambourine heart that will love your ears, forever. and, of course, your friends will “never have heard of them.” 
“Open” – Rhye 
best trumpet line of 2013. best snaps of 2013. and honestly, this woman’s voice is so richly textured that it sometimes sounds like she’s singing harmo­nies when in fact she’s only singing one line. The smoothest, most entrancing love song of the year, and the best produced. 
“Retrograde” – James Blake 
The immaculate vocal hook will have you singing along in your embarrassingly bad falsetto in twenty seconds or less. 
“Play by Play” – Autre ne Veut 
The play by play: ambient waves of psychedelic synth evolve into a dramatic, swooning verse, which swelter and build through a tension-filled bridge that changes sound every four measures. The mas­sive chorus drops with circling vocal lines and gor­geous harmonies. it’s r&b at its most catchy and adventurous. 
“Shuggie” – Foxygen 
The sonic equivalent of strolling around, looking like elvis, and having all the ladies fall at your feet, but because you’re so cool, you don’t even look their way. because you’re the funkiest guy in town who don’t need no woman. 
“Step” – Vampire Weekend 
best pop song of 2013. no contest. seriously, where does vampire weekend find all these melodies and witty, heart-touching lyrics? 
“Song for Zula” – Phosphorescent 
you know those “golden notes” in songs that make your heart sing for a half-second? phosphorescent invited about fifty of those to a party and you’re invited. 
“WHOREHOUSE” – ceo 
This song is a party. There’s all these vocal samples jumping in and out amidst flashing light synthesiz­ers and a bass that bounces and dances all over the place. indie-pop song of the year. 
“Touch” – Daft Punk 
i would explain Touch, but there’s so many amaz­ing twists and turns that just shouldn’t be ruined for a first-timer. it’s essentially like a ridiculously awe­some action movie: when you think it can’t get more awesome, suddenly they all have light-sabers. and then flying warrior llamas. and then, after you’re done watching, someone shows up with free donuts. 
“Wings” – Haerts 
if red bull was a song and tasted good, it would be this song: epic, soaring vocals over thundering drums and catchy-as-heck melodies. if you’re about to do something awesome, this song will naturally start playing in the background, movie-style. 
“Wild for the Night” – A$AP Rocky 
let’s see—dubstep and rap. The two kinds of par­ty music actually synthesized well. go home, other party songs. you lose. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

oh lorde(y) the grammy nominations are out! (and praise “yeezus” we have been spared another opportu­nity for miley cyrus to “perform” at an awards show.) 
it seems as if the judges or god or Kanye or whoever is in charge of this stuff took an easy way out. awarding nine nominations to Jay-Z and seven to macklemore and Justin Timberlake. here’s a haiku expressing my opinion on this system: 
you are hot JT 
and like you’re with bey, Jay-Z 
but more artists live. 

This year’s nominations do not include the alternative acts we have become accustomed to seeing in the past years. we’ve seen mumford & sons, bon iver and arcade fire all steal the show. This year’s nominations skipped out on the alternative spectrum in favor of pop in the big categories, including album of The year and best new artist. vampire weekend’s “modern vampires of the 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

2013 was a big year for the box office, with record numbers across the board and a plethora of great films hitting the big screen. however, as many great movies as there were, hollywood delivered a num­ber of flicks that weren’t particularly good, and some that were just downright awful. (“after earth,” anyone?) 
in the midst of this movie theatre chaos, a group of films that had the potential to be great, but left audi­ences with empty hearts and empty wallets. This list is dedicated to those pictures, the most disappoint­ing movies of 2013. 
5. “A Good Day to Die Hard” 

it had been six years since bruce willis’ last foray as John mcclane in “live free or die hard,” but ap­parently that still wasn’t enough time. “a good day to die hard” simply could not live up to its predeces­sors, and resembles a shell of what used to be. all the big, explosive action sequences that have become a trademark of this great series are there, but they have become long and drawn out, creating no tension or interest for viewers. The screenplay was just as bad, with bruce willis awkwardly attempting to gain his son’s approval as they take down generic russian bad guys. The writers couldn’t even make any of willis’ wisecracks funny, a terrible disappointment for fans of such a beloved franchise. “a good day to die hard” had so much potential thanks to the suc­cess of the previous films, but the team just dropped the ball. hopefully they do a better job when the in­evitable “die hard 6” comes around. 
city” or Tame impala’s “lonerism” were only nominat­ed in the alternative category. The acclaimed sister trio, haim, was denied any nominations. 
while writing this article i decided to listen to some “yeezus” to get hyped. i am currently fist-pumping and head-banging as hard as one can while remaining seated. somehow Kanye only came away with nomina­tions for best rap album and best rap song. however, i am convinced that, “Kanye had one of the best albums of all time.” 
another controversial musical icon of 2013 was miss­ing in the grammy nominations. miley’s hits, “we can’t stop” and “wrecking ball”, did not garner any nomi­nations, while miley’s album, “bangerz,” missed the september 30 cutoff for eligibility. although i am a miley fan (haters to the back), i do believe this was a wise deci­sion. not only are her songs not grammy-worthy (howev­er, apparently “blurred lines” is?), but i also do not think the world’s middle-aged conservative mothers could handle another nude bikini instance in their suburban family rooms. 
4. “Insidious Chapter 2” 
The original “insidious” was a great haunted house film, with some of the creepiest imagery and most truly frightening scares seen in that genre in decades. The is­sue with the horror genre the imagery and scares don’t transfer that readily to sequels, making films such as “chapter 2” that attempt to capture the spirit of their predecessors by retreading old grounds feel predict­able and dull. The dialogue dragged for eons and what should have been a build up to the scares really just put audiences to sleep. by far the most disappointing point of the movie is the conclusion, which does not really conclude anything and sets the story for an absolutely unnecessary threequel. 
3. “Man of Steel” 
The problem with “man of steel” is not that it was necessarily a bad movie, it’s just that there was no way for it to live up to the feverish levels of hype surrounding it. with christopher nolan producing and Zach snyder of “300” directing, superman’s fans were hoping for the next “dark Knight”. instead, we got something that resembled the ugly hybrid of that and a michael bay film. The action sequences are loud, explosive and ex­citing at first, but david goyer’s script that alternates between the past and the present kills the momentum of the movie, and pushes man of steel into the generic territory. The final fight against general Zod initially is incredibly stunning, but quickly grows stale as it drags on for the next half hour. The movie seems to be steeped in the pretentiousness of the dark Knight Trilogy without having anything groundbreaking to show for it. with the upcoming batman and superman film though, nolan has a chance to turn things around and rediscover the things that made his previous forays 
seventeen-year-old sensation lorde garnered four nominations, but was skipped over for best new artist. perhaps this is since she is so young and has only had one, maybe two singles top the charts thus far. cnn lik­ened her to Katy perry when she had the single “i Kissed a girl” out, yet was also precluded from the best artist nominations. To this i say, “eww.” do not compare lorde to Katy perry. lorde has yet to don a bra made out of can­dy or sing the words, “do you ever feel like a plastic bag?” 
an artist who received loads of accolades was Kendrick lamar. about that, let’s just say there is an inspirational quote on a wall in the observer office reading, “Kendrick lamar, terrible person, terrible rapper, or both?” who could forget his verse on “control” insulting every rapper from eminem, to a$ap, to (the term rapper used loosely here) drake? oh wait, everyone. 
in summation, these nominations leave much to be desired. “Just give me a reason” why i shouldn’t “roar” at this musical “heist.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
into superhero films so intriguing. 
2. “The Great Gatsby” 
“The great gatsby” had absolutely all the necessary ingredients for a perfect movie: a great cast of actors (save Tobey maguire), an excellent book to use for the story, and access to all the tools and funds need­ed to produce whatever was necessary. poor f. scott fitzgerald must be spinning in his grave, as this is the fifth time that hollywood has failed to capture the spirit of the Jazz age novel of sex, lies and consumption. The execution was horrendous, with an obnoxious sound track put together by Jay-Z (because hip-hop makes retro things relevant and cool), an overly complex art direction that drowns the characters in ridiculous set pieces, and a lack of any soul due to the stiffness of the characters. director baz luhrmann’s rendition of a classic american tragedy was a huge letdown, fail­ing to have even remotely the emotional impact that fitzgerald’s book did. but you know what they say, the sixth time’s the charm. 
1. “World War Z” 
words simply cannot describe how disappointing this film was. read max brooks’ novel of the same name, and then cry because hollywood managed to turn a wonderfully unique look at a zombie apoca­lypse into a dull, generic lone-hero-saves-the-world­from-zombies-and-stuff movie that could only rival “resident evil: afterlife” in terms of awful zombie mov­ies. They could have at least tried to keep the themes or storytelling of the novel, but instead we got just anoth­er stale zombie movie in an incredibly saturated genre. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

cards, ’canes set to thrill 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
The best bowl game of this year will be played on dec. 28 on the east coast featur­ing a once-proud power­house and an up-and-down american team that will soon be relocating to a dif­ferent conference. 
and while your eyes may be pinned on yankee stadium for notre dame’s “showdown” against rutgers early in the day, your eyes should move to orlando, fla., for miami’s matchup against probable first-round pick, junior quarterback Teddy bridgewater, and no. 18 louisville. 
now you’re probably thinking about miami and going, “wow, why would i watch that team? The last three times (in the sun bowl against notre dame, in 2012 against notre dame and this season against florida state) i watched them, they lost by a combined 81 points.” 
and yes, the hurricanes’ trademark win of the season came against 4-8 florida and they gave away their shot for the acc coastal with a three-game los­ing streak in the middle of november. but this is about much more than what the team put on the field. 
i mean, they put enough out there to win nine games and garner a top-10 ranking at one point in the season. but now that the cloud of the ncaa investigation into them has been lifted, the ’canes are now full speed ahead in the russell athletic bowl, the first postseason game for the school since the irish throttled them in 2010. 
so senior quarterback stephen morris will get one more shot at a bowl victory and miami could capture its first 10-win season since 2003. in 2003, miami still played in the orange bowl, larry coker was the head coach and the school was still in some odd conference called the big east. 
so is this game big for miami? you better believe it. 
but what makes this game even bigger is whom they are playing. 
bridgewater is from miami. he went to the same high school as former hurricanes quarterback Jacory harris. he was going to be a hurricane — until he was not. cardinals coach charlie strong (florida’s for­mer defensive coordinator) has invaded miami-dade county to poach the rich talent pool and bring them north. The cardinals roster features 15 players from the miami area, which likely has led to the quick turnaround for strong. 
now, bridgewater has blossomed into a potential first-round pick instead of a Jacory harris-clone, as i thought he could be­come. but he has quietly put together a nice (but not heisman-worthy) season, throwing for 3,523 yards and 28 touchdowns with just four interceptions. 
he has already defeated a team from his home state in the postseason, routing florida in the sugar bowl a year ago. and while the stakes are slightly dimin­ished, bridgewater should still come ready to play against his once future school. 
early in the season, louisville was widely re­garded as a sleeper national championship team be­cause of its high preseason ranking and easy schedule. The cardinals did not face a ranked (at the time they played them) team all sea­son on their way to an 11-1 campaign. 
but after their loss to then-unranked and fu­ture american athletic conference champions ucf, the cardinals pretty much fell off the map. no one paid any attention to the ma­chine that was buzzing in northern Kentucky. 
while they backed into the bowl game with three consecutive seven-point wins, the cardinals still av­eraged more than 35 points per game and ranked third in the country in scoring defense, yielding just 12.4 points per game. 
if those storylines were not enough, cardinals de­fensive line coach clint hurtt used to coach at “The u” and was a person of in­terest during the ncaa’s investigation. 
so take a hungry miami team that will be facing a talented louisville laden with high school teammates and add coaching staffs that are battling for recruits. all you get is a great bowl game. 
if you don’t think it will be, ask @russellathbowl on Twitter. he’ll surely con­vince you. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NHL 
Penguins top Columbus 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh – evgeni malkin scored in his re­turn from a lower-body injury, sidney crosby add­ed his 16th goal, and the pittsburgh penguins beat the columbus blue Jackets 2-1 on monday night. 
marc-andre fleury stopped 32 shots for the penguins, who won their sixth straight home game. 
malkin missed two games last week after being in­jured during a morning skate. he looked fine while bulling his way toward the net 4:16 into the second pe­riod for his eighth goal of the season. crosby pushed his season-point total to an nhl-best 43 when he de­flected in a shot by pascal dupuis midway through the third. 
matt calvert scored with less than a minute left for columbus, spoiling fleury’s shutout bid. curtis mcelhinney made 28 saves but the blue Jackets strug­gled again in pittsburgh. 
The penguins have won all three meetings this sea­son by a combined score of 9-3. 
fleury was sharp when tested, though the penguins did an excellent job of keeping the blue Jackets from spending too much time in his face. 
There were few close calls by the blue Jackets after the opening 10 minutes. fleury’s only mistake came when he narrowly missed scoring a goal into an emp­ty net with a minute to play, inadvertently sparking a sequence that led to calvert getting loose for his second goal of the season with 56 seconds left. 
pittsburgh, which allowed two goals to the boston bruins in the final minute of a loss on saturday, didn’t collapse this time. 
malkin extended his point streak to 10 games. he took a cross-ice feed from Jussi Jokinen and dispatched columbus defenseman Jack Johnson before flicking the puck past mcelhinney’s outstretched stick. 
crosby doubled pittsburgh’s lead 8:52 into the third when dupuis’ centering pass caromed off crosby’s body into the columbus net. 
The blue Jackets are hop­ing to take a step forward 
this  season  after  mov­ 
ing  over  to  the  eastern  
conference  following  
13  mostly  dismal  sea­ 

sons in the west. injuries, 
however, have slowed their development. 
columbus is missing for­wards marion gaborik and nathan horton, defense-man James wisniewski, and reigning vezina Trophy winner sergei bobrovsky. gaborik and bobrovsky are out until after the new year. horton is out indefinitely with a shoulder injury. 
The blue Jackets had won three of four, including consecutive shutouts over Tampa bay and minnesota, to climb within three games of .500. columbus lost 10 of its first 14 games. 
pittsburgh was without defensemen paul martin, brooks orpik and rob scuderi, and as forwards beau bennett and Tanner glass. The penguins will also miss forward James neal, who was suspended for five games by the nhl on monday for kneeing boston’s brad marchand in the first period saturday. 
moments later, boston’s shawn Thornton pulled orpik down from behind then punched him on his way to the ice. 
pittsburgh coach dan bylsma said monday that orpik is “doing quite well” but issued no timetable for his return. 
NBA 
clippers win over 76ers 
Associated Press 
philadelphia – blake griffin scored 26 points, chris paul added 25 points and 13 assists, and the short­handed los angeles clippers defeated the philadelphia 76ers 94-83 monday night. 
deandre Jordan had 11 points and a season-high 21 rebounds, and Jared dudley scored 10 points for the clippers, who won their sec­ond straight. The clippers are 2-1 on a season-high ty­ing seven-game road trip. 
los angeles played without guards J.J. redick (injuries to right hand and wrist), reggie bullock (sprained left an­kle) and maalik wayns (left knee). forward matt barnes is out with a torn retina in his left eye. help may be on the way for the clippers, who are close to signing free agent forward stephen Jackson. 
The sixers were not at full strength, either, missing rookie point guard michael carter-williams for the third consecutive game. 

carter-williams was re­leased from hospital of the university of pennsylvania on sunday after a three-night stay because of a skin infection that caused sore­ness in his right knee. 
evan Turner scored 25 points and Thaddeus young added 16 points and 11 re­bounds for the sixers, who struggled once again with­out their floor leader. The sixers are 1-6 without carter­williams this season. 
Tony wroten had nine points, 10 rebounds and seven assists in place of carter-williams. 
The sixers missed their first 13 3-pointers and trailed 44-36 at halftime, their low­est output in any half this season. 
The clippers came out of the locker room and quickly extended their advantage to 57-36 following a 13-0 run. 
paul keyed the third-quarter surge with 12 points and five assists as they went ahead 76-60. 
The sixers made a late push and got within 83-76 with 5:24 remaining. 
but the clippers made enough plays down the stretch to pull away. paul knocked down a huge 3-pointer for an 88-77 lead with 3:10 left and it was enough of a cushion to seal the win. 
warriors coach doc rivers addressed Jackson’s situa­tion before the game. 
“it’s not done yet,” rivers said. “nothing’s done in our league until it’s done, as you know. i just think he’s a veteran. we need him in a pinch, and we need him, like, now. That’s a guy you can bring in, and hopefully he can give you something right away.” 
Jackson has been out of the league since being released by the san antonio spurs be­fore the playoffs last season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



TRACK AND FIELD | firsT place 
ND athletes dominate at Blue & Gold Invite 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame opened up their season with a dominat­ing effort in the blue & gold invitational, winning 25 of the 33 at loftus sports center. 
other than notre dame, only depaul and marquette were able to claim victories in multiple events, with three and two wins respectively. 
irish  coach  Joe  piane  
singled  out  the  400-meter  
runners  as  standouts  for  

notre dame. on the female side, sophomore margaret bamgbose paced the group with a time of 54.32, and se­nior michelle brown was close behind with a 55.07 second place finish. The irish also finished one-two in the male 400, with senior patrick feeney and junior chris giesting leading the field with times of 46.67 and 47 seconds, respectively. but piane said one performance in particular impressed him the most. “The person who may have had the best eve­ning of all was junior Keith mesidor,” piane said. “he won the 60 [6.90], he won the 200 [21.88], and he won the long jump [7.37m]. That’s a pretty good start.” 
freshman harvey smith finished second to mesidor in the 200, and in the long jump senior logan renwick and ju­nior carson barnes rounded out a top three sweep for the irish. according to piane, the notre dame’s runner-up finishes are equally as im­portant as their victories, as it demonstrates the team’s depth. 
“not only did we had a lot of kids win, but we had seconds, we had thirds,” piane said. “you look at the women’s 400 and the men’s 400, they were very deep. we’ve always had a couple hurdlers do well. so it wasn’t just one person… the competition may not have been the strongest, but it in­dicated we have a very deep team.” 
The irish further showed their depth by taking the top three spots in the women’s pole vault, with senior Kelly burke’s 3.60m vault narrowly edging out sophomores libby schichtel and allie sullivan. a top-two finish in the men’s 1000m was made more im­pressive because both run­ners were freshmen, and piane said he is excited to see what both runners do the rest of the season. 
“in the men’s 1000, you had Jake dumford [2:26.95] win it, and chris marco [2:26.98] was second, and the differ­ence was just three hun­dredths of a second.” piano said. “Those kids ran very, very well, and the future is very bright for them. so those two would probably be the most impressive freshmen.” 
even after this success­ful meet however, piane said the team cannot afford to relax. he said the upcom­ing christmas break will be a critical time for the irish to focus on improving. 
“we just have to keep on training,” piane said. “The next six weeks are going to be vital, between now and when we get back from christmas break. This is going to be a very difficult time, because frankly they’re gone.” 
notre dame’s next meet will be January 18th, the michigan invitational in ann arbor, michigan. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes2@nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL | norTh cenTral 90, belles 89 
belles fall at home to north central by a point 

left, bias pushed the ball up the early in the game, it seemed belles responded with another Krista Knapke added 16 points 
Observer Staff Report 
floor and found a hole in the the belles (2-6, 0-1 miaa) run of their own, outscoring the and 13 rebounds to notch her 

despite senior guard cardinal defense. she pulled up might run the cardinals (4-2) cardinals 16-4 over the next six third double-double of the shanlynn bias’ career-high 20 from just inside the free-throw out of the gym, jumping out to minutes to go up 87-81 with 1:42 season. fellow sophomore for-points, saint mary’s fell to north line, but drew iron. Junior for-a 12-2 lead to start and hold-remaining. ward eleni shea had 13 points, central 90-89 on saturday in ward ariana paul got the of-ing the cardinals’ third-ranked after making a layup with 1:30 while freshman guard Timoney an up-tempo, back-and-forth fensive rebound, but her tip-in division iii offense to 13 points left, north central scored twice moyer scored 12 in the losing contest. attempt missed as the buzzer in the first 10 minutes of the off two saint mary’s turnovers effort. 
down one with nine seconds sounded. opening half. The cardinals to tie the game 87-87. on the Junior forward larynn clawed away at the belles’ lead, next possession, belles fresh-shumaker paced the cardinals 
paid adverTisemenT 
and down 41-33, rattled off sev-man guard heather pesigan hit with 16 points, while Johns en straight points in just over a a floater in the lane to put saint added nine points and seven minute to cut the lead to 41-40 mary’s up by two with 21 sec-assists. with 1:25 remaining in the half. onds remaining.  north central The 89-point effort is already The belles and cardinals would junior point guard bobbi Johns the third time in eight games go into the break tied at 45. was able to penetrate the belles’ the belles have eclipsed 80 
The belles started the sec-defense on the cardinals’ final points, a mark they failed to ond half much like the first, possession and found junior reach last season. scoring the first seven points guard maryssa cladis for a spot-saint mary’s returns to con-to open up a 52-45 lead. again, up 3-pointer that proved to be ference action on saturday the cardinals would fight back, the game winner. when they take on Trine at 3 eventually going on a 9-0 run in addition to bias’ career p.md in its miaa home opened that gave them a 77-72 lead. The night, sophomore forward at the angela athletic center. 
paid adverTisemenT 





paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

Football 
conTinued from page 16 
the beginning of 2012. while it exceeded all rational hopes last year, notre dame did not live up to the standards it set for itself in 2013. 
The irish did have their mo­ments this season, winning a few games against impres­sive foes. The 17-13 win over michigan state looks a lot more impressive than it felt at the time. pass-interference controversies or not, the irish were the only ones that found a way to beat the spartans (12-1, 8-0 big Ten), who ended the regular season fourth in the bcs rankings. notre dame also registered a midseason 37-34 win over arizona state in arlington, Texas. The sun devils (9-3, 7-2 pac-12) ended up 14th in the bcs standings, while no. 25 usc — another team the irish bested – also showed up in the final poll of the regular season. 
but the spartans will play in a bcs bowl while the irish face a rutgers team that fin­ished in the bottom half of the american athletic conference. Two other notre dame foes whom the irish played close earned spots in the top five bowls, as well. no. 7 stanford will face michigan state in the rose bowl, while no. 11 oklahoma will play no. 3 alabama in the sugar bowl, al­though the irish are most likely not envious of the sooners (we don’t want bama). arizona state and usc also merited respectable opponents, and they get to face them in the warm-weather conditions irish players had expressed a longing for. The sun devils get Texas Tech in the holiday bowl in san diego while usc will meet no. 20 fresno state in the las vegas bowl. 
The pinstripe bowl at least sounds more respectable, but substantially it is not. bowl se­lection is a complicated, multi­faceted process, but the irish did not help themselves out by dropping four games including a bad loss to a pittsburgh team that ended 6-6 and near the bottom of the acc. The irish had their chances to throw their name into the bcs bowl hat throughout the season, but a glut of turnovers and incon­sistent play are what ultimately defined the season. 
Kelly was accurate in citing the ways in which their post­season bowl game will help the irish. The younger players on the irish roster — Kelly men­tioned freshmen quarterback malik Zaire, receiver Torii hunter, Jr., and safety max redfield —– have a chance to get more practice time in the weeks leading up to the contest.  notre dame’s stel­lar senior class has a chance to go out with a victory after four or five years that pro­duced historic, if uneven, results. The players are happy to have the opportunity to spend christmas in new york with their teammates, and will receive playstation 4’s as late christmas gifts for their participation. 
and with complete sincerity, good for the players. TJ Jones deserves much more than a gift package on his way out the door. Zack martin has earned the right to enjoy the holidays with the team he has helped lead. in fact, the hard truth is the irish got just what they de­served, as well. Their allotment is just less satisfying. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
of 1.17. 
friday’s matchup between the irish and new mexico may turn into a possession battle and defensive struggle. The irish do not know new mexico as a team and have never played the lobos before. notre dame will need to go out and attack, as the lobos showed they could hold on to a one-goal lead for 53:26 against one of the best scoring offenses in the country against washington. if the irish fall behind early, they may be in trouble. notre dame takes an average of 17 shots per game but has the lowest shots on goal average, 0.377, of the four teams left. as they have of late, the irish must convert on all op­portunities, especially ones avail­able on the counter-attack. 
The good news is that notre dame has the most goals in the tournament of the four remain­ing teams. of those 10 irish goals, half have come in the first half and half have come in the second stanza. notre dame has been proving its consistency through­out the ncaa championships. 
The irish, however, lack experi­ence in the ncaa semifinals. 
This is new mexico’s second time attending the college cup, while virginia and maryland 

M Bball 
conTinued from page 16 
win the rebounding margin against iowa [on dec. 3] and that’s one of the reasons we lost. so i think the rebounding is definitely going to be key for us going forward, especially with the smaller lineup.” 
notre dame got off to a quick start in the game, scoring the first seven points of the con­test and taking a 9-4 lead into the under-16 minute timeout. bryant battled back in a hurry, though, and built up a 17-12 lead before the next media timeout. The teams traded leads for the bulk of the half’s remainder, as neither side built up a cushion of more than five points until notre dame pulled ahead by seven with four minutes re­maining. The irish extended their lead from there, finishing the period on an 18-2 run and leading 39-27 at halftime. 
grant led the way for the home team in the opening half, scoring 15 points and dishing out six assists. connaughton added 11 points in the half on 4-for-5 shooting and came down with five rebounds. 
The bulldogs cut into the irish advantage in the open­ing minutes of the second and kept things close until the final minutes. notre dame relied on its low post game throughout the second half, as sherman and senior forward Tom Knight combined for 12 straight irish 
points  during  one  stretch.  
Knight  had  four  second-half  
points  and  two  second-half  

rebounds to finish with six in each category while sherman had a second-half line of 10 points and seven boards. only two games removed from a no-show against iowa, Knight played 20 minutes in the game, 12 of which came in the first half. 
have reached the semis 11 times  regular season, a 2-0 loss at home  dame had on the year.  to south bend bearing the weight  
and eight times, respectively.  on oct.  26. The cavaliers are also  whatever happens on friday,  of the no. 1 ranking on their  
maryland’s eight appearances  the team that knocked the irish  it is a momentous occasion for  backs.  
have all been in the last 16 years.  out of the acc tournament in the  notre dame. whether it was a  
if notre dame can make it past  semifinals.  bit of luck or some magic, it is the  Contact Isaac Lorton at  
the lobos on friday, it will face  The irish tied maryland 1-1 on  first time the program has ever  ilorton@nd.edu  
one-of-two acc teams it was  oct. 8, and both teams were un­ been to the collegte cup, and  The views expressed in this  
unable to beat during the fall  able to gain the upperhand in two  they should be proud of that ac- column are those of the author  
campaign. virginia is the only  overtime periods. The tie to the  complishment. yet, the irish will  and not necessarily those of The  
loss the irish incurred during the  Terrapins was one of six ties notre  not be satisfied unless they return  Observer.  

“sherm becoming that low-post scorer for us, and even Tom Knight gave us some stuff,” brey said. “but there was no question that low post touches were going to be good. [sherman] had some big bas­kets for us. we are going to have to rely on a low post scorer ... it’s just kind of who we are right now.” 
The hard-fought win was notre dame’s second in as many outings, and the second game in a stretch that brings three games in five days. north dakota state comes to the purcell pavilion for the final contest in the campus round of the gotham classic. 
“i love the fact that we had game pressure on us and had to make some big plays on saturday and monday to kind of get out of your gym alive,” brey said. “That’s more like league play. That’s why this week could be good. you know, unless we lose one. Then it’s not good.” 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaforTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: simon helberg, 33; felicity huffman, 51; donny osmond, 56; dame Judi dench, 79. 
Happy Birthday: Take your time getting the facts. you will be faced with confusion based on poor information this year if you don’t do your research. change will be necessary with regard to home, family and partnerships. set reasonable goals and stick to your plan. letting outsiders interfere will be your downfall. Know what you want and finish what you start. your numbers are 7, 10, 13, 21, 29, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t feel pressured to make a decision regarding your position, status or advancement. recap what you’ve done in the past and consider how you can utilize your skills to bring better outcomes. an impulsive decision will not bring good results. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you call the shots. your wisdom and charm will attract people who can offer favors and information that will help you reach your goals. a partnership will turn into a long and profitable connection. romance is highlighted. share your feelings. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll need discipline to finish projects that need to be wrapped up before the end of the year. offer suggestions, but do not part with your cash. a service you can offer others will be well-received and bring in additional funds. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): concentrate on getting odd jobs finished. preparation will make your job easier, allowing you more time to spend doing something enjoy­able. make assessments and changes to your life and overall personal look. plan a little romance to end your day. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a unique approach or new surroundings will feed your cre­ative imagination. Knowledge and honing your skills will spark an idea that can lead to extra cash. don’t let anyone limit what you can do. be diplomatic but firm when faced with opposition. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): rethink your financial strategy. if you’ve been impulsive or emotional when it comes to spending, pull back and cut corners. help an older relative or friend, but don’t take over. suggestions or physical assistance is one thing; meddling is another. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a change at work or with a partnership will come about quickly. don’t act surprised when you should be prepared to move without skip­ping a beat. discipline and hard work will pay off. reconnecting with an old friend should be done cautiously. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get up, get focused and accomplish everything on your to-do list. using friendly pressure to get what you want will work wonders. social networking will pay off by introducing you to new people, places and possibilities. love is highlighted. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): enjoy doing the things that ease your stress and add comfort to your life. stick close to home and protect what you cherish. don’t let emotional uncertainty ruin your day. recognize an unstable situation and act accordingly. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take on whatever comes your way and you will send an impressive vibe that will help you control what’s going on around you. visiting an inspirational place will have benefits. make plans with someone you love. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): what you do for others will be beneficial. personalize a job you’ve been given. someone will recognize your talent and offer you greater stability and hope for the future. a little daydreaming will help you recognize new possibilities. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your ingenuity, coupled with insight and reliability, will be your ticket to success. it’s what you do, not what you say, that will help you get ahead. don’t let a change throw you off course. accept the inevitable and keep moving. 

Birthday Baby: you are a humanitarian. you have vision and a persistent drive to succeed. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 70, bryanT 59 


irish win second game of gotham classic 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
notre dame notched another victory in its second game of the blackrock gotham classic, and it was not any more com­fortable than the first. The 70­59 victory over bryant came after the irish (7-2) struggled to pull away throughout the game and held a lead as tenuous as four points with two and a half minutes to play. 
“another hard game from a good team that can win their league, and i think it’s a great experience for us,” irish coach mike brey said. “we could nev­er really get flowing offensively, so we really had to fend to get out of there tonight. Keeping them in the 50s, keeping their shooting percentage down is why we won the game, because we never really got into an of­fensive flow.” 

much like in saturday’s 80­75 win over delaware, senior guard Jerian grant, senior cen­ter garrick sherman and ju-his first career double-double, eighth-leading scorer to 12 and he never really let that guy contributed six boards while nior forward pat connaughton while connaughton secured points on 4-for-12 shooting. get going.” freshman guard demetrius led the way for the home team. his second-straight double-“i think Jerian grant, the The irish outrebounded Jackson recorded four of his after dropping 25 saturday, double with 17 points and 11 game that he had, guarding bryant (6-4) 44-30 in the own. grant led all scorers with 23 boards. starks and then doing what he game. while sherman and “That’s huge for us,” points and had nine assists grant also kept bulldogs ju-did offensively is fabulous,” connaughton brought down connaughton said. “we didn’t on the night. sherman put up nior guard dyami starks in brey said. “That takes a lot of en-24 of those rebounds, irish 14 points and 13 rebounds for check, limiting the nation’s ergy and a lot of concentration senior guard eric atkins see m bball PAGE 14 

FOOTBALL 

pinstripe bowl lacks meaning 

Joseph Monardo 
associate sports editor 
brian Kelly was adamant dur­ing his press conference sunday that the pinstripe bowl was a worthwhile destination for his football team. and maybe it is, for a variety of reasons. but that doesn’t make notre dame’s dec. 28th meeting with rutgers any less disappointing. 
sure, the game will be in new york, inside yankee stadium and on national television. The players will receive extravagant gift packages and a trip to the big apple. notre dame may reap some benefits in its re­cruiting efforts down the road or in its player development during the extra practice time. but as far as the football game is concerned, the irish ended up in about as unexciting of a situation as anyone could have imagined before the season’s start. 
To compare this year’s bowl experience to the bcs national championship hardly seems fair, but that is exactly where the irish were last year. and that is what makes the team’s cur­rent situation as unstimulating as it is. notre dame had hopes of returning to the title game this season, but at this point the schedule on the wall in the irish training facility just serves as a reminder of how the irish came up hopelessly short. 

while an 8-4 record may have been satisfying in years past, in no way should that imply some necessary reversion of expectations away from being one of the top programs in the country and back toward what might have been appropriate four or five years ago. brian Kelly seems to have set rather clearly the goals for his squad at a high level. and while the inclusion of the title game on the schedule may seem auda­cious or silly in retrospect, it was probably a more reasonable goal than it would have been at 
see fooTball PAGE 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish are set for run at title 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
maybe it was not having the weight of the no. 1 seed on their shoulders this time around. 
maybe it was having the wee wizard leading the team. 
maybe it was just time for notre dame to finally punch its ticket to the college cup. 
never before have the irish (15-1-6, 7-1-3 acc) played in the semifinals of the ncaa championship, but now for the first time, the irish will do just that at ppl park in chester, pa. on friday against no. 7 new mexico. 
no. 1 ucla is out. connecticut knocked out the top-seeded bruins in the round of 16. 
no. 2 washington is out. new mexico (14-5-2, 7-1-1 conference usa) saw to that with a 1-0 vic­tory in the semifinals. 
The no. 3 irish are the highest seed remaining, but their compe­tition is formidable. 
no. 8 virginia went on to beat connecticut, while no. 5 maryland defeated no. 4 california to punch their respec­tive tickets to the collegiate cup. 
when looking at the statistics of the four remaining teams, the irish lead the defensive catego­ries, only giving up 17 goals on 214 shots for a goals against per game average of 0.77. 
new mexico is
 close behind in the defensive categories, giving up 18 goals on 148 shots for a goals against aver­age of 0.86. virginia (13-5-5, 4-3-4 acc) has given up 23 goals on 195 shots for 1.00 goal against per game, while maryland (16-3-5, 7-1-3 acc) gave up 28 goals on 231 shots for a goals against average 

see m soccer PAGE 14 






