The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 2 | wednesday, august 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd, sMC address undocumented students 
University revises admissions policy 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
notre dame not only wel­comed new students, faculty and staff to campus last week, but it also extended a welcome to un­documented applicants, whose admission to the university seemed nearly impossible in past years. 
director of admissions bob mundy said undocumented ap­plicants used to be considered international students who had to obtain a student visa before enrolling at notre dame. 
“This process typically re­quired that they leave the united 
see admissions Page 3 



Undocumented Saint Mary’s student speaks out 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
For at least the last five years, saint mary’s college president carol ann mooney adopted a policy of admitting and enroll­ing undocumented students, vice president for enrollment management mona bowe said. 
“saint mary’s college does not discriminate on the basis of coun­try of origin, so if a student meets the academic requirements for admission, she would be admitted to the college,” bowe said. “we be­lieve it is in keeping with catholic social justice teaching and legacy of the sisters of holy cross that 
see marQueZ Page 4 




LGBTQ group chooses name 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor 
The student organization formed to address lesbian, gay, bi­sexual, transgender and question­ing (lgbTQ) student issues will begin the academic year with a new name and an advisor. 
student body president alex coccia said several students who were involved with the 4 to 5 movement, the unofficial alliancend club and other orga­nizations voted to name the new group “prismnd.” The office of student affairs has since ap­proved the decision. 
“The fact that [the name] re­flects quite a spectrum and a range of interests and passions and identities, i think is something that people will identify with and appreciate when the group gets off the ground,” coccia said. 
christine caron gebhardt, director of the gender relations center (grc), said other universi­ties use the name “prism” for their lgbTQ student organizations. The grc and student leaders added “nd” to the name of notre dame’s organization to make it easier for the university’s students to identify the club as a fixture at notre dame. 

sophomore connor hayes, who helped to launch prismnd, said the name is intended to be all-inclusive, instead of specific to people who identify as lgbTQ. 
“i think relating to the catholic identity of [notre dame] and back­grounds of people coming from religious environments, [some] people don’t really want to identify as gay or lesbian, so … we were just going for a name that was very in­clusive,” he said. “we wanted this name to be one that can last and kind of become a brand.” 

maureen doyle will work as the advisor for prismnd in her capac­ity as assistant director for lgbTQ student concerns. doyle, who was hired over the summer, previously worked as the general manager of legends of notre dame. she will begin her new job sept. 2. 
“my challenge that i’ll put for­ward to the group is i’d love to see them think long-term and what kind of a legacy they want to leave behind within this first year, what 
see prismnd Page 4 


HHS delays start of mandate 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor
     Editors’s Note: A version of this article appeared online July 5. 
on July 2, the obama ad­ministration announced a one-year delay in implement­ing the final rules regarding the affordable care act’s man­dated contraceptive coverage. 
The white house released the final rules July 5, in re­sponse to concerns raised by non-profit religious or­ganizations about the origi­nal healthcare proposal. The mandate will take effect in 2015. 
The final rule states that an organization that objects to providing contraceptives on religious grounds can offer employees a plan that does not provide contraceptive coverage. The health insurer administering the plan then enrolls employees in a sepa­rate, individual, private policy that only covers contracep­tives at no extra cost. 
notre dame is self-insured. 
a self-insured organization that objects to providing contraceptives can notify its third-party healthcare ad­ministrator that it objects. 
The administrator then “no­tifies enrollees in the health plans that it is providing or arranging separate no-cost payments for contraceptive services for them for as long as they remain enrolled in the health plan,” according to the department of health 
and  human  services (hhs)  
website.  
university  spokesman  

dennis brown said, “we are studying the ruling and, once that’s complete, will evaluate our options.” 
hhs secretary kathleen sebelius said on the depart­ment’s website that the fi­nal rules guarantee women free access to preventive ser­vices recommended by the institute of medicine, an arm of the national academies of science. 
“[The] announcement re­inforces our commitment 
see hhs Page 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite movie? 

Jillian Montalvo 
junior pasquerilla east hall 
“V for Vendetta.” 
Julia Hengel 
freshman mcglinn hall 
“Finding Nemo.” 
Maggie Miller 
junior pasquerilla east hall 
“Perks of Being a Wallflower.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Mary Claire Kane 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“It’s a Wonderful Life.” 
Nick Frecker 
junior 
standord hall 
“Star Wars, all of them!” 
Taylor Craft 
freshman 
badin hall 
“Inception.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

christian myers a.J. godeaux Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
katie mccarty katie heit abi hoverman brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Wellness Wednesday Zen Meditation Football Pep Rally Lecture: Saturdays Confirmation Info 
grant Tobin Tabitha ricketts 
Fieldhouse Mall Coleman-Morse Center South Quad with the Saints Session 
12:30p.m.-2 p.m. 5:15 p .m.-6:15 p.m. 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Geddes Hall Coleman-Morse Center All Invited to come hula Meditatation for Support Coach Kelly 10:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

hoop. students and faculty. and the Fighting Irish. Talk about  Franz Learn about initiation into 
The observer regards itself as Jagerstatter. the Catholic Church. a professional publication and 
Film: “The New World” Women’s Soccer 

strives for the highest standards 
Lecture: “Towards DeBartolo Performing Alumni Stadium Lecture: “Feeding, Rejoice! Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Malaria Elimination” Arts Center 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Function and Fossils” Coleman-Morse Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
Galvin Life Sciences Center 7 p.m.-9:15 p.m. Versus Oakland. Jordan Hall of Science 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. Screening of Terrence 12 p.m.-1 p.m. Mass rooted in the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
George B. Craig, Jr. Malick’s epic. Part of the Science African-American 
we can correct our error. 

Memorial Lecture. Exploration Series. tradition. 


College earns ‘Best in the Midwest’ recognition 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
For the 11th  consecutive year, The princeton review has ranked saint mary’s college among the best col­leges and universities in the midwest. 
gwen o’brien, director of media relations at saint mary’s, said the college was one of 155 institutions listed in the “best of the midwest” sec­tion of the review’s website feature “2014 best colleges: region by region” published in early august.  according to The princeton review, the “best in the midwest” achieve­ment is awarded to colleges and universities in twelve states: iowa, illinois, indiana, kansas, michigan, minnesota, missouri, nebraska, north dakota, ohio, south dakota and wisconsin. 
The princeton review’s publisher robert Franek stat­ed in an aug. 8. saint mary’s press release the list is com­piled after many particulars have been considered. 
“From several hundred schools in each region, we winnowed our list based on institutional data we collect­ed directly from the schools, our visits to schools over the years, and the opinions of our staff, plus college coun­selors and advisors whose recommendations we invite,” Franek said. “we also take into account what students at the schools reported to us.  only schools that permit us to independently survey their students are eligible to be considered for our regional ‘best’ lists.” 

“Our commitment to an excellent intellectual and academic experience for our students is unwavering.” 
Carol Mooney 
College President 

saint mary’s college president carol ann mooney said she was delighted the college was recognized once more. 
“we are very pleased to once again be included among The princeton review’s ‘best in the midwest,’” mooney said. “our commitment to an excel­lent intellectual and academic experience for our students is unwavering.  our graduates are our best recruiters.  Their 
paid adverTisemenT 

accomplishments speak vol­umes about the quality of the educational experience they received here.” 
Junior amanda gilbert said she is pleased with her courses and believes the ranking will attract students from around the country to saint mary’s. 
“every class that i take here is enlightening in dif­ferent ways,” gilbert said.  “i hope that being recognized like this will make our school even more appealing to stu­dents from places besides the midwest.” 
saint mary’s vice president for enrollment management mona bowe agreed, say­ing this achievement helps get the word out about the college and its outstanding education. 
“i hear families say that saint mary’s is ‘the best kept secret,’” bowe said.  “while we agree, we really strive to share the distinctiveness of saint mary’s with as many people as possible. being recog­nized by Forbes, washington monthly, or as is the case of being named a ‘best in the midwest’ institution by the princeton review, allows us to do just that.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
admissions 
conTinued From page 1 
states and apply for that visa at an american embassy in another country, which made it very chal­lenging,” mundy said. 
The office of undergraduate admissions now considers undoc­umented applicants as domestic students, mundy said. 
“we will now consider undocu­mented students for admission without the subsequent expecta­tion that they receive a student visa to study at notre dame,” he said. “we will also meet their dem­onstrated financial need, as we would for any admitted student.” 
mundy said the university will follow deferred action for childhood arrivals (daca) guide­lines issued by the department of homeland security to address un­documented applicants. 
according to the u.s. citizenship and immigration services website, daca was ini­tiated in 2012 and allows young people who entered the united states illegally under a certain age and fulfill certain criteria to re­ceive a deportation stay for a peri­od of two years, subject to renewal. 
mundy said university president Fr. John Jenkins launched a com­mittee to look into notre dame’s admission practices for undocu­mented students in april. 
“This committee was guided by [vice president for mission engagement and church affairs] Fr. bill lies and considered the practices of peer institutions, as well as the position of the united states conference of catholic bishops,” mundy said. 
student body president alex coccia and vice president nancy Joyce released an online statement in support of the decision aug. 23. 
“with this decision, we join many of our fellow catholic schools across the country who provide pathways to education for undocumented students,” the statement read. “our catholic Tradition illustrates this as a mor­al obligation to our brothers and sisters, and our catholic migrant history demonstrates our com­mitment to educating students ‘where learning becomes service to justice.’” 
coccia’s chief of staff Juan rangel said notre dame had lagged be­hind other catholic universities, including saint mary’s college and holy cross college, in deciding to admit undocumented students. 
“we were one of the few re­maining catholic universities that hadn’t done this yet, so we were falling back,” rangel said. “This will allow us to catch up, especially with catholic social teaching and the u.s. conference of catholic bishops being so active on this.” 
rangel, who is also presi­dent of the student coalition for immigration advocacy, said the university’s catholic identity is crucial to its obligation to support undocumented students. 
“we believe so strongly in caring for the least of our brothers and sis­ters, and at a time like this, when [undocumented students are] fac­ing so many obstacles and risks and prejudices, this would be the opportune time to step forward in that move,” he said. 
senior mark gianfalla, presi­dent of the college republicans, said he disagrees with the decision because it is not legally ethical. 
“basically, … someone enters the country illegally and notre dame addresses their right to education and puts them above international students that have not broken a law to get here,” gianfalla said. “i know that notre dame emphasizes ethics across the board, and this is sending the wrong message to ignore the fact that these young people who en­tered the country illegally broke the law and were residing here for a long part illegally until 2012 when daca was passed and now have a short stay period.” 
gianfalla said the university is going beyond the position of the u.s. conference of catholic bishops. 
“as a catholic university, i think we should be more in touch with the fact that these are people that want a better life but at the same time went about it the wrong way,” he said. “although the u.s. conference of catholic bishops supports eventual legalization of resident aliens, i believe that that’s not the same thing that notre dame is doing.” 
rangel said undocumented students are often unaware of their legal status until they be­gin college applications and have wholeheartedly assimilated into american life. 
“most of them come into the country before they are 18 years old without documentation but have felt american in every other sense of the word,” he said. “They grew up in this country, usually, most of their life. They don’t know any other way of living other than the american way of life.” 
gianfalla said entering the united states at a young age does not excuse young people’s deci­sions to remain here. 
“even if … you didn’t know you were breaking the law, staying here is still breaking the law, until you were granted the stay in 2012,” he said. “That’s what the daca thing is; i can understand that. There comes a point where you need to make decisions for your­self, and at school we don’t have our parents making decisions for us.” 
gianfalla said he believes stu­dent government’s support of the decision does not reflect the stu­dent body’s opinions. 
“i think student government has a fairly liberal agenda, and i think notre dame has to balance itself out and realize that it’s a catholic university with traditional values and not necessarily to listen to a small, outspoken minority on campus,” he said. “The majority of the student body is politically conservative, and the student gov­ernment in my opinion does not recognize that.” 
rangel said he understands why people may be opposed to the university’s decision, but he still thinks it’s a good one. 
“This is a great development for notre dame,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at         vroeck@nd.edu 



The observer | wednesday, august 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Marquez 
conTinued From page 1 
saint mary’s admits undocu­mented students.” 
a student’s status as undocu­mented would be confidential in­formation and is protected under the Family education rights and privacy act (Ferpa), bowe said. 
“a student’s status as undocu­mented is confidential,” bowe said. “however, some students might self-identify as undocu­mented. This may be to share her story with the college popula­tion and/or the media as a way to show the human side of the im­migration issue. This would be her decision.” 
For junior dara marquez, a chemical engineering major, the decision to reveal her status as an undocumented immigrant on campus has allowed her to grow both academically and spiritually. 
marquez, originally from mexico but now hailing from elkhart, ind., is now protect­ed under “deferred action for childhood arrivals” (daca), a program unveiled by president obama in 2012 giving young un­documented immigrants the right to remain here legally and work for at least two years, provided they are qualified applicants. 
“right now i have daca sta­tus,” marquez said. “meaning, i have temporary legal status in the united states and have received a temporary social security number to work. immigration knows i am here, so now i can talk about my status without fear.” 
she said she attained daca sta­tus while attending saint mary’s but was admitted and enrolled as an undocumented student. 
“saint mary’s was really a bless­ing in disguise for me,” marquez said. “i didn’t think i would be able to come here because of the cost. i was originally planning on going to a state school because they tend to be cheaper, but with law chang­es my senior year of high school, public universities were getting more expensive for undocument­ed students and an administrator at my high school put saint mary’s on my radar.” 
when she first came to saint mary’s, marquez said she was scared to admit her status as an undocumented immigrant to her admissions counselor. she said she is thankful she can discuss her status with college adminis­trators, and for the financial assis­tance offered to her by the college. 
“when my admissions counsel­or called about whether iwas plan­ning on enrolling or not, i had to tell her about my situation, includ­ing the financial situation of my undocumented family,” marquez said. “i will always remember her saying on the phone, ‘nothing is impossible. we will make it work.’ and they did. They were very help­ful in finding me scholarships and other types of aid not related to the government.” 
bowe said undocumented stu­dents are not eligible for federal or state government aid, though no government regulations for­bid private funding. as a private institution, saint mary’s is free to determine independently how to distribute its financial aid. 
“saint mary’s awards finan­cial aid for all students based on the student’s individual financial need and/or academic merit, un­der one single policy,” bowe said. “awarding less aid to one student does not mean additional aid for a different student, therefore, awarding aid to undocument­ed students does not take saint mary’s dollars away from other students.” 
being a part of an undocu­mented family means the fam­ily does not enjoy a stable income, marquez said. it can be difficult to know your parents have a job to­day but may not have one tomor­row, she said. 
“right now, i tell myself my parents are physically working every day for my education and i am working mentally,” marquez said. “mentally, so one day i can say both my parents and i have worked hard enough for me to get my diploma and find a job that will not only support my family, but also one i am passionate about.” 
marquez said she is grateful that her saint mary’s education gave her the resources and opportuni­ties to choose her own future. 
“my dad came to the united states first, and my mom and i im­migrated one year later,” marquez said. “my mom and i were sepa­rated for three months and when she got to indiana i could not wait to show her our fridge full of the different soda pop flavors. unlike in mexico, she could choose from a variety of flavors. all i want is for my family to be able to choose again — to have the resources to choose a sustainable life.” 
marquez said the campus com­munity has overwhelmingly em­braced her, even though she is an undocumented immigrant. 
“i have never felt afraid to re­veal my status on this campus,” marquez said. “it is a very welcom­ing community, and different de­partments like campus ministry and the center for women’s intercultural leadership have made it a point to have pan­els and other types of dialogue about immigration as an issue. This has allowed students to put a human face to the issue and i believe is one of the main reasons i have felt so welcomed into this community.” 
marquez maintains a high profile on campus because she is a staunch advocate of immigra­tion reform. several saint mary’s alumnae also have fought actively for the increased rights of undoc­umented immigrants. 
melody alzarado, a 2012 gradu­ate of the college who is origi­nally from nicaragua, worked on immigration issues during her time at saint mary’s with la Fuerza, a club that promotes latin-american culture on cam­pus. she said her passion for im­migration issues grew during her time at saint mary’s, inspiring her to work with community develop­ment projects around the issue. 
“i worked a lot with undocu­mented students and can hon­estly say these students are some of the strongest women i have ever encountered,” alzarado said. “They are driven individuals and i am grateful saint mary’s does not discriminate against them based on their status. i think any school can benefit from these stu­dents and if they do not admit stu­dents based on their status they are missing out on a huge pool of strong, dedicated students.” 
novice sr. Jessica brock, cur­rently residing at the international novitiate at saint mary’s and the recipient of a bachelor of arts, bachelor of law and master of law degrees, has worked to promote awareness of immigration issues at saint mary’s, notre dame and holy cross college. with her work, brock has worked directly with undocumented students at saint mary’s. 
“my first impression is to be in awe of how strong the undocumented women at saint mary’s are,” brock said. “Just like any other talented students, these women want the same thing out of a saint mary’s education, and i am absolutely inspired by their strength. They all have shown an incredible amount of maturity. many of them are facing extreme financial challenges with financ­ing their education and i have never heard them complain. 
“i can without a doubt say they are some of the greatest leaders on campus.” 
brock, alzarado and marquez said in order to increase discus­sion about the challenges facing undocumented students, the fo­cus should be on creating dialogue and “getting more people at the table.” The women said increasing dialogue is necessary in order to break down misconceptions and to create an open-minded, wel­coming community. 
“it is about putting a face to the issue,” marquez. “once people realize [the issue] is more than politics and is actually about hu­man dignity, the conversation changes” 
marquez said the nation will become stronger if conversation about immigration issues, spe­cifically those issues concerning undocumented students, contin­ues to grow. 
“in president obama’s first state of the union address, he talked about the need for our country to be more competitive and innovative,” marquez said. “saint mary’s has allowed me to stimulate my mind, but everyone needs this right [to education]. everyone should be able to con­tribute to this dream.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
HHs 
conTinued From page 1 
to respect the concerns of houses of worship and other non-profit religious organizations that object to contraceptive coverage, while helping to ensure that women get the care they need, regardless of where they work,” sebelius said. 
law professor rick garnett, an expert on re­ligious liberty cases, said litigation against the man­date likely will continue. he said some non-exempt religious organizations will argue that the final rules, like the original ones, im­pose a substantial and un­necessary burden on the free exercise of religion. 
“in response, it will be contended that it is these groups’ insurance carriers, and not the groups them­selves, that are providing the objectionable cover­age,” garnett said. “it is like­ly that different courts will resolve the issue in differ­ent ways, which raises the possibility that eventually, the supreme court will be asked to weigh in.” 

in may 2012, notre dame filed one of more than 40 religious liberty law­suits from faith-based or­ganizations contesting the constitutionality of the contraception man­date. The lawsuit stated the mandate would go against church teachings and therefore would vio­late the First amendment, 
the  religious  Freedom  
restoration  act  and other  
federal laws.  

a federal judge dis­missed notre dame’s law­suit in early January, when 
u.s. district court Judge robert miller Jr. ruled the university’s claim was not yet “ripe,” meaning it was not ready to be litigated. This was the case because the rule regarding contra­ceptive coverage had not been finalized. 
The university declined to provide public comment on the iteration of the man­date that the obama ad­ministration proposed in February. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Prismnd 
conTinued From page 1 
kind of traditions they want to start,” doyle said. “They’re setting up the success of the group for the next 20, 30, 40, 50, however many decades. 
“i really want them to keep the big picture in mind as they go through their first year and to think beyond just what they want to accomplish in the next 12 months, but what they re­ally want to set up for future student leaders within the organization.” 
doyle will serve on the advisory council on lgbTQ issues to vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding. she will also work with the grc’s Fire starters, who are peer educators that foster dialogue on issues of identity, gender and healthy relationships. 
prismnd hopes to receive ap­proval for its bylaws by activities night on sept. 3, hayes said. coccia said the organization will then elect its leadership and begin to host reg­ular meetings. 
“The first year, especially the first semester, is just getting its feet off the ground, building the relationships that the student leaders need to build with staff members, with ad­ministrators, with the organization members,” coccia said. “and then starting to kind of see what events we can do toward the end of the fall or the spring to really get our name out there and do the service … that we’ve been emphasizing as a partic­ular component of the group.” 
gebhardt said she hopes prismnd will build relationships with other student organizations, the grc, campus ministry and ad­ditional university departments. 
“we realize this is about who we are as a community, and [prismnd is] one facet in which students can feel welcomed and loved and sup­ported on this campus and that we will all work together to try to create the community that notre dame can be and i hope will be,” gebhardt said. “we want the student organi­zation … to emerge from the ideas and the interests and the hopes and dreams of the students in collabora­tion with all of us across campus.” 
hayes said one of his goals in developing prismnd is to create a more visible lgbTQ presence on campus. 
“i hope that there’s some educa­tional programming, maybe on a very formal, bring in a speaker point, but also kind of working with parts of the university, like the gender relations center, to come up with educational programming for the student body, like going into dorms,” he said. 
prismnd will host social events and will serve as “a focal point for the lgbTQ community on campus to kind of come together, and also to address concerns,” hayes said. 
The organization’s first event will be a picnic Thursday from 5 to 7 
p.m. in the coleman-morse center’s lounge and patio. 
sophomore bryan ricketts, who also helped to begin prismnd, said he thinks the new student group will foster a smoother relationship be­tween the office of student affairs and lgbTQ students and their allies. 
“in the past, the relationship has been one of winners and losers,” ricketts said. “The relationship that we are hoping to create in this orga­nization will be a much more pro­ductive one on both ends.” 
doyle said the formation of prismnd was “a great move for the university.” 
“i’ve had the opportunity to inter­act with some of the students who were instrumental in helping over the summer, and they’re all really excited about it,” she said. “i think they have a big challenge in front of them, but it’s one that they’re defi­nitely ready for and excited about. “ 
more information about prismnd is available at www3. nd.edu/~prismnd and on the group’s  Facebook and Twitter pages. 
Contact Marisa Iati at                         miati@nd.edu 



Fires rage in yosemite national park 
Associated Press 
groveland, calif. — unnaturally long intervals between wildfires and years of drought primed the sierra nevada for the explosive con­flagration chewing up the rug­ged landscape on the edge of yosemite national park, for­estry experts say. 
The fire had ravaged 282 square miles by Tuesday, the biggest in the sierra's recorded history and one of the largest on record in california. 
containment increased to 20 percent but the number of de­stroyed structures rose to 101 and some 4,500 structures re­mained threatened. The types of lost buildings were not spec­ified. Firefighters were making stands at Tuolumne city and other mountain communities. 
The blaze was just 40 acres when it was discovered near a road in stanislaus national Forest on aug. 17, but firefight­ers had no chance of stopping it in the early days. 
Fueled by thick forest floor vegetation in steep river can­yons, it exploded to 10,000 acres 36 hours later, then to 54,000 acres and 105,620 acres within the next two days. on its 11th day it had surpassed 179,400 acres, becoming the seventh-largest california wildfire in records dating to 1932. 
Federal forest ecologists say that historic policies of fire suppression to protect sierra timber interests left a century’s worth of fuel in the fire’s path. 
“That’s called making the woodpile bigger,” said hugh safford, an ecologist with the u.s. Forest service in california. 
Two years of drought and a constant slow warming across the sierra nevada also worked to turn the rim Fire into an inferno. For years forest ecolo­gists have warned that western wildfires will only get worse. 
“every year the summer tem­peratures are a little warmer, hence the conditions for burn­ing are a little more auspi­cious,” said safford. “people can deny it all they want but it's happening. every year the fuels are a little bit drier.” 
The rim Fire’s exponential growth slowed only after hit­ting areas that had burned in the past two decades, and safford says that shows the utility of prescribed and natu­ral burns that clear brush and allow wildfires to move rapidly without killing trees. 



“if you look at the sierra nevada as a whole, by far the largest portion hasn’t seen a fire since the 1910s and 1920s, which is very unnatural," said safford, who has authored several papers on the increas­ing wildlife severity across california’s mountain ranges. “This one isn’t stopping for a 
paid adverTisemenT 
while.” 
since a 1988 fire impacted nearly one third of yellowstone national park, forestry officials have begun rethinking sup­pression policies. yosemite has adopted an aggressive plan of prescribed burns while allow­ing backcountry fires caused by lightning strikes to burn unimpeded as long as they don't threaten park facilities. 
“yosemite is one of the big­gest experimental landscapes for prescribed fire and it’s go­ing to pay off,” safford said. “The rim Fire is starting to hit all those old fire scars.” 
The 350-mile-long sierra nevada is a unique mountain system in the u.s. with its mediterranean climate, which means four-to-six months of drought every summer. california’s mountain flora is designed to burn and even flourish and regenerate health­ier after a fast-moving fire. 


known 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 

i had never been to notre dame before. 
none of my family went here. i did not have any baby pictures with a notre dame sweatshirt on. i had never seen the dome before. i pur­posely stayed away from nbc on saturdays in the fall. 
but then the summer of 2008 happened. my dad and i embarked on a 17-day college road trip that spanned 16 states, 10 schools, two baseball games and two countries. and notre dame was a simple stop between purdue and michigan. 
my first step on campus was somewhere in the stadium park­ing lot and my first ones at main building were up the steps. (and i have not done that since. so i have that going for me, which is nice.) i had no idea which one was grace and which one was Flanner — oh, wait, that’s still today. i had never figured out every walk is a seven-minute walk from Zahm (most of the time). 
i did not know that snow that did not stick was not real snow. i had never slipped on ice before. i did not own a winter jacket or hat or boots or gloves because i had never need­ed them before. 
i did not know what The observer was and i sure did not think it would be one of my favorite things about notre dame. i did not think base­ments were places where people worked because i never had a base­ment. i had never been published in a college newspaper before. 
i was clueless to the power of the flex points and had never played quad golf or broomball. i did not know sbarro would soon be gone and Taco bell would be other late-night drunk food option. i did not think eating a pint of ben & Jerry’s ice cream was acceptable (it is). i also did not know five-dollar foot-longs were not a thing inside the notre dame bubble. 
i had never been to the southern hemisphere, let alone australia. i had never been cliff-jumping, wine-tasting or sailing. i had never pet a koala, kangaroo or quokka. 
so what started as a measly road trip through the south, midwest, northeast and mid-atlantic has tak­en me to the other side of the world and 25 football games. it gave me friends all around the nation and even the world. 
Five years ago, i had never been here before. now i just hope i never have to leave. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski 
Faith matters 

earlier this month, two bish­ops said significant things about women in the church. The one from argentina represents 1.2 bil­lion catholics; the other, from washington, spoke to most of the leaders of the 57,000 religious sis­ters in the united states. 
pope Francis, bishop of rome, during the much-discussed air­plane press conference as he left world youth day in brazil, re­sponded to two questions about the role of women in the church. his answers provide a window into his understanding of this all-important matter before the church today. he was direct, clear and unapologetic in precluding the ordination of women. 
“That is closed; the door is closed,” he said. 
surprisingly, this statement re­ceived little attention. 
while few commented — posi­tively or negatively — on his com­ments on women, these statements could energize anew the conversa­tion about women in the church. in the affirmative, he called for a new theology of women. 
“i think we must go further in making the role and charism of women more explicit. i think we have not yet made a profound the­ology of women in the church,” he said. “she can only do this or that, now she is an altar server, then she does the reading, she is president of caritas. but there is more! a profound theology must be made of woman … theological explicit­ness about this is lacking.” 
even though he hailed the work of pope paul vi on this topic and knows pope John paul ii’s writ­ings on the dignity and vocation of women, pope Francis believes that more work needs to be done. in other words, what the church has put forth to date is insufficient. 
perhaps archbishop peter sartain of seattle, was heeding the pope’s call when just 12 days later he preached a homily on the the assumption of mary to 825 lead­ers of communities of religious women gathered for their an­nual assembly of the leadership conference of women religious (lcwr). reflecting on the day’s gospel reading where mary assents to give birth to Jesus, he discussed the need for disciples to submit to god. 
The context of archbishop sartain’s preaching is important. as the vatican-appointed super­visor of lcwr, he attended the meeting after an earlier assess­ment raised concerns about the group and its annual gatherings. i wonder how his exhortation to submit was heard, especially in a climate with questions about submission to the authority of the hierarchy. 
however, another point in his homily, i think, could launch women into a more substantial and central role in the church, beyond the ordained ministries. 
“in some ways, mary’s faith is like the faith of abraham,” he said. “because abraham went out not knowing where he was to go, god had simply said to abraham, ‘go forth to the land that i will show you.’ so he went forth on the basis of a promise of a promise. and, mary did the same thing. abraham went as the lord directed him. mary said, ‘be it done to me ac­cording to your will.’” 
To characterize mary as a new abraham situates her as visionary, leader and chief spiritual parent. while she has been portrayed as the new eve, here she is seen as a person whose legacy is based on someone who actually lived and who is praised as a founder of the faith that her son fulfilled. 
aligning mary — a woman — with abraham, who lived before the levitical priesthood, helps shift the question of leadership for women in the church. authentic, effective, life-giving and faith-founding leadership, grounded in god’s word, need not belong to someone who is ordained or a man. 
countless mothers, grandmoth­ers, teachers and aunts have taught their loved ones how to pray and live a life with the sac­raments. most importantly, they taught and lived Jesus. indeed, like abraham, they are the parents of the faith, and without them, the church would be diminished ex­ponentially, if not extinct. many of them and more of their children and students went on to lead — with christian faith — families, schools, hospitals, companies, communities and even countries. 
again, like abraham, these women were visionaries, leaders and spiritual parents. Their epic impact has exceeded any one role. but, is it regarded — in and by the church — with appropriate ac­claim, gratitude and honor? 
if church leadership has closed the door of ordination to women, which doors need to open? perhaps what first must open are ears to listen to them, eyes to see their work and fidelity and mouths and arms to thank them. This is so that we can celebrate sarah and her daughters through the genera­tions as much as her husband and the priests in a world, church and university that teaches that men and women are absolutely equal and essential in this community of faith that calls everyone to a voca­tion of service and holiness. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski, OSFS, a priest with the Oblates of St. Francis de Sales, works for his community as director of development and communications. He has served the church as a Catholic high school teacher, campus minister, and principal, as well as vocation and formation director for the Oblates. He lives with his community in Wilmington, Del., and can be reached at knadolski@oblates.org. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Quote of tHe day 
“you don’t need fancy highbrow traditions or money to really learn. you just need people with the desire to better themselves.” 
Adam Cooper and Bill Collage 
screenplay writers for “accepted” 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank @nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | wednesday, august 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Don’t give up on politics now 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 

winston churchill once said, “politics is not a game. it is an earnest business.” 
wait, what? 

given the current state of affairs, churchill would have to forgive us for thinking he was joking when he said this. 
i can’t count the number of times i’ve been told by people my own age that they “hate politics” without offering much of an explanation. yet sometimes it’s hard for me to blame them. 
has there ever been a more difficult time to care about, much less enjoy, politics? 
i don’t know whether to laugh or cry when a couple weeks of emotional and behavioral therapy, the bill which is footed by the taxpayers, can be consid­ered a concrete solution to one politi­cian’s questionable moral character. 
in a place where legislators tell us bills must first be passed in order for us all to know what’s in them, it’s hard for me to look at the charade and see ear­nestness in the men and women doing the business of public service. 
when chris matthews uses an epi­sode of “hardball” to label some mem­bers of the opposing party as “political terrorists,” it seems an easier time than ever to question whether “the place for politics” is the place for me. 
and when the tune of trumpets sounding the end of one election cycle sounds like little more than the the starting gun for the next one, it’s al­most impossible to view the business of politics and see it as anything other than a game — a frivolous, expensive, sometimes comical, often times mali­cious and unending game. 
government has always been an enterprise made up of characters just as likely to inspire open palms to fore­heads as standing applause. but with congressional approval threatening to dip into single digits throughout much of the past year, what has always been moderate disapproval is far too likely to become sheer apathy for politics at all levels. 
has there ever been a more difficult time to care about politics? by the looks of it, no. 
and yet, has there ever been a more important time to care about politics? 
strangely, the answer to that is an equally resounding “no.” 
why care about politics in the era of never-ending elections and overzeal­ous cable news hosts? 
politics alone may not influence ev­eryone but public policy does. and, for better or worse, politicians make the policy. you can’t have one without the other. 
The presidential election may not be until 2016, but there is that pesky — yet all important — 2014 midterm election before the race for the white house. choosing who to put in office in 2014 is the most tangible way for us to have a say in the policies that are sure to af­fect us. 
if elections aren’t your thing, maybe the mere fact that politics can be so ri­diculous is all the more reason to care. 
after all, the problems won’t fix themselves. pretty soon, men and women from our generation will be the ones parading around cspan in bad haircuts and ill-fitted suits. 
shouldn’t our generation be working to produce the best and the brightest to serve in office? it can only happen if we stay involved and start demanding more of those who serve. 
and if that alone is not enough for some to become involved, perhaps looking at the world around us will. involvement is a relatively easy thing in america. 
political engagement doesn’t require us to dodge weapon fire in the street or make a choice between political action and our lives. it merely requires staying informed and refusing to give in to the temptation to tune out political dis­course when it comes up. 
maybe, if for no other reason, we will choose to care more about politics simply because we can do so free from fear. 
depending on who you are, politics may never be enjoyable. but at the very least everyone can choose to care about the process itself. 
who knows, maybe it’s the first and most important step in making the ear­nest business of politics a reality rather than a joke. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

a profile of courage in chicago 
Adam Newman 
scientia potentia est 

John kennedy’s 1957 pulitzer prize winning book, “profiles in courage,” tells the story of eight senators who defied the interests of their party and/or the wishes of their constitu­ents by doing what they believed was right. 
a magnificent work that spans american history, “profiles in courage” today largely seems to tell a story of a time past than present, as there is far less courage in politics to write of today. 
There are many reasons why, in­cluding the increased influence of money in politics, the rise in su­perpac funding that allows unlim­ited campaign donations from any union, be it individual or corpora­tion. political primaries driven by ideological extremes, the polariza­tion of the media and gerrymander­ing districts are also a few main ones. 
however, one unlikely member of the democratic party, chicago mayor rahm emanuel, has shown why he deserves a profile in courage for the reforms he has backed for the chicago public schools system. 
over the past 10 years, chicago has experienced major demographic and population changes. The num­ber of school-age children (five- to 19-years old) has declined by 18 percent between 2000 and 2010, ac­cording to census data. This has led the cps system, with a capacity of 500,000 seats, to only welcome ap­proximately 400,000 students and allow 140 of the 681 schools to be half-empty or more. most of these half-empty schools are in the heav­ily african-american south and west neighborhoods, as the african american population has declined by 17 percent over the past decade. 
The relatively low number of cps students, in addition to the bad economy, has led cps to face a stag­gering $1 billion deficit in 2013. in response, in may 2013, emanuel’s administration announced the clos­ing of 49 elementary schools and one high school. There has been a major outrage over this decision for many reasons, but one of the most pressing has been layoff of over 2,000 teach­ers and other employees of cps. 
in a 21st-century world, providing highly effective government services at a low cost is crucial to attracting new residents, attracting business investment and growing the local economy. however, aligning poli­cies with this vision has been nearly impossible due to politics. chicago politicians, similar to politicians in other major cities, have used govern­ment services as a way to allow their constituents secure, decent paying jobs. while sanitation workers and janitors individually do not have much power, they have organized into large and politically powerful groups that provide their political leaders votes and campaign contri­butions in exchange for protecting their financial interests. This has led to policies made to benefit the special interest groups within gov­ernment at the expense of the popu­lation as a whole. 
while many believe it is impor­tant to protect government workers, they should know that no city with a bloated public sector can maximize its economic potential. inefficiencies in government may save the jobs of government workers, but the sub­sequently necessary increase in tax revenues and cutting in other invest­ments stifles economic growth that hurts everyone else. This is neither a democratic nor republican idea — it is simple economics. 
There is no doubt that it is tragic for anyone to lose a job, especially in a bad economy. it is simply the way an organization must conduct itself. Top-flight organizations, such as goldman sachs and others have been forced to make layoffs and con­solidate offices in recent years due to the economic downturn in order to stay not just solvent, but competi­tive. while the plan will save $560 million over ten years, cps will in­vest over $200 million into the con­solidated schools that will welcome displaced students. 
The chicago Teachers union (cTu) and other advocacy groups representing education workers have fought back bitterly against the cuts. The president of the cTu has called the plan “racist” and called emanuel a “bully” and “liar”. The union has also geared up to challenge emanuel during his re-election in 2015. with 30,000 members — all of whom live in chicago — and deep financial assets, they will certainly make his re-election much more difficult. 
emanuel has said in response to the criticism and electoral threats, “i will absorb the political conse­quences so our children have a bet­ter future. if i was to shrink from something the city has discussed for over a decade about what it needed to do … because it was politically too tough, but then watch another generation of children drop out or fail in their reading and math, i don’t want to hold the job.” 
There is no doubt that rahm emanuel is exactly what the city of chicago needs after decades of poli­ticians with too much profile and too little courage. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | wednesday, august 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Will Neal 
scene writer 

it’s been a memorable summer. maybe you traveled abroad, took on a part-time job or internship or just sat on your couch making full use of your netflix account and watching five seasons of “breaking bad.” whatever you pursued during the summer months, time to face the music: it’s over. reflecting on the summer’s highs and lows always provides a nice concluding note, but unfortunately, i only know how to talk about movies and Tv, so i’ll stick with that. 
Most surprising disappointment of the summer: “Man of steel” 
Most surprising success of the summer: “world war Z” 
it was enough of a surprise that the film brought in $526 mil­lion globally, but what was more shocking to critics and audiences members alike was that the movie … wasn’t awful. From the begin­ning, this movie seemed like it would be an epic disaster. The early trailers didn’t look promis­ing and there were production problems from day one. even the ending had to be re-written entirely by the infamous damon 


i know i wasn’t alone in my excite­
lindelof (lindelof is ment for “man of steel” to premiere. 
from “lost,” “prometheus” and anything else Fanboys and superhero fanatics 
that left people scratching their heads). This is alike were awed by the trailers, kept 
not to say that the film was outstanding, but it updated on all of the exciting casting 
overcame massive odds and an overall lack of and production choices and believed 
public faith and delivered one of the most solid this was the superman movie we’ve 
performances of the summer. Then again, au­been waiting for. while the action se­
diences just can’t resist brad pitt as a zombie­quences reached exhilarating heights, 
annihilating family man. there was a lack of focus on character development and story pacing — two 
least surprising success of the summer: things an origin story like this des-“this is the end” 
perately needs in order to be a success. while there were some great performances from (most of) the leading cast of actors, it was nearly impossible to connect with some of these characters. There also seemed to be a confliction in tone between the fast-paced action of director Zach snyder and the dark emotion of producer christopher nolan. Thankfully, warner brothers isn’t giving up on this franchise. This is only the beginning of a hopefully prom­ising future for dc comic movies. while they’re already on the fast track for the “superman vs. batman” follow up, many of us just wish that “man of steel” would have start­ed things off right. at least we have ben-batman-affleck to look forward to (or maybe that’s just me). 

least surprising disappointment of the summer: “after earth” 
m. night shyamalan directed this film. if anyone was expecting it to be anything other than a disappointment, then i’d assume they don’t even know who m. night shyamalan is. “but it has will smith!,” you might say. yes, excellent point, but not only does big willie style play an emotionless robot of a father/military officer, also about 80 percent of the screen time is taken up by his son, Jaden, as he roams the wilderness alone. no matter how much you liked Jaden smith in the new “karate kid,” i doubt you wanted to see him carry an entire film. The most surprising part of this movie is that will smith came up with the concept and skipped out on playing the lead role in “django unchained” to pursue his concept to “seek” out the director of “The happening” and “The last airbender” to bring his story to life.  i think will smith needs some time to reevaluate his recent life choices — perhaps it’s time he moves back in with his auntie and uncle in bel air’. 
seth rogen and writing/directing partner evan goldberg took a risk this summer: focusing an entire movie on actors playing (hilariously) exaggerated ver­sions of themselves … while surviving the apocalypse. sounds funny and original, but it was definitely still a bit of a gamble. Thankfully, when your main cast includes seth rogen, Jay baruchel, James Franco, Jonah hill (“dear god, it’s me, Jonah hill … from ‘moneyball’”) and the rest of the apatow crew, you’re almost guaranteed a commercial hit — and that’s exactly what he delivered. critics praised it, audiences couldn’t stop quoting it and it exceeded its budget by nearly $81 million. The movie also included as many cameo appearances as the leg­endary battle scene in “anchorman,” including michael cera, emma watson and an unforgettable group ap­pearance to end the movie on a major high note. if you find the time to see this movie, you’ll understand why this was the funniest of the summer. 
“arrested development” Returns: 
after a dreadfully long seven-year absence, the bluth family is finally back and as absurd as ever. The cult comedy, often lauded by critics and audiences alike as the funniest show of all time, overcame grand odds and scheduling conflicts to reunite the beloved cast for another 14 episodes in a deal with netflix. granted, the show could only focus on one or two characters per episode and some of the story lines were duds, but when “arrested development” got it right, fans remem­bered exactly why they fell in love with this hysterically dysfunctional family nearly a decade ago. it’s amazing to see how a show featuring ostrich attacks, sexually confused magicians, elderly mixed-race prison gangs, liza minnelli and countless puns and inside jokes can remain so consistently intel­ligent and witty. The show may not be exactly how you remember it, but with a brand new season of the beloved show and the prom­ise of more seasons and a follow-up movie (which is apparently full steam ahead), there’s not much to complain about. it’s “a-nu­start” indeed. 

“the office” ends: 
many people believe that the beloved “mockumentary” sitcom, “The office,” overstayed its welcome by sustaining its nine-season run. plot lines were run­ning thin, major characters like steve carell’s michael scott left the show be­hind and eventually, audiences began to question why they should still care about the dunder mifflin crew. in the show’s final season, the show reignited its classic spark with the return of greg daniels, the original series producer, and with the development of a clear end for this story. while the episodes gradu­ally evidenced a return to the show’s 
former glory (despite a few missteps), what was truly a pleasure to watch was the episode that closed this staple of primetime televised comedy: the finale. Jumping several months into the future, the finale shows us what has become of the dunder mifflin employees as dwight and angela’s wedding approaches. every character, great or small, gets their time in the spot­light and the appropri­ate closure to each of their storylines. we see just how much these people have bonded over the years as their lives begin to take dras­tic and exciting new turns. it is as funny as it is heartwarming, from the bachelor party involving bazookas and marital kid­napping to the brief, yet unforgettable return of michael scott. as a longtime fan of “The office,” i can say that this show got the ending it truly deserved. 
How I Met your Mother’s “Big Reveal” (obvious spoilers): 
with the news of a ninth and final season of the cbs comedic hit, audiences couldn’t help but debate how this past season would end. what we got was a lackluster episode of the gang preparing for their futures, including, most importantly, barney and robin’s wedding. but if you could make it through those first 23 out of 24 minutes of uneventful she­nanigans, fans were treated to what they’ve been waiting nine long years for: the identity of the mother. Theories have been thrown out since the first season as to who this mystery woman may be, but the pro­ducers of “himym” had taken all necessary steps to keep her a secret. so who was the girl under the yellow umbrella? cristin milioti: a broadway and television actress. she has made appearances on “30 rock” (as the “sexy baby” comedian) and “The sopranos,” but she is most recognized for her leading performance in the hit broadway show “once.” while the opinions are 
mixed, keep in mind that the produc­ers have been searching a long time for this girl, so clearly, they chose milioti for good reason. she’s funny, cute, ap­parently has killer ukulele skills and, most importantly, isn’t a big-name actress. while Ted won’t meet her until the end of the series, she will become a full-time cast member this season as she meets the rest of the gang. Just wait for it — i’m sure she’ll be legendary. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


Photos courtesy of Peter Ringenberg 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 

combine the sarcasm, selfishness and style of chuck bass and a strong dose of power-hungry, medieval vil­lainy, and you get notre dame shakespeare Festival’s “richard iii.” 
by far the best part of this production is richard, duke of gloucester (michael gotch). his devilish wit has you laughing from the start of the play, even though his bloody, heartless villainy should have you weeping in the aisles. 
while the rest of the play came off as slightly me­chanical and uninspired, gotch’s smile and cutting re­marks make the play well worth your time, shakespeare scholar or not. 
as of last wednesday’s opening night, i had nev­er read the play (english major here for the win), so here’s a short summary to help you navigate this tragic comedy. 
The disfigured richard, duke of gloucester is hell­bent on becoming king of england, but he also takes perverse pleasure in mocking, betraying and murder­ing his friends and family to get to the top. For example, richard killed lady anne’s husband and father-in-law but successfully wooed her next to her former hus­band’s corpse. 
one by one, richard dissembles the hierarchy that separates him from the throne. The only one who stands up to richard is Queen margaret, who shrieks curses calling for vengeance to fall upon the schem­ing richard’s head. (pay attention: marge can give you some pretty creative swear ideas.) 
The final straw is the cold murder of the crown prince and his little brother in the Tower of london. in pro­test, the earl of richmond (eventually henry vii) raises troops to stop the bloodthirsty richard. 
visions of richard’s victims haunt him as they cheer for his opponent the night before the battle. 
before dawn the two men awake, arm themselves and lead their men to the field. 
i’ll stop there. 
This play is a must-see because it will remind you just how hilarious shakespeare can be, and gotch totally nails the likeable villain role. 
in terms of set and costume, the towering hall easily adjusts to fit the action in each scene. The costumes, especially of lady anne and Queen elizabeth, were beaded and fantasy-like, a sort of muted version of something from game of Thrones. 
richard and his henchmen, however, look like they just jumped out of a metrosexual version of assassin’s creed, with dramatic hoods and too-tight pants. 
The stage fighting left something to be desired, the swordsmen feinting and paring in slow motion and missing each other by miles. but only one cast member made a noticeable mistake in his delivery, a kink i ex­pect to be ironed out as the production continues. 
The cast is talented down to the youngest member, sam villagra-stanton, age 10, who was wonderfully ar­ticulate and courageous on stage. my favorite actor by far was lady anne (elizabeth ledo) who draws the eye, no matter where she stands on stage. 
she is a compelling actress — poised, bright and thoroughly convincing. by marrying her father’s and husband’s murderer, she embodies the central conflict of the play: the natural family order dissembled by an evil but completely human influence. 
although richard’s methods are satanic and twisted, gotch effuses irresistible charm. There’s something about his impish smile and lively eyes — you can’t help but root for him. Just as he seduced the stony lady anne from her father’s grave, gotch’s guiles magic the audience as well. 
it’s not until you find yourself laughing out loud at richard’s abuses that you realize you’re as flawed as his character. 
prompting this inadvertent self-reflection is shakespeare’s signature move, and director laura gordon did well by capitalizing on gotch’s skill to draw out those brilliant moments in the script. 
The play runs for approximately three hours with a brief intermission through sept. 1 in the philbin studio Theater at the debartolo performing arts center. regular tickets are $25 and student tickets are $12. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


By SCENE STAFF 

We were all gone for a whole summer and some of us were abroad last spring, which raises the question, how did you get by without hearing our opinions? Well, we figured it’d be a good idea just to get out everything we feel we need to say about the last few months in the pop culture world, and get a fresh start on the school year. 
robin, please consult the following: bug me, mug me, slug me, rugby, pug me, dug me, jug me, lug me, tug me. 
don’t knock it ‘til you try it: bat-affleck forever. 
sweet Frozen bananas, arrested development is back! #anustart. 
kendrick lamar is the goaT (greatest of all Time). 
“radioactive” is the worst thing to happen to my aural orifices since — no, it’s the worst thing. 
if “cups” wasn’t your favorite song of the summer, you have a serious lack of critical thinking/morals/humanity. 
if there was ever proof for the non-existence of god, it’s the fact that they wouldn’t let me request “cups” at the backer last weekend. 
cups. 

let’s be honest, mary lambert saying, “she keeps me warm,” is what makes “same love.” oh, and the song’s message is good, too. 
The middle east is on the brink, the global economy is dubious at best and p!nk still makes music. amidst all of this, kim kardashian existing is still the greatest calamity of our age. 
“listen to vampire weekend’s ‘modern vampires of the city.’ you’re gonna like the way it sounds, i guarantee it.” — men’s wearhouse, if they listened to “modern vampires of the city.” 
carrot Facts was the greatest thing ever to happen to Twitter, that is until the creation of hot dogs or legs. 
nickelback didn’t make music this summer? 
i didn’t really like “yeezus” as much as i thought i would, and i’m going to assume the blame lies with kim kardashian and not with kanye. 
i know Tupac is really dead because if he was alive, kendrick lamar would never have gotten away with that fourth-grade valentine’s day card of a call-out verse. 
in the past year i’ve seen “movie 43,” “battleship,” “scary movie 5” and “killer clowns from outer space,” and yet none of them even comes close to being as bad as “spring breakers.” 
The number of times i’ve yelled “i am the danger!” at my friends while playing video games is bordering on aggressive. Thank you, walter white. 
season Four of “arrested development” wasn’t that good. let’s just call it what it is. 
aaron carter is coming to Fever in a few weeks. at 6 p.m. on a Tuesday. second grade me would still think that’s stupid. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


sPoRts autHoRIty 

Looking into the crystal ball 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
i hate prediction columns. 
long utilized by columnists everywhere, a column full of bold guesses is an easy antidote for an impending deadline, and is the perfect crime of opinion writing. in the short term, an outlandish prediction brings attention to the “tortured ge­nius” involved (something “ge­niuses” like stephen a. smith and skip bayless have mas­tered). The hype lasts through time but the details are usually forgotten, clearing the writer of most accountability. 
The only person left to care about the forecast is the fore­caster himself, who can then dig successful predictions out of the pile and show how pro­phetic he truly is. even when the prediction is wrong, the mistake can still be spun into more attention and hype. 
but, writing this column as a 20-year, 364-day and roughly 20-hour-year-old, i hope you’ll allow me to indulge. here are some things i think will happen this upcoming football season: 
Jadeveon Clowney wins the Heisman 
south carolina defensive end clowney weighs 275 pounds and runs the 40-yard dash in about 4.5 seconds, but i think there’s even more momentum here than that. The heisman Trophy has been handed out since 1935, but a solely defen­sive player has never won the award. The constant gripe that only offensive skill players win the heisman often has been spoken, yet never acted upon. but the grumblings have grown with every passing year, and the time seems right for an elite defender to break through. manti Te’o’s senior season may have been an enigma but it was another step in this process, and afterward the bruisers on the other side of the ball are closer than ever to some glory. 
ohio state quarterback braxton miller will put up big numbers as the buckeyes steamroll over the big Ten. but if clowney can surpass the 13 sacks and 23.5 tackles for loss he had last season, the heisman Trophy won’t need a ball anymore. 
Johnny football plays … for now 
speaking of the heisman, let’s talk about its most recent winner — Texas a&m quarter­back Jonathan manziel. while you’re reading this, Johnny Football’s future is in jeop­ardy. manziel met with ncaa investigators for six hours ear­lier this week in connection to allegations that he signed autographs for money, and his status for the aggies’ sea­son opener this weekend is in doubt. 
There seems to be evidence that manziel did sign memora­bilia for cash, but no one with that knowledge seems to be volunteering it to the ncaa. by the time Johnny is an after­thought in the nFl, the ncaa will put the pieces together and strip manziel of his heisman. but in the meantime, the Johnny Football show will roll on. 
Honey Badger bounces back 
Twenty-one months ago, Tyrann mathieu was a house­hold name — or at least, a household nickname. during his time in lsu’s secondary, the honey badger tore up college football with his hard-hitting style, and his electric punt re­turns added extra syllables to cuss words across the south. 
however, mathieu was dismissed from the team in 2012 and ran into trouble with marijuana charges on multiple occasions. but after sitting out last season, mathieu was se­lected by the arizona cardinals with a third-round pick and has impressed former critics this preseason. he may not be an all-pro, but look for some sportscenter Top 10-worthy plays out of the honey badger. 
RgIII is never the same 
often when an athlete suffers a severe knee injury, the worry is that they won’t have the confidence and trust to move with the same explosiveness they used to. you could call this boobie miles syndrome, after the running back of “Friday night lights” (the book and the movie) fame. 
washington redskins quar­terback robert griffin iii may have the opposite problem. after blowing out his knee in last year’s playoffs griffin con­tinued to play, hobbling around until he reinjured it further. 
now, griffin is claiming his knee is back at 100 percent, and he’s ready to be the same elu­sive phenom he was last season. but with the athleticism of nFl defenses, even the small­est nick can be the difference between getting out of bounds and taking a beating. griffin may bring back the swagger in washington when he returns this fall, but he’ll be back on the injury list within a few years. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nCaa footBall 
aggies prepare for life without Johnny Football 
Associated Press 
Johnny Football was the el­ephant in the room Tuesday at Texas a&m. 
The seventh-ranked aggies head into saturday’s home opener against rice with questions still swirling about whether heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Johnny manziel will play against the owls. The ncaa is investigat­ing whether he was paid for his autograph, a potential viola­tion of amateurism rules that could threaten his eligibility. 
it was the only thing anyone really wanted to talk about on Tuesday when the aggies ad­dressed the media. The topic, however, was off limits. 
athletic director eric hyman said monday night that he’d instructed everyone in the program not to talk about manziel. and if that wasn’t clear enough, a member of the sports information depart­ment slowly and sternly read the statement, not once, but twice during the session. 
reporters asked anyway, and coach kevin sumlin did what hyman asked. 
“we’re not discussing that,” he said. “i thought we went over that right from the beginning.” 
he later added that they have a plan for any number of situa­tions that could happen with their players and team, and that they plan for the possible absence of players every week. 
espn, citing an anonymous source, reported that manziel met with ncaa investigators over the weekend. cbssports. com, also citing anonymous sources, reported that manziel told the investigators he didn’t take money for his autograph. 

FOR SALE 
Oak computer desk and hutch in excellent condition. Features pullout keyboard tray, printer shelf and writing shelf. $250 Call 574-298-0228 
WANTED 
Affordable Housing Intern: Work with a small consulting business help­ing non-profit and for-profit organi­zations develop affordable housing. Good communication and detail skills, EXCEL experience, access to a car and flexibility needed. Office close to downtown South Bend. 10-15 hours/ week. $10/hour. Send resume & cover letter to amannix.nda@comcast.net 
while sumlin wouldn’t dis­cuss manziel’s availability for week 1, he had no problem talking about whether football has helped the quarterback deal with everything going on off the field. 
“i know he likes to play foot­ball,” sumlin said. “i think the structure that he has had since aug. 4 has been nothing but helpful.” 
if manziel doesn’t play against the owls, the aggies will use either junior matt Joeckel or freshman kenny hill. Joeckel is more of a pocket passer and hill is a dual-threat quarterback. Joeckel has thrown just 11 passes in his col­lege career. hill, who starred at Texas high school powerhouse southlake carroll, threw for 2,291 yards and 20 Tds and ran for 905 yards and 22 more scores as a senior last season. 
sumlin said the competi­tion between the two is ongo­ing, and that he’s been pleased with the progress of both play­ers. he said it helps his team because they’ve always al­lowed all quarterbacks to get work with the first team. 
“anybody who has been around knows that we rotate players with the first team, has seen us rotate snaps with the first team and because of that i think it gives your team a chance to develop a relation­ship or camaraderie with that first team if something hap­pens,” sumlin said. 
sumlin is confident that Texas a&m’s offense will be ok no matter who’s running the show because of his offensive line. The group, led by left tack­le Jake matthews, is expected to be a strength despite los­ing matt’s twin brother, luke Joeckel, when he was selected second overall in the draft. matthews, the son of nFl hall of Famer bruce matthews, will be joined on the line this season by little brother mike matthews at center. 
“we’ve got a really solid of­fensive line which takes a little bit of the pressure off matt and kenny,” sumlin said. “when Johnny’s taking snaps, when he’s in there he’s really trying to help the perimeter guys. our offensive line gives us an opportunity to rotate those quarterbacks and have them be successful.” 
senior running back ben malena is confident that Joeckel or hill could ably fill in at quarterback if necessary. 
“both of those guys have re­ally done great things when they’ve got their opportuni­ties in practice,” he said. “They have both had opportunities to make plays and they have. it’s a great competition.” 
The uncertainty surround­ing manziel has put a damper on the excitement surround­ing the aggies after they fin­ished 11-2 in their first sec season. without naming manziel, sumlin was asked how he balances the needs of a player over those of the team. he then likened his team to a family, saying that many things are done and said be­hind closed doors the public will never know about. 
but he did share his philoso­phy on leading the aggies. 
“There’s nothing more im­portant than the team,” he said. “we talk to them about what we expect from them on the field, what we expect from them off the field and what we expect from them effort-wise and accountability-wise and being able to trust each other.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Guess what? I have flaws. What are they? Oh I dunno, I sing in the show­er? Sometimes I spend too much time volunteering. Occasionally I’ll hit somebody with my car. So sue me-- no, don’t sue me. That is oppo­site the point I’m trying to make.
   -Michael Scott 
There is a master key and a spare key for the office. Dwight has them both. When I asked, “what if you die, Dwight? How will we get into the of­fice?” He said, “if I’m dead, you guys have been dead for weeks.”
   -Pam Beesley 
Wikpedia is the best thing ever. Anyone in the world can write any­thing they want about any subject. So you know you’re getting the best possible information.
   -Michael Scott I kinda know what it’s like to be in com­mercials. My nickname in high school was Kool-Aid Man.
   -Kevin Malone 
I don’t have a lot of experience with vampires, but I have hunted were­wolves. I shot one once, but by the time I got to it, it had turned back into my neighbor’s dog.
   -Dwight Schrute 
I wake up every morning in a bed that’s too small, drive my daughter to a school that’s too expensive, and then I go to work to a job for which I get paid too little, but on pretzel day? Well, I like pretzel day.
   -Stanley Hudson 
I will go to New Zealand and walk the Lord of the Rings trail to Mordor.           -Dwight Schrute 



Men’s golf 

Momentum propels Irish into ACC 
By MERI KELLY 
sports writer 
after finishing third in the big east championship last season, the irish look forward to building on their success. 
This season will be a little different for notre dame, however, as the irish will no longer compete in the big east but in the acc, where they will face off against pow­erhouses such as duke and north carolina. 
despite the loss of one of notre dame’s top individual finishers, paul mcnamara, the irish will return sopho­more cory sciupider, who finished third in the big east championship, and junior niall platt, who had the lowest scoring average for the team last season. 
“niall has played every var­sity event since arriving here as a freshman,” irish coach Jim kubinski said. his experi­ence is a big plus in our line­up. [platt and sciupider both] earned their first individual collegiate wins last season, so they’ll look to build upon that success.” 
kubinski said the irish are also looking toward senior andrew lane and junior Tyler wingo to step up and lead the team. 
“both andrew and Tyler played in this summer’s u.s. amateur, which is a great hon­or, so their experience is also important to us,” kubinski said. 
The irish are also bringing in three freshman golfers. kubinski said the newcom­ers are all capable of earning a starting spot and competing individually for the irish. 
“i’m excited by this class,” kubinski said of the fresh­men. “They’ve shown matu­rity beyond their years so far, which can only expedite their learning curve.” 
This season, the irish will travel all around the country, playing in tournaments in san diego, naples, Fla. and san antonio, among other places. kubinski said the team is very excited about its upcoming travels. 
“we’re ready for our sched­ule this year,” kubinski said. “we’re playing several cours­es that have served as major championship venues, such as crooked stick [in carmel, ind.], kiawah’s ocean course [in kiawah island, s.c.,] and oak hill [in rochester, n.y.].” 
The irish will start their season when they travel to independence, minn., on sept. 8 for the gopher invitational. 
kubinski said his team has improved greatly and he has no doubt it will succeed. 
“we have a group of tal­ented young player, who have worked hard and gained expe­rience,” he said. “i’m looking forward to getting the season started and seeing more fight back in the irish this year.” 
Contact Meri Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 



u.s. oPen 
victorino leads red sox to victory 
Associated Press 
bosTon — shane victorino homered twice and drove in a career-high seven runs to lead the boston red sox to a 13-2 vic­tory over the baltimore orioles on Tuesday night. 
Felix doubront pitched 6 2-3 innings of four-hit ball for al east-leading boston. 
victorino also had a two-run double in the seventh, and dustin pedroia had three hits for the red sox. 
J.J. hardy and danny valencia each had two of baltimore’s four hits. wei-yin chen (7-7) lasted just 3 2-3 innings, allowing eight runs on eight hits and three walks. he struck out five and hit a batter. 
doubront (10-6) had only one bad inning, allowing the first four batters in baltimore’s two-run third to reach. but he retired 14 of the next 16 before leaving to a standing ovation from the Fenway park crowd of 36,226. 
in all, doubront gave up two runs on four hits, a walk and a hit batsman. he struck out seven and has allowed three or fewer runs in 21 of 24 starts. 
victorino started the scor­ing in the first when he walked, took third on pedroia’s double and scored on david ortiz’s sacrifice fly. after doubront al­lowed his only runs in the third to give the orioles a 2-1 lead, boston came back in the bottom half with two of their own when will middlebrooks singled and scored on victorino’s two-run shot. 
mike napoli led off the fourth with a homer to spark a five-run inning and chase chen. boston added three more in the fifth on victorino’s second homer — the 100th of his career and the second multihomer game of his career. 


The observer | wednesday, august 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Men’s tennIs 


By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
after a year of stability and success, notre dame enters the season with new chal­lenges and questions to be addressed. 
For the first time in 26 years, the irish have a new head coach, as ryan sachire took over for the now-retired bobby bayliss on June 1. sachire is no stranger to the irish program, however, as he graduated from notre dame in 2000 and served as an as­sistant under bayliss for the last seven seasons. 
“it’s obviously humbling, and i’m honored to have that title next to my name,” sachire said of his new posi­tion. “honestly, i’m not ap­proaching [the season] any differently than i have in years past. i’ve always been fully invested in notre dame tennis, whether as a player or as an assistant coach, so from that perspective, i don’t see a huge change.” 
after nine conference titles during its 18-year run in the big east, notre dame will join a talented field of teams in the acc. The conference fea­tures nine teams that ended last season ranked in the iTa national rankings, including defending ncaa champion virginia. 
“The biggest challenge is the fact that in the big east, we did not play a manda­tory league schedule, so we really didn’t compete a lot in april just because other teams were involved with their conference schedules,” sachire said. “we’ll have to know how to continue to get better and continue to have the same energy level at the end of the year, which is go­ing to be especially difficult because we’re going to be traveling a lot for our acc matches.” 
The irish will also look to replace no. 3 singles player blas moros, as well as lineup mainstays michael moore and spencer Talmadge. 
despite the off-season changes, notre dame returns many of the contributors who helped the team to a big east conference crown and ncaa tournament appearance last season. 
senior greg andrews, a two-time big east player of the year, will anchor the team at no. 1 singles for the second consecutive season. andrews advanced to the round of 32 at last season’s ncaa singles championship. 
“There is something differ­ent about playing no. 1 for your team, and [andrews] has that year of experience there,” sachire said. “any time you return your no. 1 player, you feel good that you have some­one who’s accustomed to playing each opponent’s best player. he’s certainly a guy we’re going to look toward and build our team around.” 
notre dame will also look for increased contributions from its five sophomores, nicknamed the “Fab Five.” The group made an imme­diate impact in its first sea­son, as no. 2 singles player Quentin monaghan was named big east Freshman of the year and several other members cracked the starting lineup. 
“honestly, i just want them to keep improving and to keep making progress,” sachire said of the sophomores. “as far as performance goals to put on them, that’s not any­thing we really talk about. we talk more about the process and as long as they stay on the same path they’re on now, they’re going to do some great things for us.” 
The fall season for the irish will largely consist of indi­vidual tournaments instead of team matches. sachire said that while the fall tourna­ments don’t contribute to the team’s record, they are none­theless important in help­ing the team prepare for the spring season. 
“There’s no team score kept at any of these events, but there is a team concept. y  ou have team pride on the line and team preparation and team travel, so there are a lot of concepts that we obvious­ly need to be good at in the spring,” sachire said. “at the same time, all of the results are individual results, so we’re looking to build an intelligent plan for where the players are in their development.” 
notre dame begins its sea­son with the olympia Fields country club invitational in olympia Fields, ill., on sept. 13. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
u.s. oPen 
Federer starts well at U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
new york — at this point in his career, roger Federer recognizes the importance of a little extra work. 
That’s why the owner of a re­cord 17 grand slam titles, and the man who spent more weeks ranked no. 1 than any other, was out there on a u.s. open practice court late Tuesday af­ternoon, putting in some train­ing time shortly after finishing off a 6-3, 6-2, 7-5 victory over 62nd-ranked grega Zemlja of slovenia in the first round. 
at 32, at his lowest ranking, no. 7, in more than a decade, coming off a stunningly ear­ly exit at the previous major tournament — one of a series of newsworthy losses lately 
— Federer is ok with making some concessions. he insists his passion for tennis is still there. 
“i’m in a good spot right now,” Federer said. “i want to enjoy it as long as it lasts.” 
he made it sound, though, as if it isn’t as easy to enjoy things the way his results have been going. 
Federer entered Tuesday 32­11, a .744 winning percentage that doesn’t sound too bad, until you consider his career mark at the start of this season was .816, and he’s had years where he went 81-4 (.953). and 92-5 (.948). he’s only won one tournament in 2013, which would be great for some guys, but Federer topped 10 titles three times, and hasn’t won fewer than three in any season since 2001. 
“clearly, when you win ev­erything, it’s fun. That doesn’t necessarily mean you love the game more. you just like win­ning, being on the front page, lifting trophies, doing com­fortable press conferences. it’s nice. but that doesn’t mean you really, actually love it, love it,” said Federer, whose streak of 36 consecutive grand slam quar­terfinals ended with a second-round defeat at wimbledon against an opponent ranked 116th. 
“That maybe shines through maybe more in times when you don’t play that well. For me, i knew it — winning or losing, practice court or match court 
— that i love it.” 
as Federer took the first step toward a possible quarterfinal meeting with nemesis rafael nadal, no. 5 Tomas berdych and no. 10 milos raonic also picked up straight-set victories. 
on a day that american men went 5-1, led by no. 13 John isner and no. 26 sam Querrey, a handful of seeded men made quick departures. no. 14 Jerzy Janowicz of poland, a semifinalist at wimbledon last month, was the most sur­prising to go, although he was treated by a trainer for a painful back during a 6-4, 6-4, 6-2 loss to 247th-ranked qualifier maximo gonzalez of argentina. 
“it was like someone puts a knife through your lower back,” Janowicz said. 
Janowicz is a volatile charac­ter, and that was on full display Tuesday. he pounded two balls in anger into the stands. he swatted one serve underhand. he chucked his racket. he ar­gued with the chair umpire. 
Joining him on the way out were no. 15 nicolas almagro, no. 25 grigor dimitrov and no. 28 Juan monaco. 
Four seeded women were beaten in early action: no. 11 sam stosur, who won the 2011 
u.s. open, along with no. 17 dominika cibulkova, no. 20 nadia petrova and no. 31 klara Zakopalova. 
stosur was eliminated 5-7, 6-4, 6-4 by 17-year-old american qualifier victoria duval, who is ranked 296th and never before had faced a top 20 opponent or won a grand slam match. 
“i know she didn’t play her best today, and this is the best i’ve played in my career, so i’m really excited,” duval told the louis armstrong stadium crowd. “i just tried to stay in the moment.” 
paid adverTisemenT 




nd woMen’s tennIs 

Irish break in new freshmen, experienced seniors 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sportswriter 
with a fresh season on the horizon, notre dame has a lot of “new” to deal with: new goals, three new teammates and a new conference. 
The team’s first matches will be important tests. irish coach Jay louderback said. louderback said he isn’t look­ing for the perfect answers just yet, but he wants the irish to get comfortable playing tennis again. 
“The big thing for the entire fall is mainly beginning to play a lot of matches,” louderback said. “in the fall, there is more development time than in the spring with dual matches.” 
The irish will split up to compete at both michigan’s wolverine invitational and the ball state Fall invitational on sept. 20-22. 
louderback said the open invitational tournaments are an especially good opportu­nity for players to find their strokes again and face a vari­ety of opponents. 
“They’re open tournaments, so there’s a lot of different teams there,” louderback said. “our kids just play. we’re just looking to get matches in.” 
notre dame will field three freshmen on its roster. louderback said the newcom­ers would have to adjust to the team element of college ten­nis, as opposed to the more individual play of high school and junior tennis. 
“[college tennis is] such a different dynamic than it is in the juniors,” louderback said. “as our kids have been here a year or two years, they get used to playing for a team. in the juniors, you’re playing for yourself and all of a sudden when you get to college, you’re playing for a team. The big thing is playing under pres­sure for a team.” 
The irish have three seniors louderback said he hopes can provide solid leadership for the team’s new faces. seniors Julie sabacinski, Jennifer kellner and britney sanders gained leadership experience last season on a roster with only one senior. 
“we have a great group of seniors,” louderback said. “we have a big group. i think they did a good job last year. we only had one senior, so we counted on our juniors more than usual. we have three on the team this year, so we feel like we should have good lead­ership. all three have played a lot of tennis for us, so they know what we expect. we have three freshmen, so that leadership will be key.” 
sanders earned big east player of the year honors last season, and louderback said sanders’ swift rise from no. 3 singles as a sophomore to no. 1 as a junior last year should give her the confidence to ex­cel this season. 
“[sanders] had a great year last year,” louderback said. “she had played no. 3 the year before and as a junior, she stepped up and played no. 1 for us. That experience is going to be key for her. she knows what to expect, and she knows who the good players are.” 
louderback said develop­ing knowledge of the compe­tition is especially important for sanders to succeed at no. 1 singles. 

“everyone has a good no. 1 player, so you don’t get a break,” louderback said. “brit handled it well last year, and we look for that experience to help her this year.” 
sanders and the rest of the notre dame squad will also face the challenge of moving to the acc this season. 
louderback said the transi­tion to a new conference will be a challenge, but he envi­sions big things for the irish. 
“of course, this year is go­ing to be a little different go­ing into the acc,” louderback said. “we were ranked 23rd last year, and there were six acc teams ahead of us. our big thing is to compete and do well in the acc and see how well we can finish. i think we have a shot to be a top 10 team.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
u.s. oPen 

Janowicz eliminated from u.s. open after injury 
Associated Press  of winners off what Janowicz  The last time he played a grand  “The linesman didn’t see —  leg injury. he went on to lose in  
thought was best described as a  slam  tournament,  Janowicz  the serve was too fast,” Janowicz  what was his only previous ap­ 
new  york  — with every  “push,” not a serve.  made  history  for  himself  and  deadpanned, his caustic humor  pearance in the main draw at  
serve, Jerzy Janowicz felt as if  hobbled by a lower back inju­ polish  tennis.  he thought he  intact.  this event.  
someone was stabbing him in  ry, the 14th-seeded Janowicz lost  was in great shape heading into  “disappointed” was the word  “maybe  i  practice too hard  
the right side with a knife.  in straight sets to an opponent  the  u.s.  open. That changed  he kept using in his post-match  before the u.s. open,” he said,  
The  wimbledon  semifinal- whose last victory in the main  saturday, during a workout in  news conference, glancing down  sarcastically.  
ist even tried one underhand in  draw of an aTp Tour event came  the gym with his fitness coach.  as he fiddled with the label on a  The 22-year-old Janowicz had  
the first round of the u.s. open  in april 2011.  Janowicz tried an exercise he’d  sports drink.  never been past the third round  
on Tuesday. Qualifier maximo  gonzalez, ranked 247th, won  done many times before, but on  Janowicz took an injury time- at a major tournament before  
gonzalez had just hit a couple  6-4, 6-4, 6-2.  this day something went wrong.  out for a trainer to massage his  his breakthrough at wimbledon,  
he  could  barely  walk.  he  back in the second set. he asked  which ended with a loss to even- 
paid adverTisemenT  couldn’t sit or find a comfortable  doctors for painkillers, but they  tual champion andy murray. in  
position to sleep. after a pain- said he couldn’t ingest any more  the quarterfinals, he beat coun­ 
killer shot  monday and three  after the injection.  tryman lukasz kubot in a match  
acupuncture sessions, at least he  he threw a racket, argued with  rich with milestones.  
could rotate to hit his backhand.  the chair umpire, and mostly  it was the first all-polish meet- 
other parts of his game weren’t  looked downright miserable for  ing in a grand slam men’s draw  
doing so well, either.  2 hours, 15 minutes.  and guaranteed that a polish  
“i  couldn’t jump,” Janowicz  gonzalez didn’t appreciate the  man would reach a grand slam  
said. “i couldn’t make a service  antics.  semi for the first time.  
movement.”  “if was him, i wouldn’t play to- on Tuesday, the two were  
Trailing 3-1 in the third set,  day,” he said.  playing on courts next to each  
he decided to try something dif- Janowicz  insisted  he  never  other — and both lost.  
ferent on game point. Janowicz  considered quitting.  Janowicz  said  he  hadn’t  re- 
quickly flipped the ball over the  “i was trying to fight,” he said.  ceived an exact diagnosis of his  
net with an underhand swing.  “you never know what it’s going  injury, but it likely involved his  
The line judge apparently didn’t  to be.”  muscles and wasn’t too serious.  
even realize he had served, and  Janowicz was hurt a few days  he was going to get tests done  
the chair umpire had to call the  before his first-round match at  after Tuesday’s match, but “now  
ball out.  the u.s. open last year, too — a  i don’t care.”  


The observer | wednesday, august 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

football 
conTinued From page 16 
the best opportunity to be suc­cessful when we kick that foot­ball off.” 
kelly also changed the usual team walkover to the stadium before the 2011 season, walk­ing to the stadium from the guglielmino athletic complex instead of the basilica. he said he wants the team to do all the traditional events but not to be overloaded with activities. 
“i think we’ve come to a nice schedule in working with our administration that our play­ers have a very similar sched­ule now that mirrors what we do on the road and what we do at home,” kelly said. 
looking ahead to Michigan? 
kelly said he worries that some of the veteran players are looking ahead to notre dame’s second–week showdown against rival michigan instead of focusing on the Temple matchup. 
“[i worry about it] every day,” he said. “every single day i talk about i’m not that far removed from south Florida. That’s what i do. This is my livelihood, so i think about all those things.” 
in 2011, notre dame turned the ball over five times and dropped the season opener against south Florida 23-20 before playing a night game at michigan the next week. 
“we focus on Temple,” kelly said. “i talk about it every day. i talk about the importance of playing this game and focusing on this football game. it’ll be a topic of conversation again to­day, tomorrow and every day leading right up to the Temple game.” 
will Mahone out 
sophomore running back will mahone will miss the game saturday with a high ankle sprain. he was part of a five-man running back compe­tition for carries. 
kelly said no other players will miss the game, other than the ones already announced. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

shipp 
conTinued From page 16 
a man of few words, shipp said he prefers to allow his play to lead the team. 
“ i think those two guys, [defenders] grant [van de casteele] and [andrew] o’malley, are a little more vo­cal and outspoken as a leader than i am, but i think on the field, actions speak louder than words,” shipp said. 
in three seasons, shipp has yet to miss a game. he said his teammates feed off of his consistency, dedication and competitiveness. 
“i like to compete,” shipp said. “i’ve had a lot of small injuries. i’ve been fortunate enough to not have any sig­nificant injuries. we’ve had some guys tear their acls and stuff, which is always in­credibly sad. i think just not ever wanting to miss a game, it shows teammates that i do want to play every game, no matter how hurt or sore i am.” 
shipp was an integral part of the notre dame offense last season, playing along­side former irish midfielder dillon powers and forward ryan Finley. both powers and Finley were drafted in the first round of the mls superdraft, leaving shipp as the anchor of the new offensive attack.
 “one thing we wanted to focus on going into this year is not replacing [powers and Finley], because they were two great players who are doing well in the pros now,” shipp said. “so we implemented a new style where we’re more fluid and everyone in the at­tack interchanges, and i think it will help us be harder and more unpredictable for other defenses to stop.” 
one of the best defenses in the country last season, all of the backline starters will re­turn to the irish.  shipp said notre dame’s new offense would not impact the team’s dominant defense. 
“i think our defensive shape kind of starts with the forwards, so getting that or­ganized and helping them defend our own goal from the front, that really helps the whole team succeed,” shipp said. 
shipp collected numerous accolades after last season, including third team all-big east, second team all-great lakes region and academic all-american honors, as well as a scholar all-american award.  despite the individual awards, shipp said he wants to have the whole team im­prove this season. 
“hopefully, we take the program to the next level,” shipp said. “i think as a whole senior class and as a team, we talked about wanting to elevate the program to be a consistent threat for the na­tional championship. last year was a big stepping-stone for us, because the year be­fore, we didn’t make the tour­nament, and i think last year we honestly felt that we were the best team in the country, and could have easily won a national championship. so i think this year, [we want to] build on that, and hopefully elevate the program to be consistently ranked in the top one, top two in the country.” 
shipp said music puts him in the right mindset before games, but he doesn’t listen to the typical pregame music one would expect. 
“i like to listen to music that’s a little different than what people would usually consider pump-up music,” shipp said. “last year i picked Taylor swift, and i listened to Taylor swift before every game. ... This year i haven’t decided, but i’m going to pick one artist and listen before every game. but i haven’t de­cided that. i’ll decide before Friday.” 
on Friday in bloomington, ind., shipp will pick a new artist and then quietly lead the irish against ucla. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
match-up against no. 9 ucla at the adidas/iu credit union classic at indiana university on Friday. 
“There’s always a lot of stuff we can clean up,” clark said.  it will take more than a week, possibly, but we’re get­ting there.“you take a team and you outshoot them 25 to 6, and you’ve played with your b-squad for a third of the game, you’ve got to say you’re [in good shape]. but in all fairness, it’s going to be a whole other level on Friday. we know that.” 
clark said he was par­ticularly impressed with the effort from junior mid­fielder robby gallegos, who played in the first half, and sophomore midfielder connor klekota, who re­placed gallegos for the last 45 minutes. 
“They were sort of filling the role that [former irish midfielder] dillon powers filled last year, and both did very well,” clark said. “obviously, connor had a harder job because he had more younger players around him, but they both did very well.” 
The exhibition loss was the second of the year for ohio state. The buckeyes also fell to west virginia, 1-0, al­though they did secure a 2-0 victory over ipFw on aug. 
20. ohio state is hoping to improve on last year’s 6-10­3 record, when the buckeyes failed to notch a single con­ference win. 
The irish square off against ucla at indiana’s armstrong stadium in bloomington, ind., on Friday at 5 p.m 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





CRosswoRd | will shorTZ 


sudoku | The mepham group 
HoRosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: alexa vega, 25; aaron paul, 34; sarah chalke, 37; paul reubens, 61. 
Happy Birthday: show what you have to offer and know when to ask for as­sistance. you will learn quickly and apply what you know to complex situations in such a way that it will impress onlookers. you mustn’t feel pressured to make decisions or sign deals. Finding your comfort zone first and determining what will bring the best returns should be your priority. your numbers are 4, 10, 23, 32, 35, 43, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): whatever you do, offer your best effort and plenty of enthusiasm. The impression you make now will bring about better opportunities in the future. don’t let a relationship stop you from being productive. get your work finished before you socialize. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a challenge will create new friendships and an op­portunity to use your skills in an unusual capacity. let your emotions drive you to excel. don’t get angry when you should get moving. if you want something, make it happen. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): express your feelings. it’s better to say what’s on your mind than to display actions that may be inappropriate. a change of plans will turn out in your favor. put your energy into making personal improvements that will enhance your life. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Friends will play a role in the decisions you make. problems with an older or younger family member should be taken care of using unusual methods. show compassion, but don’t give in to a situation in which you don’t feel comfortable. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): keep a close watch over the way others react to the situa­tions that unfold at work and at home. staying grounded and making last-minute alterations will show your leadership ability and attract an interest in your personality. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t wait for someone else to make the first move. strike while the iron is hot and make your point clear. don’t feel you have to pay for others’ mistakes. Take over and do things your way. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t assume anything if you don’t want to be disap­pointed. do your own thing and refuse to cave if someone is pushy. Take time to chill out and rejuvenate. pick up an item that boosts your ego or confidence. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): believe in your abilities and talents, and trust in your judgment. Follow through with your plan and speak on behalf of yourself and those you feel you can represent honestly. you can make a difference if you follow through. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can listen to what others have to say, but do what’s best for you. someone is not going to have your best interests at heart. leave some time to enjoy socializing or getting together with someone you love. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your sensitivity toward a situation will not go un­noticed. Take pride in your ability to get things done. make your choices based on what you see and know to be true, not what someone tries to lead you to believe. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t dwell on the obstacles when there is so much you can do if you let your talent and ability lead the way. an interesting connec­tion you have with someone will spark an idea that can lead to financial gains. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Focus on partnerships, love and the opportunities you will encounter through the connections you make. keep your feelings hidden until you have a chance to see if someone shares your sentiments. invest in an idea you have. 

Birthday Baby: you are responsible and persistent. you are a thinker, a doer and a team player. 
JuMBle | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | wednesday, august 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
footBall 

Starting strong 
Smith, Collinsworth, Stanley land first-team roles as team releases depth chart 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
when notre dame’s depth chart was released Tuesday af­ternoon, freshman linebacker Jaylon smith was listed as the starter at outside linebacker, re­placing retired senior lineback­er danny spond. irish coach brian kelly said his prized five-star recruit had to work for the job, beating out junior line­backer ben councell to earn a start against Temple in the sea­son opener saturday. 
“he was no. 3 on the depth chart when they ran out there, even though there wasn’t a depth chart posted,” kelly said of smith. “he didn’t go with the first group. danny spond was with the first, councell was sec­ond and Jaylon was third, and he went out and he did his job. 
“he’s been great, and he’s put himself in a position now to do some great things.” 
senior safety austin collinsworth beat out sopho­more safety elijah shumate to earn a starting spot alongside junior safety matthias Farley in the defensive secondary. kelly said the two players will each see significant playing time. 
“i think it’s a 1a, 1b situation,” he said. “depending on where we are in the game, down and distance, a lot of those factors will be involved. i think you’ve got to look at both of those guys playing an equal amount of football.” 
sophomore ronnie stanley locked down a job at right tack­le, pushing senior christian lombard inside to right guard. kelly said the right tackle posi­tion is very fluid, and freshman steve elmer is expected to earn minutes also. 
“we have great confidence that steve elmer could go in there and start for us if we needed him to, as well, and it’s not out of the question that he could be playing there at some time on saturday, as well,” kelly said. “i think you should keep an eye on both of those guys playing some right tackle for us.” 
Mass moves to friday 
The traditional pre-game mass on saturdays has been decision to move the mass. moved to Friday, kelly said. he “we’ve been able to work said the team will always have together to give our student the mass, but that his team athletes the best schedule lead-thought about the lead-up to ing up to kickoff,” kelly said. the game when making the “That’s simply been it … not to exclude anything or take away anything that is important to our traditions or our history but simply give our student athletes 

see FooTball Page 14 

Men’s soCCeR | nd 1, ohio sTaTe 0 
irish wrap up exhibition season with win 
Freshman Aubrey strikes late with Shipp embraces 
game-winning goal against Ohio State new role as captain 
came just minutes after much 
By VICKY JACOBSEN By ISAAC LORTON 

sports writer of the starting lineup left the 
sports writer 
game to give the second unit 

For a moment, it looked some playing time. 
Three senior captains will like no. 7 notre dame might “we put the starters in for 
lead the no. 7 irish as they not break the 0-0 stale-60 minutes,” clark said. “up 
charge into acc play. mate in monday’s exhibi-to that point in the game, 
Two of these captains are tion game against ohio we’d had a lot of chances; we 
vocal defenders who are the state at alumni stadium. should have put some away.” 
heart of a staunch irish de-The irish had shot unsuccess-although the irish secured 
fense, but the other member fully on goal 20 times when the narrow, one-goal victory, 
of the trio is a silent forward freshman midfielder brandon they dominated possession 
who leads by example. aubrey’s attempt careened and shots attempten, taking 
senior harrison shipp off the cross bar in the 66th 25 shots while the buckeyes 
does not say much, but when minute. mustered just six. ohio state’s 
he does, his words do not go Finally, senior forward junior goalkeeper alex ivanov 
unnoticed. leon brown corralled the put on a show in the first half, 
“[shipp is] a phenomenal ball and passed it to senior making seven saves and shut-
player, he’s one of the best forward alex priede, who slid ting out the irish before junior 
players i’ve ever had in the into the goal alongside the andrian mcadams replaced 
program,” clark said. “you ball to scorg the only goal of him at halftime. 
know, being a captain is the game. with the win, the irish fin-
something new for him, but “i thought leon did a really ished the exhibition season 
he’ll be a very good captain. good job just feeding it, and with a record of 2-0. They 
he’s one of these quiet cap-it came to alex,” irish coach lost to creighton, 1-0, on aug. 
tains. he doesn’t say much, bobby clark said. “alex ia 18, and three days later beat 
but when he does speak, ev­good around the box. [he] is drake, 2-1.  The irish open 
erybody listens. That’s who a goal-scorer, that’s what he the regular season with a he is.” lives on.” 
The game-winning goal see soccer Page 14 see shipp Page 14 






