The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 112 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Our secret ingredient’ 
Mendoza College of Business ranked No. 1 for fourth consecutive year in Bloomberg Businessweek study 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
For the fourth con­secutive year, bloomberg businessweek has ranked the mendoza college of business no. 1 nationally among undergraduate business programs. 
dean roger huang said he believes this is because ev­eryone at mendoza is com­mitted to a shared vision. 
“we are ranked no. 1 be­cause of our vision and values and the fact we all subscribe to them,” huang said. “we are all committed to this vision, and people recognize what we stand for. That’s what separates us from other schools. it’s what i used to call our secret in­gredient, other places can’t replicate it.” 
huang said he does not view the ranking as an ac­complishment but as an af­firmation of the values and vision the college promotes. 
“it’s not an accomplish­ment of the business school. i don’t even think it’s an accomplishment of the can achieve when we share university,” he said. “i like to the same vision and values.” think of it as a testament to a fourth consecutive what we stand for, to what we no. 1 ranking for mendoza 


confirms the college has re­mained committed to ethical 
see mendoZa PAGE 6 



service honors mcgonigal 
Observer Staff Report 
a memorial service will be held today at 11 a.m. for se­nior staff assistant for media relations susan mcgonigal, who passed away Friday evening. 
The service will take place in the monogram room of the Joyce center and a light lunch will follow, a press re­lease from senior associate athletic director John heisler stated. 
mcgonigal was employed by the university for 35 years and was in her 19th year as senior staff assistant, accord­ing to her profile on the notre dame athletics website. her duties included organiz­ing football and basketball game-day procedures, ticket allotment distribution, bud­get reconciliation, and or­ganizing travel and catering needs for the department staff, the profile stated. 
instead of sending flow­ers, mourners are invited to consider donating to heartland hospice services or pet refuge in mcgonigal’s memory, the release stated. 
mcgonigal served as vice president of the notre dame staff advisory council and was a member of the ad hoc committee on women’s issues, benefits committee and promotions committee, her profile stated. she was also involved with the safety committee and holiday planning committee for the athletic department. 
mcgonigal, a south bend native, is survived by her husband sean and daughter chelsea. 


University looks to hire LGBTQ liason  
By MEGAN DOYLE 
senior news writer 
The office of student affairs has posted a job de­scription and started the hiring process for a new staff member who will fo­cus on providing services and support to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (lgbTQ) stu­dents and their allies at notre dame. 
brian coughlin, associate vice president for student affairs, said the administra­tion hopes to make a hire for the position no later than July 1. 
The job posting comes three months after the university took major steps toward improving the cam­pus climate for lgbTQ stu­dents. in december, 
see lgbTQ PAGE 7 


movement prompts discussion of diversity 

By KATIE MCCARTY 
news writer 
members of the notre dame community gathered wednesday night in a town hall meeting to review the ini­tiatives developed by the call to action movement on cam­pus and to discuss the need for continuing reform. 
The meeting, titled, “call to action ii: will you answer?” continued conversations begun at last year’s initial town hall meeting, emerald woodberry, president of the black student association (bsa) said. 
woodberry and chinelo onyeador, president of the african students association (asa) serve as co-chairs of the policy committee for the call to action movement. onyeador and woodberry said they have created a platform aimed at increasing diversity on campus, with goals ranging from instituting mandatory hall staff diversity training with a national discrimination expert to requiring a spirit of inclusion clause to be articu­lated on all syllabi for courses throughout the university. 

The call to action movement grew in response to the town hall meeting held march 4th, 2012 where the notre dame community shared stories of discrimination experienced on campus. 
This town hall meeting was organized in response to discriminatory incidents of which the campus community was informed in a Feb. 24, 2012 email. pieces of fried chicken were put in the bsa and asa mailboxes, which motivated the leaders of both clubs to spearhead the creation of the incipient movement. 
student body vice president Katie rose said student gov­ernment has worked closely with the call to action 
see meeTing PAGE 6 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna                               Online Editor:    Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Star Trek or Star Wars? 

Jacky Feng 
sophomore off campus 
“both.” 

Chris Gutierrez 
sophomore stanford hall 
“star wars.” 

Jen Szotek 
junior 
lyons hall 
“star wars.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Lucy Du 
freshman 
ryan hall 
“star Trek.” 

Mike Schneider 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“star wars.” 


Robby Gallegos 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“star wars. For sure.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
carolyn hutyra a.J. godeaux Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers peter steiner peter durbin sam gans 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
brandon Keelean maria Fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

Colloquium: Zen Meditation Celebration of the Men’s Lacrosse Easter Sunday Mass 
Kirby mcKenna Tabitha ricketts 
Neutrinos Coleman-Morse Lord’s Passion Arlotta Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Nieuwland Science Center Basilica of the Sacred 1 p.m. Heart Hall 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Heart Game vs. St. Johns’. 8 a.m.-9 a.m. 
Corrections 

4 p.m.-5 p.m. Practice sitting and 3 p.m. Also offered at 10 a.m. 
a march 26 article, “students accepted Physics lecture. walking meditation. Good Friday service. and 12 p.m. to study abroad programs for 2013,” incorrectly listed the number of 
Borderlands Poetry Eucharistic Adoraton Stations of the Cross Paschal Vigil Mass Easter Buffet 
countries in which notre dame offers 
Reading Project Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred South Dining Hall 
abroad programs. The university 
129 DeBartolo Hall Heart Heart Heart 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m. 
offers 40 programs in 20 countries. 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-11 p.m. 7:15 p.m. 9 p.m. 
The observer regrets this error. 

Poetry about borders, Adoration for Holy Meditate on the Celebrated by Fr. Peter migration and home. Thursday. Passion. Rocca. 


Panel showcases legal careers 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s alumnae in the legal profession advised students interested in law about how best to pursue a career the field in a panel discussion Tuesday night. The panel, titled “women in law: The lawyer alumnae panel” featured three alum­nae from all different sectors of the field. 
director of career crossings stacie Jeffirs said she values the insight alum­nae involved in various pro­fessions can offer to students interested in those jobs. 
“Thinking about pursuing a career in law is something very common for our stu­dents to think about,” Jeffirs said. “panels, like this, of­fers students networking opportunities and show stu­dents just how passionate our alumnae are about their careers.” 
Jeffirs moderated the panel, which included a dis­cussion on a wide range of topics. 
each panelist began by describing the unique paths that led to their acceptances into law school. 
“From a very young age i always knew i wanted to be a lawyer,” Janet horvath, a current partner at Jones obenchain, llp of south bend, said. 
Kristina campbell, as­sociate professor of law at the university of district columbia david a. clarke school of law, said her path to law was “by no means direct.” 
“i pursued other pro­grams after i graduated from saint mary’s,” she said. “ultimately, i knew i wanted to be active in social justice and a law degree is a great tool for instigating social change. i was an idealist hoping to change the world through law.” 
marybeth wilkinson, as­sistant general counsel of owens-illinois, inc. said she joined law for the sole rea­son of “making money.”“i grew up on a small farm in michigan and wanted a tick­et out,” wilkinson said. “i joined law to make money, but over the years i have de­veloped a strong passion for 

paid adverTisemenT 


litigation. litigation is like a war-zone or a game. i love being a part of this game.” 
horvath said she truly loves her job working in insurance defense and litigation. 
“not only do i work in a family friendly place where i can balance my family and my job, but i love going into work and knowing i am taking a burden away from other individuals,” she said. “when someone passes away in the family or a business needs to be passed down, a lot of people do not know what to do. i am there for those people, and it is truly rewarding.” 
campbell said she became better equipped to tackle the challenges associated with working in an adversarial profession because of the challenges she overcame as a woman beginning work as a lawyer. 
“The law profession, liti­gation in particular, is very adversarial. you really need to have tough skin and not let little criticisms bother you,” campbell said. “i often look back on my career as a young female lawyer and think about how my gender was actually an advantage. people underestimated me and it turned out to work in my favor.” 
The panelists said women have made significant strides in the legal field.  wilkinson said she believes the legal profession asks its lawyers to handle great responsibil­ity. “law is one of the most powerful positions you can be in, especially for women,” she said. 
“as a lawyer and as a pro­fessional, all you really have is your reputation. you can’t fake integrity and you can’t fake ethics.” 
wilkinson said the two most important assets to have when pursuing any pro­fession – not only law – are integrity and passion for the job. 
“Know yourself inside and out,” campbell said. “my saint mary’s liberal arts ed­ucation prepared me for the real world because i was well aware of my own personal values. with these values i could then start a career in immigration law that i now love.” 
horvath said students should begin to search for opportunities now. “we are here to help facili­tate your pursuits,” she said. “don’t be afraid to speak up and take advantage of the different opportunities this college has to offer. we all cannot repeat enough that we are here for you. we want to see you succeed.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Student receives scholarship 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
Senior architecture major Kaity Veenstra was one of only 39 US students awarded a scholarship from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation ap­ply her studies in a master’s program at the University of Cambridge. 
Gates Cambridge Scholarships are awarded to students of extraordinary aca­demic and leadership accom­plishment from outside of the United Kingdom who can dem­onstrate they are a “good fit” for their specific course of study at the University of Cambridge, according to the scholarship website. 
Veenstra said she felt this award validated her architec­tural studies. 
“The award means everything to me … getting this award means that my convictions and research interests in architec­ture are important to more than just me,” she said. 
After receiving the news, Veenstra said she feels the Gates Cambridge committee believes her work has potential for global impact. Now she will have the resources to continue pursuing her goals, she said. “It is a terrific personal honor that honestly, sometimes still does not feel real and I still wonder if I deserve,” she said. “It re­ally gives me the motivation and drive to continue giving everything I have to the study of truly sustainable architecture and how to make it globally accessible.” 
While at Cambridge, Veenstra said she will work to­ward a one-year master’s degree in Philosophy in Architecture and Urban Studies.
 “I strongly believe that all of my achievements would hold no value for me if I had no one to share them with and had done nothing to give back to the Notre Dame community during my five years here,” she said. 
The architecture program at Notre Dame is very unique be­cause it focuses on the design of classical architecture and the use of historical precedents for every design project, Veenstra said. The program gives stu­dents a solid foundation in history and technical aspects of architecture, as well as tra­ditional techniques like hand drawing and watercolor skills, she said. 
“The education at our school of architecture is excellent prep­aration for practice, with some of the highest ARE [Architects’ Registration Exam] pass rates in the country, and the compre­hensive understanding of the design process to be successful in any sector,” she said. 
For the past two years at Notre Dame, Veenstra has participated in the Green Scale Research Project (GSRP). She said the GSRP examines the true cost of sustainable architecture by 
“I strongly believe that all of my acheivements would hold no value if I had no one to share them with and had done nothing to give back to the Notre Dame community during my five years here.” 
Katie Veenstra 
senior 
measuring and comparing the environmental impacts of new “green” technologies alongside traditional materials and meth­ods to provide design profes­sionals with the knowledge to make truly informed decisions throughout the building design and construction process. 
“[Project supervisor Professor Aimee Buccellato in the School of Architecture] has done an excellent job in expanding my knowledge of sustainable archi­tecture and training me in re­search methods and widely used software programs,” Veenstra said. 
“She has also given me chances to take on leadership roles in framing case studies, working with other depart­ments on campus, and writing and presenting conference pa­pers,” she said. “I will never be able to thank her enough for being my mentor these past years, and for making it pos­sible for me to even dream of such a high achievement.” 
Veenstra also participates in activities with the Student Union Board (SUB) and the academic division of the Club Coordination Council (CCC). She is president of the Student Association of Women in Architecture and has helped co­sponsor and plan a conference with the School of Architecture called “Beyond the Drafting Board: Celebrating 40 Years of Women at Notre Dame Architecture”. 
This summer, Veenstra said she plans to complete an architectural internship for Solomon Cordwell Buenz in Chicago. According to its Linked-in page, thy company designs high-rise residential and office buildings, as well as healthcare and institutional projects with a focus on cre­ating sustainable buildings using modern materials and technologies. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 



Catechists awarded  Medal 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
The three founders of the special religious education development network (spred) were shocked to find out they were this year’s recipients of the laetare medal, sr. mary Therese harrington said. 
The university will pres­ent the medal to harrington, sr. susanne gallagher and Fr. James mccarthy at the university commencement ceremony this may. 
The medal, established at notre dame in 1883, is the oldest and most prestigious honor given to american catholics. it is awarded an­nually to a catholic “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrat­ed the ideals of the church and enriched the heritage of humanity,” according to a university press release. 
harrington said the laetare medal will bring much-needed recognition to their organization, which provides religious education for parishioners with intel­lectual disabilities. 
“our work is very hidden because not too many peo­ple pay that much attention to people with disabilities,” harrington said. “The fact that someone thought we were doing a good job just blew us away. … That’s very affirming for us.” 
mccarthy, a priest in the archdiocese of chicago, first conceived the idea for spred in 1960 when he read letters from parents express­ing their difficulty in finding ministries for their children with intellectual disabili­ties, harrington said. 
he began working on the project in his off time, and in 1963 harrington joined mccarthy when he request­ed a member of her con­gregation, the society of helpers, for assistance. 
“Theology for people with intellectual disabilities was very bleak, you teach them their prayers and that was about it,” harrington said. “so many had a capacity, but you had to figure out a dif­ferent way.” 
The pair began to work with catechist volunteers to implement a more con­templative and liturgical approach to religious edu­cation better suited to peo­ple with these disabilities, harrington said. she said they based the approach off the prior research and prac­tice of French priests from lyons, France and Quebec, canada. 
“we didn’t know how to in­troduce [the method] to the [united states],” harrington said. “we started working in rooms with one-way view­ing mirrors. The volunteer catechists could observe us working, then do the same thing.” 
gallagher, a member of the sisters of providence, joined the organization in 1967 to design a montessori environment for the groups. with the environment, syl­labus and observational teaching method in place, spred began multiplying its centers across the united states the following year, harrington said. 
Today the chicago spred center has trained volun­teers for 156 parishes in the archdiocese of chicago, 15 other dioceses in the country and parishes in 
“ The fact that someone thought we were doing a good job just blew us away. ... That’s very affirming for us.” 
Sr. Mary Therese Harrington 
Laetare Medal recipient 
australia, south africa, scotland and other english­speaking nations. 
“what [the catechists] are really looking for is the basic mentality or basic at­titude toward people with intellectual disabilities that is very respectful but can go outside the box to figure out ways to include them in wor­ship settings,” harrington said. 
The spred groups in each parish function with six “friends,” or people with dis­abilities, and six sponsors, the volunteer catechists. each group has a parish chairperson who is account­able to the parish priest. 
in this way, harrington said spred is very parish-based and parish-oper­ated. she, mccarthy and gallagher serve as resource people for the individual groups. 
harrington said spred also offers continual train­ing at its center, where cat­echists can continue to observe teaching methods and discuss difficulties they are experiencing. 
“it’s a very trim, decentral­ized operation,” harrington said. “we can keep it moving well and quickly because it is decentralized.” 
The sponsors at each par­ish meet once per week, harrington said. during the first week they prepare a syl­labus for the second week, when they put on a two-hour class for their friends. at the third week’s session, the cat­echists reflect on the previ­ous class and ways they can improve it for the following week, when the friends at­tend class again. 
The goal of the sessions is four-fold, harrington said. The catechists aim to in­still within the individu­als a sense of the sacred, a sense of christ, a sense of the Father and a sense of the spirit as living within the church. 
“we’re not working with heavy duty concepts, we’re dealing with much more in­tuitive and contemplative aspects,” harrington said. “we use a lot of the arts, like music, gestures, silence, to illustrate points.” 
To aid parents of the intellectually disabled, harrington said the volun­teers try to educate their children to a level where they are able to participate in a normal worship setting. 
“some families are afraid to bring their children to church because they have been treated disrespectfully there,” she said. “The child is not prepared, and the as­sembly is not prepared.” 
spred works to over­come that, harrington said. in addition to preparing the disabled individuals for worship, she said many parishes have installed sev­eral liturgies throughout the year that may appeal to those who are intellectually disabled. 
although some people have criticized the pro­cess as too labor-intensive, harrington said the method has proven successful. 
“There’s no other way to do a good job for people with intellectual disabilities,” she said. “Families are very happy. [The individuals] come in as little children, and they’re still with us in their 20s and 30s.” 
other critics claim the organization is wasting its time attempting to teach people with disabilities, harrington said. she said fortunately, not all within the church view it that way. 
in a press release, university president Fr. John Jenkins praised spred’s commitment to educating people with disabilities. 
“insisting that a develop­mental disability neither tempers christ’s invitation nor restricts one’s right to respond, they have ush­ered countless people to their rightful place at the eucharistic table,” Jenkins said. 
being awarded the 2013 laetare medal allows spred to demonstrate the fruits of its efforts to others, harrington said. 
“we see there’s a real per­son inside, and they really respond,” she said. “not in a way a regular child would, but in their own way.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
center for arts and culture opens 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
notre dame’s new center for arts and culture, es­tablished by the institute for latino studies, aims to celebrate cultural di­versity through art and community. 
The center will host an open house today and give tours of its inaugural exhi­bition from 10 a.m to 2 p.m. and from 3 to 7 p.m. 
The center is located in the west washington national historic district of south bend beside the indiana center for history, the center’s executive di­rector gilberto cardenas said. The center houses a printmaking studio, an art gallery and the university’s office of community relations. 
“This whole area will become a cultural area,” cardenas said. “That’s an­other reason we selected to have the center here.” 
The center’s internation­ally-known fine-art print studio, segura publishing, was previously located in Tempe, ariz. cardenas said this printmaking studio will fill a unique niche in the community. 
“There’s not a single print studio like this that does lithography, etching and woodcuts in north­ern indiana or southwest­ern michigan,” he said. “if you’re just graduating or a student, there are hardly any opportunities at facili­ties like this. but hopefully, in time, we’ll create oppor­tunities for artists in this region to work.” 
cardenas said the first works to be featured at the crossroads gallery will be by artist martina lopez, a photography professor at notre dame. cardenas said he hopes to feature a wide variety of artists in the future. 
“we’re hopeful some of our international pro­grams will help us bring in artists from around the world, from south africa or latin america,” he said. cardenas said the center will seek to create and display art “to address so­cial issues that affect all americans and people throughout the world: hun­ger, health, justice.” 
The center aims to offer opportunities for students and faculty to apply their artistic skills and work off campus, cardenas said. 
“we hope to soon have student work study, in­terns, people who want to learn more about the arts and people involved in marketing,” cardenas said. “we also want to have a vis­iting lecture series, to bring in lecturers who are in­volved in community arts to lecture [at the center] or on campus.” 
cardenas said the center wants to have a strong con­nection with the university and the community, as well as with other universities in the area. 
“we’re hopeful that we will be able to attract stu­dents and faculty and cam­pus units to get involved with us for a mutual ben­efit,” he said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 




Campus Ministry prepares for Easter 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
The basilica of the sacred heart and the office of campus ministry are gear­ing up for the easter Triduum with a full schedule of events for students and other mem­bers of the notre dame community. 
“These are the most impor­tant days in the liturgical year as they commemorate christ’s suffering and triumph over sin and death, through which is made possible our own sal­vation,” Fr. Jim King, director of campus ministry, said. 
Fr. peter rocca, rector of the basilica, said notre dame hosts three celebrations during the easter Triduum that are fairly unique to the university. These include Tenebrae easter vespers, paschal vespers and campus-wide stations of the cross. 
“Tenebrae, celebrated holy Thursday night from 11 p.m. to midnight, is a dramatic service of prayers, chanted readings, especially from the book of lamentations, and the singing of motets and anthems composed over the centuries,” rocca said. 
“This service usually fills the basilica, especially with students.” 
rocca said Tenebrae uses darkness and noise to mark the temporary triumph of darkness and chaos over light and peace during the passion. 
“it is a form of night prayer where candles are gradu­ally put out until the basilica goes completely dark, rep­resenting Jesus’ time in the tomb when his light was ex­tinguished from the world,” King said. 
The second celebration that may not be celebrated in oth­er places is paschal vespers, an evening prayer held easter sunday at 7:15 p.m to con­clude the Triduum, rocca said. 
“This liturgy includes the traditional lighting of the easter candle and the sprea­di–––ng of its light, the sing­ing of psalms, the renewal of our baptismal promises, a scripture reading, and a beautiful easter anthem sung by the notre dame liturgical choir,” rocca said. “easter vespers provides a fitting conclusion to our obser­vance of the paschal Triduum and our celebration of the resurrection of the lord Jesus.” 
easter vespers provides a fitting conclusion to the observance of the Triduum and the celebration of the resurrection, rocca said. 
rocca said the university offered a campus-wide stations of the cross event Tuesday. hundreds of stu­dents typically participate in the stations event, which takes place across campus and culminates with the final station at the basilica, where priests are available for sac­ramental confession. 
“This provides a wonderful opportunity for our students especially to recall the words of our holy Father pope Francis this past sunday in rome when he spoke on for­giveness : ‘do not forget this: the lord never wearies of for­giving!’” rocca said. 
rocca said the celebration of the Triduum will begin Thursday with the celebra­tion of the lord’s supper. 
“The mass of the lord’s supper is a beautiful celebra­tion of the institution of the holy eucharist as well as the ministerial priesthood,”ahe said. “one of the highlights of 
paid adverTisemenT 

this liturgy is the washing of feet by Jesus, who calls us all to wash others’ feet through love and service.” 
good Friday is the only day of the year on which mass is not celebrated, King said. however, a celebration of the lord’s passion will be held at 3 p.m. at the basilica and will consist of the liturgy of the word, adoration of the cross and holy communion. 
“during this time, we re­new our commitment as bap­tized christians and enter more fully into the mystery of god’s love and why Jesus died for our sins,” King said. “i hope that this is a time when all of us reflect upon the mer­cy and love in which we were created and come to know that there is nothing that can separate those who wish to be reconciled with god from him.” 
rocca said the culmination of the Triduum is the great vigil [of easter], which takes 
see easTer PAGE 7 The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Meeting 
conTinued From page 1 
movement. 
“we need to recognize each student as an individual,” rose said.  “we have all been on the fringe and we have all felt mar­ginalized. we seek reform be­cause we genuinely care about the students next to us in class, the people in our dorms.” 
hugh page, dean of the First year of studies, said his of­fice has developed efforts at­tempting to develop a spirit of inclusion for freshmen from the moment they first arrive on campus.  These initiatives include the implementation of a new one-credit course aimed at increasing awareness of di­versity, page said. 
“we have formulated a stra­tegic plan of diversity in the First year of studies,” page said. “indeed, one of the twelve items on the ‘dean’s a-list’ is ‘Take advantage of opportu­nities to encourage cultural competency.” 
Keri Kei shibata, assistant chief of safety services of the notre dame security police (ndsp) said her depart­ment has taken measures to 
“We have all been on the fringe and we have all felt marginalized. We seek reform because we genuinely care about the students next to us in class, the people in our dorms. ” 
Katie Rose 
student body vice president 
increase awareness of dis­crimination and cultural dif­ferences among its staff. 
“since last year’s call to action, we have had a num­ber of meetings with various student leaders, participated in an [inter-race] forum, what police are allowed to do in a situation and what your rights are when you interact with the police,” shibata said. 
onyeador and woodberry collaborated with student government to share a video of speakers from last year’s town hall meeting.  students at wednesday’s meeting were asked to share experiences of discrimination on campus during the town hall meeting. 
alex coccia, student body president-elect, said he would support the call to action movement during his term in office. 
“we believe that any dis­criminatory actions or policies are intolerable and our duty is to make sure the dignity of each individual is respected,” coccia.  
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
Mendoza 
conTinued From page 1 

business, huang said.“it’s not a short-term, it’s a long­term confirmation,” he said. “This shows that our com­mitment is sustainable, it’s not a one year thing.  we are committed to this vision of business as a force for good, and we are very happy about the recognition that this is the right thing to do for all these years.” 
From the college’s per­spective, the ranking is important because it high­lights the importance of teaching business ethics. huang said mendoza wants the world to use business as a force for good. 
“we believe in what we stand for and hope others will begin to use business to better society,” he said. “The ranking enhances our message.” 
The ranking is also mean­ingful for mendoza’s stu­dents, huang said, as it affirms they have been well educated and as they go out into the world they can act on the school’s guiding vision. 
“This year we are going to graduate the first mendoza class for who during their entire four years here their school has been ranked no. 1,” he said. “it affirms that what they have learned here can be used to make the world a better place.” 
Junior mara stolee said she appreciates the practical knowledge gained in her mendoza courses and the quality of her professors. 
“i always leave my classes knowing that there is a re­al-world application to ev­erything i’ve learned. my professors are experienced and knowledgeable, and i know that i can always ask them questions or consult them for advice,” she said. “as an iT management ma­jor, i have access to the same expensive software used by major companies and will be able to use it effectively when i assume a position in the workforce.” 
stolee also said she be­lieves prospective employ­ers are more impressed by her knowledge of busi­ness ethics than mendoza’s ranking. 

“i’m not sure how much potential employers know or care about mendoza’s ranking or curriculum, but from what i’ve found in my interviews, they seem to like what mendoza students have to say about business ethics,” she said. “whenever i go into an interview and they ask me questions about ethics and integrity, i find that those questions are the easiest to answer, and i think that’s what makes me stand out as a candidate.” 
Junior viviana garcia said the ranking tells companies mendoza students are very well prepared and educated relative to other business school graduates. 
“i think that employers are going to be confident in our knowledge and abili­ties in business and seek us out from among a lot of the competition in other highly-ranked undergraduate busi­ness schools,” she said. 
huang said the university as a whole shares the vision that drives mendoza, and he said he believes the business school will always remain committed to that vision. 
“The mission of the university was set when Fr. sorin said we would be a force for good,” he said. “we are committed to that vision at every level. i don’t think we’ll ever waver from that vision Fr. sorin set for us.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cymers8@nd.edu 

supreme court debates gay marriage 
Associated Press 
washingTon — in the second of back-to-back gay marriage cases, the supreme court is turning to a constitutional chal­lenge to the law that prevents legally mar­ried gay americans from collecting fed­eral benefits generally available to straight married couples. 
a section of the 1996 defense of marriage act says marriage may only be a relationship between a man and a woman for purposes of federal law, re­gardless of state laws that allow same-sex marriage. 
lower federal courts have struck down the measure, and now the justices, in nearly two hours of scheduled ar­gument wednesday, will consider whether to follow suit. 
The doma ar­gument follows Tuesday's case over california's ban on same-sex marriage, a case in which the jus­tices indicated they might avoid a major national ruling on whether america's gays and lesbians have a right to marry. even without a signifi­cant ruling, the court appeared headed for a resolution that would mean the re­sumption of gay and lesbian weddings in california. 

marital status is rel­evant in more than 1,100 federal laws that include estate taxes, social security sur­vivor benefits and health benefits for federal employees. lawsuits around the country have led four federal district courts and two appeals courts to strike down the law's section 3, which defines mar­riage. in 2011, the obama administra­tion abandoned its defense of the law but continues to enforce it. house republicans are now defending doma in the courts. 
same-sex marriage is legal in nine states and the district of columbia. The states are connecticut, iowa, maine, maryland, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, vermont and washington. it also was legal in california for less than five months in 2008. 
The justices chose for their review the case of edith windsor, 83, of new york, who sued to challenge a $363,000 federal es­tate tax bill after her partner of 44 years died in 2009. 
windsor, who goes by edie, married Thea spyer in 2007 in canada after doctors told them that spyer would not live much longer. she suffered from multiple scle­rosis for many years. spyer left everything she had to windsor. 
There is no dis­pute that if windsor had been married to a man, her estate tax bill would have been zero. 
The u.s. 2nd circuit court of appeals in new york agreed with a district judge that the provision of doma deprived windsor of the con­stitutional guarantee of equal protection of the law. 
like the proposition 8 case from california, windsor's lawsuit could falter on a legal technicality without a definitive ruling from the high court. 
The house republicans, the obama administra­tion and a lawyer ap­pointed by the court especially to argue the issue were to spend the first 50 minutes wednesday discuss­ing whether the house republican leadership can defend the law in court because the ad­ministration decided not to, and whether the administration forfeited its right to participate in the case because it changed its position and now ar­gues that the provision is unconstitutional. 
if the supreme court finds that it does not have the author­ity to hear the case, windsor probably would still get her re­fund because she won in the lower courts. but there would be no definitive decision about the law from the nation's highest court, and it would remain on the books. 
on Tuesday, the jus­tices weighed a funda­mental issue: does the constitution require that people be allowed to marry whom they choose, regardless of either partner's gen­der? The fact that the question was in front of the supreme court at all was startling, given that no state recognized same-sex unions before 2003 and 40 states still don't allow them. 


LGBTQ 
conTinued From page 1 
university president Fr. John Jenkins announced a plan to establish a “new support and service organization” for lgbTQ students and their al­lies, a new advisory commit­tee and this full-time student development position. 
at the time of that an­nouncement, Jenkins and vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding could only provide the basics of this new administrator’s job. harding said this new ad­ministrator would be respon­sible for advising the planned lgbTQ student organization, among other roles. 
“That person will play sev­eral roles associated with a student organization: to serve as advisor; that person will participate on a new advisory committee that will work with and give input to my office; and lastly, will be responsi­ble for the consistency of the training and awareness that we build over time,” harding said in a december interview. 
with this job posting, how­ever, more details about the new staff member are emerg­ing. The position, official­ly titled the lesbian, gay, bisexual, Transgender and Questioning (lgbTQ) student initiatives assistant director, is listed under the umbrella of the gender relations center (grc). coughlin said the new staff member will report to grc director christine caron gebhardt, but he or she will also be an integral member of that new advisory committee on lgbTQ issues to the vice president for student affairs. 
The posting, which can be found on jobs.nd.edu, 
described this staff member as having a special focus on stu­dents who identify as lgbTQ. 
“The professional staff per­son will spearhead and evalu­ate all education initiatives particularly relating to lgbTQ needs within the grc but also in collaboration with student organizations, other depart­ments and centers across cam­pus,” the posting states. 
one of the primary roles this position will play is that of advisor for the developing lgbTQ student organization, coughlin said. 
“in that capacity, they will act as any other advisor to a student organization,” he said. “Think of it in terms of how the [student activities office] advisors work with class coun­cils or the shirt project and bookstore basketball.” 
The posting continues to emphasize notre dame’s catholic character in rela­tion to the work of this new staff member in areas such as programming. 
“last, the position requires the implementation of best practices in programming on relationships, sexual identity and sexual orientation con­sistent with the university’s catholic mission,” the job de­scription states. “ultimately this position promotes the moral formation of college students and embraces the catholic identity, mission and values as it relates to sexual orientation and sexual identity.” 
coughlin said this staff member and the new student group will work together to program events that encour­age education, growth and de­velopment. Just like any other student organization advisor, the new staff member will provide guidance, mentoring and advice on topics and pro­gramming, coughlin said. but the students themselves will primarily plan and execute these events. 
The lgbTQ student initiatives assistant director will also train students as peer educators, like the Fire starters in the grc or pillars members in the office of alcohol and drug education, who can speak specifically to lgbTQ issues. he or she would also collaborate with other departments on pastoral care concerning sexual identity, as well as lead outreach through social media and other com­munication resources. 
Junior alex coccia served as the co-president of the progressive student alliance (psa) and helped found the 4-to-5 movement during his sophomore year to increase campus conversations on in­clusion at notre dame. when he reviewed the posting for the lgbTQ student initiatives assistant director, he called the position description “very fulfilling.” 
“i appreciate the emphasis on collaborative nature and building these relationships between the staff advisor and all different offices and differ­ent student groups,” coccia said. “i think that’s one of the most important aspects in making sure the conversation of lgbTQ concerns … does not die down.” 
coccia is now preparing to assume the role of student body president april 1. his ad­ministration will be critical to the development of the pro­posed lgbTQ organization, and coccia will most likely work regularly with this new administrator. 
“it’s got to be someone that is very comfortable working with students and working with stu­dents on a one-on-one level, not as an advisor but as a men­tor,” coccia said. “someone 
“Dealing with sexuality in Catholicism can be complicated, but as long as we can all communicate and be open to each other’s stories, we can build a strong organization that can serve the needs of the Notre Dame LGBTQ and ally communities for years to come. ” 
Lauren Morisseau 
PSA Co-president 
who is extremely approach­able, someone you could easily stop … for conversation.” 
The range of background experience in the job post­ing lends itself to a “holistic” approach to personal devel­opment and lgbTQ issues, coccia said. 
The minimum qualifica­tions for applicants include a bachelor’s degree ideally in theology, gender studies, psy­chology, sociology or a related field with three or more years in ministry or administration, the job description stated, and a master’s degree is a preferred qualification. 
applicants should also have “awareness of catholic charac­ter, mission and values as it re­lates to issues of relationships, sexual identity and sexuality” and “specialized training in sexual identity and moral for­mation.” experience working with both male and female col­lege students is also required. 
“The fact that this person would have experience with working with students in all different areas … they men­tioned in terms of theology, sociology, gender studies, think that’s a very healthy background coming into a po­sition like this where you’re going to have to be, as an advi­sor, very respectful of people’s identities,” coccia said. 
sophomore lauren morisseau, current co-pres­ident of the progressive student alliance (psa) and a member of the core council, said she is “very pleased” with the job description for this new position. 
“i think that it reflects the level of care and the thorough job the administration has done so far,” she said. “They’ve really taken our feedback … into consideration, and i’m extremely hopeful as to what that will yield.” 
as the hiring process be­gins, morisseau said she also hopes the new director will be a “warm and open person who is comfortable relating to and communicating with young people.” 
“dealing with sexuality in catholicism can be compli­cated, but as long as we can all communicate and be open to each other’s stories, we can build a strong organization that can serve the needs of the notre dame lgbTQ and ally communities for years to come,” she said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.ed 
Easter 
conTinued From page 5 
place holy saturday night. 

“Following the extended liturgy of the word, the elect, the unbaptized, are initi­ated into the christian faith through the sacraments of baptism, confirmation and the eucharist,”he said. “it is also the time when those already bap­tized, now that lent has been completed, renew their baptis­mal promises, recommitting themselves to living the life of christ more faithfully.” 
basilica mass will be held easter sunday at 8 a.m., 10 a.m, and noon. King said campus ministry offers confession dur­ing holy week for anybody wish­ing to receive the sacrament of reconciliation and fulfill the easter duty to attend at least confession at least once each year. 
For a complete schedule of events during holy week, sub­scribe to the campus ministry newsletter at campusministry. nd.edu 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 

panera expands charitable cafes 
Associated Press 

sT. louis — order a bowl of turkey chili at a st. louis­area panera bread cafe and it'll cost you a penny. or $5. or $100. in other words, whatever you decide. 
Three years after launch­ing the first of five pay-what-you-want cafes, the suburban st. louis-based chain on wednesday quietly began its latest charitable ven­ture that takes the concept on a trial run to all 48 cafes in the st. louis region. 
The new idea experiments with a single menu item, Turkey chili in a bread bowl, available at each st. louis­area store for whatever the customer chooses to pay. The new chili uses all-natural, antibiotic-free turkey mixed with vegetables and beans in a sourdough bread bowl. The suggested $5.89 price (tax in­cluded) is only a guideline. all other menu items are sold for the posted price. 
panera calls it the meal of shared responsibility, and says the potential benefit is twofold: above-the-cost pro­ceeds go to cover meals for customers who cannot pay the full amount and to st. louis-area hunger initia­tives; and for those in need, the 850-calorie meal provides nearly a day's worth of nutri­tion at whatever price they can afford. 
"we hope the suggested do­nations offset those who say they only have three bucks in their pocket or leave noth­ing," said ron shaich, found­er, chairman and co-ceo of the chain and president of its charitable arm, panera bread Foundation. 
if the experiment works in st. louis, it could be expanded to some or all of the chain's 1,600 bakery-cafes across the country, though shaich said there is no guarantee and no timetable for a decision. 
panera has long been in­volved in anti-hunger efforts, starting with its operation dough-nation program that has donated tens of millions of dollars in unsold baked goods. 
The first pay-what-you­want panera cares cafe opened in the st. louis sub­urb of clayton in 2010. others followed in dearborn, mich., portland, ore., chicago and boston. 
at those nonprofit cafes, ev­ery menu item is paid for by donations. Kate antonacci of panera bread Foundation said roughly 60 percent of custom­ers pay the suggested retail price. The rest are about even­ly split between those who pay more and those who pay less. 
The panera cares cafes gen­erally bring in 70 to 80 percent of what the traditional for­mat stores do, antonacci said. That's still enough for a profit, and panera uses proceeds for a job training program run through the cafes. 
The new idea is fairly low-profile. shaich said panera is relying on media reports and word of mouth — no direct marketing, no advertising. signs in the st. louis cafes will tout the idea, and hosts and hostesses will explain it to customers. 
"we don't want this to be self-serving," shaich said. "we want to make this an intel­lectually honest program of integrity." 
panera isn't alone. a res­taurant known as one world everybody eats in salt lake city adopted the pay-what­you-want idea a decade ago. cafe gratitude, a small vegan cafe chain in california, offers a single payment-by-donation menu item each day. 
software known as free­ware is frequently distributed under this model. The rock band radiohead released an album, "in rainbows," in 2007 and let online buyers decide how much to pay. humble bundle releases video games as pay-what-you-want down­loads, with a percentage of money going to charity. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Summer: another in-between time

INSIDE COLUMN 

Thrift store truths 
Alice Tollaksen 
scene writer 

occasionally, i get poked fun of for the things i wear. maybe it’s because i can sometimes be seen around sporting an illinois state university T-shirt that was made in 1980. other times it’s a sweater that was definitely made for a 10-year-old boy, not a 20-year-old woman. i may look a little ridiculous, but i enjoy the clothes i find. anyone who knows me well can tell you that i love to thrift — i practically treat thrifting like a sport. 
because i’m borderline addicted to buy­ing secondhand clothes, i have established a close relationship with the local thrift stores in south bend in the last two years. i’ve come to love those stores just as i love the value village back in my hometown. 
but lately i’ve enjoyed frequenting the south bend thrift shops a little less. it seems that sometime between macklemore’s single and the “ugly sweater party” trend, thrifting has really taken off around here, and i see notre dame students almost any time i shop at the close-by salvation army. 
don’t get me wrong — it’s not at all that i don’t like having fellow notre dame com­pany at the thrift stores. it’s just that in recent months, i’ve felt a little disappointed by some of my classmates’ approaches to the thrifting game. 
The best way to explain this is by set­ting the scene in the thrift store. in the st. vincent de paul, customers are peacefully combing through clothes and books when a group of young students walk in. They have an syr coming up and need to cre­ate the ugliest outfit they can possibly find, and they storm into the store and scatter throughout the clothing racks. suddenly, one of them finds a “tacky” sweater, holds it up and yells to all their friends to see. The whole group laughs and starts mocking the sweater. 
sure, the students are all having a good time getting ready for their dance and prob­ably did not mean any harm. The problem is that notre dame shares that thrift store with people from all over the south bend community and from all walks of life. while many of us at the university go to thrift stores to find very specific things, oth­ers shop there out of necessity. To openly and loudly mock what thrift stores have to offer is extraordinarily offensive. 
i am in no way saying we domers should not shop at thrift stores. we are members of the south bend community, and shopping at local thrift stores is a way to give back to that community. all i am suggesting is when we do decide to embrace our inner macklemore, we do it with respect. 
i hope everyone can have a chance to stop into a thrift store and give thrifting a try at some point or another. i just hope when we students do make it into one of south bend’s secondhand stores, no matter the reason, we do it the right way. 
Contact Alice Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bianca Almada 
The in-between Time 

lately, it has become increasingly apparent to me that the school year is very rapidly coming to a close. constant discussion of next year’s room picks, darTing for next semes­ter and major declaration/switching meetings have everyone already look­ing to and planning for the future. The study days, weekend escapades and days in my current dorm room are very clearly numbered for the remainder of the semester, and i am not exactly sure how i feel about it. 
of course every college student is excited for the summer — a break from the stress of schoolwork, a reunion with friends and family, and a pursuit of new experiences. however, it can also signal separation, uncertainty and, if you will, the end of a short era. we drift into an in-between, entering into a transient period of time that may have no clear direction. we can fill it in whichever way we choose, and it can be stressful trying to figure out exactly how to do so. This concept of freedom can be scary without the backbone of the familiar places and faces of the notre dame community. 
This summer, i will be interning in los angeles with the hispanic news­paper, la opinion, through notre dame’s cross-cultural leadership internship program (cclip). Though i 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
am ecstatic to begin working and gain­ing experience doing something that i enjoy, the opportunity also signifies unfamiliarity and separation — from my friends each returning to their respective hometowns or pursuing op­portunities of their own, from my fam­ily carrying on with their own routines and from my boyfriend conducting undergraduate research on the notre dame campus. it will be strange to be separated from their comfort and from the sense of home they provide. 
it also reminds me that my greater in-between time of college life is one step closer to being over. There is no summer break, no in-between in the “real world” — a life of work, respon­sibility and financial independence carries on every day without much interruption. There are a small hand­ful of “summers” left, and i am close to eliminating one of them. i am slowly getting that much closer to reality. 
This separation and newness is defi­nitely not for the weak. it is for those who wish to seek independence, au­thenticity and true, exhilarating life. perhaps it is through distance from our loved ones that we fully discover who we can be as individuals. we can better come to recognize our strengths as people, free from the influence or protection of others. we can take an unfiltered, critical look at ourselves and reach to discover our maximum potential. we can be elated when we are reunited with our loved ones once again and we can share our new expe­riences of growth with them. 
maybe we need a reminder that the in-between of college life does not last forever, as tragic as that may seem. college does seem to have the per­fect configuration — engulfment by friends and social events, immersion in interesting study, engagement in countless opportunities and limited real-world responsibilities. however, this time is not meant to be perma­nent. it is the in-between of adoles­cence and the real world. summer reminds us this period is a transient one. it gives college students the op­portunity to savor and enjoy the last few “summers” of break they have as well as provides opportunities that offer insight and promise of the next chapter. 
Time goes by at such an incredibly fast pace, and each moment of it should be optimized and taken advantage of. Though summer poses the challenge of separation from friends and/or family and the slow realization of ever-ap­proaching reality, it has the potential to be one of the college student’s greatest vehicles of hope and personal growth. 
Bianca Almada is a freshman residing in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The great aim of education is not knowledge but action.” 
Herbert Spencer 

English philosopher 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Domers in Roma 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 

as i fondly reflect back to the first saturday of spring break, i was sit­ting at the chicago o’hare airport, not fully realizing the pilgrimage to rome i was embarking on only could have been planned by god. 
my fellow domers and i were waiting at our gate when cnn foot­age appeared on the Tv monitors showing workers atop the roof of the sistine chapel installing the chim­ney used in sending up the salient smoke signals during the conclave to elect the next pope. at this point, we knew the conclave was commenc­ing the upcoming Tuesday, and our excitement escalated knowing we would be in rome during the pro­ceedings of the conclave. 
Throughout the rather lengthy trans-atlantic flight, i pondered the magnitude of the experience i was going to have the amazing opportu­nity to be attending. after stepping off the plane in italy, however, i still did not fully comprehend the im­portance of the events that were to proceed and the significance of my attendance during this historic time in our faith. 
The second day of our trip, the day before the start of the conclave, we journeyed by train across the rolling hills of the stunning italian coun­tryside to the humble town of assisi. assisi, well-known through the stories of st. Francis and st. claire who lived there, abounded with an ordinary but unique, simple yet extravagant, and quiet nonetheless thundering, power and peace. 
as part of our pilgrimage, we had a moving mass in the basilica of st. Francis.  individually, we ex­perienced a deep sense of medita­tion and reflection at the tomb of st. Francis. little did we know how providential our time was in assisi. The time in assisi was incredible as we walked through the life of st. Francis, not knowing two days later our next pope would choose to bear the name of the poor friar of assisi. 
Tuesday, the start of the conclave, we were blessed to be able to attend the opening mass with the cardinals in st. peter’s basilica. presiding over the mass was the dean of the college of cardinals and concelebrating alongside him were the more than 115 cardinals participating in the conclave. This was one of the most beautiful masses of my life, as st. peter’s was filled with members of the universal church from across the globe. 
i had learned and acknowledged that the catholic faith was a global church, but this fact became real to me in an imposing way during this mass. at least 15 different languages were spoken throughout the mass. each reading was proclaimed in a different language and the prayers of the faithful were lifted up in a similar fashion. 
it was overwhelming to be a part of a mass containing so many different peoples, yet realizing that we were not different at all. Transcending our mere cultural and lingual differences we were all the same — one people and church connected as brothers and sisters in christ, sharing the same ideals, mission, faith, hope and love for a benevolent and merciful god who guides our lives through the grace of the holy spirit. 
wednesday around noon, i was standing in st. peter’s square on the third decade of praying the glorious mysteries of the rosaries. The inter­ruption was far from glorious. 
i looked up in response to the cries of the people around me to see a dis­tinct blackest of blacks smoke aris­ing from the chimney of the sistine chapel set against the gloom of the clouds of that rainy day in rome. i have carried my fair share of disap­pointments, but the black smoke instigated an indescribable void of despair in me. 
while i quickly regained a prayer­ful hope and faith in the workings of the holy spirit in the election process, that instant was the clos­est i have felt to understanding the desolation of the apostles and Jesus’ followers immediately after his death. in retrospect, without this brief fleeting moment of dejection, wednesday night’s election would not have been the glorious fulfill­ment of the church’s hopes and prayers. 
praying, hoping and standing in the rain wednesday night, white smoke sparked a boisterous exuber­ant roar of more than 100,000 peo­ple, ending the wait and evoking the celebration in st. peter’s square. 
The bells rang through the night, the crowds sang the salve regina, hugs were given amidst the sea of people, “viva il papa” cheers re­sounded through the colonnade of the square. Joy, bliss, cheer, jubilance, delight, elation, glee, wonder, awe and mystery. after the new pope’s name was announced, “Francesco, Francesco, Francesco!” was all i could hear. 
Then pope Francis appeared on the balcony, a humble, lively, holy man. his words comforted me de­spite my little italian comprehen­sion. and as i reflect, i am blessed to have shared this amazing experi­ence with my notre dame family. it was great to be a domer in roma. 
The love of the Father, the son and the holy spirit was visible and moving through the assembled crowd, the cardinals and pope Francis. in time with faith, god will grant me the understanding and gratitude to be able to comprehend the magnitude, radiance and emi­nence of these moments. For now, i thank god for the blessing of papa Francesco. 
Carter Boyd is a freshman studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Gays and the Boy Scouts of America 
Adam Newman 
scienta potentia est 

as an eagle scout, former boy scout and current merit badge coun­selor, scouting has been an instru­mental part of my life. From the time i joined scouts in the second grade to the day i was made an eagle scout, scouting presented me with chal­lenges and new opportunities, al­lowing me to make new friends and learn about the outdoors. This is why i have always been, and continue to be, disappointed in the boy scouts of america (bsa) for continuing its ban on homosexual members. now that the bsa is finally reviewing this rule, it is important to understand why it must be changed. 
There is a major stigma today in our society against homosexual­ity. people at the very most view it as immoral, and at the very least view it as something outside the mainstream. popular culture uses “gay” as a substitute for “bad” and “uncool”. For gays, this stigma can ruin lives, break families and lead to anxiety and depression. The boy scouts, whether they admit it or not, help add to this stigma by refusing to admit homosexuals, because not accepting homosexuals makes both gays and non-gays believe there is something so wrong with being gay that it merits a ban from america’s most prominent youth organization. 
The boy scouts also do a disservice to our country as more and more openly gay people serve in positions of power in both government and business. boy scouts allows young men to learn not just about a variety of different subjects but also neces­sary skills to lead such as manage­ment, problem-solving and civics. The rank of eagle scout, the highest rank in boy scouts (only achieved by 4 percent of scouts), has made a major impact across all sectors of our country. important figures who have achieved it include michael bloomberg (mayor of new york city and founder of bloomberg l.p), sam walton (founder of walmart), neil armstrong (first man to walk on the moon), president gerald Ford and even steven spielberg (director). by not allowing gay scouts to partici­pate, the boy scouts forgo the oppor­tunity to instill within capable and ambitious youth the knowledge, eth­ics and skills to serve our country. 
The saddest part about the ban is that almost every account from someone who is gay and the bulk of scientific research points to the un­disputed conclusion that homosexu­ality is not something that develops over time, but a trait that someone is born with and that can neither be “managed” nor “cured.” given that homosexuals can contribute as much to society as heterosexuals, there can be no argument that homosexuality is a crime. 
The ban on homosexuals is sim­ply a piece of a larger, unfortunate truth that the boy scouts are an an­tiquated organization badly in need of modernization. The boy scouts should not change their fundamen­tal values but should work to open up to all capable boys, including homosexuals. while some may op­pose these changes, the majority of americans are becoming more ac­cepting of gays. examining public opinion data conducted by gallup reveals that in 1996, 27 percent of americans supported gay marriage, while in 2012 the number increased to 53 percent. This number will only continue to increase, just like popu­lar opinion once did for desegrega­tion and other civil rights. as other organizations, such as the united states armed Forces, move toward full acceptance of gays, the boys scouts must also realize that soci­ety is moving forward, whether they want it to or not. 
some may argue the boy scouts need make no changes, but this is nothing more than a recipe for the decline of the bsa. offering a traditional learning experience in a world filled with angry birds, computers, video games and other technology will make it much harder to recruit young men. continuing to ban homosexual boys from its ranks will only continue to detract from the boy scout’s brand, especially when, according to a Quinnipiac poll, 55 percent of americans believe the boy scouts should drop its ban on gay members, with only 33 per­cent opposing. 
There is no doubt the full inclu­sion of gays in our society is one of the civil rights movements of our time. There is also no doubt 20 years from now, people will wonder how we could be so backwards as to not allow homosexuals to marry, serve in the armed forces, adopt children or participate in the boy scouts. scouting has honorably served america for more than a century but will voluntarily place itself on the ash heaps of history along with segregated lunch counters, drink­ing fountains and public schools if it continues its ban on gay members. 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By EMILIE TERHAAR 
scene writer 

The holy half last weekend was the first half mara­thon i had ever run. actually, it was the first time i had ever run more than eight miles consecutively. i have always been a casual runner, jogging perhaps two to three miles twice a week, a little more when i’m pro­crastinating on work or have free time. i thought i would train for the half and begin a regimen or sched­ule that gradually progressed to longer runs, but i didn’t. i signed up for the race thinking at some point i would be forced to start training merely out of fear and not wanting to waste the $40 entry fee. it turns out i severely underestimated my laziness, because there was absolutely no training. The week of the half i got less sleep than normal and might have eaten crappier than my typical “life is just a grand buffet” lifestyle. The night before, i ate a bag of candy and stayed up until a little after 2 a.m. 
my thought process going into the race was simply to go run for as long as i wanted to, listen to some good music and walk when i felt like it. i woke up at 7 a.m., ate a banana, responded to some emails, compiled a 51-song playlist, got dressed and rolled out to the start line at about 8:50 a.m. The race started at 9 a.m. and at 
9:02 i started running. (no one ever tells you how long it takes for people at the end of the pack to get moving.) The first mile of the race is a bit frustrating because ev­eryone is still so packed together it’s impossible to set your own pace. 
and then i settled in. normally when i go for a casual jog, i know it will not be very long and that i can stop whenever i get tired, so i run at a comfortable, but still slightly challenging 8:30-minute-mile pace. because i knew there were 13 long miles ahead of me, i went for a leisurely pace between 9:00 and 9:30 miles and coasted. 
it was at about mile six that i realized i would finish the whole thing without stopping or walking at all. i had a really fun time and finished the race in around two hours. 
For any other lazy people out there wondering if they should or should not run a half marathon, i will break down my takeaways from the holy half and offer some advice. 
why do you want to run 13.1 miles? if it’s a health goal, then forget it. running long distances is not really that healthy, especially for women. you are way better off running a 5K at a faster clip than any long slow dis­tance. running a half marathon makes sense if you’re giving yourself something to train for, meaning you’ll run more regularly for the months before the half. 
can you entertain yourself for a really long time? For me, the hardest part of the half was entertaining myself for two straight hours. i got really bored. Thankfully, i had a great playlist with lots of fun music to keep me going, but without that, forget it! if you are not a music­while-running person, definitely run with a buddy. 
do you want to give up an entire day and be sore for the following couple days? no one told me how tired i would be afterward. i had planned on doing so much with my saturday, but the day was basically shot after the race. i napped twice involuntarily, ate a ton of food and fell asleep really early. not to mention, my calves, arches and ankles have ached ever since the race. 
if none of the above bullet points have deterred you from running, then by all means, run! i am really hap­py i did run the holy half. i genuinely enjoyed myself and am one step closer to running an actual marathon! 
Contact Emilie Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 


meats, i can’t help but give in. i refuse to eat pizza financial problems skip the fresh broccoli and avo-
By MADDIE DALY 

scene editor unless it is covered in pepperoni, breakfast is not cados from the farmer’s market and get their dinner 
complete without sausage patties and then there’s from the dollar menu, contributing to our country’s 
For my literature and ecology class, we watched bacon. ... do i even need an excuse for bacon? i massive weight gain. a movie about the problem with mass food produc-just cannot get enough. so, seeing the cow corpses whether you are an organic-only vegan or a loyal tion that made me thankful for the fact that i am a hanging upside down, being violated by the hands mcdonald’s customer, this documentary is worth vegetarian. “Food, inc.” was one of those films that of desensitized workers in the documentary, does watching to learn about an underestimated world-causes people to stop eating meat because of the have an impact on me, regardless of my mainly wide issue. especially on a college campus where graphic images of animals being led to the slaugh-meatless diet. we blindly eat dining hall food and Taco bell that we terhouse. as a documentary, the film succeeds in other than showing horrifying scenes of slaugh-pay for with seemingly fake money, aka Flex points, teaching its audience about the hidden truth behind ters that make me rethink (only for a second) my it is easy to forget about where our food comes from food production. with angles from both pro-mass partial meat-eating, “Food, inc.” also addresses the and how much we spend on it. aside from the gro­production farmers as well as organic farmers, the link between mass food production and obesity. tesque images of chickens and cows headed to their documentary stays relatively unbiased, although i although ending without an answer, the documen-bloody deaths, “Food, inc.” is a worthwhile watch. have trouble believing anyone could watch it with-tary tries to find out why whole Foods earned the Just make sure you close your eyes when they show out being disgusted and permanently scarred. name “whole paycheck” while mcdonald’s man-the chicken heads being removed, and don’t blame personally, i could not watch as they showed chick-ages to sell a full meal for, like, $1.50. Families in me if you decide to never eat meat again. ens getting their heads chopped off. i think i may the united states are especially notorious for want-have even uttered an audible whimper hearing the ing food fast and cheap, disregarding the negative Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
sound effects. repercussions. The fact that mcdonald’s is able you are probably thinking this is an overreac-to produce so much food at such a low price only 
“Food, Inc.” 

tion from someone who is already biased being a feeds into the problems of obesity and malnutri-
Magnolia Pictures 

vegetarian, but here’s my “nd confession” — i eat tion, especially among the lower class. granted, fast meat. granted, i have been a “vegetarian” my whole food chains like mcdonald’s have been attempt-
Director: Robert Kenner 

life not because i want to save animals or because ing to provide healthier options, but the fact that 
Starring: Michael Pollan, Eric Schlosser and Richard 

i think it’s healthier, but because i simply cannot their menu still has items like the double Quarter 
Lobb 

stand the texture of meat. The thought of having pounder and big macs with more calories than a a hamburger or steak dripping in blood anywhere person should eat in a day, much less a single meal, near my mouth makes me want to vomit. however, cancels those efforts, in my opinion. having these when it comes to disgusting, salty and processed items at such low prices makes large families with 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

 Sports thrive on ‘Cinderella’ stories 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
everything is right in the world of sports. 
Tiger is back on top, the blackhawks finally lost and are consistently losing again, the heat are still going for the re­cord (don’t worry, they won’t get it), dirk nowitzki has a beard, mlb opening day is four days away and no. 15-seed Florida gulf coast is in the sweet sixteen. 
wait, that’s not right. 
or is it? 
underdog stories are what keep fans watching sports. name a sports movie where the no. 1 team, or the best player, with no adversity goes out and wins like expected to. That would be one of the most bor­ing movies ever, kind of like “There will be blood” (sorry ddl). rather, people want to see “miracle” or “rudy” (i had to), or the upcoming movie “42,” and they flock to a great cinderella story like notre dame students flocked to nd confessions. (it’s a great way to kill time.) 
am i going to be one of those people to call out the bandwag­oners here? no. i am all for an underdog team getting some recognition, because when the next lockout happens or sanctions are handed down for preferential treatment, we can remember this as a moment in sports where “sports” was truly exemplified. sports and sur­prise stories go hand-in-hand. 
sports thrive on the unex­pected, which is why Florida gulf coast made such a splash and continues to make waves. 
Teams like the no. 9 seed, the wichita state shockers, and the no. 13 seed, the lasalle explorers, would both be ex­tremely noteworthy cinderellas in the tournament if it were not for the eagles. imagine all the puns that could be made using wichita state’s and lasalle’s mascots (“wichita state shocks the world” or “lasalle exploring new territory”), but instead the eagles are the ones garnering all of the attention. why? like i said, people love the underdog, and not just any underdog, a no. 15 seed cinderella. 
The eagles are the ultimate cinderella. as espnsportsinfo pointed out on Twitter, “Florida gulf coast is still the only undefeated team in ncaa Tournament history.” This is the first tournament appearance ever for the eagles and they look like they are seasoned veterans. 
never before has a no. 15 seed reached the sweet sixteen. The eagles took down no. 2 georgetown, 78-68, and then-no. 7 seed san diego state, 81-71. These weren’t flukes or lucky or last-second wins. Florida gulf coast came in with a plan, executed the plan and simply outplayed the hoyas and aztecs. 
The mastermind behind these gameplans was eagles coach andy enfield. like his team, he has had an interesting journey to this point as well. he began as a consultant at arthur andersen out of college, started giving shooting clinics all over, ended up working with the bucks and then for the celtics from 1998-2000, then worked for and invested in a medical business called Tractmanager, before he finally ended up at Florida gulf coast. 
now the eagles are on the verge of making it to the elite eight. all they have to do is go through in-state rival, no. 3 Florida. 
There are two ways to look at this. either out of spite and cynicism, you root against the eagles because you are hold­ing on to the last hopes of your already-destroyed bracket, or you are an anti-bandwagon fan and have no heart. 
or you can cheer for some­thing that has never been done before. and if you are going to cheer for something that has never been done before, why not the eagles? after a year in col­lege basketball where anything could happen, imagine seeing a no. 15 seed reach the elite eight, or even the Final Four or the national championship. 
in these crazy basketball times, it would seem fitting if the Florida gulf coast eagles did go all the way and please sports fans everywhere as the ultimate cinderella. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


GOLF 
woods returns to top of golf world with victory 
Associated Press 
life must be going well for Tiger woods when he can make head­lines in the gossip pages for dating olympic ski champion lindsey vonn and in the sports pages for winning bay hill and returning to no. 1 in the world. 
all in the same week. 
The studio photos of woods and vonn that were posted on their Facebook pages looked more suit­able for a catalog showcasing their clothing sponsors. Far more natu­ral were the poses woods struck monday afternoon with arnold palmer after winning his tourna­ment — left arm draped around palmer’s shoulder, both unable to contain their laughter over what­ever was said that could not be repeated. 
“but it was funny,” woods said, breaking into a broad grin as he replayed the exchange in his mind. “really funny, actually.” 
yes, woods appears to be in a happy place. 
winning does that, and woods is starting to win with alarming frequency. in the one year and two weeks since he limped off the course at doral with tightness in his left achilles tendon , woods has won six times in his last 20 starts on the pga Tour. in his three wins this year, no one got closer than two shots at any point in the final round. 
The limp has been replaced by a swagger. 
“he looks a lot more comfortable out there. he doesn’t really miss many shots. and if he does, it’s not by a whole lot,” said rickie Fowler, who played with woods in the fi­nal group. 
haven’t we heard this before? 
remember, woods won bay hill a year ago and was declared the favorite to win a fifth green jacket at the masters. instead, he tied for 40th. it’s easy to get caught up in the hype because we know how good he was and believe he can be that good — if not better — again. 
This latest win at bay hill, how­ever, was different. it gave woods consecutive wins for the first time since august 2009. asked the last time he felt this good going into the 

FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL-prime location on ND Ave. Beautiful house within walking distance to ev­erything. Email for additional info and photos nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 
Looking for used size 16 gym shoes. Call 574-291-6716 

masters, he said, “it’s been a few years.” 
The last time woods won back-to-back tournaments heading into augusta was in 2001, the year he won the masters to complete his unprecedented sweep of the majors. winning cannot be over­stated, even for a guy who has won more than anyone in pga Tour history excep t for sam snead. 
woods walked into his winner’s press conference with his cell­phone in hand, scrolling down to read the messages, most of them from his staff. rory mcilroy, whom he replaced at no. 1 in the world, sent him a text Tuesday morning. 
it wasn’t long before woods was asked the correlation between go­ing public about dating vonn and winning a tournament to go back to no. 1 for the first time since october 2010. 
“you’re reading way too much into this,” he said with a grin. 
The greatest temptation woods faces now is to resist wagging his finger at anyone who doubted whether he could get back to no. 1 in the world, whether he could challenge Jack nicklaus and his record 18 majors. woods has been stuck on 14 majors since 2008. 
The majors will be the ultimate measures. The masters starts april 11, and if woods isn’t wearing a green jacket in butler cabin on sunday night, it won’t mean this was another false alarm. golf is still hard. woods only has a way of making it look easy. 
For woods, it has always been about giving himself chances. 
The masters might be his best chance since 2009, when he coughed up a two-shot lead to y.e. yang on the last day of the pga championship. everything fell apart soon after that — revelations of his extramarital affairs, losing his wife in a divorce, finding a new swing coach, coping with more in­juries to his left leg. 
woods never liked the notion that this is a comeback. when he won the chevron world challenge at the end of 2011 — his first trophy of any kind in two years— he cited the lyrics of ll cool J: “don’t call it a comeback, i’ve been here for years.” 
but that wasn’t necessarily true. he wasn’t no. 1 in the world. he wasn’t even the best player in golf. That was mcilroy, who won the 
u.s. open by a record score in 2011 and the pga championship by a record margin a year later. mcilroy was looked upon as the favorite at the masters until woods won his last two tournaments. 
if it’s mcilroy in a green jacket at augusta national, the road back for woods will look longer than ever. 
at the moment, woods has turned the corner and is picking up speed. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  “I was thinking about making a come­back, until I pulled a muscle vacuum­ 
ing.” -Johnny Bench  
UNPLANNED  PREGNANCY?  
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  “We have a bunch of great outside  
has many resources in place to  shooters. Unfortunately, all our games  
assist you. If you or someone  are played indoors.” -Weldon Drew  
you love needs confidential sup­ 
port or assistance, please call  “Fade into Bolivian, I guess.” -Mike  
Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen  Tyson, when asked how he’ll spend  
Kennedy at 1-5550. For more  retirement.  
information,  visit  ND’s  website  
at:  http://pregnancysupport@  “You play to win the game!” -Herm  
nd.edu  Edwards  




SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles set to face Defiance 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
after two weeks of bad weather and cancelled games, the belles will finally play their first home game this Thursday against defiance. 
The home opener was origi­nally scheduled for last Friday against wheaton, but snow and cold temperatures led to the game’s cancellation. The belles (6-6) were able to play a doubleheader that saturday and ended up splitting at Franklin. after a 7-0 win in the first game behind junior pitcher callie selner’s standout performance, saint mary’s came out flat in the second game and lost 5-3. This week, senior captain and catcher morgan bedan knows the belles must keep up their intensity. 
“we definitely beat ourselves [in the second game]. we were too complacent and lacked the intensity that we need to be suc­cessful. it was a learning mo­ment for our team; we now know that we cannot afford to slack and lack energy,” bedan said. “we’ve focused a lot this week on accountability and tough­ness. The loss was definitely a tough pill to swallow but i think it taught us a great lesson and i hope that we’ve learned from our mistake.” 

defiance (7-5) is coming off a split against rose-hulman last weekend and will pose a seri­ous challenge to the belles. but bedan wants her team to focus more on its own play than its opponent’s. 
“we need to learn from our mistakes this weekend and move forward. dwelling on them isn’t going to help anyone,” bedan said. “we’re focusing on being better hitters; we have the talent and ability, but we’ve struggled with consistency.” 
luckily, there is one group of players bedan has complete con­fidence in: the belles’ pitchers. 
“callie selner has been our saving grace in these first 12 games,” bedan said. “she threw a one-hitter this weekend and got us a win, but she needs more support from her hitters. she should be undefeated this year. [Freshman pitcher] sarah burke is working hard to learn our system and adjust to the in­tensity of the college game. i’m comfortable with both of them.” 
burke’s quick adjustment to the college game has impressed her older teammates, bedan said. bedan also singled out out­fielder sarah callis as another freshman with instant impact. 
another factor the belles hope will give them a boost this week­end is their return to their home field. senior captain and short­stop emily sherwood thinks their knowledge of their field will give them an advantage. 
“we all know the field well, for example the infielders know how the ball bounces off of our dirt and the outfielders know their territory well.  so we use this to our advantage,” sherwood said. “we also have our friends, family and class­mates to support us here at home, which is another aspect that we are blessed to have when we play at home.” 
The belles will host defiance at 3:30 p.m. on Thursday. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish prepare for Ball State 
team is very focused and set on particular facets of their own game.” 
ball state comes off a four-match winning streak, but all against unranked opponents. in singles action, sophomore ray leonard leads on the no. 1 court. 
The irish are led by a strong core, with no. 96 junior greg andrews continuing to perform well in the no. 1 spot for the squad. also stepping up lately is senior blas moros, who earned big east player of the week last week for his victories in singles play. 
against william & mary, the irish started with a win in dou­bles play. They have struggled to find consistency in doubles throughout the year, but focus­ing on this aspect of their game lately has allowed improve­ment. Freshman alex lawson and junior billy pecor have earned a no. 69 ranking as a duo on court no. 2. 
The irish have five matches left before the big east champi­onships. with that in the back of their minds, the squad is work­ing to make every set count. 
“These upcoming weeks are crucial because they are lead­ing up to the big east tourna­ment, which is one of the biggest events we play,” monaghan said. 
doubles play will begin against the cardinals on monday at 2 p.m. in muncie, ind. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The no. 27 irish take a break over the weekend before return­ing to play monday in muncie, ind., against ball state. 
notre dame (11-7) will enter the match coming off its most recent 6-1 win against william & mary on saturday. 
The william & mary win fol­lowed a 6-1 loss to no. 3 usc, helping the irish bounce back after a loss to a tough opponent. 
“we had good preparation leading up to the match, and i felt that nearly everyone was focused and really took it to [william & mary], which was great to see,” freshman Quentin monaghan said. “The usc match was definitely a building block to show that we can com­pete with the best. however, it is also important to take care of weaker opponents when the pressure we feel is completely different.” 

because it is also in indiana, ball state (11-6) has shared many opponents with notre dame. earlier in the sea­son, both squads lost to northwestern, and ball state and notre dame both took 7-0 wins over iupui this season. They both also faced illinois, with the irish winning 4-1 and the cardinals losing 4-3. The irish beat michigan state 6-1, while ball state lost to the spartans 6-1. 
“going into ball state, we are approaching it the same as if it was usc,” monaghan said. “The 
ND SOFTBALL 
squad rides streak into home game 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish are riding a sev­en-game winning streak as they approach their home opener against green bay on Thursday. 
notre dame (22-7) was originally set to travel to Kalamazoo, mich., today to face western michigan, but the game was postponed due to weather. That leaves the irish with only one game this week against the phoenix (5-12). 
“There is always excitement when we play at home,” sopho­more catcher cassidy whidden said. “it’s so much fun, espe­cially the home opener.” 
The phoenix spent last week in orlando, Fla., at the rebel spring games, where they went 5-7. over the 12 games, they scored 50 runs, with 45 runs against. 
The irish, on the other hand, come off their most recent three-game sweep of seton hall in south orange, n.J. They compiled 30 runs, hold­ing seton hall to five runs throughout the weekend in only five innings each game. 
“The sweep is part of our ‘20 wins in 30 days’ campaign and it just confirms that the team is in a really good place,” whidden said. 
The week before, the irish went 4-0 at the highlander classic, winning two games against both northern illinois and iona in riverside, calif. They excelled on both sides of the ball, rounding up 29 runs and limiting their opponents to only six over the four games. 
offensively, sophomore center fielder emilee Koerner continues leading the irish. she was named big east conference softball player of the week on monday for the second time this season. she earned the award after the most productive weekend of her notre dame career at seton hall. There she batted .900, go­ing 9-for-10. her three home runs, five rbi, two doubles and two stolen bases helped pro­pel the irish to the three-game sweep. her seven runs over the weekend surpassed the entire seton hall squad. 
on the defensive side, ju­nior pitcher laura winter has played a crucial role in cut­ting down the number of runs scored. she earned the big east weekly honor roll recognition for the second consecutive week. she allowed six hits and no walks in the two games she pitched at seton hall, gather­ing 16 strikeouts in her eight full innings. 
“we are going to get better in offensive situations such as moving runners and making things happen,” whidden said. “right now, that’s our goal. our defense and pitching are phenomenal.” 
The time for the green bay contest has been moved up from its original 6 p.m. to avoid bad weather. The first pitch will now be thrown Thursday night at 5 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ROWING 

Team travels to face MSU 

By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
while most students at notre dame will be relaxing over easter break on campus or at home, the irish will be competing in a fast-paced race against three other teams in east lansing, mich. 
over spring break, the irish gained experience in oak ridge, Tenn., at the oak ridge/cardinal invitational. The rowers hope to use that momentum io the competi­tion this weekend. 
sophomore stella willoughby said racing in the oak ridge/cardinal invitational was a great experience.“ “Just to have that first race out of the way and get all those jitters out with the start of the season was great.” she said. 

a great challenge for teams early in the season is finding the right set of rowers in each boat. 
“i think [irish] coach [martin] stone did a great job to get the boats organized,” willoughby said. “most of the boats for other teams had more time to get on the water before us, but we had mini­mal time to get on the water before getting down there. we had five days to adjus, and handled it really well, given the circumstances.” 
The team had two weeks since spring break to pre­pare for this weekend’s rac­es and have been looking at elements that can be im­proved. “This week we can just continue to grow as a team through our unity as a whole, and also just figure out what lineups are the fast­est,” willoughby said  “This weekend, we will be testing different combinations and will look to put out the fastest combinations for the boats. we are in a good position and better than last year at this time, i think.” 
The irish hope to meet the teams they faced in the oak ridge/cardinal invitational, such as virginia, in the na­tional competitions at the end of the year, but for now, the team is focused on its 
upcoming  race  against  
michigan  state,  michigan  
and iowa.  
“michigan and  michigan  

state generally have been very good teams, and we scraped by michigan state last year and michigan beat us by a few spots,” willoughby said. 
The conditions will also prove to be a challenge for the irish. 
“The water will be a little bit choppy there,” willoughby said. “i think we have prac­ticed this week in similar conditions, though, and will be able to handle the situa­tion well.” 
notre dame will race this saturday in east lansing, mich.  
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Athletes split up for competitions 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
as the irish look to build off the success of their outdoor opener at the victor lopez invitational in houston last weekend, the team will split this upcoming weekend and travel to stanford and cincinnati for two different meets. 
most of the team will compete in the stanford invitational, which is one of the largest early-season invitationals in the country. 
“all the events will be represent­ed at stanford,” junior long jumper logan renwick said. “This meet is mostly known for being good for distance running. The weather is always good, cool, not too hot. it’s always nice in california.” 
senior distance runner and all-american Jeremy rae hopes to take advantage of this as he makes his debut for the outdoor season in the 5000-meter run. rae missed most of the indoor season due to injury, but is the defending big east champion in the 1500-meter run. Joining him in the 5000 will be freshman michael clevenger. 
Fellow all-americans sopho­more chris giesting and ju­nior pat Feeney will renew their friendly rivalry in the 400-me­ter dash, after placing first and third, respectively, in last week’s 200-meter dash. 
on the women’s side, sopho­more all-american Jade barber and senior rebecca Tracy will both be doubling, barber in the 100-meter and the 100-meter hur­dles, and Tracy in the 800-meter and the 1500-meter. 
notre dame’s highly ranked 4-by-400-meter squad will also be competing against the nation’s best after dominating last week and earning its first victory of the season. 
The irish will face stiff competi­tion at stanford, going up against not only the best collegiate ath­letes but also many professional athletes. 
“There are a lot of unattached athletes competing at stanford, and a lot of professionals as well,” renwick said. 
at cincinnati, the irish have entered almost all of their multi­eventers to give them the chance to compete in a full heptathlon or decathlon early in the season. 
“it’s one of our only meets that has full multi-events before big east [championships],” renwick said. “it’s a chance for them to compete in their true event.” 
The multi-eventers are led by seniors Ted glasnow and dean odegard, both of whom are all-big east performers. 
despite splitting up, the irish only have one goal as a team. 
“we just want to set off the out­door season right,” renwick said. “we want to peak at the confer­ence championship and we hope to win the title for both men and women.” 
The irish will compete at both the stanford invitational in palo alto, calif., and the oliver nikolof open in cincinnati on march 29 and 30. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


MEN’S GOLF 

despite inclement weather, irish finish in top five 
return home early on Tuesday. scores in college golf,” Kubinski 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer “we’ve played in worse said. “having cory and andrew [weather] over the years, but it playing as they did gives us great 
after finishing last in a field of was a challenge this weekend for confidence moving forward.” 
15 teams last week, the irish re-players to keep some feeling in platt and mcnamara both shot 
deemed themselves and finished their hands, which is vital for all 77s and tied for 91st. 
tied for fourth out of 32 teams at shots,” Kubinski said. “we teed Kubinski said he believes 
the c&F bank intercollegiate in off at 38 degrees with a wind-his two top players, platt and 
williamsburg, va. chill of about 30.” mcnamara, will pick it up as the 
The irish finished with a total sciupider tied for first place weather warms, as they are both score of 289, with two players, overall, firing a three-under 67. from california. in the mean-freshman corey sciupider and “he’s an extremely talented, time, Kubinski said he is excited junior andrew lane, shooting high-ceiling player,” Kubinski to see what lane and sciupider under 70. said. “That’s something that was will do the rest of the season. 
weather proved to be a major obvious from the moment i saw “we’re just trying to get out 
setback throughout the tourna-him. he will continue to grow on grass and get rounds in. we 
ment. snow cancelled monday’s and improve as he continues to need more reps and more oppor­
round and eventually cut the work at it.” tunities,” Kubinski said. “we’re 
tournament to one round as lane, meanwhile, shot a two-thinking about irish creek right 
opposed toinstead of the three under 68 and finished tied for now.” 
scheduled rounds. third place.  Together, sciupider next, the irish will travel to 
Teams unable to complete and lane give the irish more Kannapolis, n.c. for the irish 
their 18 holes sunday night were high-caliber depth, Kubinski creek collegiate, which begins 
scheduled to resume today at said. saturday and concludes sunday. 
12:30 p.m. The irish, however, “[Junior] niall [platt] and [se­finished the entirety of their first nior] paul [mcnamara iii] have Contact Meredith Kelly at round sunday and were able to led us often but you need four mkelly29@nd.edu 



MEN’S SWIMMING 

swimmers travel to ncaas 

By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
after nearly a month of preparations, notre dame will finally head to the iupui natatorium in indianapolis for the ncaa championships, which begin Thursday and conclude saturday. 
The big east-champion irish will bring a larger crew than usual. a record nine notre dame swimmers qualified to compete in the meet, better­ing the previous high of two qualifiers set last season. 
Five swimmers — senior chris Johnson, ju­nior Frank dyer and soph­omores cameron miller, Zach stephens and John williamson — advanced to the meet with their respective b-cut times and will compete in individual events. another quartet — sophomore Kevin hughes, freshman bogac ayhan and seniors bill bass and John mcginley — will be eligible to swim in any of the five relays for which the irish qualified, as will the former five swimmers. 

irish coach Tim welsh said he was not surprised so many of his swimmers advanced based on the improvements he saw from his team since last season. 
“we’ve been aware that the possibility [of advancing so many swimmers] existed and that the potential existed, and we’re very excited about what’s happening right now,” he said. 
welsh said he and assistant coach matt Tallman especial­ly noticed the developments in speed and strength of this year’s sophomore class, which will send four swimmers to indianapolis. 
stephens will race in the 100­and 200-yard breaststrokes and is seeded 16th in the lon­ger event. he will also race in the 200-yard individual med­ley. Fellow sophomore miller will compete in the same events, while williamson will dive in for the 500-yard free­style as well as the 100- and 200-yard butterflies. 
The other two individual qualifiers will also look for strong finishes this weekend. dyer holds the best seeding for the irish at 10th place in the 200-yard freestyle, and he will also head to the blocks for the 100 and 500 free. Johnson will swim in both breaststroke events, carrying the no. 13 seed in the 100. 
Though his swimmers head to the competition with fast times and good seedings, welsh said they will have to improve even more if they want to make a real statement against the field, which in­cludes back-to-back champion california and perennial con­tenders Texas and michigan. 
“it’s a very fast meet, and if you want a second chance, you have to earn it,” welsh said. “so it’s all about creating a second chance by doing a lifetime-best performance the first time out.” 
with the training the irish have put in throughout the year and especially in their tapering in the past month, welsh said he anticipates a fast meet from this record-set­ting group of qualifiers. 
“For us, it’s always all about going faster,” he said. “and we’ve had some very, very good practices here in this pool in the last month since we were at the big east meet.” 
notre dame will dive in for the first of three days of the ncaa champion­ships Thursday at the iupui natatorium in indianapolis. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish prepare for Red Storm 

By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
The no. 1 irish may have just ascended to the top of college lacrosse, but that doesn’t mean coach Kevin corrigan thinks his team is on the top of its game heading into saturday’s matchup with no. 19 st. John’s at arlotta stadium. 
on sunday against rutgers, the irish (6-1) were held scoreless for much of the first half and trailed by two late in the second quarter. rallying behind three fourth-quarter goals from junior mid­fielder Jim marlatt, the irish staved off an upset. 
but no. 7 north carolina de­feated then-no. 1 maryland on saturday, opening up the top spot for the irish when the polls were released monday. notre dame was ranked no. 1 just once before in program history, for two weeks during the 2011 season. The irish begin their reign on top when they face the red storm (6-2) on saturday. 
corrigan said he was unhappy with his team’s execution against rutgers and has given the team time to rest after a stretch of three tilts in eight days. 
“we’re going to take the next couple days off and get some rest after playing three games in eight days,” corrigan said sunday. “we’ll come back on wednesday and start to prepare for a very good st. John’s.” 
The red storm are off to a program-best start and are very dangerous offensively. st. John’s averages more than 11 goals per game and features one of the na­tion’s premier offensive weapons in junior Kieran mcardle, who leads the nation in points per game (7.13) and is seventh in goals per game (2.88). 
“The biggest thing you have to do is stop them” corrigan said. “They’ve scored [24] goals in their last two games. when we played them in the [big east] tournament last year, they held us down.” 
The red storm offense will try to break through a typically stout irish defense. led by senior defender matt miller and senior goalie John Kemp, the irish are ranked fifth in the country in scoring defense and 10th in man-down defense. 
on offense, corrigan said the irish will have to execute to keep pace. To do so, notre dame will rely on marlatt and freshman at­tack matt Kavanagh, who are tied for the team lead in goals and points with 14 and 20, respectively. 
“Their goalie is very good,” corrigan said. “you’ve got to get good shots and be smart about the shots you take and take them well.” 
The irish take on st. John’s on saturday at 1 p.m. at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BASEBALL 

irish defeat Kent state in connaughton debut 
By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports writer 
Timely hitting and a strong com­bined pitching effort helped no. 15 notre dame secure an 8-1 victory Tuesday night over Kent state in a brisk game at the u.s. steel yard in gary, ind. 
The irish (15-6) have now won three straight games. 
sophomore right-hander pat connaughton made a brief but impressive season debut for the irish. connaughton pitched two innings, allowing no runs, no hits and no walks while striking out one batter. 
“[connaughton] has been do­ing a great job in the scrimmages we’ve had in practice, getting his feet wet,” irish coach mik aoki said. “he came in, threw strikes and pitched to contact … i was happy to see him throw well.” 
sophomore right-hander matt Ternowchek was the winning pitcher Tuesday. Ternowchek threw 
3.2 innings, allowing two hits and one run on a sacrifice fly after al­lowing a triple to center field. 
“i think if we get a slightly better jump on that ball in the outfield it would have had a chance to be caught,” aoki said. “but matt did a really good job and has been doing a great job for us all season long.” 
Kent state (8-13) got on the board first in the fourth inning with the sacrifice fly off Ternowchek, but notre dame responded in the bot­tom frame with a run of its own on freshman designated hitter Zak Kutsulis’ two-out rbi triple, mak­ing the score 1-1. 
notre dame took advantage of some timely hitting and erratic Kent state pitching in the fifth inning to secure the win. Junior catcher Forrest Johnson led off the inning with a double and was able to score two batters later on a wild pitch. a few batters later, another wild pitch, this time with the bases loaded, al­lowed another notre dame run to score, making the score 3-1. 
sophomore outfielder ryan bull and Kutsulis each added rbi singles in the inning, and after five innings, notre dame led 6-1. 
in the eighth inning, with the score still 6-1, Kent state moved a runner to third base but freshman reliever nick mccarty came in and induced a groundball to get notre dame out of the inning and avoid any damage. 
Junior second baseman Frank desico and senior pinch hitter adam norton were hit by pitches in consecutive at bats to start the bottom of the eighth inning. Junior third baseman eric Jagielo hit an rbi single to score desico, and ju­nior first baseman Trey mancini followed Jagielo with an rbi single of his own, making the score 8-1. 
Freshman right-hander connor hale made his collegiate debut by retiring the final batter of the ninth inning for notre dame. 
bull, Jagielo and Kutsulis each had two hits apiece, with Kutsulis adding three rbis, as well. 
“we have an offense that is very capable of putting up some runs,” aoki said. “we’ve faced some good pitching and good teams this year so i was happy to see us break out a little bit tonight.” 
The irish will now hit the road and return to action Thursday in a big east matchup against no. 10 louisville. 
“They have some kids that can really run the velocity up there and pitch,” aoki said. “i think it’s really going to come down to which team gets more timely hitting. it should be a great series with two of the best teams in the big east going at each other.” 
First pitch between the irish and cardinals is scheduled for 6 p.m. Thursday. 
Contact John Sandberg at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Armstrong leads Irish to top 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
competing in the tournament as the highest-ranked team, the irish pulled through to win the briar’s creek invitational in John’s island, s.c., on Tuesday. 
The no. 23 irish won the invi­tational with a 42-over-par score of 906 (317-300-289). 
“we entered this tournament hoping to win as the highest ranked team,” irish coach susan holt said. “and we did.” 
This victory marked the 32nd tournament title in the pro­gram’s history. 
sophomore ashley armstrong led the irish and for the second consecutive week earned med­alist honors with a one-over-par score of 217 (74-71-72). 
considering such a strong fin­ish, the irish had a rocky start in the first round monday. The irish finished in seventh place with a 29-over-par score of 317. The first day of the tournament was scheduled as a 36-hole day, but because of rainy weather, play was suspended. in the first 12 holes played of the second round, the irish advanced to a three-way tie for first place be­fore play was suspended. 

holt said the weather signifi­cantly affected play. 
Though the first round proved somewhat challenging for the irish, the team still shot un­der the stroke average of 81.4 through the opening 18 holes. 
armstrong landed herself in third place with a two-over-par score of 74 after the first 18 holes. Freshman lindsey weaver end­ed the first round with a nine­over-par score of 81, which put her in 43rd place overall. she moved up to 31st with a three­over-par score of 52 after the first 12 holes played in the sec­ond round. 
The second day of play proved much more successful for the irish as they completed the re­maining six holes of the second round and the total 18 holes of the third round. The irish fended off both maryland (914) by eight strokes and coastal carolina 
(916) by 10 strokes, who finished second and third, respectively. 
The second day of the tourna­ment was another challenging day of play for the team, but the whole team came to play, holt said. 
“The second day was another long day after the first,” holt said. “but the girls really showed up and played well.” 
holt complemented armstrong on her excep­tional finishes in the recent tournaments. 
“ashley has played extremely well with these back-to-back wins,” holt said. 
armstrong finished three strokes ahead of runner-up laura wearn of Furman (77-76­67-220) and four strokes ahead of third place finisher brittany henderson of coastal carolina (71-74-76-221). 
holt said junior Kristina nhim and sophomore Kelli oride both came out strong on the second day and significantly helped the irish finish in first place. 
“we needed Kristina and Kelli to go out there and play well,” holt said. “They both really stepped it up.” 
nhim shot an 18-over-par 234 (83-78-73), while oride finished the tournament with a 16-over­par 232 (83-78-71). 
as a whole team, the irish played collectively and with shared team effort, holt said. 
“we had some great team ef­fort,” holt said. “The biggest thing to take away from this tournament as a team is the good play we had today on the course.” 
The irish will finish their regular season at the dac/smu invitational in dallas from april 5 to 7 and then look to the big east championship from april 21 to 23 in orlando, Fla. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Team rejuvenated for match with rival 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
coming off a nearly two-week reprieve from competition, the no. 16 irish are rested and ready to take on their biggest rival, michigan, at home today at 4 p.m. 
Junior britney sanders said the break has allowed the irish (11-5) to return to fundamentals of­ten lost during the team’s hectic season. 
“The season is so long and it’s just a toll on our bodies,” sanders said. “i think taking a break from matches has allowed us to re­group and get back in shape.” 
any advantage gained from the rest will be much needed in today’s matchup with the wolverines, as no. 10 michigan (11-3) arrives at notre dame on a six-match winning streak. 
“They have a really talented team and a deep lineup,” senior captain chrissie mcgaffigan said. 
sanders said though the team plays michigan every year, the match always stands out from the typical season play. 
“every year we play michigan, and every year we play them during the week, so we don’t re­ally think about them as a nor­mal team or a normal opponent,” sanders said. “it’s always a tough match and they’re one of our big­gest rivals.” 
mcgaffigan said a win against michigan would help push the irish into a prime position as they head toward the ncaa tournament. 
“we really want to get a spot in the top-16 by the end of the season so we can host in the first round of the ncaas,” mcgaffigan said. “we see the match as a huge opportunity.” 
mcgaffigan said she expects the matches to be close contests, but she is not worried about her team’s ability to persevere. 
“our girls have been working really hard and pushing one an­other in practice,” mcgaffigan said. “i think pulling out close matches earlier in the season will give us confidence.” 
mcgaffigan said she feels as­sured of home court advantage for this match due to the support of the campus community. 
“we love our dedicated roTc fans,” mcgaffigan said. “They have made our home matches so much fun and have become an added home court advantage.” 
in honor of the rivalry, the irish will be giving out free lacrosse jer­seys and frozen yogurt to fans in attendance. 
The irish will square off against michigan at home today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
wind and rain postpones match 
not been announced, but the 
Observer Staff Report 
belles (4-4, 1-0 miaa) are ex-
Following their two-match pected to face the eagles in winning streak last week, the mid-april. belles were scheduled to play in the meantime, the belles Judson today. however, due to will resume their regular unexpected wind and rain, the schedule against conference match was postponed on short opponent olivet on april 4 at notice. a rescheduled date has saint mary’s. 




Pro Day 
conTinued From page 20 
riddick said the pressure of performing in front of represen­tatives of 27 of the 32 nFl teams with so much at stake was daunt­ing and rivaled the pressure of playing in January’s national championship. 
“There’s always nerves when you do something that’s very meaningful, not only to your fu­ture but to your family,” he said. “There’s a whole lot invested in this.” 
with pro day over, any work­outs players will do from now 
McBride 
conTinued From page 20 
said. “it just shows the bal­ance this team has and how unselfish it is.” 
other than mcbride, achonwa and braker, the rest of the scoring came from diggins with 16 points and loyd with 15 points. 
notre dame’s trademark, stifling defense showed at its usual strength Tuesday. The irishsforced 21 hawkeye turn-until the draft will be solely for individual teams. but while the pressure of the combine and pro day may have passed, it’s now shifted onto the final step of the transition: april’s nFl draft. and while the players are anxious to find out where they will be head­ed next season, Te’o said now that pro day is over, he’s enjoying the experience of being back in south bend. 
“i’m just glad that i’m out here playing football,” he said. “i’m with my guys, i’m around this building, … i’m back home.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at whefforo@nd.edu 
light for iowa with 16 points on 8-for-14 shooting. but she managed only five rebounds after achonwa and braker kept her off the boards. 
notre dame led 46-34 at the half. as a high seed in the tournament over the last few years, notre dame does not frequently face tough road crowds like the group assem­bled in iowa city. but, notre dame has played in tough arenas like Tennessee and connecticut in the past. 
“This team has played in 


“Iowa was another tough environment that we had to overcome if we wanted to 
keep dancing.” 
Skylar Diggins senior guard 
overs. diggins, notre dame’s all-time leader in steals, had three. iowa shot just 40-per­cent from the field and did not make a e-pointer on 11 attempts. 
“we struggled to score,” iowa coach lisa bluder said. “in the second half we just couldn’t buy a bucket, and for us to go 0 for [at] the 3-point line is pretty unusual.” 
iowa’s 6-foot-4 sophomore center bethany doolittle shined as the lone bright so many tough atmospheres,” diggins said. “we’re used to this experience of playing on the road. iowa was another tough environment that we had to overcome if we wanted to keep dancing.” 
The irish will face no. 12 seed Kansas in norfolk, va., on sunday. Kansas knocked off no. 4 south carolina on monday. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Streak 
conTinued From page 20 
buckeyes, 44-17. 
The team’s recent success stands in stark contrast to the 2-6-0 record the irish posted in January, and lee said he be­lieves his team is peaking at the opportune time. 
“you always talk about try­ing to peak at the right time, trying to play your best hockey at the right time and the last 10 or so games, we’ve been find­ing our groove and that’s been evident with our success,” lee said. “The best thing we can do is to work at our game and keep working hard in a way that con­tinues that kind of success.” 
irish junior goaltender steven summerhays has been a large contributor to the stout irish defense over the last month, boasting a .946 save percent­age in the ccha conference tournament. while the alaska native continues to make big saves, he said the defense has also helped prevent opponents from having any quality scoring opportunities. 
“with the back pressure we had and the defensive corps playing the way they did, we didn’t give up too many odd-man rushes and quality scor­ing chances, so that made my job pretty easy [last] weekend,” summerhays said. “[last week­end was] the best two games we’ve played together back-to­back in a long time.” 
The last time the irish played in the ncaa tournament was in 2011 when they advanced to the Frozen Four as a no. 3 seed but lost to eventual-champion minnesota-duluth, 4-3, in the semifinals. although the irish earned a no. 1 seed in the 2009 ncaa tournament, they lost in the first round to bemidji state, 5-1. 
while the irish won the last ever ccha championship, Jackson said an ncaa champi­onship stands as the final goal for the program. 
“when i started here, the ob­jective was to win champion­ships for the program, and not 
paid adverTisemenT 
just league championships, we want to win national champi­onships,” Jackson said. “we’ve been a good team over the sev­eral years, but until we win that ultimate prize, i don’t know if we can take that next step as a program.” 
The irish will face st. cloud state in the opening round of the ncaa tournament at 
1:30 p.m. in Toledo, ohio, on saturday. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Keira Knightley, 28; Kenny chesney, 45; martin short, 63; steven Tyler, 65. 
Happy Birthday: look for the positive in every situation. Take what you know and apply it to what’s being asked of you. use your intuition to guide you to victory. em­brace the past and use it to create a better future. live in the moment and recognize opportunities. you have much to gain if you approach change with enthusiasm. your numbers are 8, 10, 17, 20, 29, 31, 38. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): recognize who is on your side and who isn’t before you put pressure on the wrong person. it’s best to do what you can on your own so that you can control the situation and the outcome. Keep impulsiveness to a minimum. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): call in favors, and get involved in events that keep you in touch with people who work in your field. your intuition will not let you down when dealing with personal or business partners. stick close to home and be diplomatic. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your emotions tucked away and under control. Focus on helping others and setting a high standard. love and romance should be high on your list, but don’t feel you have to spend money to make an impression. maintain moderation. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): listen to your inner voice. much can be accomplished if you refuse to let the little problems bother you. someone may try to pressure you, but if you use your intelligence and your imagination, you will come out the victor. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t sit still when there is so much you can do to make your life better. Focus on location, learning and love and you will satisfy your needs. Trav­eling for business or pleasure will enhance your attitude and your status. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): an investment may tempt you, but before taking part in something that sounds too good to be true, do your due diligence. False information or exaggeration is apparent regarding partnerships and joint ventures. conservative action will be necessary. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel and communication will lead to stronger alliances and opportunities as long as you call the shots. love is on the rise, and a partner­ship should be handled with finesse. First impressions can shape what’s to come. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): size up your domestic situation and adjust your plans to suit your budget. an interest, hobby or talent you have should be where you invest your time, effort or cash. serious consideration to the options you are given will lead to success. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): honesty will help you avoid prolonged problems. a love relationship will grow stronger if you are willing to confide and share your thoughts and intentions. altering how you live will bring you greater happiness. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): before agreeing to any requests, check out how rea­sonable it is for you to follow through. you may want to opt out and follow your own path. Follow your intuition and you will advance. minor mishaps are apparent. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): reconnect with past partners and friends. The ad­vantage you have now will allow you to take control of your situation and marry old ideas with your current plans. love is on the rise, and opportunity to improve your direction is evident. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): a serious contract or money issue can be resolved if you are creative in the way you handle matters. an intuitive move can spare you grief if you can manage to avoid someone trying to coerce you into spending or taking on too much. 

Birthday Baby: you have vision and tenacity. you set high standards and make reforms. 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &                                                                                 paTricK cross 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

The final showcase 
Manti Te’o and other former Notre Dame athletes put talents on display at Notre Dame Pro Day 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
For many, it was a homecom­ing, while others described it as a grand finale to their notre dame careers. 
but for manti Te’o, getting through Tuesday’s pro day — the final audition for nFl scouts be­fore next month’s draft — was as exciting as a birthday party. 
“This is possibly the best day ever,” the former irish linebacker said. “it’s a big, big burden off your shoulders. it feels like it’s your birthday. i’m very glad it’s over.” 
Te’o had reason to celebrate, as he chopped over one-tenth of a second off his much-scrutinized 4.81-second time in the 40-yard dash at the nFl combine last month. but Te’o’s 40 — officially timed at 4.69 seconds — was far from the only impressive perfor­mance turned in by the 14 former irish athletes showcasing their skills. 
Tight end Tyler eifert didn’t run the 40 after running well at the combine, but he impressed scouts while running routes and in blocking drills. eifert is ex­pected to be an early-round pick, but said he hopes his efforts will be enough to convince teams he is the best tight end on the board. 
“i’m doing everything to be the first tight end taken,” he said. “That’s where i want to be.” 
besides top prospects eifert and Te’o, several irish players may have played their way up draft boards Tuesday. receiver robby Toma ran a 4.50 in the 40, the fastest of the day, while fellow receiver John goodman showed great range in catching passes and posted the team’s best scores in both the vertical and broad jumps. 
“i thought i did well,” goodman said. “This day has been a long time coming. a lot of work was put in, and a lot of sweat. … i thought i put up good numbers, and hope­fully i represented myself well.” 
Theo riddick dropped a cou­ple passes early in the position drills but settled in later on and said afterwards that he was still pleased with his results. The ver­satile back pulled a hamstring while running at the combine, so Tuesday was his biggest chance to show what he could contribute at the next level. 
see pro day PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 74, iowa 57 
nd downs hawkeyes in iowa 
HOCKEY 
Irish begin NCAA tourney in Toledo 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
less than a week after secur­ing the last-ever ccha champi­onship, notre dame will begin its quest for the ultimate prize — the ncaa championship — saturday in Toledo, ohio, against st. cloud state. 
The irish (25-12-3) earned the no. 1 seed in the midwest regional and will face the huskies (23-15-1) in the open­ing regional game. with a vic­tory, the irish would face either no. 2-seed miami or no. 3-seed minnesota state. 
“To be in the tournament as a no. 1 seed is pretty special, but at the same time, there’s a lot of work to be done,” irish junior captain and center anders lee said. “st. cloud state, miami and [minnesota state] mankato are all great teams. For us to get to the Frozen Four, it’s going to be a tough road.” 
coached by bob motzko, st. cloud state will provide a tough first obstacle for the irish, as the huskies won the wcha regular season title with a conference record of 18-9-1. huskies senior forward drew leblanc leads st. cloud state’s offense with 50 points on the year, tied for fifth in the nation, while huskies sopho­more ryan Faragher minds the net with a 2.29 goals against average. 
“i’ve heard throughout the year they were kind of an unher­alded team and all of the sud­den, they ended up winning the wcha,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “everything i know about them is that bob motzko’s teams compete hard and they’re well coached. … but at this point in the season, it’s going to be more about us and how we play.” 
notre dame enters the ncaa tournament on a nine-game unbeaten streak, and the irish allowed just two total goals to michigan and ohio state in the ccha championship games while outshooting the wolverines, 33-21, and the 
see sTreaK PAGE 18 


By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
with the help of a career-high 28 points from junior guard Kayla mcbride, no. 1 seed notre dame sprinted past no. 9 seed iowa in iowa city on Tuesday to win 74-57 and to advance to the sweet 16. 
mcbride scored 24 of her 28 

GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 
Former Irish linebacker Manti Te’o runs the 40-yard dash at the Notre Dame Pro Day. Te’o ran the 40 in 
4.69 seconds, which is over one-tenth better than the 4.81 he ran at the NFL Combine last month. 

points in the first half, which was just two points shy of her previous career high. she quickly passed that mark in the second half. 
“Kayla mcbride was phe­nomenal in the first half against their zone,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “she got any shot she wanted and was making just about every shot she took.” 
The irish (33-1) jumped out to an early lead and nev­er really looked back. The hawkeyes (20-13) never quit, but notre dame’s offensive firepower and presence on the offensive glass prevented iowa from ever getting back to within striking distance. 
irish Junior forwards natalie achonwa and ariel brakey dominated the post. achonwa finished with 11 points and 14 rebounds, eight of which she grabbed on the offensive end. braker grabbed nine boards and scored five points, as well. 
one of the biggest chal­lenges for any tean facing notre dame is how tough it is to contain all its weapons. on any given night, teams must slow down senior guard skylar diggins. but mcbride and freshman guard Jewell loyd can light up the stat sheet as well. They proved than Tuesday. 
“skylar [was] able to put up big numbers along with natalie achonwa,” mcbride 
see mcbride PAGE 18 




