The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46 issue 107 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013  | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘A revolutionary pope’ 
Election of Pope Francis encourages Latino students at Notre Dame 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
The world knows him as pope Francis, the newly elected leader of the roman catholic church. To his fellow latinos, he is papa Francisco, and his cultural heritage reflects the new energy and broader scope of today’s church. 
Freshman steven Fisher said the moment pope Francis stepped out onto the balcony, he became a symbol of hope, a pope who will actively engage the people of latin america again. Fisher, whose family is from mexico, said he is “very optimistic” about the new leader. 
“many among the latino community have expressed excitement and satisfaction with the conclave’s decision,” he said. “a cardinal from buenos aires represents a new voice for many in the wider context of latin america, and catholics everywhere… ex­pect his experiences as a latin american, especially those in­volving poverty and violence, to influence the papacy ahead.” 
Fisher said the reality of the church has undoubtedly changed over the centuries, and catholics must find a bal­ance between their visions for the future and the traditions of the past. 
“a latin american pope re­flects a church that has grown beyond its core foundation in 
see pope PAGE 6 


AP 

Pope Francis greets the crowds in St. Peter’s Square for his inaugural Mass on Tuesday at the Vatican. He is the first Latin American, Jesuit pope chosen to lead the Church. 


physicists study 

Dean finds unique vision 
higgs boson 
microstructure. 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news editor huang said the interactions 
within a given financial market-

To roger huang, the infra-place are very similar to the edu­
structure of one of the nation’s cational transactions that take 
top business schools looks a lot place daily in the college, except 
like the global financial markets the participants trade teaching 
he has spent his career studying. 
on march 1, huang shed the word “interim” in his title to take on responsibilities as the martin 
J. gillen dean of the mendoza college of business, succeeding carolyn woo. a member of the notre dame faculty since 2000, huang taught in the Finance department and specializes in international financial man­agement and financial market and learning instead of stocks and bonds. 
“The financial market micro-structure involves the study of how participants in financial markets of all kinds interact to transact with one another,” huang said. “it has to do with questions like what are the trad­ing costs, what structure would promote these transactions [and] what are the rules and regulations that are needed for a fair and orderly market.” 


huang studied the interna­tional market system for his doc­torate at the wharton school of the university of pennsylvania, and he said he sees the parallels between the market participants 
see dean PAGE 7 
“we can say with some 


By LESLEY STEVENSON 
surety now that the parti­
news writer 
cle that we observed is the 
researchers from a glob-higgs boson, or what some 
al collaboration, including people call the ‘god parti­
notre dame faculty and students, presented find­ings further characterizing the recently-documented higgs boson on Thursday in la Thuile, italy. 
physics professor colin Jessop, one of the research­ers, called the findings “the biggest discovery of par­ticle physics for the past 50 years.” 
cle,’” Jessop said. 
The higgs boson is a par­ticle created in the high-im­pact, high-energy collision of protons at cern’s large hadron collider (lhc) in geneva, switzerland. cern is the European Organization for Nuclear Research. 
Jessop said all objects 

see physicisTs PAGE 5 



seminar explores funding 
seminar, titled “science with policymakers and offi-
By HENRY GENS 

news writer policy ethics: guiding cials firsthand. 
science through regulation Junior rachel cotton and 
Twelve undergraduate and of research and Funding,” college of science dean graduate students explored for the first time this semes-gregory crawford led the the ethics of scientific fund-ter. it invited students in the trip to the nation’s capi­ing this spring break during science and engineering dis-tal. cotton, a biological a center for social concerns ciplines to learn more about sciences major, said the stu­(csc) immersion experience the processes and policies dents visited federal and in washington, d.c. behind the allotment of sci­
 The csc offered the entific funding by meeting see seminar PAGE 5 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 FooTball PAGE 20 men’s laX PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 


What was the worst gift you’ve ever received? 


Lucy Du 


Cooper Cohen 
freshman 

freshman 
ryan hall 

morrissey hall 
“a dog toy.” 

“sobriety.” 

Sean Onderdonk 


Ashley Lawrence 
freshman 

junior 
morrissey hall 

Farley hall 
“awareness.” 

“a shake-weight.” 

William Mahone 


Chris Andrews 
freshman 

junior 
morrissey hall 

Keenan hall 
“a pencil holder.” 

“a used coloring book.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine owers laura coletti peter durbin Kit loughran 

Graphics 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
steph wulz 
Scene Photo 

ankur chawla 
Men’s Lacrosse Zen Meditation Women’s Lacrosse Notre Dame Holy Half Women’s Lacrosse 
Kirby mcKenna 

Arlotta Stadium Coleman-Morse Arlotta Stadium Marathon Arlotta Stadium 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Campuswide 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Game vs. Ohio State. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Game vs. Rutgers. All day Game vs. Villanova. 
Corrections 
Sitting, walking and 

The observer regards itself as reading mediations. Film: Monty Python’s a professional publication and 
Lecture “The Meaning of 
strives for the highest standards 
131 DeBartolo Hall Ask Anonymously Concert: Altan Baseball Life” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
4 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Carole Sander Hall DeBartolo Performing Frank Eck Stadium DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
“Rome: A 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 2:05 p.m.-5 p.m. Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Topographical-Receive answers 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Game vs. Seton Hall. 11:55 p.m.-1:38 a.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Historical Introduction to your hot-button A traditional Irish A classic satirical 
we can correct our error. 

(Part 1).” Catholic questions. ensemble. comedy. 


CSC conference fosters peace 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
This weekend’s catholic social Tradition conference will cel­ebrate the 50th anniversary of “pacem in Terris,” a papal en­cyclical that purports the impor­tance of human rights. 
The center for social concerns (csc) is sponsoring “peace yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow,” the second biannual conference at notre dame. bill purcell, asso­ciate director for catholic social tradition and practice at the csc, said speakers will present aca­demic papers related to achieving peace on earth. 
“one of the key aspects the conference is trying to do is see how we look at ‘pacem in Terris,’” purcell said. “what have we done in the past to work for peace, what are we doing now and what can we do in the future?” 
The conference will open Thursday evening with an ad­dress by keynote speaker Fr. Kenneth himes, an associate professor of theology at boston college, and will conclude with a saturday evening mass in the basilica of the sacred heart. 
scholars from all over the world will present more than 40 papers during the course of the three days, purcell said. The speakers, who are not only international but also interfaith, will explore peace and justice issues of all ca­pacities, he said. 
sample topics include bringing peace to liturgy wars, utilizing modern methods of communica­tion as a way of promoting peace and peace-building through women. 
“notre dame is a place to bring in scholars from around the country and world to talk about catholic social Tradition,” purcell said. “This conference is a way to gather these scholars so notre dame is a place where the church does its thinking.” 
in addition to scholars from 
“This conference is a way to gather these scholars so Notre Dame is a place where the Church does its thinking.” 
Bill Purcell 
CST associate director 
around the world, purcell said the conference attracts attend­ees from a wide range of places, including 25 states, 30 universi­ties and other countries, such as chile. 
“it’s about learning about ways of engaging people from around the world,” purcell said. “we’re learning international ways and applications of how do we be peace builders.” 
although registration costs $150 for other attendees, the con­ference is free for notre dame, holy cross and saint mary’s stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
purcell encouraged students to attend as a way to confront is­sues of peace and justice they are likely to encounter throughout their lives. 
“These are great … lectur­ers to hear about ways to engage through the world,” he said. “once you graduate here, you’re going to engage the world, and a great way to learn is to hear from folks who are already doing it.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 

monday marked the begin­ning of saint mary’s annual Tag week, which aims to in­form students about the costs of running the college and the importance of donations to the school. 
The class gift campaign (cgc), a student effort led in conjunction with the office of annual giving, organized the week. shelby herms, class of 2013 cgc representative, said students’ donations to the annual Fund go to their class’s ccg account and immediately impact the lives of saint mary’s women. 
“your gifts accumulate over four years so that you can make a lasting and memorable gift to saint mary’s at gradua­tion,” herms said. “The class of 2012 donated to the renova­tion of angela athletic facili­ties, which is one of the options for this year’s gift, as well as a scholarship in our class’s name.” 
cgc will host a table in the spes unica atrium to collect gifts every morning this week from 9 a.m. to noon, herms said. The group will sell mugs that say ‘once a belle, always a belle’ at the cgc table in the student center atrium to­day through Friday. Tag week bingo will be in the west wing of the noble Family dining hall on Thursday at dinner. 
while gifts of all amounts are welcomed, herms said the cgc is pushing for Tribute gifts of $20.13 in honor of the gradu­ating class. a Tribute gift is a donation from a student that honors someone who helped with her saint mary’s educa­tion. each tribute will be pub­lished in the commencement 
SMC gift campaign begins 


paid adverTisemenT 
edition of The observer and the honoree will be notified by email, herms said. 
“i think that [the] class gift campaign is great because it allows us to recognize the gifts of past belles by giving back to the college like they did,” herms said. “i never realized just how much it takes to make the saint mary’s experience possible.” 
Junior maddy martin, class of 2014 cgc representative, said she knows how important Tag week is this year because of the college’s recent capital campaignh launch to raise funds. 
“we are really pushing each class to give to their class gift in order to reach our goal dol­lar amount,” martin said. “in regards to actual class gifts, the senior class votes at the end of their senior year where they want the gift to go to,” martin said past classes have donated to the spes unica building and the restoration of the sister madeleva painting. The class of 2012’s gift of more than $20,000 was the largest class gift to date, she said. 
“i don’t think students real­ize how much it costs to keep this school running,” martin said.  “we take for granted elec­tricity and water bills because they are always taken care of for us. it is important for stu­dents to have this realization of just how much the college spends to keep us on campus because they are more likely to give back to the school.” 
Junior lauren bruner, class of 2014 cgc co-chair, said al­though asking students for money is difficult, it is impor­tant to give back to the college. “many students, including my­self, would not be here without scholarships, which shows how vital donations are,” bruner said. “it’s rewarding to be able to give back to the college and see your gift on campus.” 
Junior Jillian Fata said it is important for students to recognize the changes the college can make through the campaign. 
past gifts have gone to big projects, but they have also gone directly to scholarships, meaning that a future belle can have the same opportu­nities that we are fortunate enough to have every day,” Fata said. 
class giving is a  important part of being a student as well as an alumna, hermsdsaid. last year, 7,450 alumnae and friends of the college made a gift to help with the college’s expenses. Twenty percent of the college’s budget is a result of this support, herms said. 
“They contributed $10.5 million in gifts to support all aspects of our education 
— touching every corner of campus, from building new building), to installing wire­less internet, to providing toi­let paper and hand soap in our bathrooms,” herms said. we need the help to continue providing the saint mary’s ex­perience, and making a gift is a way to say thank you to all of the alumnae who have made your education possible!” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Victim finds courage as leader 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
daisy hernandez, author of “colonize This!: young women of color on Today’s Feminism,” kicked off saint mary’s student diversity board’s (sdb) 8th an­nual leadership conference “From awareness to action,” on Tuesday, march 19 in carroll auditorium. 
her broad “view of what lead­ership should be or can look like” set the stage for this year’s student’s diverse leadership conference (dslc), the largest student-led conference in the midwest. 
The keynote speaker was 11 years old when she had her first encounter with leader­ship. her elementary school teacher prompted an argument on extraterrestrial existence on neptune. hernandez, cogni­zant of the fact she belonged to one of the few latin american families in her new Jersey com­munity, identified with the out­sider and chose to affirm the e.T.’s presence. 
“my uncle — my favorite uncle — actually had resident alien written on his id,” said hernandez. 
brought up in a cuban­colombian household, hernandez belonged to a family of mixed immigration status. 
“i was always aware of the challenges. There is a lot of fear that comes with being undocu­mented,” said hernandez. “it took me a while to piece togeth­er who in my own family had “papeles” and who didn’t.” 
after her teacher read the budding writer’s essay aloud, her classmates were in ascen­sion —aliens must reside on neptune. although amused by her success, hernandez real­ized the power of her essay 
“i realized that if i could con­vince those kids that aliens ex­isted, i could convince people of anything,” said hernandez. 
hernandez acknowledged that her growth was facilitated by many of her open-minded teachers. They made the subject matter fascinating by establish­ing connections and making the material relatable, she said. 
The catholic grammar school she attended had sex educa­tion classes in which concerned educators discussed hiv and aids in spite of the stigma that still existed in the 80s. she was exposed to the story of ryan white, a teenager infected with hiv and barred from attending his high school as a result. 
“who hasn’t been exclud­ed at one time or another?” hernandez said. 
her all-girls high school showed her the value of creat­ing a safe space by its support group for students who under­went abortions, she said. 
“seeing what my teachers did outside of the classroom was inspiring.” 
in college, hernandez began to identify herself as a feminist. 
“i think most people feel they’re beyond the ‘personal is political’ phrase, but i love it, and will always love it,” she said. 
hernandez said she par­ticipated in “Taking back the night” and joined a march through her college. once the group’s protest concluded and they returned to the student center to discuss, hernandez recalled that a young man in the back stood up and said his girlfriend was a victim of sexual abuse and asked what he could do to fix it. 
“he had a very conventional idea of leadership. very ‘i can solve this. i can do something about it,’” she said. “of course, there was no solution. people told him he could not do any­thing but support her. in a way, get in touch with his own feelings.” 
hernandez also referenced the first congressional senate meeting in 10 years that took place last week to address sexu­al violence in the military. 
“a male survivor spoke before the senate for the first time. he acknowledged he did not just speak for himself, other men had been abused,” she said. “That’s the kind of leadership in which survivors exist.” 
hernandez, a bisexual wom­an and victim of sexual abuse, said she found herself through his courage, attributing her success as a leader to the idea of “engaged empathy.” 
“it is not pity,” said hernandez. “it’s an appeal to our own sense of possibility. it unites us and then calls us to action. if we focus on the core of the issues, connections start to happen and changes made.” 
it was this potential that in­spired “colonize This!: young women of color on Today’s Feminism.” The collection of carefully selected stories co­edited by hernandez includes pieces by people living incredi­bly diverse lives that encompass universal truths. 
“The feedback is shocking to me,” she said. “it created a sen­sation of connectedness with people who had completely dif­ferent backgrounds. 
hernandez stressed that its contributors were not bean-picked by race. 
“‘curandera’ is spanish for healer,” she said. “books are ‘curanderas’ because of their healing force, their ability to create empathy.” 
hernandez closed her speech by encouraging the audience to write their own book. 
“art is such a great vehicle for social change,” hernandez said. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 

bellah lectures on industry 
topped 1000 by the year 2000 and is expected to climb to an immense value of 5000 in the next century, bellah said. such increases, though they drive his research, cause challenges for humanity. 
in the face of this extreme change, bellah said, “how do we as a species adapt to a rate of change that no biological spe­cies has ever faced before?” 
To explain the immediacy of this question, bellah considered malthus’ famous prediction 
see bellah PAGE 6 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 

dr. robert bellah, professor of sociology at the university of california at berkeley, delved into the dilemma of human evo­lution, religion and moderniza­tion in his lecture on Tuesday in the mcKenna hall auditorium. 
The lecture drew togeth­er concepts of the modern world bellah has compiled for his forthcoming book, “The modern project in the light of human evolution,” which en­gages the consequences of rapid industrialization, especially en­vironmental degradation and the way the human is viewed as a person. bellah described the startling impact of industrial­ization by tracking the growth of human expansion with a so­cial development index. in 2000 bce, human society earned an unimpressive rank of 4. by 100 ce the roman empire reached 43 on the index, a limit or “hard ceiling” which remained un­broken for centuries. 
The industrial revolution in 18th century britain shattered this “hard ceiling,” as the index 
paid adverTisemenT 





Seminar 
conTinued From page 1 
member-funded organiza­tions, as well as political advisers and congressmen. she said a highlight of these visits was a presenta­tion at the Food and drug administration’s center 
for  drug  evaluation  and  
research office.  
“we  learned  about  the  

ethical and policy dilem­mas of drug development for rare and neglected dis­eases,” cotton said. “They affect such a small portion of the population that the Fda’s guidelines for study sample size, whether chil­dren should be included in trials and so on, have to be reconsidered.” 
students attended weekly preparation classes before the trip, cotton said. The course featured speakers from various scientific and engineering disciplines who talked about funding and ethics in their particu­lar fields. 
cotton said she first thought of creating such a course after attending a talk by Kathie olsen, a member of notre dame’s research and government relations team, titled “how not to get an nsF grant.” 

“i thought, ‘oh god, i re­ally don’t know any of this stuff,’” cotton said. “and as someone interested in pur­suing a career in science, i thought it was definitely something that i should know and that others might think was important as well.” 
in July, cotton and fellow junior biological science major roger smith pitched to crawford the idea of cre­ating a seminar to explore modes of and policies be­hind scientific research funding. 
“rachel had this great idea that science students could really benefit from a dose of policy because as scientists, we don’t create policy, but we inform it,” crawford said. “by offer­ing a small seminar in con­junction with the center for social concerns, we could do just that and incorporate ethical aspects as well.” 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 

Physicists 
conTinued From page 1 

gain their property of mass through interaction with the higgs field. 
“if you create enough ener­gy to interact with this field, you’ll make what’s called a higgs boson, a particle that is kind of the smoking gun that there’s a higgs field there,” Jessop said. 
Jessop said researchers now can confirm that the experimental particle’s ba­sic characteristics, includ­ing spin and parity, match those of the theoretical higgs boson. 
“in the last six months, we’ve been taking two-and­a-half times more data since July,” he said. “ and the re­sults that we presented [in italy] were evidence that the 
“In the last six months, we’ve been taking two­and-a-half times more data since July. And the results that we presented [in Italy] were evidence that the particle we discovered behaves exactly as we thought it was going to.” 
Colin Jessop 
physicist 

particle we discovered be­haves exactly as we thought it was going to.” Jessop said the team confirmed the experi­mental higgs boson interacts with fermions, the essential components of matter, the way it theoretically should. until now, Jessop said re­searchers had not observed interactions between the higgs boson and fermions. 
“it’s supposed to interact with everything – that’s how it gives mass,” he said. “so, if there were a set of particles it didn’t interact with, then it wouldn’t have been the higgs boson we thought it was. … we showed that the higgs bo­son interacts with all the par­ticles we thought it should.” Jessop said the findings sup­port evidence scientists in the(compact muon solenoi) collaboration,nwhich inclu­deg the notre dame team, gathered last year that sug­gesg the existence of the higgs boson 
“we started seeing the hints of this about a year ago at this time,” Jessop said. “we started to see some evidence, but not conclusive.“Then the signals got stronger and stronger, and in July we had a big announcement that we had observed something that looked like a higgs boson, but we weren’t absolutely sure.” 
Jessop said building ac­celerators able to supplh enough energy for the pro­ton collision has been the keynobstacle to finding the higgs boson. 
“we’ve been looking to try 



paid adverTisemenT 
to make one of these higgs bosons by putting more and more energy into it … but we haven’t been able, as it turns out, to get to sufficient ener­gy until just recently.” Jessop said.  notre dame sends postdoctoral researchers and graduate students to the lhc for a hands-on experience, Jessop said. 
“all the people who do the hard work really are the young people, the graduate students and the [post-doc­torate studentss,” he said. 
postdoctoral research as­sociatr Jeff Kolb said he and graduate students nil valls and doug berry spent time living in europe, not just writing computer codes to analyze data, but alsok­working on the experiment’s equipment. 
in order to be listed as an author, Kolb said stu­dents must word for a year on something other than data analysis, among other requirements. 
valls said looking for evi­dence of the higgs boson was the chief difficulty in ana­lyzing the 20 petabytes (the equivalent of 20 million giga­bytes) of data per year.scien­tists produce at the lhc. 
“it’s like looking for a needle in a haystack,” valls said. “writing code is inevi­table, for grad students at least, because that is the best way to sort of look for those needles.” 
Jessop said higgs research continues despite the tempo­rary halt of collisions at the lhc to allow upgrades meant to double the energy of the accelerator. data collections will resume in 2016 and con­tinue througo 2020, he said. the notre dame team will continue working to improve the higgs detector for the program’s second phase from 2023 to 2035. 
“at the new energy there is a good possibility of fur­ther new discoveries in ad­dition to continuing to study the higgs in detail,” Jessop said. …we’ve had a giant suc­cess, but for us it’s kind of a beginning.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Pope 
conTinued From page 1 
before.” 
This is a “revolutionary pope,” he said, and he will evangelize to the world by the way he leads his life. 
“something exciting is going to happen [in the church], be­cause he has already changed a lot of the standard protocol or traditions for popes in their first couple days,” rojas said. “i’m really excited to see what he has in store and how he handles such a huge leadership position.” 
Katia Fernandez, a sopho­more born in lima, peru, said she did a double take when she first saw the new pope ap­pear on the balcony. his latin american background makes him family to her, she said. 
Fernandez said she thinks 
Bellah 
conTinued From page 4 

that humanity will de­plete its resources and en­counter a “hard ceiling” beyond which it cannot pass. although industrial­ization may have raised the ceiling, whether society will collide softly or violently with this boundary remains to be seen, bellah said. 
The boundaries that hu­manity faces brought to mind the uniqueness of the modern condition and led him to ponder if the great religious traditions could provide relevant solutions in a rapidly advancing so­ciety. in viewing the new understanding of the hu­man person that accom­panies modernization, bellah said religion remains pertinent. 
in the second half of his lecture, bellah examined how the recognition of hu­man dignity has evolved alongside industrialization, as seen in “The declaration of independence” and the united nations’ “universal declaration on human rights”. Though the idea of the dignified human person permeated multiple societ­ies, from ancient palestine to imperial rome, bellah emphasized these docu­ments “put the demand for human rights on the table.” 
bellah acknowledged “gaudium et spes,” pro­duced during the second vatican council, as a criti­cal, catholic contribution to the global focus on hu­man rights that did not limit the special value of the hu­man person based on creed or ideals. 
The unprecedented trans­formations of moderniza­tion coupled with the value of the human person form is what bellah said he consid­ered two enormous societal tensions in a world that has been made fragile by expo­nential human growth. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 
europe; our church today no longer resembles the church that saint Francis of assisi [knew], when it remained confined to the eastern hemisphere,” he said. “our church today has encom­passed all continents and con­tinues to grow.” 
sophomore cecilia ruiz, whose family is originally from oaxaca, mexico, said the decision represents the sense that “the face of the catholic church is becoming more latino.” 
“i believe that the selection of pope Francis reflects the fact that… the face of the catholic church is changing,” she said. “it has been a well-known fact that much of latin america is catholic… [and] i feel that with pope Francis as our pope, the church will grow more. 
“it feels right that it should be led by someone who can connect with a large portion of the church not only in a spiri­tual manner, but also on a cul­tural level,” ruiz said. 
although she has never felt the church was disconnected from latin america, ruiz said Francis’ latino heritage fills her with a sense of solidarity. 
“[The church] is being led by a man who can relate to my family and me on a dif­ferent level,” she said. “The fact that he speaks our lan­guage gives me a stronger tie to the church… [but] no mat­ter what ethnicity the pope may be, his leadership should make the faith of the church stronger.” 
esteban rojas, a sophomore with family ties to colombia, said he believes the choice is the cardinals’ way of acknowl­edging a “momentum shift” within the church, as the latino catholic numbers con­tinue to grow worldwide. 
“over the past century, the church has definitely expand­ed in the americas as opposed to staying in the european cul­tures,” rojas said. “i think [the cardinals] want a fresh take on the church, and the new pope has proven that things will be different with his humility and leadership already. 
“with Francis being a latino, his background and culture can contribute to the church beyond its european identity,” he said. “he’ll bring different insight that will benefit the church worldwide, not just in latin america.” 
rojas said while the elec­tion of a latino pontiff hasn’t changed the way he thinks of the church, it has energized his faith. 
“The cardinals obviously want a leader for the church as a whole, and Francis is an excellent leader for the entire church, not just the latino population,” he said. “it is ex­citing to see one of our own represented in such a high position, though, especially because it’s never been seen a latino pope will unify the latino population in the united states and throughout latin america. 
“This election has strength­ened my identity as a latina catholic,” Fernandez said. “having a latino pope has brought me closer to my fam­ily and community, and i hope that pope Francis… will be a household name for latino families. 
sophomore Juan rangel, a native of mexico, said he hopes Francis will make latin american issues known world­wide and bring new energy to the search for solutions. 
“his actions just after as­suming the role of pope, like insisting on paying rent and deciding against other papal traditions, demonstrates that he wants to portray himself as one of us,” rangel said. “i hope that image of himself is main­tained and strengthened dur­ing his time as pope. it will not only help within the church as catholics are warmed by this personality, but assist in in­ternational affairs as he meets leaders around the world.” 
rangel said he has high hopes for the papacy and it strengthens his faith to see that the faith is truly universal, not limited to europe. 
“i’m really excited to see what papa Francisco will do during his papacy,” he said. “i envision him to be as great as pope John paul ii was, and i hope his background and per­sonality truly aid in his role as leader of our church.” 
For Fisher, the bottom line is not the cultural identity of the new pope but rather the legacy of faith he brings. 
“each pope offers new wis­dom and gifts with the oppor­tunity to serve christ and the church, and i look forward to this with papa Francisco,” Fisher said. “but while i have faith in the new pope, my faith itself or how i think about my church, does not depend on his nationality. 
“i only pray for a papacy blessed with true charity and love. i could not ask for more, and i expect no less.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowksi at ajakubo1@nd.edu. 





Decades-old art heist comes closer to solution 
men who posed as police of-
Associated Press 
ficers and stole 13 works of 

bosTon — now that au-art from the museum in 1990. thorities believe they know The theft remains the largest who stole $500 million worth art heist in u.s. history. of art from boston's isabella bob wittman, a retired Fbi stewart gardner museum in agent from philadelphia who the largest art heist in u.s. specialized in art crimes, history, what are the chances said he helped recover a set they'll actually recover the of seven norman rockwell stolen works by rembrandt, paintings stolen from a vermeer and manet after 23 minneapolis museum in years? 1977. The paintings were 
surprisingly good, art re-found in rio de Janeiro in covery experts say. 2001. wittman said he also 
christopher marinello, helped recover an original general counsel for The art copy of the bill of rights that loss register, a london-had been stolen more than based organization that 130 years earlier. keeps a database of stolen "i think that the chances and missing artwork, re-are that if they still exist, cently recovered a matisse there's a 95 percent chance oil painting stolen from a they are going to get the stockholm museum in 1987. paintings back," wittman 
"a quarter of a century is said. not that unusual for stolen "at some point, they are go-paintings to be returned," ing to come back to market. marinello said. "eventually whoever is holding them il­they will resurface. licitly is going to get old. an somebody will rat somebody heir or a child is going to find else out. it's really only a it and try to sell it." matter of time." The Fbi, which made its 
The Fbi announced monday announcement on the 23rd that it knows but is not dis-anniversary of the heist, also closing the identities of two launched a new publicity 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 



campaign aimed at generat­ing tips on the whereabouts of the artwork, including a dedicated Fbi website on the heist, video postings on Fbi social media sites and digi­tal billboards in connecticut and philadelphia. They also re-emphasized a $5 million reward being offered by the museum for information leading to the return of the artwork. 
damon Katz, a spokesman for the Fbi's boston office, said tips were already com­ing in Tuesday. he would not say how many. 
"we are analyzing them and we will act on those as appropriate," he said. "The goal is not to generate the largest number of tips, but to generate the best tips that will lead us to the art." 
richard deslauriers, an Fbi agent in boston, said investigators believe the thieves belonged to a crimi­nal organization based in new england and the mid-at­lantic states. They believe the art was taken to connecticut and the philadelphia re­gion in the years after the 

Dean 
conTinued From page 1 

and the people involved in the educational system. 
“in fact, [the financial mar­ket microstructure] has a lot of relevance to what i’m doing today as dean in the sense that you talk about processes, about rules, protocols, best practices, operating rules and incentives,” huang said. “we have multiple marketplace participants here, interactions between students and teachers, between staff and alumni and benefactors and sup­porters. 
“of course, we are not trans­acting currencies or bonds and stocks, but here we are partaking in the learning process and how to best support the education process for our students.” 
before coming to notre dame, huang taught at vanderbilt university, the university of Florida, the massachusetts institute of Technology and purdue university. he said as a catholic, notre dame has “a special place in [his] heart” and a connection with woo first brought him to the university. 
“carolyn woo and i both came to the united states from hong Kong in the same year, we both graduated from purdue in the same year with our bachelor’s degrees,” huang said. “we part­ed ways for awhile [after purdue] and then notre dame brought us back together.” 
huang said he was invited to give a seminar at notre dame, and when offered the chance to join the faculty, “it didn’t take much” to persuade him. 
bloomberg businessweek several rembrandts, "a lady and gentleman in black" and "storm on the sea of galilee," his only seascape. 
The statute of limitations has expired on crimes asso­ciated with the actual theft. but prosecutors say anyone who knowingly possesses or conceals the stolen art could still face charges. 
theft and offered for sale in philadelphia a decade ago. after that, the Fbi does not know what happened to the artwork, delauriers said. 
empty frames still hang on the walls of the museum as a reminder of the loss of precious works of art, including "The concert" by Johannes vermeer and 
has ranked mendoza’s under­graduate program as the nation’s number one for three consecu­tive years and the mba program ranked 20th overall in their sys­tem. huang said these numbers are not the foundation of the college’s identity, though, and mendoza’s defining goal is to share the idea of commerce as service to mankind. 
“The vision or mission that was given to us by our founder [cardinal John o’hara] in 1941 is to make the world a better place,” he said. “when we teach our stu­dents, it’s not just about learning the tools of the trade, so to speak, but also how to use them prop­erly for the benefit of society.” 
while other universities might express similar aims for their programs, huang said notre dame is unique in its consistent commitment to this vision. 
“From the time we were found­ed until now, we have never wa­vered from our vision. it’s not a fashion thing for us,” huang said. “other schools have made this a calling card since, say, after 2008, saying they’re about business for good, … but we have been doing it long before it was fashionable, and we will do it when one day the other schools might abandon it.” 
during his time as interim dean, huang finalized a part­nership between mendoza and renmin university in beijing, china, to train chinese graduate students pursuing careers with nonprofit organizations. This partnership, part of mendoza’s unique master of nonprofit administration (mna) program, will begin next year to bring students from renmin to notre dame to complete a dual degree program. 
“in mendoza, we have a com­petitive advantage in our master of nonprofit administration pro­gram and we are very proud of the program,” huang said. “it’s one of a very few that are housed within business schools in the united states, which is very im­portant. nonprofit organizations need to be profitable in order to be sustainable, hence the need to be able to understand business, so it is crucial to be housed in the business school.” 
huang said the pilot program will be small at first, but mendoza hopes to eventually accommo­date between 12 and 20 students. 
“china nowadays is experienc­ing a huge growth in nonprofit organizations, and all the people over there need to have some training in nonprofit adminis­tration,” he said. “This program will enable them to participate in that quest.” 
mendoza’s elite reputation among the nation’s business schools is exciting, huang said, and he plans to leverage it to share o’hara’s vision and give students an opportunity to make a difference in the business world. 
“i hope we share [with our students] a notre dame brand of business education that will give them not only the tools to change the world, but hopefully also the commitment to chang­ing the world,” he said. “They can make the world a better place to live in with those tools, and that’s exactly the hope i have for them.” 

Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 

bracket madness 
A.J. Godeaux 
sports writer 

everyone and their mother fills out a march madness bracket. literally. The ‘office pool’ has become as much a yearly tradition in america as fireworks on July 4th. it’s hard to find someone who doesn’t count the tournament among their fa­vorite sporting events, and filling out a bracket has become integral to the march madness ‘experience.’ i have no problem with that. That being said, when said people, knowing nothing about college basketball, unapologetically swoop in and steal my bracket pool glory, that’s a differ­ent story. 
in my years of participating in various bracket pools, i’ve come to the conclusion that those who fill out a march madness bracket generally fall into one of three cat­egories. The first are the college basketball nerds, people i have a ridiculous amount of respect for. These people pore through offensive and defensive stats, quality wins, strength of schedule and any other rel­evant statistic, examining each team like a brain surgeon. These people never, ever win. 
The second category are the faithful-‘til­death fans. These people, no matter how atrociously bad their teams are, always pick them to pull off a miraculous upset or make a Final Four run. normally they fail miserably, picking their alma maters to up­set the dukes of the world. once in a blue moon, they actually get it right, picking their alma maters to upset the dukes of the world, as in last year’s upending of duke by a ragtag team from lehigh. of course, with duke being a top-ranked team in the country, the basketball nerds fell on their faces. That being said, i have a tremendous amount of respect for this group just for their unfaltering faithfulness. 
This last group of fans i have no respect for. my mother, whom i respect in all areas outside athletic expertise, probably falls into this group, as does your five-year-old sister and the neighbor who watches the Food network all day. These people pick James madison to beat indiana because James madison was a president. They know nothing about college basketball. yet inexplicably they pick the 2006 george mason team to make a Final Four run be­cause their best friend in high school went there, or better yet, because their campus is a half-hour from your house, as was the rationale of many of my classmates in the nightmare that was my fifth-grade bracket pool. This group wins 75 percent of brack­et pools, i’m sure of it. 
so while i spend hours looking at stat after stat, lineup after lineup, team after team, i hope those members of the third group hide their brackets. because i will steal them, copy them verbatim and cheer like crazy for James madison. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Serving at God’s call 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 
once upon a time, in a place far away from the united states, a little boy was born to a modest, immigrant family. and he grew up quite quickly, like most little boys do. he discovered passions for soccer, chemistry and the Tango. but as he grew older, he found a deeper pas­sion that united these three interests: his faith. 
in that capacity, he desired to become a priest. he worked and studied for many years and took the traditional vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. but he made an additional promise as well: to not pursue or desire higher ecclesiastical office within the church. 
but god had other plans for him. higher powers desired his leadership and wisdom in service to the catholic faith. he was made an archbishop, then a cardinal. and just under a week ago, he was called by his brother cardinals to fol­low in the footsteps of peter, the humble galilean fisherman and the “rock” upon which christ built his church. cardinal archbishop Jorge mario bergoglio of buenos aires became pope Francis, uni­versal pastor to a billion followers around the world. 
To many observers, Francis’ journey to the papacy seemed unlikely. he came from humble beginnings and pursued chemistry until he heard a call to the priesthood. he also suffered from a bout of life-threatening pneumonia, an illness that compromised one of his lungs. when his name was announced, news outlets were scrambling to find his name on the list of cardinals. 
but is Francis’ call really something astonishing? Throughout history, god has been full of surprises, often working in the most unexpected of ways. Those who Jesus called to be apostles, after all, were often people who no one could have anticipated: lowly fisherman like andrew and James or detested tax collectors like matthew. 

god’s plans for us too are, at least ini­tially, sometimes incomprehensible to our mortal understanding. a line from u2’s song ‘mysterious ways’ can be used to describe god: “[he] moves in mys­terious ways.” and don’t forget woody allen’s famous quip: “if you want to make god laugh, tell him your plans.” 
Francis’ election may have been sur­prising, but his elevation demonstrates another powerful truth: god does not always pick frontrunners. rather, god loves and desires to work through each one of us, frontrunner or not. 
Francis’ example reminds us that god does not overlook anyone. no matter our perceived suitability, god reminds us, over and over again, that we all are loved and called to greatness, called to use our gifts in service to his kingdom. 
obviously, few of us will ever be called to positions like the papacy. what re­ally matters, however, is our response to god’s individual calls for us. and we are faced with the challenges of responding to these calls every day. acceptances, rejections and wait-lists for colleges, jobs, volunteer programs and the like force us to confront our perceived directions. perhaps our own desires for our future do not match the options god has presented us. 
but no matter what lies in front of us, truly hearing the voice of god requires us to silence those inner clamors of pride that put our directions and wills above god’s will. we are in need of humble hearts to remind us that it is always “thy will [christ’s will,] be done.” 
Francis’ “accepto” to his election as pope demonstrates that humility. chances are Francis did not desire the papacy, a position that requires enor­mous amounts of time and energy. perhaps Francis, having passed the tra­ditional retirement age of 75 for bishops, was looking forward to a quieter life after the conclave. at this point, however, we’ll never know. 
what we do know, to be sure, is that he accepted his call. and from the moment he first appeared on the balcony of st. peter’s basilica, the extent of his humil­ity immediately became apparent. he said, “and now, we take up this journey: bishop and people. a journey of frater­nity, of love, of trust among us. let us always pray for one another. let us pray for the whole world, that there may be a great spirit of fraternity.” Francis’ words demonstrate that he does not see himself first as the pope, but rather as a bishop united with his flock, a shepherd and fellow follower of christ on pilgrimage to heaven. 
most importantly, Francis’ decision to accept reminds us that our call is never re­ally ours, but god’s. Francis, like us, does not know what the journey ahead will hold. yet his acceptance reminds us that it is only a trusting and loving heart that will be capable of transforming the hu­man race into a heavenly fraternity. Then, there will be no divisions among us, but we will all be made one in christ Jesus. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
In defense of same-sex marriage 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

last Thursday, the movement against same-sex marriage saw its latest defec­tion, as senator rob portman of ohio announced his support for marriage equality. portman, rumored to be on the short-list for the vp slot on mitt romney’s presidential ticket, said he came to embrace his position after his own son told portman he was gay. reactions ranged from appreciative acceptance from some, to respectful disagreement from others. and then, of course, were the ideologues on both sides. 
The Family research council’s lead­er, Tony perkins, claimed portman was at fault by offering support for “choices that are both harmful to [sons and daughters] and society as a whole.”  not to be outdone, some on the left voiced their disgust that portman’s switch came only in the face of a personal connection to the movement — seem­ingly ignorant of the fact that their own party’s most visible face, the presi­dent, only endorsed the same position months ago. 
regardless of these reactions, howev­er, portman’s new position illuminates a growing trend in america, as more and more of the population recognizes a need for marriage equality. slowly yet surely, state by state, same-sex mar­riage has become first a possibility, and then a reality. its acceptance on a national stage, however, has remained elusive. despite a recently released abc news poll that put national sup­port at 58% percent (and, notably, 81% among those between 18 and 29 years old), it remains a politically charged and contentious issue. if we are to truly hold ourselves as a nation of equals, a country of uniform opportunity and a land with liberty for all; however, this division cannot stand. 
some have hailed marriage as the fabric of society. i don’t necessarily dis­agree. i do believe, however, that this fabric is made better by opening it up to every american. i believe the states and nations that have embraced same-sex marriage have seen their societies strengthened, not damaged, by it. i have a hard time believing that allow­ing loving adults to make their com­mitment official has the ability to harm anyone, much less lessen the value or meaning of marriage for others. 
some have hailed marriage as a his­toric institution. again, i have no argu­ment. but historic institutions are not always best left without change. slavery was a historic institution. democracy, as a historical institution, long listened to the voices of everyone — so long as those voices were male, white and wealthy. 
i readily acknowledge that same-sex marriage is often complicated by religious influences. i’ve watched first­hand as religious groups, including my own diocese, lent immense vocal and financial support to the “traditional” marriage campaign in maine. but in the case of civil same-sex marriage, the question is not a religious one — at least it shouldn’t be. while religious leaders hail marriage as a religious institution, it is also undeniably a civil one, bearing legal and financial implications in addi­tion to its consecration of commitment. Followers of countless religions, as well as those who follow none, are married. 

marriage, in its civil form, is ultimately distinct from its many religious forms. 
so long as civil marriage is governed federally, its availability must be gov­erned by equality, rather than any given religious text or a religion’s lingering discrimination. while some states have come to guarantee this equality, the lack of a national acknowledgement and resolution of today’s most press­ing civil rights issue draws unfortunate and yet well-deserved comparisons to civil rights issues of the past. as with those issues of the past, the rights of a few ought not be subject to the votes of the many. regrettably, these decisions historically may not come solely at the ballot box but also by the correcting guidance of the gavel. eventually, how­ever, i have little doubt that equality will come to pass. 
whether split upon religious or gen­erational lines, there is a clear and irreversible trend toward marriage equality. This division, fortunately, has also become somewhat less politi­cal. more and more, republicans from david Frum, John huntsman and dick cheney to rob portman have come to embrace such a movement. For various reasons, they have come to realize that such equality is the appropriate posi­tion regardless of one’s politics. They’ve also come to realize that focus upon such an issue puts their party both at a disadvantage, and on the wrong side of history. They’ve come to realize that a party for liberty ought to protect the rights of all, and a party that seeks to embody economic growth might be better off listening to the myriad ceos who have filed briefs in support of same-sex marriage. 
i have little doubt about the eventual resolution of the same-sex marriage debate. i do, however, have some regret. my regret is not at the arrival of such equality, for it is long overdue. rather, my regret is in part the time such a change may take. my regret is embod­ied by the struggle i have seen relatives, coworkers and friends endure for the ability to have their relationships rec­ognized. my regret is in part because i know that a religion to which i belong has not supported a movement i feel is necessary, and at times actively fought against it. while i consciously know i shouldn’t expect it to change, this fact nevertheless produces some measure of sadness for me. 
This regret, however, resides along­side some hope for the future. i know in time the mere existence of such a debate will be looked back upon with the same repugnance as the existence of debates surrounding slavery, segre­gation, internment and discrimination, and court cases denying such equality will be met with the same sad remorse as dred scott, brown, and Korematsu. i have hope for an era when such inequi­ty is a distant memory. i have hope for a future in which coworkers, friends and relatives will enjoy a status as equals with the same opportunity that i enjoy. ultimately, i have hope for a future in which marriage is truly defended as a worthwhile institution for all rather than for the many. 
Matt Miklavic is a sophomore studying political science and business from Cape Elizabeth, Maine.  He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

The papal election process demystified 
Jason Kurtyka 
The marquette Tribune 

as pope Francis, formerly cardinal Jorge bergoglio of argentina, assumes his duties as the leader of the catholic church today, local experts shared insight with the Tribune and shed some light on the secretive and secure ancient process that left many surprised this time around. 
“lots of speculation about ‘front-runners’ and various candidates (was) pretty futile … bergoglio was a surprise to me and to many,” said the rev. steven avella, a profes­sor of history, catholic priest and one of marquette’s most prominent papal experts. 
much of the uncertainty leading up to the papal selec­tion can be attributed to the actual conclave process. 
all cardinals under the age of 80 were eligible to vote in last week’s conclave, and 117 cardinals cast their ballots. The first phase of the voting process is called the “pre-scrutiny” phase, in which each cardinal receives at least two paper ballots. 
Then, nine election officials are randomly selected. Three of these, called “scrutinizers,” count the votes. Three “infirmarii” count the votes of those cardinals too sick to be in the chapel, and afterward, three “revisers” re-count all the votes. 
in the voting itself, each cardinal writes his selection for pope on a rectangular piece of paper in handwriting that cannot be recognized as his own. They then proceed to fold and hold the paper above their heads. 
To begin the “scrutiny” phase, the cardinals proceed to the altar one by one and place their ballot in a “paten,” the shallow metal plate used to hold communion wafers dur­ing mass. he then takes that paten and slides his vote into a large chalice. 
This portion of the election process was of great inter­est to the rev. John laurance, a Jesuit and professor in the theology department. 
“i was fascinated by the reported way in which each cardinal, for every ballot, goes to the front of the chapel and, on his knees, lays his filled in ballot on the altar, making a declaration before god that he does so with­out any outside influence and solely for the good of the church,” laurance said. 
when all the ballots are in the chalice, the first scruti­nizer mixes up the ballots and hands them to the second two for counting. The second scrutinizer counts each individual ballot by transferring them to a second chalice. if 117 votes were not cast, the ballots are burned and the voting process restarts. 
To count the votes, the scrutinizers read each ballot aloud in front of the cardinals while tallying the votes one by one. ballots with more than one name or no name at all are discarded. 
after the votes are tallied, the revisers move to the “post-scrutiny” phase, where the three cardinals check the entire process. after verification, the ballots are burned to produce the smoke. if the smoke is black, the election process starts again. if it is white, a new pope has been selected by a two-thirds majority. 
as well as being a very secretive process, the papal elec­tion system is extremely secure. 
First, the system is completely manual, so it is immune to technological risk or difficulties. The ritual used to cast a vote, in front of all the cardinals, is a defense against stuffing the ballot box. 
mot important, during the conclave, the cardinals all sleep and eat inside the vatican together and are not per­mitted to leave until a pope is chosen. 
“The fact (is) that cardinals, if not all saints, are … all decent, god-fearing men, otherwise in this day and age they would never have risen so high in the hierarchy of the church,” laurance said. “and so when they take a solemn vow to preserve secrecy they can be counted on to keep it.” 
william Thorn, a professor of jouranlism and a vatican expert on campus, shared in the surprise of pope Francis’ election. 
“i was stunned, first of all,” Thorn said. “i didn’t think it would be a latin american, although it was certainly a possibility. [bergoglio] was actually number two last time around. i think this makes a lot of sense.” 
This column originally ran in the Mar. 19 edition of The Marquette Tribune, serving  Marquette Umiversity. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MARGARET WAICKMAN 
scene writer 

lena dunham, star and creator of hbo’s award-winning Tv show “girls,” has been called the “voice of a genera­tion” by viewers and critics alike. “girls” follows the lives of four women in their early twenties trying to “find them­selves” while navigating the perils of the nyc dating scene and attempting to make a living out of liberal arts de­grees. i fell in love with “girls” from the first episode, mostly because dunham manages to simultaneously provide hilarious dialogue and an uncomfort­ably real look at the sometimes-bleak troubles of her characters. 
however, after watching this past sunday’s season 2 finale, i might have fallen out of love with the series. The show has shifted from a comedy to a depressingly close study of the different kinds of misery each character experi­ences (spoiler alert). 
in the season 2 finale, we had to watch hannah (still wearing the same “life is good” oversize tee from last episode) cut her own bangs and ask a previous coke addict to fix that carnage. we had to watch shoshanna finally realize that she loves her boyfriend, “the way that, like, you feel sorry for a monkey, they need so much help and live in a cage”. we had watch marnie and charlie get back together, mostly because marnie wants charlie for his money and charlie wants marnie for her looks. oh, and Jessa is still oddly missing from the show. 
The friendships which made “girls” so fun to watch have disintegrated. shoshana, marnie, Jessa and hannah are rarely in scenes together anymore, limiting the witty banter that i once loved, and making the title of the show questionable. 
The finale didn’t just show the girls distancing themselves from each other. This finale showed each girl having the miseries in her life remedied by not the female companionship the show once knew and loved, but by the saving grace of a man. The “worst year” of marnie’s life has finally been put back togeth­er when she gets back with charlie. shoshanna does dump her sorry boy­friend, but the victory she experiences isn’t complete until she hooks up with a hunky blonde stranger. 

hannah, perhaps the most dysfunc­tional of them all, calls her creepy man-child ex-stalker when she doesn’t know what else to do. The episode concludes with adam running shirtless through the streets of new york city to hannah’s apartment. once her gets there, he breaks down her door and picks her up to cradle her like a baby. The “girls” i know and love is written by young women and for young women. The les­son that i learned from sunday’s finale 
– young women should find a man to fix their mistakes. 
There is the possibility that dunham is setting us up for the reconciliation of the girls in season 3. we saw a shot of the beginning of hannah’s book, which read, “a friendship between college girls is grander and more dramatic than any romance...” hopefully this one line is an indicator that season 3 will not be a continuation of the rom-com nature of the end to season 2, but rather a move back to what the show is supposed to be about: the friendship between girls. 
i am going to tune in to season 3 just to see where the show goes. i have a hard time imagining that dunham will allow it to continue much longer in this knight-in-shining armor direc­tion, given her comments at the globe that, “[this] award is for every woman who felt like there wasn’t a space for her.” “girls” is a show about women, not about the men who save those women. while the season 2 finale left a bad taste in my mouth, hopefully season 3 will provide us with the restoration of the friendships and witty banter that i once fell in love with. 
Contact Margaret Waickman at mwaickma@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer Photos courtesy of imdb.com 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Emilie Terhaar 
scene writer 

There are less than 48 hours, people! march 22nd is the very last day of the drop period for notre dame students. do you currently have five or more classes? why? why would you do that to yourself? do you really need all those to graduate? couldn’t you take one abroad? or senior year when you have nothing but free time? 
i’m not some rogue slacker playing the fictional, saucy devil character on your shoulder.  really, i’m just looking out for you. This is notre dame. we all care about each other’s grades. i just want everyone to make dean’s list so as to challenge myself even more. but really, truthfully, all i’m saying is there is a point of no return coming up. after march 22nd, you get what you get, and those grades are on your transcript for future employers, potential lovers, pos­sible parents-in-laws, law enforcement background checks and even obituary writers to see! 
so, i am looking out for you. here are some questions you should be asking yourself: 
1. 
do you currently have below a b- average in any classes? (if you don’t, then good for you! if you do, then keep reading, comrade!) 

2. 
are more than half the grades for the challenging class(es) done and recorded? un-revisable, un-editable, gone by the wayside and flushed down the toilet pipe for all of eternity? 

3. 
if so, then drop. drop right now. stop what you’re doing, don’t think, just drop! run to your department’s office, pick up a form, run to your ma­jor adviser, sign, deposit form. yes, that sensation of lightness, that tickling in your tummy, that is the feeling of a well-made decision, my friend. 

4. 
if only half or fewer than half of the grades have been recorded for the class, then you could probably bring up that below-b- grade. yeah, you could totally bring it up. i mean, people have 


done that before, right? my friend from high school’s first cousin Jerry who goes to usc’s ex-girlfriend had a d in her freshman-year chemistry lab after the midterm, and she ended up finish­ing the semester with an a-. anything is possible! 
5. 
even if that was a true story, what are the chances you will be like that fictional friend of a fake cousin of a fake friend of mine? 

6. 
if you genuinely do not under­stand the material in the course so far and are struggling to the degree that you have a c or below, what makes you think you’ll suddenly be able to do really well? sure, you can definitely do better, but in all likelihood, won’t you do only marginally better? not amaz­ingly, not perfect on every assignment. no one goes from barely scraping by to top of the class with a flick of a switch. 

7. 
bottom line: There is nothing stopping you from doing reason­ably well in this class. reasonably. leaving you with a less than reason­able grade. if you can, if it is feasible in any way, drop it now. 


a summary of the wonderful life that awaits you after dropping a class: 
what is all this wonderful space and freedom? why did i never frolick in meadows and sunshine before? That, my friend, is called free time. it is a beautiful thing. enjoy it, read for leisure, exercise, bake delicious things from your pinterest, do volunteer work, run that marathon, bond with those friends you never see! you might even do better in your remaining classes because you finally have time to do the work for them. 
in the long run, you want to look back at college, see a good gpa and have a lot of memories of good times shared with friends. it will not mat­ter that you dropped one measly little class. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emilie Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 

By MADDIE DALY 
scene editor 

step aside, dorothy. The 1939 film “The wizard of oz” has been twist­ed and rewound for the recently-re­leased disney film “oz the great and powerful.” instead of following the be­loved gingham-wearing homesick girl down the yellow brick road, this story focuses on the wizard himself, show­ing how he got to oz in the first place. Taking the same form as the classic film, the new version of “oz” starts out in black-and-white and transitions into color as the characters arrive in the land of oz. also, just like dorothy as­sociates characters in oz with real-life family members, having actors play dual roles such as the lion and Zeke, so too does the wizard see familiar yet transformed faces in oz. with cameo appearances by the flying monkeys, a lion, a tornado, munchkins and, of course, the witches, this film kept the standard details while creating an en­tire back story to dorothy’s adventure. 
The storyline attempts to explain why in the original film the so-called wizard of oz is hiding behind a cur­tain, manipulating the crowd rather than performing real magic. with James Franco as a young wizard of oz, the new film goes back to Kansas in 1905 when a tornado takes not dorothy but oscar (otherwise known as oz) to the land of oz where he is mistaken for a prophet-like savior, someone who was meant to rescue the land from the power of the bad witches. Franco uses his charm and charisma to work his way up to the top and assume the po­sition of wizard, meeting several inter­esting characters along the way just as dorothy did. 
stepping out of her typical role of the sought-after girl in r-rated rom-coms, mila Kunis is oz’s sidekick for much of the film, playing the role of Theodora, otherwise known as the wicked witch of the west. she looks surprisingly normal and even innocent in the be­ginning of the 2013 film, wearing an oversized red hat and her big brown eyes resembling a naïve puppy’s rather than an evil sorcerer’s. however, as the film continues, Kunis’ character be­comes more and more like the green-skinned witch in the 1939 classic. 
starring as glinda the good witch, michelle williams doubles as the char­acter annie in the black-and-white beginning of the film. with a desire to fight evil and the ability to travel in bubbles, williams’ character is nearly identical to the original film’s glinda, played by billie burke. disney did de­cide to modernize the wardrobe, how­ever, removing the pink glittery tulle and going with an almost medieval-looking silver dress accompanied by a fairly simple tiara and wand. 
regardless of the differences be­tween this film and its predecessor, the acting and scenery is worth expe­riencing, whether or not the storyline is up to par. maybe i’m biased from years of watching and singing along with Judy garland in the original, but i do not think this film’s plot lives up to its name. The storyline was confusing, especially for a film targeted towards a very young audience. aesthetically, the film is a success. The colors and cos­tumes provide a beautiful backdrop for not-so-exciting action. 
when i first heard about the possibil­ity of a sequel/prequel to “The wizard of oz,” i was obviously counting down the days until the release date, what with having been dorothy for at least three halloweens and having played a munchkin in a middle school pro­duction of “oz.” (don’t ask me why my soon-to-be six-foot-tall self got cast as someone supposedly three-feet tall.) overall, i was disappointed in the storyline, left wanting more at the end but knowing i could always pop my 15-year-old tape into a dusty vcr, watch Judy garland sing “somewhere over the rainbow” and be completely satisfied with the story of oz. 
“Oz: The Great and Powerful” 
Studio: Walt Disney Pictures 
Director: Sam Raimi 
Starring: James Franco, Mila Kunis, Michelle Williams, Rachel Weisz, Zach Braff 

Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

First-round games deserve holiday 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
dearest professors of Thursday and Friday classes, 
we’re not going. 
okay, well, we might have to. you might still take at­tendance, or make home­work due, or something similarly buzzkilling. but really, you should have just cancelled tomorrow’s class already. 
why, you ask? 
well, it’s the opening holeshot of march madness, a frenzy of 32 games in 36 hours that’s the most perfect two days of sports viewing around. From roughly noon to midnight, the basketball does not stop. neither do the upsets, the craziness, the quirky small-school centers or the ridiculous mascots. (what would win in a fight, a billiken or a lobo?). 
These aren’t the power­house matchups, the slug-fests between teams full of lottery picks that decide who will cut down the nets and win championships. Those won’t start for a week or two. 
instead, Thursday and Friday are about the wild scrambles by teams that could never dream of mak­ing Final Fours, let alone sweet 16s. There will be buzzer-beaters, blown calls, and absolutely indefensible decisions made by players and coaches — and that’s the fun of it. it’ll also wreck your bracket, but that’s okay too. you weren’t going to win, anyway. 
Thursday and Friday is what college basketball is all about. The first round tests the toughness of every team, as schools from unknown conferences get their one shot at proving themselves to the world, and top seeds have to have the focus and drive to sidestep these un­derdogs’ best punch. 
(important note: after the addition of the “First Four” play-in games a few years ago, the ncaa has since referred to Thursday and Friday’s first-round games as the “second round.” almost everyone else agrees this is stupid. it is.) 
and the best part about Thursday and Friday is that it’s been perfected over the past decade. across four channels, every game is now shown on national Tv in its entirety, but the times are staggered just enough that a fan with one Tv can catch the dramatic finish to every game. (Though it’s better to have two or three screens if possible. safety first.) 
with so much joyful mad­ness in one place, it only seems appropriate that a national holiday be declared for this four-day weekend, ensuring everyone is able to watch that next great 13-seed’s shining moment. 
professors, that’s where you come in. we trust you’ll do the right thing. 
see you monday. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

miller leads wildcats into ncaa tournament 
Associated Press 

Tucson, ariz. — arms wav­ing in and out, eyebrows raising up and down, arizona coach sean miller repeats the same line five times in rapid-fire fashion, his voice rising as he continues. 
“he touched the ball, he touched the ball, he touched the ball, he touched the ball, he Touched The ball!” miller said, pausing for a smile that was closer to evil than happy. “That’s a hard one when you work august, september, october, november, december, January, February, and here we are.” 
it had been more than 20 minutes since miller’s wildcats had lost to ucla in the pac-12 tournament semifinals, plenty of time for the coach to cool off. 
yet, as he wound his way through the postgame press conference, miller was still wound up about a technical foul he received for questioning a double-dribble call on senior mark lyons, a whistle he still believed wasn’t warranted. 
The moment was quintessen­tial miller. 
raised by a hard-nosed bas­ketball coach in hardscrabble western pennsylvania, he played with an edge and coach­es the same way. 
even in the high-intensity world of college basketball coaches, miller stands out, a can’t-stand-losing mentality driving him to become one of the best in his business. 
The Twitter bio of miller’s wife, amy, says it all: “wrangler of 3 boys and wife to a very in­tense guy.” 
“he’s a competitor,” arizona athletic director greg byrne said. “and that’s makes him who he is.” 
it’s what miller has always been. 
a native of beaver Falls, pa., he grew up in a blue-collar area about 50 miles northwest of pittsburgh where hugs were hard to come by and dirt under the nails was how things got done. 

FOR RENT 

COMMENCEMENT RENTAL-prime location on ND Ave. Beautiful house within walking distance to ev­erything. Email for additional info and photos nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
miller’s father, John, was a legendary coach high school coach who led blackhawk high school to four state titles and 111-game winning streak. a no-nonsense coach and father, John helped develop all three of his kids — sean, archie, now the head coach at dayton and lisa 
— into division i players along with helping to groom his cous­in, John calipari, now the head coach at Kentucky. 
after an appearance on the Tonight show with Johnny carson as a 14-year-old — a star turn he doesn’t particularly like to talk about — sean miller achieved his lifelong goal of be­coming a division i player by walking on at pittsburgh. 
but miller didn’t just make the team. 
using his knowledge of the game, communication skills and unquenched desire to out­work everyone, he became starting point guard and de facto leader as a freshman on a team that included future nba players Jerome lane and charles smith 
a gritty player who never backed down from any person or any challenge, miller led the panthers to the ncaa tourna­ment three times and was 10th in career free throw percentage in division i history when he graduated in 1992. 
“having the opportunity to play in the big east when i did and who i was, it was tough to survive,” miller said. “you had to be able to do it and if you’ve learned how to survive in this game, as you become a coach, you have a lot of those same qualities.” 
miller’s inner drive kept fuel­ing success once he became a coach. 
a superb recruiter who can manage the game and motivate his players, miller has devel­oped into one of college basket­ball’s best coaches at 44. 
he led Xavier to the ncaa tournament four of his five years, including the regional rounds the final two, and took arizona to the west regional fi­nal in his second season in the desert. 
after a third straight among-the-best-in-the-nation re­cruiting class, miller has the 21st-ranked wildcats back in the bracket this season — open­ing Thursday against belmont in salt lake city — and has built a firm foundation for a program that had fallen into disarray fol­lowing the retirement of coach lute olson. 
“what we have ahead of our­selves is very bright because of the work sean has put in,” byrne said. 
miller’s burning intensity has fueled his success. 
it can be, at times, blunt, but that isn’t necessarily a bad thing. 
miller’s honesty has certainly worked well for him on the recruiting trail. 
unlike some coaches who make promises of playing time or roles on the team, miller only tells potential players they will get a shot to play at one for one of the best programs in the country, laying out the system at arizona and how it works. his recruiting classes are an­nually among the best in the country. 
on the court, miller is always upfront about his expectations and evaluations of players, which, in the heat of the game, can lead to a few choice, top-of­the-lungs words or one of the best coach’s death stares in any sport anywhere. 
For some, it’s too much; point guard Josiah Turner and forward sidiki Johnson left last year’s team after coming in as part of miller’s previous re­cruiting class. 
For most, though, miller’s honesty is a blessing, giving players a true gauge of where they stand and what’s expected, the underlying agenda to make them better, not belittle them. 
“some people let it get to them, but they have to un­derstand that it’s all love,” arizona senior solomon hill said. “he wants the best for you every time you hit the floor. he doesn’t want you to give anything less than your best.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t
PERSONAL 

go it alone. Notre Dame has many re­sources in place to assist you. If you or CHICAGO FIVE FOR THE someone you love needs confidential HOMELESS. Helping the homeless support or assistance, please call Ann around Michiana and Chicago. LIKE Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy US on FACEBOOK @ www.face-at 1-5550. For more information, visit book.com/chicagofiveforthehomeless ND’s website at: http://pregnancysup­
port@nd.edu 



SMC GOLF 

Belles learn from loss 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
Though saint mary’s fin­ished last out of the six teams at the competitive george Fox invitational, held Friday and saturday at westlake village golf course in peoria, ariz., the belles still gained much-needed momentum moving forward. 
The belles started the match on a cold note, with only three of the six golfers breaking 90 – juniors paige pollak (83) and alexi brown (86) and fresh­man anna-marie gainey (87) – which left the team a deep hole to dig out of on day two of the tournament. Freshman claire boyle, who shot 90, attributed the team’s subpar performance to rust. 
“That was only our second the host and winner, no. 6 time playing 18 holes since our george Fox. last match in october,” boyle That result does not tell the said. “That definitely made the whole story though, as the first day more challenging.” belles’ second-day score of 322 
saint mary’s rebounded on tied for third that day, which day two though, cutting 24 boyle was particularly proud of. strokes off its day-one total. “we were able to rebound pollak led the way with a 77, and from that first day, come togeth­sophomore Janice heffernan er as a team, and accomplish improved her day one score by our goal for the weekend,” she 11 strokes, shooting a 79. brown said. and gainey both shot 83. now that the team has found 
“after the first day of the its competitive edge, it will tournament we knew what to hope to bring that momen­expect and could get back into tum to their next match, the our competitive tournament washington university-st. mode,” boyle said. louis spring invite, held april 6 
despite the much stronger and 7 at gateway national golf showing on the second day, the links. belles still finished 11 strokes behind fifth place gustavus Contact A.J. Godeaux at adolphus and 52 strokes behind agodeaux@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
NBA 

denver tops oklahoma city 
Associated Press 
oKlahoma ciTy — andre mill=er isn’t known for voic­ing his opinion. so when the veteran point guard started talking, the denver nuggets listened. 
a big performance on his 37th birthday started with an inspirational speech and fin­ished with miller’s play doing all the talking for him. 
miller scored 13 of his season-best 20 points in the fourth quarter, and the nuggets beat the oklahoma city Thunder 114-104 Tuesday night for their first 13-game winning streak since joining the nba. 
“he’s a coach and a teacher and a veteran, and he does it every day in a very classy way, a very quiet way,” coach george Karl said. “and then he can do what he did to­night, where he can take the most talented team maybe in the nba and be the best play­er on the court for the last 6 minutes of the game.” 
denver took control just after halftime, building a 13-point lead and then hold­ing off the Thunder as they got back within 102-97 after russell westbrook’s 17-foot jumper from the left elbow with 4:08 to play. Karl put miller back in the game at the next stoppage, and the 13-year veteran was a stabi­lizing force. 
miller had back-to-back jumpers as denver answered right back with five straight points, and he went five for six at the foul line in the final 69 seconds to close it out. 
denver’s previous longest winning streak since the 1976 aba-nba merger was 12 straight in 1982. The fran­chise won 15 in a row in the 1969-70 aba season. 
“it’s cool. i’m sure a lot of people didn’t think we would get this game, but we talked about having some pride, working hard and practic­ing,” miller said. “we put in a lot of work to get to this point, so at least we came out and gave a good effort and it paid off.” 
Ty lawson led denver with 25 points. miller also had nine assists and seven rebounds in 23 effective minutes. 
Kevin durant had 34 points and westbrook chipped in 25 for oklahoma city, which fell to 30-5 at home this season. 
The Thunder gave up a season-worst 72 points in the paint — denver’s specialty 
— as both teams struggled throughout the game from 3-point range. 
The nuggets trailed by 10 early in the second quarter, but then dictated the tenor of the game the rest of the way. 
“it’s easy to fall into that trap. That’s what they do. They get up and down the court,” durant said. “our game is a little different. we want to run, but we want to run off our defense. 
“Those guys run off of makes, misses of course and turnovers, but they continu­ally run and pass the ball well and they score a lot in the paint. we fell into the trap and we couldn’t play that game with them.” 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Kiel 
conTinued From page 20 
Catching the Tide 
after their 41-14 loss to alabama in the bcs national championship, the irish have doubled their offseason efforts to close the gap between them and the crimson Tide. with that in mind, Kelly has had players focus on strength training, and said that many players have gained nearly 20 pounds of muscle since that defeat. 
“we lacked depth at some critical positions which didn’t al­low us to do some of the things i would have liked to in that period of time before the game, espe­cially on the offensive line,” Kelly said. “The recruiting process, that’s one answer towards that question. The second answer towards that question is to just continue to build the strength of your football team. we need to continually get bigger, faster, stronger. year Four is seeing those results really hit home for us right now.” 
Kelly also said that he believed the championship would be a positive for his team this year, as it gave his team experience on college football’s biggest stage, as well as the motivation to get back. 
“it’s a great motivator for your football team,” he said. “i think the experience you gain from going through that process is invaluable. … They all want to get back there. They know what they did last year to get there. For them to do it again, they probably have to even do more.” 
Crossing Over 
with the graduation of stand­out senior Tyler eifert, the irish will need other tight ends to step up and replace the all­american’s production. in addi­tion to senior alex welch, juniors ben Koyack and Troy niklas and early enrollee mike heuerman, the irish added another athlete to the mix at that position with the addition of former irish basket­ball forward Joey brooks. 
The 6-foot-6 senior has not played hoops for irish coach mike brey this season, although he has practiced with the team. brooks will have the option of transferring to complete his bas­ketball career at another school next season, but in the mean­time Kelly is excited to see what the rangy big man can do on the gridiron. 
“he’s an extremely athletic kid,” Kelly said. “he’s willing to do whatever we ask him to do. it will be fun to watch him go in there and compete, and we’ll give him an opportunity to do so.” 
brooks may not have any ex­perience in college football, but Kelly was quick to praise his will­ingness to learn and work ethic in making the adjustment. 
“The kid has worked really hard,” he said. “we like his atten­tion to detail. again, we’re going to give him a fair opportunity.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles go .500 over break 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 

saint mary’s won five of ten games last week in a spring break tournament in Fort myers and cape coral, Fla. The belles started off their first day with­out any wins, yet as the tour­nament progressed, their play strengthened. 
“The hardest thing was just getting started with 10 fresh­man,” belles coach erin sullivan said. “we were also missing our center fielder in the first game. [we had] a lot of nerves and a lot of firsts, just a little bit of growing pains.” 
senior captain morgan bedan agreed, saying the team faced many challenges throughout the tournament. 
“we lacked energy and confi­dence during some of the games and i think it cost us a couple of the games,” bedan said. “we struggled to string hits together, too. That killed us in a few of the games.” 
regardless of challenges, bedan said she believes the tour­nament was a valuable learning experience for the team. 
“Florida is meant to be a warm-up and i hope that the team learns a lot from the expe­rience, and has a better idea of what it takes to be successful at this level,” bedan said. 
sullivan also said Florida was an opportunity to learn. she added that from playing teams such as richard stockton, who beat saint mary’s by eight runs on the second day, saint mary’s has the opportunity to become a better team. 
“richard was a tough game. They are the team we really want to be and we really should be,” said sullivan. “The only good thing about the loss to them was that we learned from them and hopefully we will be like them by the end of the year.” 
both sullivan and bedan said one of the star players of the week was freshman outfielder sarah callis, who recorded four­teen putouts over the course of the week. 
“i knew she was good going into this week, but she was a staple for our team all week,” bedan said. “i was very proud of her. she will be a great leader for her class.” 
Junior pitcher callie selner also shined throughout the week. she earned her first win of the season over delaware valley with 13 strikeouts and no earned runs, and had a 0.28 era. 
“callie selner threw five great games and deserved five wins,” said bedan, “but unfortunately our offense didn’t back her up.” 
sophomore victoria connelley also proved her abil­ity throughout the tournament. she holds the team’s longest cur­rent hitting streak — nine games 
— and the team had winning record (5-3) when she batted in the leadoff spot. she also holds a batting average of .387. 
“victoria connelly also had a great week,” said bedan, “she has made great strides from her freshman season and was a great leadoff hitter for us.” 
The belles will play at home on Friday against wheaton. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 



SMC TENNIS 

Belles stifled by weather 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 
although the belles came back rejuvenated from their week-long spring training in orlando, they will have to wait a few days to put their additional energy to use. 
The beautiful, sunny weather in Florida was per­fect for the belles because they needed recondition­ing for their upcoming matches, which will be criti­cal for making the top four and qualifying for playoffs. coming back to their regu­lar season, the belles (2-4) were scheduled to play an away match against indiana wesleyan yesterday, but the match was abruptly can­celed due to foul weather conditions. 
“They said the game had to be rescheduled because the weather was bad and they have no indoor facilities,” belles coach dale campbell said. “normally it has to be at least 50 degrees or else it’s just too cool and windy to play outdoors for athletes.” 
both coaches from saint mary’s and indiana wesleyan have talked about possibly moving the game to early april, but no date has been confirmed yet. The staff members are likely to release a date next week. 
The belles will continue their regular season when they face st. Francis on Friday. ironically, the belles 
“Normally it has to be at least 50 degrees or else it’s just too cool and windy to play outdoors for athletes.” 
Dale Campbell 
Belles Coach 
were scheduled to face st. Francis last year during spring training in orlando, but that match was can­celed due to weather condi­tions, one of more than three games the team missed due to rain and wind last season. 
“it rained out last year in orlando, and [this] would have been our second time playing st. Francis, which would have made us familiar with them,” campbell said. 
The belles look to final­ly face st. Francis (7-9) on Friday. campbell has said the team is healthy and charged to start its regular season. 
“it’s a non-conference op­ponent, but they are pretty local in the Fort wayne area, so this match will be inter­esting,” he said. 
st. Francis is currently in a two-game losing streak and has lost four of its last six games, including a tough 5-4 loss against manchester college. st. Francis is likely to be motivated to get the team out of its losing skid. 
The belles are expecting a win soon, as they are getting desperate for some much-needed momentum to gain confidence before returning to their conference schedule next week. luckily for both teams, the match will be held indoors at the eck pavilion. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 


Tennis 
conTinued From page 20 
bend today. 
on the doubles courts, the Trojans also bring a set of skilled duos and diverse pairings across the board. sarmiento and hanfmann stand at no. 26 nationally, hanfmann and Johnson come in at no. 63, and gomez and Johnson take the no. 71 position. 
The irish bring the no. 69 pair of freshman alex lawson and junior billy pecor to the match. 
The numbers appear threat­ening, but the irish, led by no. 96 junior greg andrews, are ex­cited for the competition. 
“usc is a great team, but there is definitely a vibe going around our team that we could be special this year,” monaghan said. “we are definitely looking forward to the match.” 
doubles play against usc will begin in the eck Tennis pavilion today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




FENCING 

Irish dominate regional 

By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
The irish completed another stepping stone in their pursuit of a ninth ncaa title, turning in a dominating performance at the ncaa midwest regional meet march 9 and 10. 
after excelling above the competition at the midwest conference championships on march 2 and 3, the irish didn’t let off the gas pedal, going up against much of the same com­petition in the regional meet. 
The foilists were particularly impressive on the women’s side, with freshman lee Kiefer and sophomore madison Zeiss finishing one-two in a field of 20 foilists. The two combined for a 35-3 record, with Kiefer’s only loss coming to fellow olympian mona shaito of ohio state. Zeiss’ only two defeats came at the hands of team­mates. she fell to Kiefer and se­nior grace hartman. 
“we train really hard with each other,” Zeiss said. “That was definitely a key [to our suc­cess], and we were able to get our teammate bouts out of the way early, which is definitely a plus in a meet like this.” 
The epeeists did not dis­appoint either, with senior courtney hurley dominating with a 14-1 record to take first. senior ewa nelip and sopho­more ashley severson both posted 11-4 records, with nelip taking fourth, while severson took fifth based on tiebreakers. 
senior lian osier claimed a runner-up finish in the wom­en’s sabre, while freshman Johanna Thill grabbed fifth place for the irish. 
as impressive as the wom­en’s foilists were, the men’s foilists may have managed to turn in an even better perfor­mance. past ncaa champions senior gerek meinhardt (2010) and junior ariel desmet (2011) ran away from the field, as both defeated 2012 ncaa champion Zain shaito of ohio state. The two fenced for the title, with meinhardt avenging an earlier pool play loss to desmet to take the top spot on the podium. 

in the sabre event, there was yet another fence-off between two irish for first, as freshman John hallsten outlasted senior Jason choy to take the regional crown. Junior Kevin hassett took third in the event, giving the irish another strong weap­on performance. 
Junior michael rossi turned in a solid third-place finish in the epee event for the irish, including a win in pool play against eventual champion marco canevari of ohio state. Freshman garrett mcgrath took fifth in his first regional meet, while senior James Kaull took sixth in his last time on the strips for the irish. 
The irish qualified twelve fencers for the ncaa championship, the maximum number possible, for the sixth consecutive year. 
Zeiss said that feat was defi­nitely expected, especially with this team’s unity. 
“we have one of the best team dynamics in the coun­try,” she said. “Though this was definitely an individual meet, to have the whole team behind you helps a lot. no matter who won or lost, everyone was so supportive of everyone else on the team.” 
The midwest regional was the last meet of the season for all but those dozen quali­fiers, who will compete at the ncaa championships in san antonio this weekend. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
ROWING 

notre dame posts nine victories 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
in their season-opening ap­pearance, the irish finished last weekend with a total of nine victories at the oak ridge/ cardinal invitational in oak ridge, Tenn. 
The irish kicked off the re­gatta saturday with four race victories. The first and second varsity eight, varsity four and novice four all posted first-place times. 
The varsity eight team, led by senior coxswain abby meyers, finished with a time of 6:40.70 and defeated duke (6:44.80) by more than four seconds. The varsity four posted a time of 
7:53.90 to beat Kansas (8:00.40) and duke (8:01.60). in the sec­ond varsity eight race, the irish bested its opponents by ten sec­onds and completed the race with a time of 6:55.30. 
The novice four team posted a time of 8:31.90 and claimed the fourth victory of the day in a close contest against buffalo (8:49.20). 
in addition to the race victo­ries, the irish first novice eight, second varsity four and third varsity four were runner-ups in their individual races. 
“after the first day of racing, we were very excited for the second day races,” freshman coxswain alex Techar said. “we were ready to get back out there and give it another go.” 
The irish did not back down the second day of the invitational, and the team con­tinued its day-one success by winning five of six races. 
paving the way for the irish, the novice eight claimed the first victory of the day with a time of 7:15.20 to defeat virginia 
(7:21.78) and Kansas (7:31.96). 
The varsity eight posted a winning time of 6:39.50 and de­feated louisville (6:43.17) by al­most four seconds. The varsity four launch finished victorious with a time of 7:43.20. 
The first novice eight took its first win of the spring season with a 7:18.00 time to edge out louisville (7:19.45). 
after a run of close races that resulted in runner-up finishes by less than a second, the novice eight launch was determined to win its race, Techar said. 
The second varsity eight se­cured the final victory for the irish with a winning time of 6:53.40. 
The irish lost the last race of the day and finished runner-up to Kansas in the second varsity four. 
after such a strong appear­ance both days, the team was proud of its performance, Techar said. 
“as a whole team, we did re­ally well,” she said. “everyone did better than expected, espe­cially the freshmen.” 
upon their return to st. Joseph’s lake, the irish look to prepare for their next competi­tion at the end of the- month. 
“everyone is really excited to compete again and continue racing,” Techar said. 
notre dame competes march 30 in east lansing, mich., against michigan, michigan state and iowa. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary’s tops Middle Tennessee 

Associated Press 
dayTon, ohio — after matthew dellavedova’s second straight 3-point shot was right on target, middle Tennessee coach Kermit davis called a timeout to reset his defense. 
didn’t matter. saint mary’s career scoring leader had re­gained his touch, and nothing was going to stop him. 
dellavedova emerged from a deep shooting slump by scoring 22 points on Tuesday night, and the gaels raced to a fast start in their second straight ncaa tournament appearance, beating middle Tennessee 67-54 in the First Four. 
The gaels (28-6) make a quick trip to auburn hills, 
paid adverTisemenT 


mich., to play sixth-seeded memphis on Thursday. 
and saint mary’s can thank their point guard, who is back in the flow. he’d been only 1 of 18 from behind the arc coming into the game, though no one would know it by the way that first one went in. 
credit dellavedova for mak­ing a difference, as he has all season. The point guard went 7 of 14 from the field, including 5 of 7 behind the arc, and had four assists and six rebounds. 
“when he does that, he may be the best point guard in college basketball, when he shoots the ball like that,” davis said. 
middle Tennessee (28-6) had little to show for its first ncaa tournament appearance in 24 years. Tweety Knight led middle Tennessee with 16 points. The blue raiders went only 4 of 12 from behind the arc, hitting one fewer 3-point­er than dellavedova. 
“i wish it ended different­ly, but we broke the drought for mTsu going to the ncaa tournament in 20-plus years, so you hang your hat on that,” guard bruce massey Jr. said. 
saint mary’s is making back-to-back ncaa tournament ap­pearances for the first time in its history. The gaels reached the round of 16 in 2010 before losing to baylor. not so good last year, when they dropped their opening game to purdue 72-69. 
both teams were no. 11 seeds on Tuesday night. with four starters back and dellavedova, the school’s career scoring leader, handling the ball and making the biggest shots, the gaels were too much. 
with that type of experience, saint mary’s is looking for one of its best finishes yet. The gaels did pretty much what they wanted all season long, except for one thing: beating rival gonzaga. saint mary’s lost only three times in its last 22 games, all three times to the bulldogs. 
middle Tennessee counted it a breakthrough just to be playing in the First Four — the blue raiders hadn’t been there since 1989. 
They won the sun belt’s reg­ular-season title and were ex­pected to win the tournament and their league’s automatic bid, but were upset in the semi­finals, ending a 17-game win­ning streak. They had to sweat out a few days before finding out that the ncaa selection committee picked them over defending champion Kentucky and other basketball blue bloods for an at-large bid. 
one main reason: consistency, especially on the road. The blue raiders didn’t lose two games in a row all sea­son until their last two tourna­ment games. 




Buckeyes 
conTinued From page 20 
assists so far. but sophomore midfielder Jesse King is not far behind with 14 goals and seven assists. 
The buckeyes score an av­erage of 11.83 goals per game and only allow 8.5 per game. 
but notre dame also has a variety of weapons on the offensive end. Freshman attack matt Kavanagh has already made a name for himself as a scorer. he has 10 goals and four assists so far, as does junior midfielder Jim marlatt. sophomore attack conor doyle, in many ways the initiator of the irish of­fense, also has 14 points with nine goals and five assists. 
corrigan also praised sev­eral other players. 
“[senior attack] sean rogers, conor doyle, [senior midfielder] steve murphy, Jim marlatt have all been outstanding this year,” corrigan said. “and that’s just offensively.” 
on the defensive end, se­nior all-american goalten­der John Kemp has been particularly solid, as ex­pected. although the irish have allowed more goals this season than last, Kemp has played every minute be­tween the pipes, regulation and overtimes, making 46 saves in five games. 
The wednesday afternoon showdown is a bit unusual for the irish, as they usually play on saturday afternoons. but to draw a crowd in the cold conditions, student at­tendees will receive free winter beanie hats and hot chocolate. 
The irish and the buckeyes face off today at 4 p.m. in arlotta stadium. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lennyrago & paTricKcross 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jake weber, 49; bruce willis, 58; glenn close, 66; ursula andress, 77. 
Happy Birthday: you’ll be faced with emotional issues that must be taken care of before you can move forward. Financial, legal or medical matters must be discussed openly and honestly. make it clear what you want and don’t give up until you are satisfied with what’s happening. it’s up to you to choose the best path. your numbers are 3, 7, 18, 21, 27, 36, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): offering an opinion is fine, but refrain from over­reacting. bide your time and rethink what you really want to say. impulsive expression will be difficult to take back. be sure and be kind.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t spend unnecessarily. donating to a cause will leave you short. offer your services or suggestions. a personal relationship may lead to debt if you aren’t prepared to say no. stabilize your situation instead of adding to your problems. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stick to your game plan. you have lots to offer and plenty to do that will bring you recognition. express what’s on your mind, but be ready to defend your thoughts. your insight will guide you, but exaggerating will defeat you.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep personal secrets. build whatever you are trying to achieve before you share your plans. avoid anyone you feel is unpredictable or looking for a fast route to fame and fortune. build on solid ground and you will get ahead. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get out and about. connecting with people from dif­ferent walks of life will get you thinking and working toward a goal that will improve your life. making changes at home should be based on your gut feeling. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): discuss what you want, your plans and your future. partnerships are enhanced, and making sure you are on the same page will help you move forward without hesitation. an unexpected financial, legal or medical change should be monitored. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): not everyone will agree with you, but you must follow a path that leads you toward your set goals. recognize who you differ from and in what ways and you will know how to move forward with relationships that are questionable.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Tie up loose ends and make an effort to update or improve your surroundings. renovations will turn out better than you anticipate. contracts, settlements and financial moves can all be made with confidence. love and romance will inspire you. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t wait for someone to stand in your way or disapprove. Take action and make things happen. emotional issues are bound to arise with someone you’ve been disagreeing with lately. Find common ground or move on. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put more into your creative ideas. share your vision with someone in a position of authority. your insight and dedication together will persuade others to support your plans. don’t give in to someone for the wrong reason. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): share your ideas and test them out. make room at home to accommodate your plans. having the space to explore new possibilities will lead to a lucrative endeavor. diversify and you will be able to offer a service you enjoy doing. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Keep your thoughts and feelings a secret, as you are likely to overreact. give others a chance to show you what’s possible and what’s being offered. when it comes to negotiating what you want, you will win.  


Birthday Baby: you are imaginative, determined and powerful. you are passion­ate and farsighted. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Back to work 
Kiel to transfer; senior basketball player Brooks walks on as tight end 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
after a tumultuous recruit­ment, a year on the sidelines and weeks of swirling rumors, the story of gunner Kiel as a notre dame quarterback has officially come to a close. 
irish coach brian Kelly broke the news at his Tuesday press conference, confirming that the highly-touted freshman had in­deed chosen to transfer from notre dame. The observer re­ported on march 7 that Kiel cleaned out his locker before spring break, but was given the week to consider his options with his family and make a decision. Kelly said that most of the paper­work for Kiel’s release was com­pleted Friday. 
“[Kiel] is no longer part of the program,” Kelly said. “Kids make decisions based upon what are important factors to them. gunner and his family felt like it was best for them to pursue other opportunities.” 
Kiel’s destination is not yet known, but Kelly said that the indiana native has a long list of nationally-regarded programs that are interested in his abil­ity under center. Kelly said the schools Kiel was considering were all acceptable options based on notre dame’s future schedul­ing, and the university’s official release of Kiel is nearly complete. 
“we had an open conversa­tion about the schools,” he said. “again, i think the schools that he was looking at were in line with the schools that i thought were appropriate relative to who was on our schedule.” 
Kiel’s transfer was widely speculated after notre dame’s undefeated regular season, as the five-star recruit was mired behind breakout junior everett golson on the depth chart. Kelly said the move caught him as a surprise though, as he had told Kiel that he would have the op­portunity to win the starting job this offseason. 
“we had kind of created an op­portunity for him to compete in the spring,” Kelly said. “so i was a little surprised from that stand­point because he was actually told that he would be given an opportunity to compete.” 
with Kiel’s departure, the irish will carry four scholarship signal callers this fall: golson, senior 
Tommy  rees,  senior  andrew  
hendrix,  and  early  enrollee  
malik Zaire.  

see Kiel PAGE 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish continue tough stretch 
MEN’S TENNIS 

notre dame hosts no. 2 usc 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 

The no. 22 irish return home tonight to host no. 2 usc, their highest-ranked opponent this season. notre dame (10-6) will play in their familiar indoor arena after a 2-1 weekend of outdoor play in alabama over spring break. 
while the squad hoped to win the blue gray classic last week as the no. 1 seed, the irish still saw the weekend as a success despite an upset loss to unranked boise state in the semifinals. 
“it was a good experience and a good test of our abil­ity to deal with tough con­ditions,” freshman Quentin monaghan said. “although we didn’t win [the tournament], it was a great experience.” 
notre dame saw great im­provement in doubles play during the tournament and looks to continue progress on the doubles and singles courts today. 
“i think we have some con­fidence and momentum go­ing into usc,” monaghan said. “we have played great matches at the eck [Tennis pavilion], and we all look for­ward to a great match.” 
southern cal boasts an elite squad with a deep roster of individuals. in singles play, it brings eight ranked Trojans led by no. 2 junior emilio gomez. also in the top-10 nationally is no. 9 junior ray sarmiento. next in line is no. 23 sophomore robert Quiroz to round out the top tier of the squad. no. 61 sophomore eric Johnson, no. 65 sophomore yannick hanfmann, no. 87 freshman max de vroome, no. 90 sophomore Jonny wang and no. 93 junior michael grant close out the ranked opponents traveling to south 
see Tennis PAGE 15 


By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
coming off three straight overtime games, no. 3 notre dame takes on no. 8 ohio state today in arlotta stadium, its fifth game against a top-10 opponent. 
when the irish faced 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Former Irish freshman quarterback Gunner Kiel looks to make a pass during last year’s Blue-Gold game on April 21, 2012. Kiel announced he will transfer after not playing during his first season. 
hofstra, the no. 7 pride were not yet in the top 10. but af­ter beating the irish and moving up, all six of notre dame’s opponents thus far have been in the top 10 at least once during the season. 
but the irish (4-1) wel­come the challenge of play­ing the best teams in the country from a variety of conferences. 

“our schedule is incred­ibly tough,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “ohio state will be the sixth team in a row that we play who’s in the top 15. it’s a challenge and our guys have met the challenge.” 
The buckeyes (5-1) come to notre dame riding the momentum of a big win over no. 14 virginia in charlottesville, va. buckeyes senior midfielder dominique alexander scored the game-winner with 1:48 remaining to seal the 11-10 victory. 
almost midway through the season, the buckeyes’ only loss came to no. 5 denver in columbus, ohio on march 9. The irish come into today’s game off a 13­12 overtime victory over the pioneers on saturday in denver. 
senior attack logan schuss leads the ohio state offense with 16 goals and seven 
see bucKeyes PAGE 18 





