The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 133 | WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Adidas reaches labor rights compromise    
University chose to maintain relationship with apparel brand instead of terminating contract 
BY ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 

after controversy over labor rights in an indonesian factory prompted several universities to terminate contracts with adidas, the german apparel giant has reached a settlement regarding unpaid funds owed to laborers. 
as of april 8, 10 schools sus­pended their contracts with ad­idas at the urging of the united students against sweatshops group, according to a usa Today report. The schools in­cluded cornell, penn state and georgetown, but not notre dame. 
in 2005, notre dame signed an exclusive 10-year con­tract with adidas to have the company supply footwear and apparel to the irish var­sity athletic teams. The cur­rent contract lasts through the 2013-2014 season, according to a 2005 press release. 
a report dated Jan. 18, 2012, from the worker rights consortium (wrc), a labor rights monitoring association said the pT Kizone factory in Tangerang, indonesia, em­ployed approximately 2,800 people before its closure in april 2011. it produced col­legiate licensed apparel for adidas and nike, and non-collegiate apparel for dallas cowboys merchandising and other brands. 
The crisis began in 2010, when pT Kizone “stopped pay­ing mandatory terminal com­pensation to workers separated from employment,” the report said. in January 2011, the facto­ry owner fled the nation, “pre­cipitating the factory’s eventual closure and leaving no money 
see adidas PAGE 6 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Adidas has produced all of Notre Dame’s varsity athletic apparel since 2005. Recent controversy over labor rights prompted 10 universities to suspend their contracts with the company. 


conference talks stem cells 

By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 

notre dame students and faculty traveled to vatican city to participate in the second international vatican adult stem cell conference, a three-day event for a select group of medi­cal experts, ethicists, students and financial analysts which ran from april 11-13. 
The conference, titled “regenerative medicine: a Fundamental shift in science and culture,” was intended to promote awareness of adult stem cell re­search and its potential and impli­cations for the future of medicine. 
Juniors rebecca marton and Kristin springer and senior margaret Kennedy attended the event with professor of biological sciences david hyde and program of liberal studies professor emeri­tus phillip sloan. 
marton and springer, both biol­ogy majors, work with hyde in the 
see conFerence PAGE 7 


Fellowship honors Zhang 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 

last fall, the 2013 ndnano undergraduate research Fellowship (nurF) was dedi­cated to saint mary’s sopho­more Ziqi Zhang, who died when she was struck by a car near the college’s entrance in october 2012. This spring, saint mary’s junior rachael bridgman received the fellow­ship in Zhang’s memory. 
Zhang participated in the nurF program during the summer of 2012, and bridgman said she “[hopes] to do her name justice.” 
“it is a true honor to be able to continue down the path that Ziqi loved, which was research,” bridgman said. “i am happy to do this summer job in part on her behalf because this is what she would have done this sum­mer. i have heard only wonder­ful things about her.”
 bridgman she said she didn’t know she was under consider­ation for the fellowship until recipients were announced on april 12. 
“i think i was chosen because i am from saint mary›s and also have a great deal of passion for the research i am doing,” she said. “i have also shown a lot of dedication to the lab. i have been working there all year and have put in many hours and come in on the weekends as well to do work.” 
This grant, offered by the university of notre dame center for nano science and Technology, provides bridgman, a molecular cell biol­ogy major, with an opportunity to experience her first paid re­search position this summer. 
“it covers a 10-week research opportunity with [notre dame biochemistry professor] dr. Zach schultz in his biochem­istry lab and weekly seminars 
see Fellowship PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 11 men’s lacrosse PAGE 20 baseball PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your favorite cat video on YouTube? 


Brandon Keelean 

Megan Doyle 
senior 
senior 
Fisher hall 
lyons hall 

“songify — can’t hug every cat.” 
“all of them.” 


Julie Herder 
senior le mans hall 

“cat betrayed his girlfriend (The original).” 

Mackenzie Sain 
senior lewis hall 
“sail cat Fail.” 



Sarah O’Connor 
senior 
mcglinn hall 

“cat in a shark suit riding a roomba and chasing a duck.” 

Suzanna Pratt 
senior 
pangborn hall 

“24 cats That are so single right now.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
ann marie Jakubowski sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers vicky Jacobsen peter durbin alex wilcox 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday. Friday Saturday Sunday 
samantha coughlin maria Fernandez 

Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Baseball Take Ten Festival Write First Women’s Softball Basilica Sunday 
Kirby mcKenna Tabitha ricketts 
Eck Baseball Stadium Stepan Center Coleman-Morse Melissa Cook Stadium Mass 
5:35p.m.-7:35 p.m. 3 p.m.-5 p.m. Center 4 p.m.-8 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred The Irish take on Local students 8 a.m.-10 a.m. Doubleheader vs. Heart 


Corrections 

Eastern Michigan. celebrate nonviolence. Work on dissertations. Louisville. 10 a.m.-11 a.m. The observer regards itself as Music by the Notre a professional publication and 
Film: “Brothers on “Procrastination: National Endowment Concert: Nathan Dame Liturgical Choir. 
strives for the highest standards 

the Line” Ain’t Nobody Got for Humanities Gunn 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Time for That” Seminar DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Haggar Hall Flanner Hall Arts Center Baseball 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Eck Baseball Stadium 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Documentary showing Mental wellness Lecture by Malcolm Grammy-winning 11:30 a.m.- 1:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

and panel discussion. workshop. Sen, Ph.D. baritone performs. Game vs. USF. 




SMC English professor to retire 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
saint mary’s english profes­sor Frances hwang will retire from teaching after this year to pursue a writing career in california. 
hwang teaches two courses for english writing majors, lit­erary non-fiction writing and fiction writing. 
sophomore lauren coppinger said the fiction writ­ing class has been one of her favorite classes this semester. “professor hwang is an amazing person and teacher,” coppinger said. “she is always so support­ive of the class’s creative pieces and provides helpful insight to improve our writing.” hwang said she instructs her courses in a discussion-based manner and teaches students literary techniques like how to master the use of flashbacks or how to create memorable symbols. 
hwang said it wasn’t an easy decision to leave the english de­partment and the gifted writers in her classes, but she thinks the college deserves a full-time writing professor as opposed to her part-time efforts. 
“This arrangement was ide­al for me and worked for four years, but more and more i felt an emotional tug to move back and settle down in california,” hwang said. 
in california, hwang said she plans to dedicate her time to her writing career. she has already received fellowships from the national endowment for the arts, the Fine arts work center in provincetown, the macdowell colony, the wisconsin institute for creative writing and colgate university. 
hwang has published a col­lection of short stories titled 
“Transparency,”  which  won  
two  awards,  and  her  work  
has appeared in “best  new  

american voices,” “glimmer Train,” “Tin house” and “The new yorker.” 
“i read her piece from 2010 in ‘The new yorker’ titled ‘blue roses’ and was amazed,” coppinger said.  “she is such a talented writer and brings such emotion and detail through in her narrative voice.” 
hwang said teaching her courses always helps her dis­cover new things about herself, like making sure to emphasize 

paid adverTisemenT 

positive feedback. 
“working with students makes me realize that i need to take this more gentle, humane approach with them and with myself,” hwang said. “i need to remember to quiet my internal critic so that i, too, can move forward in my work.” 
Junior landess Kearns, an­other student in the fiction writing course, said hwang in­spires her to write in ways she never considered. 
“i have been so inspired this semester by the material of our course,” Kearns said.  “From reading saul bellow’s ‘seize the day’ to listening to my peers’ work, it’s been incredibly valu­able to me as a writer.” 
The class is currently com­pleting their own novellas, which have been the focus of most of the semester, according to hwang. 
she said in the past,  students’ novellas have  inspired her, and she finds it rewarding to be able to teach the form and discover why it continually succeeds as an art. 
“i will miss her next year, but i know that she will produce some amazing pieces that will benefit all of literature,” Kearns said.  “i look forward to seeing her next publications.” 
To aspiring writers, hwang said it is important to remain confident in the face in rejec­tion and to keep reading and writing as much as possible. 
“all writers have bad days, and sometimes you have to give yourself permission to write badly in order to get anywhere at all,” hwang said.  “lose your self-consciousness so you can get deep into your writing. you can always go back and make it better.” 


Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

study classifies depression risk factor as contagious 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
Things that are contagious: laughter, yawning, sneezing, the common cold. and now somewhere on that list you’ll find cognitive vulnerability. 
a recent study by notre dame psychology professor gerald haeffel, published in the jour­nal clinical psychological science, found that a risk fac­tor for depression known as ‘cognitive vulnerability’ can be passed from one individual to another. 
haeffel said cognitive vul­nerability is essentially a style of thinking about events and personal reflection, not to be confused with the mood of de­pression itself. cognitive vul­nerability can be a powerful predictor of future depressive episodes, he said. 
“To give an example, say two people both fail a test here. The college student who is at risk for depression will think, ‘This means i’m stupid, or worthless, i’m never going to get into grad school now,’ and when they’re sad, they just focus on this,” haeffel said. “They’re stuck on ‘i feel so sad, why do i feel so mis­erable, what’s wrong with me?’ That’s the person who’s at risk for depression.” haeffel said. 
“whereas another student who gets the same failing grade might think ‘i didn’t work hard enough, i’ll work harder on the next one. i’ll catch up, i’ll be fine, i’ll still get into grad school,’” he said.  “and when they feel sad, they go and play basketball or go play a sport or do whatever. 
That person’s not at risk for depression.” 
haeffel said conventional wisdom in the psychology field has held that cognitive vulner­ability in individuals remains relatively stable throughout life, past adolescence. 
“we thought that there were going to be times when it might change. These would be times during major life transitions, times when you go into a new social environment where you’re surrounded by new people who have all new ways of thinking,” haeffel said. “we thought that [in these times] it might rub off and actually be contagious.” 
To investigate this hypothe­sis, haeffel said he and Jennifer hames, a 2009 graduate of notre dame, conducted a study on 103 pairs of randomly as­signed freshman roommates at the university. haeffel surveyed the students on the two aspects of cognitive vulnerability — event interpretation and self-re­flection — when the freshmen first arrived, three months later, and at the end of the academic year, six months later. 
haeffel found that those who had a roommate with a negative way of thinking about the world caught some of that style and became more negative in their own thinking. at the final sur­vey, those who had their cog­nitive vulnerability adversely influenced were at a significant­ly greater risk for depression. 
“This is the first study to show that these can change more easily than you thought,” haeffel said. “in three months, we saw changes in vulner­ability that then actually meant something for future depressive symptoms.” 
haeffel emphasized that these findings on the relative malleability of cognitive vul­nerability have implications in treatment of depression. he said those suffering from the disor­der could benefit greatly from a treatment such as cognitive behavioral Therapy, which fo­cuses on how individuals think about events and themselves. 
“if people are struggling with depression, we always hear on the news that the best treat­ments are medication,” haeffel said. “but this therapy is as ef­fective as medication and it’s time-limited so you don’t have to take it your whole life. it also has a relapse-prevention effect, unlike medication. 
“you learn the skills and it keeps you safe from depression in the future, which tends to be highly recurrent.” 


Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 






Librarian discusses future of academic publishing 
cushwa-leighton library hosted they live. 44 percent of their budgets on grants, he said.he said the main is-
By MARISSA PIE 

newswriter geffert on Tuesday night in an effort he said typically, a researcher books, according to geffert. last sue is translating this setup to liber­to provide students with optimal re-is paid for his or her research and year, that number dwindled to 22 al arts colleges like amherst or saint 
bryn geffert, amherst college searching capacities. when he sends it off to an institution percent because they were forced to mary’s. librarian, addressed the currently geffert, who previously served to get published he relinquishes his spend so much on journal publish-geffert said he has worked to help flawed state of the libraries on cam-as the library director at the united rights to the piece. in most cases, ing costs. at his library at amherst, amherst establish a new kind of puses across the country in his states military academy, said he his institution buys the work back 56 disciplines have lost presses since press that will hopefully make lit-lecture, “academic libraries and wanted to foster a world where all from the publisher, but geffert said 1993, geffert said. erature available to the largest pos­academic publishing: The good, scholars would be able to access the author does not see a dime of “i’m not arguing that there’s a sible audience. The bad, and the ugly.” information with only an internet profit unless he sells an unrealistic shortage of outlets for publishing,” “we have announced everything 
The saint mary’s college connection regardless of where amount of copies. he said. “anyone with a manuscript [faculty members] publish at the 
“i cannot imagine a more dys-can get it looked at. but my argu-college’s press will be available free functional, more in jeopardy state ment is that there is a need for good, of charge on the internet,” he said. that academic publishing could be quality, not-for-profit, university “everyone with tinternet can access in,” he said. presses.” what is published at amherst. The 
“This is an absolutely perverse geffert said hundreds of third-reader can download and share it. model. we could not devise some-world countries are suffering from we have been knocked off our seats thing more preposterous. empty bookshelves. geffert said with how excited the media is.” 
“and what is the effect? he believes the current library and Through college endowment and escalading serials expenditures. publishing system is failing that volunteers, the college would be publishers are able to charge what-universal mission associated with able to do so without ever realizing ever prices they want because they universities implied by the word’s a dime for revenue. have control of the market. The tra-latin root.“its hard for universities “The ultimate dream behind this jectory is absolutely unsustainable, to provide light to their own stu-endeavor:[is] at some poine, there is [and] institutions cannot keep up” dents, let alone shedding light on a tipping point at which the savings 
geffert said three major scien-the world,” he said. “so what can we are realizing from not borrowing tific publishers have almost become we do about it? we can accept the from other institutions will cover monopolized: elsevier, springer status quo and do nothing. or, we the costs,” he said. and wiley. because these three can accept the status quo and work Though he acknowledged his companies control so much of the around the edges. goals were idealistic, geffert said he market, they are able to charge au-“we can contest the status quo, truly believes that if implemented, thors obscene amounts of money to kicking and screaming and see this system of shared information publish their works, he said. what happens. or we can create a will change academia. 
“now the result is that libraries new status quo.” “i imagine a day where a stu­must pay more and more each year The public library of science dent in india has the same access for publishing, leaving less money (plos) has done exactly that, to information as a student of a for books and material for students,” geffert said. he described plos as wealthy university as a student in he said. “cambridge university a series of top quality scientific jour-appalachia. That’s the ultimate press has eliminated entire series nals, available online for free. an au-dream ithink we should be striving just because there aren’t enough li-thor must pay a fee to see their work towards,” he said. braries that can afford to buy from published in this library, but most them.” of the contributors are research-Contact Marissa Pie at 
in 1986, libraries were spending ers who are funded by government mpie01@saintmarys.edu 
strains of the influenza and 


Fellowship 
analyze movement of molecules 
conTinued From page 1 
across cell membranes in real with other undergraduate re-time. all these applications can searchers,” bridgman said. lead to medical therapeutic and 
The 28 recipients of the award diagnostic research as well.” will receive a total of $5,250 for The undergraduate research-their participation in research ers will present the results of this upcoming summer, but their research at the end of the 10 bridgman said she looks for-weeks, she said. ward to benefits beyond the “i have to do a presentation at a paycheck. poster session on my work at the 
“i get the chance to explore end of the summer,” bridgman research as a career and partici-said. pate in high caliber research,” haley gordon, a sophomore bridgman said. chemistry and chemical engi­
 bridgman’s unpaid research neering major at saint mary’s and was driven by a genuine desire to notre dame, respectively, said gain a deeper understand of pro-bridgman’s fellowship was well­teins, she said. deserved, and notable because it 
“To be honest i have al-was given to a saint mary’s senior. ways been very interested in “she’s one of the most hard-proteins because they are the working students i know,” gordon building blocks for life after the said. “she’s incredibly diligent.” nucleotides that create them,” bridgman said she plans to bridgman said. “single protein pursue a career in cancer re-detection using probes is useful search and oncology. for a wide range of applications. it has been used to sequence Contact Rebecca O’Neil at dna, differentiate between roneil01@saintmarys.edu 








Adidas 
conTinued From page 1 
to pay severance.” The report said at the time of closure, em­ployees were owed $3.4 million in total. 
before the compromise was announced april 24, the wrc took issue with adidas being the only university-related compa­ny affiliated with the factory to not contribute or pledge to the severance fund or, according to the report. 
“adidas has taken the posi­tion that it has no obligation to provide funds to the affected workers,” the report said. 
before the settlement, adidas “did not disclose the violations, denied responsibility and re­fuses to pay anything,” it said. 
The report also said under university codes of conduct, “it is the duty of licensees to cor­rect code violations.” 
michael low, notre dame’s director of licensing, said notre 

“It’s always unfortunate when these things happen, but at Notre Dame, we don’t force a settlement by canceling contracts ... We continue to work through issues with our liscensees.” 
Michael Low 
director of licensing 
dame was the first university to adopt a code of conduct, which is applied to all of its licensees. 
low said the university stayed in contact with adidas during the episode and re­viewed reports and recommen­dations from the wrc and the Fair labor association. 
 “any time that there is an issue with factory workers and our licensees, we are con­cerned,” low said in a phone interview Friday. “in our case, [notre dame’s] code of conduct doesn’t really address the issue of unpaid severance. 
“This was not an adidas fac­tory, this was a factory that adidas contracted with, and this is a case where the owner of the factory basically left the country overnight and stole the severance funds that he was re­quired to pay by the indonesian government,” he said. “in talk­ing to adidas, … we know that they paid their bills and paid into the severance fund. They did not believe, and our code supported the fact that they were not responsible for the il­legal act of a third party.” 
low said he considers adidas to be “a worldwide leader” in its efforts to enforce codes of con­duct in the factories they con­tract with. 
“it’s always unfortunate when these things happen, but at notre dame, we don’t force a settlement by canceling con­tracts,” he said. “we continue to work through issues with our licensees.” 
James paladino, associate director for business opera­tions at notre dame’s center for social concerns, worked on the original formation of the code of conduct under former university president Fr. edward malloy. he said the university’s approach to issues of social jus­tice focuses more on remedia­tion than shaming. 
“remediation goes along with the rights and responsi­bilities theme of catholic social Teaching,” paladino said. “if you see an injustice, you shine the light on it. but you also work for positive change rath­er than just pulling out of the situation.” 
administrators at other uni­versities brought a different approach. rodney erickson, president of pennsylvania state university, sent a letter to the company on march 13 to an­nounce his university’s deci­sion “to suspend the adidas license with penn state for 60 days, effective immediately.” 
“we are confident that adi­das’s actions fall short of our expectations for fair, just and humane behavior by licensees toward the laborers that sus­tain a system from which all of us, particularly our licensees, benefit enormously,” erickson said in the letter. 
The letter stated that if adi­das pays its portion of the funds owed to the workers denied compensation within 60 days, the university “will lift [the] suspension and proceed under [the] prior relationship with adidas. however, should adi­das fail to do so to the satisfac­tion of both the worker rights consortium and penn state … the university will terminate the license.” 
paladino said his past expe­riences with workers’ rights disputes in latin america em­phasize the benefits of reme­diation over termination. 
“i went down to el salvador with a group, and we met with workers who had been laid off. They said, ‘whatever you do, fight for us. don’t make them pull out,’” he said. “They really wanted to go through remedia­tion. That’s the true piece of jus­tice, making the changes and getting the situation resolved.” 


on april 24, adidas an­nounced a solution to the situation in a letter to its univer­sity partners, provided by notre dame’s associate vice president for auxiliary operations david harr. The letter said a compro­mise had been reached to the satisfaction of both adidas and the pT Kizone workers. 
“we have been and remain sympathetic to the plight of all former pT Kizone workers,” the letter said. “we have been sup­portive of the factory workers since we first learned of the fac­tory’s closure and the workers’ hardship. 
“The additional aid comes on top of adidas’s earlier contribu­tions in humanitarian aid, job placement services and advo­cacy on issues related to work­ers’ rights,” the letter stated. 
when a third party is in­volved in such a dispute, as it was in the pT Kizone case, low said the university relies on the reports from the worker rights consortium and the Fair labor association to advise courses of action. 
“our expectation is that if the company is found to be at fault, they will remedy [the situation] appropriately to satisfy the is­sue,” low said. “There’s no issue for us as long as the companies are working in good faith [and] going through remediation.” 
The code qualifies in terms of ethical principles:, “notre dame licensees must be com­mitted in the conduct of their business to a set of ethical stan­dards which are not incompat­ible with those of notre dame.” 
The code of conduct in­cludes honesty, integrity, trust­worthiness and “respect for the unique intrinsic value of each human being” in its list of ethi­cal standards, according to the document. paladino said notre dame’s code is unique in its strong emphasis on the dignity of labor, which is another part of catholic social Teaching. 
william purcell, associ­ate director of catholic social Teaching for the center for social concerns said the com­promise is a “victory” for both adidas and the global community. 
“The bottom line here is how we can apply catholic social Teaching. it only happens in a practical way,” purcell said. “you can have all the ideas of solidarity and rights and re­sponsibilities, but how does it get carried out? it’s not just any one thing, but looking at the whole package. 
“we integrate catholic social Tradition in all we’re trying to do, including in a practical way using the university’s resourc­es and the resources we engage in our local community and the global community,” he said. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 







Conference 
conTinued From page 1 
center for Zebrafish research, while Kennedy, a double major in philosophy and accounting, works notre dame’s center for ethics and culture. 
“The conference was not only scientific, but at least for one of the days it addressed the ethi­cal issues of stem cell research,” marton said. 
marton explained that one of the conference’s chief goals was to discuss and raise awareness of the distinction between embry­onic and adult stem cell research. while embryonic stem cells are taken from human embryos, adult stem cells can be extracted from the very patients needing therapy, meaning the ethical is­sues regarding destruction of em­bryos are not a concern. 
“i think it’s actually a prob­lem today where people confuse the two,” marton said. “They sort of set themselves against all stem cell research where re­ally they probably don’t have anything against adult stem cell research and just don’t realize the difference. 

springer said the difference in the sources of the cells is critical since adult stem cell therapy uti­lizes a patient’s own cells. 
“This gap between science and faith was totally bridged,” springer said. “you’re not de­stroying life by any means, you’re using a more organic, natural way to heal a patient … and the church supports it 100 percent.” 
springer said she wishes the general public could understand the widespread potential for adult stem cells in regenerative medicine. 
“regenerative medicine and adult stem cell therapies — they’re not only going to benefit those in the science field … but i think they’re going to benefit all of us,” springer said. 
springer and Kennedy both ref­erenced multiple sclerosis patient roxane beygi, who spoke at the conference about her diagnosis and treatment with adult stem cell therapy. beygi was told “she had no chance of recovery,” ac­cording to Kennedy. “basically, she went from completely de­bilitated – couldn’t walk, had a hard time feeding herself, cloth­ing herself, couldn’t speak, and was really struggling – and then underwent stem cell therapy,” springer said. “apart from minor speech things, she was like you and me.” 
although adult stem cell re­search does not bear the same ethical concerns as embryonic stem cell research, Kennedy said certain medical and ethical is­sues still need to be considered. 
“it has the potential to heal so many people, but at the same time, when is it too much?” Kennedy said. “at what point do we draw the line? if the average human lifespan keepsincreasing, it can’t increase exponentially.” 
marton said the notre dame students were among 26 student ambassadors invited to attend the conference. springer said most of the students attend other catholic universities includ­ing georgetown, villanova and loyola. 
“i felt very prepared by my ed­ucation here to understand the talks and the meaning of what was being presented,” marton said. 
marton, springer and Kennedy said learning about the poten­tial benefits of adult stem cell research made them hope to continue researching novel ther­apies or, in Kennedy’s case, to remain familiar with the biotech industry. 
“This is actually a reality to­day,” Kennedy said. “This isn’t some thing that’s conceived of in the future, it really is at the cusp of fundamentally changing med­icine today.” 

Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Buyers seek ethical clothing 

Associated Press 
new yorK — you can recycle your waste, grow your own food and drive a fuel-efficient car. but being socially responsible isn’t so easy when it comes to the clothes on your back. 
Take Jason and alexandra lawrence of lyons, colo. The couple eat locally grown food that doesn’t have to be trans­ported from far-flung states. They fill up their diesel-pow­ered volkswagen and dodge pickup with vegetable-based oil. They even bring silverware to a nearby coffeehouse to avoid using the shop’s plastic utensils. 
but when it comes to making sure that their clothes are made in factories that are safe for workers, the couple fall short. 
“clothing is one of our more challenging practices,” says Jason lawrence, 35, who mostly buys secondhand. “i don’t want to travel around the world to see where my pants come from.” 
last week’s building col­lapse in bangladesh that killed hundreds of clothing factory workers put a spotlight on the sobering fact that people in poor countries often risk their lives working in unsafe facto­ries to make the cheap T-shirts and underwear that westerners covet. 
The disaster, which comes af­ter a fire in another bangladesh factory killed 112 people last november, also highlights something just as troubling for socially conscious shoppers: it’s nearly impossible to make sure the clothes you buy come from factories with safe work­ing conditions. 
very few companies sell clothing that’s so-called “ethi­cally made,” or marketed as being made in factories that maintain safe working condi­tions. in fact, ethically made clothes make up a tiny fraction of 1 percent of the overall $1 trillion global fashion industry. and with a few exceptions, such as the 250-store clothing chain american apparel inc., most aren’t national brands. 
it’s even more difficult to fig­ure out if your clothes are made in safe factories if you’re buying from retailers that don’t spe­cifically market their clothes as ethically made. That’s because major chains typically use a complex web of suppliers in countries such as bangladesh, which often contract busi­ness to other factories. That means the retailers themselves don’t always know the origin of clothes when they’re made overseas. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


INSIDE COLUMN 
To the class of 2013 


Laura Coletti 
sports writer 

on the evening of aug. 23, 2009, i sat be­neath the arches of my new home, howard hall. i spoke into my cell phone to my best friend from home. “i already love it here,” i said. 
Three years, eight months and one week later, i smile when i think about my 18-year­old self. she had no idea how much that love would grow. 
Today, i and roughly 2100 other undergrad­uate students are watching the days, hours and seconds of our time at notre dame tick to a close. it’s the time of year for celebration, reflection and contemplation. it is also a time of year to give thanks to families, professors and others who have helped to shape our lives over the last four years. 
i think a lot of times, one important group goes overlooked during the thank yous. my mom always taught me to handwrite my thank you notes, but since i cannot possibly pen hundreds of cards over the next two and a half weeks, i’m using the last inside column of my observer career to thank my peers in notre dame’s class of 2013. 
lots of things define a college career. academic success, athletic endeavors, intern­ships, study abroad programs, volunteer ef­forts and scholarly accomplishments are all vital to an enriching college experience. 
here’s the thing, though. we all could have done those things somewhere else. 
but we didn’t. we did them here and we did them with each other. To me, that is what really sets apart the notre dame experience 
— the incredible, wonderful people we en­counter every single day on this campus. 
i am a big believer in everything happening for a reason, and i think all of us who will be graduating on may 19th were thrown together four years ago for a reason greater than merely choosing notre dame. we all had a lot to learn from each other. we shared in each other’s highs and lows, made mistakes and memories together, loved, hated, fought, laughed, cried, ate, slept, studied, failed and succeeded to­gether. starting in two and a half weeks, we’re going to be seeing a lot less of each other. make sure to take the time to let those who are im­portant know how much they matter to you. 
in may 2010, i sat in my home, howard hall, on the phone with that same friend. “what if someday it loses its magic?” i asked. 
Thank you, classmates, for keeping the magic alive. when we process into the stadi­um three sundays from now, take a moment to look around. Those who are responsible for your first 18 years of life will be in the stands. but those who are responsible for your last four years will be seated all around you. sure, you’ll miss the football games, you’ll miss the parties, you’ll miss the campus events and you’ll probably even miss class. but none of that would have meant anything without the people you did it all with. so appreciate them, enjoy the last few moments with them and don’t forget to thank them. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

“it’s time to leave.” growing up, i heard these words almost daily as my parents tried to move my brothers and i from school to sporting events to rehearsals. To be frank, the boyle household was more like an airport than a home during those early years 
— there was always someone coming and going, save, of course, for the brief layovers to refuel. 
our kitchen was the “control tower,” the command center for the head air traffic controllers (my parents) who coordinated complex travel schedules seven days a week to make sure my brothers and i got where we needed to be. “refueling” was carefully orches­trated too. water bottles were always being filled and free hands tossed around bananas that had to be eaten quickly in order to make the next prac­tice or rehearsal on-time. 
although both my parents worked full-time jobs, they did their best to manage the ever changing “radar” that may be properly called our calendar. Tuesdays and Thursdays meant school, swim practice and piano lessons. mondays, wednesdays and Fridays meant school, theater class, baseball and choir. of course, cancellations, weather and coach/teacher schedules changed that weekday schedule fre­quently. add to that the other games, errands, mass and chores that de­manded time on weekends and you had a recipe for adventure!. 
although my parents made a her­culean effort to ensure they were pre­pared and organized, we boys were a different story entirely. we liked to practice the ancient art of selective hearing. precious minutes would tick by as we neglected our parents’ de­parture warnings and instead played more ‘nba2K’ on our sega dreamcast before practices or caught some sleep on sundays before mass. it wouldn’t be long then before the regular calls of “it’s time to leave” would turn to yells. The sega would get unplugged and the sheets would be forcibly pulled back from our beds in order to get us out the door. 
Those words, “it’s time to leave,” have a different sort of meaning for me now.  no longer am i just preparing to leave the house for yet another practice or rehearsal. now, i am preparing to leave notre dame, a place i have called home for the majority of five academic years and four summers. 
as the end of this year draws near, i have found myself asking a lot of ques­tions. “who do i need to see?” “what do i need to do to make these last few weeks memorable?” “is there anything i have left unfinished?” 
i have found myself looking at the calendar more frequently, counting down the days until i no longer relate to campus in the same way. Time, it seems, is a luxury now. 
chances are all of us have had to leave something at certain points in our lives. perhaps seniors are feeling similar sentiments as they prepare to graduate. or perhaps those who are studying abroad are wondering how best to cherish these final moments before journeying away for a time. perhaps some of us are worried about transitioning jobs, relationships or moving to a new city. no matter what stage of life we’re in or what we are fac­ing, the future can be intimidating. 
but mitch albom makes an interest­ing observation in regards to this fear in his novel “The Time-Keeper: “all around [us], timekeeping is ignored. birds are not late. The dog does not check its watch. deer do not fret over passing birthdays. man alone mea­sures time. man alone chimes the hour. and, because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creature endures. a fear of time run­ning out.” 
perhaps, as albom observes, the key to our futures lies actually within our present, in the birds, the dogs and the deer. what if we, like them, spent time savoring the present moments, the places and the people that sur­round us now? in doing this, we may discover — as albom notes — that “the very next moment may be an answer to [our] prayer.” our very next breath, conversation or encounter may present an opportunity that calms our fears and gives us the peace to follow our dreams. albom writes, “To deny that is to deny the most important part of the future: hope.” what if we became men and women who lived with this hope in the future? our futures might just end up looking beautiful too. 
in the book, Father Time remarks, “god limits our days to make each one precious.” my time here at notre dame has been limited, but only so the edu­cation and formation i have received does not stay here, but travels with me to the world. we are called to be people of hope. we are called to model that hope to the world. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and an intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Flex points: countdown to zero 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 
as the flowers bloom and south bend consumes its two-day quota of good weather, it is with sadness that we look to finals approaching which will bring to a close our year at notre dame.  with them comes a myriad of questions. “when are my finals?” “wait, i’m still in that class?” “where am i storing everything this summer?” “why does the band still play ‘rumor has it’?” and last but certainly not least, “how do i spend the rest of my flex points?” 
as a remarkably diverse student body, it should come as no surprise students fall into a wide range of flex point positions. what follows is an attempt to highlight just a few of them. 
The planner: 

The planner budgeted out his flex points way back in January. while slightly disheartened his balance is $42.05 rather than the planned $43.71, he nevertheless knows exactly what he’s going to be buying, the total of his purchase and very possibly the name of the ca­shier he’ll be buying it from. he’ll want to correct the cashier for including tax on his purchase, but her ca­sual smile and the prospect of a future syr will keep him from saying anything. after his last final, he’ll walk to laFortune, buy something and, despite having bombed the final, smile with great satisfaction that his balance is exactly $0.00. 
The mooch: 

at some point, the mooch decided they no longer cared. inspired by their television, they declared it was indeed their money and they wanted it now. having gone to au bon pain two times a day for the first three months and having ended each night at reckers, they find themselves without flex points or food, forced to attend random career center events in pursuit of free pizza. in drastic cases, the lack of purchasing power has led to these people declaring themselves free from huddle delicacies such as soap, deodorant and toothpaste as well. aside from smuggling out gummy worms in their backpacks and north dining hall bur­ritos in their pockets (guy in the blue sweatshirt, you know who you are), their appetites are left to the char­ity of their friends as well as to anyone else who hap­pens to be in line while they beg. 
best intentions: 
This student started out as the planner. They thought they had it all figured out. They were on track through march, and then it all went wrong. maybe their friends convinced them to buy Taco bell for the entire section at 3 a.m. in a questionable state of sobri­ety. maybe they had high school friends visiting who needed food, or they bought someone else’s food for them in an awkward display of courtship. maybe there was an emotional night of section bonding, gossip and romantic comedies complete with cherry garcia and phish Food — but enough about siegfried. whatever the cause, the planner’s best laid plans have fallen apart, and they’ve become just another member of the mooch legion. 
The last supper: 
The last supper is a special case for those among us who have been, to put it delicately, “asked” to take some time away from school. incredibly, given the transgressions often responsible for mid-semester dismissals, their flex points haven’t been ravaged by the munchies. They have several hundred dollars left to spend, even after buying the reslife committee lunch in a last-ditch attempt to sway their decision. so what does one do? Follow Jesus, of course, and participate in a last supper. in ceremonious fashion, you assemble a hungry horde and head to laFortune. once there, nothing is off limits. even burger King is allowed. in a race against time before the host’s identification card is deactivated, the group buys any­thing and everything. unlike the following student, the point here is to spend money — avoid the quarter dogs. 
The quarter dog connoisseur: 
The quarter dog connoisseur (Q.d.c.) knows how to stretch a dollar. after coming to the realization they were going to run out of flex points around easter break, they transitioned to quarter dogs to the benefit of their flex points and the detriment of their lifes­pans. while not quite enjoying the four-month-old hot dogs, they find the taste palpable thanks to the price. That, and a whole lot of ketchup. To make things bet­ter, the Q.d.c. can now become part of the “live below the line” movement, living on $1.50 a day. They will soon fashion a viewpoint arguing the key to curing malnutrition in the third world lies with quarter dogs. The state department will respond they’re trying to help those without food, not kill them. 
The freshman: 
occasionally, a freshman will reach may without having developed a full understanding of how flex points work. as a result, they will still have $327.23, to the envy of everyone else. luckily, this problem tends to work itself out. if their birthday falls toward the end of the year, they’ll just use their flex points to buy mixers and cups for their birthday bash. Their friends will create a seemingly clever dorm party title like “reggaeTom” or “Katies from chicago.” problem solved. should their birthday not align so perfectly, the upperclassmen in the section will give a helping hand, appropriating the flex points into section funds. 
The kid that can’t count: 
despite being the star of their freshman finite math­ematics class, they cannot subtract to save their life. occasionally skipping the tens digit has caught up to them as they come up short at starbucks. To make matters worse, the barista somehow butchered their name on the latte. realizing they had only $87 to make it through the final six weeks, they sat down with their accounting major friend and were told some nonsense about budgeting. This conversation is a tragic fore­shadowing of a discussion they will have with their parents roughly five months after graduation. 
Matt Miklavic is a sophomore studying political science and business from Cape Elizabeth, Maine.  He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The rules of existence in Zahm’s kingdom 
let’s get something straight here. last week, sev­eral co-presidents of Knott hall deemed it their right to claim a part of notre dame campus as the Knott Quadrangle. while this gesture is cute, it is based on the misguided presumption Knott has any author­ity on campus. while the story of your origins as Flanner hall was nice to read, i see none of that cool­ness in the current Knott hall. you can’t even decide upon one president, so don’t pretend all of the sud­den your poorly elected triumvirate can start making statements that affect the rest of campus. 
beyond the uselessness of Knott hall, there is a larger problem on campus: the idea any dorm has this authority but Zahm. here are the facts. when people ask what dorm is the most infamous on cam­pus, no one says sorin college or duncan hall. when a former university president says anything, good or bad, that happens on campus begins in one dorm, he surely is not referring to Knott, morrissey, siegfried or Keough. now, some dorms will claim otherwise. Keenan will claim it has a reason for existence, Keough will say “we have Father pete” and sorin will say “we have sweater vests.” duncan: blazers. st. edward’s: gentlemen/pretentiousness. o’neill: “bro­ness.” stanford: a fire-resistant fortress. alumni: wake week. morrissey: tower parties. siegfried: trophies. but the fact is none of this justifies any of these dorms having any authority on campus. no dorm but Zahm is the one everyone loves to hate, the service-minded community that accepts all and does its best to help all in any way it can, both on-and off-campus. 
now i, like many “Zahmbies,” have many friends outside of Zahm. some of my best friends are in the dorms i have listed, and none of this letter says any­thing to diminish their character or good works. This does not change the fact, however, that Zahm cannot be matched as a dorm. so go ahead, eager respond­ers, and point out Zahm’s faults. argue each dorm has a unique contribution (this has no bearing on the current double-standard debate) and claim your guy’s dorm deserves the title Zahm rightfully owns. please claim spots on campus as your own, as Knott hall has done. Just remember when you do, you are staking a claim in Zahm’s kingdom, a privilege we can revoke at will. 
Daniel Carinci 
senior Zahm house april 30 





A big thanks to Notre Dame Food Services 
as our senior year comes to a close, we just wanted to  notre dame something special.  James Baker  
say an enormous thank you to all of the wonderful peo­ often, all it takes is a warm greeting to lift someone’s  senior  
ple that make south and north dining halls such ha- day, and we have experienced that countless times in  dillon hall  
vens of tranquility. From the greeters who always offer  the dining halls. plus the suggestions wall is always  april 30  
a pleasant smile and friendly hello to the lady working  super funny in south dining hall and the food actually  
pasta stir fry in north dining hall (we’re going to miss  tastes great (unlike too many other schools our col- Brynne Miller  
hearing you ask “and anything else?”) to John and his  leagues may attend).  senior  
mechanical chicken on wing night and to all the folks  so, thanks.  we love you.  pangborn hall  
working behind the scenes. you have made our time at  april 30  

The observer | WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By LIZZY SCHROFF 
scene writer 

coachella, bonnaroo, lollapalooza, sasquatch!, south by southwest. any of these names ring a bell? These multiday music festivals span across the united states from the farms of manchester, Tenn. to the valley of indio, calif., boasting huge crowds and rocking music. but this year, you won’t have to travel farther than downtown south bend to enjoy a multi-artist music extravaganza. may 3 and may 4 marks the first ever south by south bend (sXsb) music festival. organized by residents of the south bend area, this festival highlights local and traveling bands at a variety of venues in downtown south bend. 
Friday’s schedule features folk rock perfor­mances at The pool on w. colfax ave. These include michigan-based Joshua barton (who de­scribes his music as “spacey folk tunes”), alterna­tive rock group i am band from berrien springs, mich., and lauryn peacock from philadelphia, pa. latin rock will be featured at the boiler room (the same location as The pool), with artists anival Fausto and lalo cura. indie folk group coed 

By TESSA DEMERS 
scene writer 

long before dorothy, two young girls meet in the land of oz. one — born with emerald green skin — is intel­ligent, fiery, and misunderstood. The other is beautiful, ambitious, and very popular. wicked tells the story of how these two unlikely friends journey together to be­come the wicked witch of the west and her counter­part, glinda the good. 
based on the best-selling 1995 novel by gregory maguire, this musical has won 35 major honors, in­cluding a grammy award and three Tonys. globally, wicked has amassed nearly $2.9 billion in ticket sales and has been seen by 36 million people in its 9-year history. 
This show is so popular in large part because of its amazing talent, its Tony award-winning costumes, and its magnificent and captivating score by composer stephen shwartz (whose major works also include hit musicals such as godspell and several disney movies like pocahontas and enchanted). This show also pro­vides a unique take on a “pre-wizard of oz” story, in­corporating a fantastic message about how it is okay to be different and special, and that good things can often come out of bad ones. 
directed by two-time Tony award winner Joe mantello, and staged by another Tony winner, wayne cilento, this production will be hitting The morris may 8th, and sticking around until may 19th. 
“The two-week run is the longest that we have had in south bend,” Kathy boes said, president of the 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 

pageant from urband, ill. will play at chickory café on Jefferson blvd. The party continues into the night with south bend locals dog & pony at club lasalle. 
saturday’s full-day lineup promises tons of art­ists at the Kizer mansion on w. washington street and The gridiron between south bend chocolate cafe and doubleTree hilton hotel. The lineup is comprised of folk artist glad Fanny from oswego, ill., chris Faero from brooklyn, n.y., “carp rock” south bend duo The rutabega, and tons more. 
The headlining show will take place at The state on s. michigan street on saturday evening. Tickets can be purchased for $25 on brown paper Tickets. proceeds support the 26 bands perform­ing throughout the weekend. you can also choose to donate your ticket purchase to other com­munity causes, such as the environment, chil­dren, and human rights. The show will include experimental-folk-rock group The soil and The sun from grand rapids, mich. harpist and song­writer Timbre from nashville, Tenn., and “afro­psychcountryprog” (why confine yourself to one genre?) band infinite buffalo from south bend, among others. while the headlining show does 
broadway Theatre league of south bend, inc., “and we expect an impressive influx of business at our local res­taurants, hotels, retailers, and destinations.” 
i was lucky enough to be able to interview a member of the cast who has a special connection to the south bend community and to notre dame. The sister of a 2006 graduate, and born and raised on nd football, bridie carroll is very excited to be back in the bend, for the first time for a non-sporting event. 
having graduated with a b.F.a. in musical Theatre from boston conservatory, a school with no athlet­ics, or as carroll said, “Their talents lie in other areas,” she said loved every time she got the opportunity to visit campus and attend a football game. carroll said she always wished she could come back to campus for something longer than a football weekend. now, in the national tour of wicked, she is finally getting her wish. 
“There is something magical and spiritual about the campus,” carroll said. “i feel so grateful to come back and be able to give something back to the south bend community because they, and notre dame, gave so much to me and my family over the years.” 
because she has family friends in all aspects of notre dame, from administration staff to professors to mem­bers of the football team, carroll said she sees the notre dame community as going a step beyond being a great university. 
“Friends become family,” she said. “it’s a really unique school that can do that.” 
although this will be her first time performing on a south bend stage, she is no stranger to national tours. Though she appreciated that national tours offer an require ticket purchase, all of the other venues will be accepting donations from attendees. 
Throughout the weekend, you’ll be able to choose your desired flavor of music — plugged in or acoustic — depending on the venue. Friday’s show at The pool, for instance, is the place to be if you are in the mood for the acoustic vibe. The festival presents the perfect occasion to support a burgeoning local and traveling music scene. an opportunity to be a part of south bend’s very first music festival (this is history making stuff, people!) and experience the musical creations of many talented artists is one that shouldn’t be missed. if you’ve been itching for some culture and some new bands to put on your playlist, look no further than south by south bend. 
For more information on the weekend’s festivi­ties, check out the Facebook event page — sXsb 2013. you can also check out videos and mp3s of the bands playing at the festival. parking will be free on both the streets and the garages down­town for the events. rock on and support the music. 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
amazing opportunity to travel the country and per­form a show that you love on stage every night, carroll admitted that life on the road is sometimes difficult – and definitely “different.” 
“you live in hotels and you get one day off a week,” said carroll. “it’s hard to have a traditional life. it’s not a normal 9-to-5 job with the wife and kids and white picket fence. The cast and crew really become your family.” 
another plus of working in theater is getting to por­tray a character quite different from yourself. on stage, you can be anyone you want to be, even if you only want to be that person for a couple hours and then go back to being yourself. carroll, for example, plays one of glinda’s best friends. 
“i get to play a girly girl and a mean girl,” she said. “it’s fun to be someone you’re not.” 
carroll also gets work with who’s become a close friend to her over the past eight years: hayley podschun, who plays glinda the good. sometimes, it seems, art really does imitate life, and vice versa. 
For its script, its music, cast, set, costumes, and of course its message, wicked is a great show to see when you have all that extra time during senior week — or to catch with your family over commencement weekend. it is an experience that you will never forget. 
although the citizens of oz all wear green, carroll said she sometimes fantasizes about taking the produc­tion in a new direction for this particular tour stop. “i wish we could all come out in blue and gold. go irish!” 


Contact Tessa DeMers at tdemers@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 

The supposed notre dame references in the 2001 film “shrek” that students enthusiastically claim to exist, in the face of the facts or reality, may be no more urban legend. 
a key part of the myth is that members of the crew of “shrek” are notre dame graduates, and they inserted five notre dame allusions into the film. 
one, that scottish chemistry professor graham lappin is the inspiration for shrek’s character. Two, lord Farquaad is named after the carroll Quad (“far quad”) and three, the town of duloc is named after the full title of the university, notre dame du lac. The fourth reference is that the duloc castle is modeled after the hesburgh library, and the fifth is that there is an outline of main building on the back of shrek’s vest. 
Firstly, professor lappin denied the connection between shrek and himself. 
“shrek’s character is not based on me at all,” he said. “mike myers’ family have west-of-scotland roots, and he used many of the idiosyncrasies of people from that part of the world (there are many) when he was on snl. i do not know of any notre damegrads who have gone off to work for dreamworks, and no one connected with dreamworks has told me i am the inspiration for shrek.” 
The voice of shrek was originally to be voiced by saturday night live actor chris Farley, who agreed to do voice work in 1996, but was unable to finish recording before his unexpect­ed death in 1997. Jim hill, in an article about the production of the film, wrote that mike myers agreed to take the role, but asked for the script to be completely reworked. myers also decided he wanted to re-record all of shrek’s dialogue with a scottish accent, after he had already put years’ worth of work into the film. 
despite this evidence, some students still insist lappin is the inspiration for shrek, claiming lappin looks and sounds exactly like shrek. 
The second and third myths would also need the influence of writers. although the name Farquaad does look and sound like “Far Quad,” notre dame officials told ed greenberger of Fox28 that carroll Quad has never been called “far quad,” not even decades ago. Fr. James lewis, current rector of carroll hall, said he had no knowledge of such a reference and did not know of anyone who went to work for dreamworks. 
Furthermore, there is just as much if not more specula­tion that lord Farquaad is meant to look like disney chief michael eisner, a nemesis of dreamworks producer Jeffrey Katzenburg. peter bradshaw of The guardian and sean daly of the washington city paper further claim that “Farquaad” might be a way to pronounce “f***wad” in a children’s film. 

The town of duloc may also be more of a reference to disney parks than to notre dame du lac. Though they are pronounced the same, they are spelled differently, and the singing wooden puppet show when one enters duloc is clear­ly a parody of the “it’s a small world” ride. The duloc song is in the same key and has the same beats per minute as “it’s a small world.” 
in the duloc song, the lyrics “here we have some rules, let us lay them down,” are supposedly meant to allude to du lac: a guide to student life rulebook while “please keep off of the grass” supposedly refers to the rule to not to walk on the grass on “god Quad.” 
anotre dame allusion that an animator might be able to in­sert is the structure of the hesburgh library. a visual compari­son of the two shows the unlikelihood that the library inspired the castle. Though both are tall, rectangular buildings, this is the end of the similarities. The duloc castle is a gray color, and its highest points at the top are the four corners sticking up. hesburgh library is a tan color, and its highest point is the flat rectangular portion on the top, with the sides of the building lower and further back than the front side with the mural on it. 
The second visual allusion is the supposed outline of main building in the pattern on the back of shrek’s vest. Though the large circle in the center of his vest with the smaller, thinner circle on top of it does look like the golden dome with our lady on top, production designer James hegedus denied the likeness. 
“There was no intent in the design of the vest to have it re­semble the golden dome,” hegedus said to ed greenberger of Fox28 in may 2010. 
Though each of these references alone may not be strong enough evidence to believably allude to notre dame, together they might hold more weight. This is the final, most important part of the myth: who in the large crew of shrek is responsible for the references? 
The legends about the notre dame graduates are most var­ied of all the myths. some online sources said “many of the filmmakers” graduated from notre dame, while others said “the writer,” “three of the four writers,” “some of the anima­tors,” and even “two writers, who lived in carroll.” none of the assertions online list names. 
a search for dreamworks as a primary employer in the notre dame alumni directory gave only two results, neither of which are listed as crew members for “shrek.” additionally, none of the notable alumni listed on the Film, Television, and Theater (FTT) department’s page or the art department’s alumni page work for dreamworks. 
The names of all the writers, animators, producer and 
for childish gambino on his we should all love rap: to hear a feat.ab-soul. 
directors were searched individually in the alumni directory (as of december 2011), which lists alumni that have and have not registered online, as well as lists alumni considered ac­tive, inactive, or “lost”. For most names, there was no match, even when just the last name was searched. For the few name matches found, a closer look at the alumni and their employ­ment history showed they were doctors, teachers, lawyers or engineers and did not work for dreamworks or even in the film industry. 
however, if a notre dame graduate went on to work for dreamworks, especially the successful and beloved film “shrek,” and even inserted references to notre dame into the film, why would the university not proudly claim them? even if a filmmaker could not openly admit to inserting notre dame references, their names as crewmembers are publicly listed online, wouldn’t students, peers, friends, faculty, or staff recognize their names? 
where might these rumors have started and how do they spread? professor lappin said the rumors about him as the inspiration for shrek first came to his attention eight or nine years ago when a student in his general chemistry class asked him to say “donkey.” 
donald crafton, FTT professor teaching “animation cinema” next semester and author of “before mickey: The animated Film 1898-1928,”said the references are an example of an urban legend that got online and from there could not be stopped. 
“it’s just not local,” crafton said. “if, however, what one hears about the campus tours is accurate, the [tour] guides also have contributed to its spreading. an alumna of notre dame who works at dreamworks animation told me specifically that no references to her alma mater were intentionally sneaked into ‘shrek.’” 
The complete, 20-page script given to student tour guides (as of december 2011) does not list any of the“shrek” referenc­es, but does in all capital letters deny that south dining hall is the inspiration for The great hall in the “harry potter” series. senior tour guide clara ritger said the tour guides often don’t use the master script, but she knows many tour guides who include the “shrek” references in the tour. 
Though it is still possible that a notre dame fan who was very familiar with the university (and not just the football team) inserted these references, it will take even more dig­ging. as for the myths, any truth in notre dame alums in­serting specifically notre dame references seems very highly unlikely, if not completely untrue. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 




Andrew Gastelum 

“camp” tour, rocked south by good story. There’re no typecast but the real eye-opener to 
editor in chief 

southwest twice and notched a club bangers, hard-hitting 808s or chance The rapper’s true poten­spot at this summer’s lollapalooza. rapid-fire high-hats. in fact, it’s a lot tial rests in the melancholy ubi­
now that school is ending, it oh, and he’s only 19 years old. of trumpet blaring, piano melodies sunt of “acid rain,” an ode to an makes sense to have our final kick-everything about this kid is and acid jazz grooves, and it sits so acid trip that helps him cope with back be about an artist who started unique, from his squeaky, high-well with any mood. the murder of a close friend. his career because of school. pitch voice to his soothing amal-chance gets a little help from his if you’re looking for any compar­
in his senior year of high school, gamation of jazz instrumentation friends this time around, including isons, it’s as if a Tribe called Quest chance The rapper was suspend-and his congenial storytelling of Tde’s ab-soul, action bronson, met the old “Through the wire” 

“Acid Rap” 

ed 10 days for marijuana posses-everyday life reminiscent of 90s childish gambino and even Kanye west. yup, i know it’s high 
Artist: Chance The Rapper 

sion. but his suspension gave him rap. Twista. praise, but all it needs is a chance. 
Genre: Hip Hop, Rap

the push to pursue his dreams in and it all seems to come together The mix tape’s highlights come rap, resulting in his first mix tape in “acid rap,” chance The rapper’s from the uplifting, meta “Favorite “10day.” highly anticipated sophomore song” feat. childish gambino 



Twenty thousand downloads release. and the wall-knocking, all-of-the­later, the chicago rapper opened “acid rap” represents the reason lights-horn-heavy “smokeagain” 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Because it’s the Cup, that’s why 


Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
i’ve been trying for three years to win one of those damned recsports champion t-shirts. i already have too many t-shirts to wear, and it usually has some ridiculous design or color scheme on it that would make it a back-of­the-rotation shirt at best. but that shirt represents the one shining moment when you stood on top of the world and defeated all comers to declare yourself as the greatest — or at least more sober than the other broomball squad on the ice. 
it’s the same with the masters. in almost every situ­ation, a green sport jacket is nothing more than an ag­gressive fashion statement or a great $12-find at your local thrift shop. but when it’s emblazoned with the logo of augusta national golf club and presented in butler cabin, it represents an elite fraternity of those who have faced golf’s greatest test and passed. it’s unique, an icon unto itself and an unmistak­able symbol of history and greatness — everything a tro­phy needs. 
and that’s why it’s the sec-ond-best trophy in sports. 
The masters green jacket only claims silver on my list of best trophies, and that’s because of a very special piece of silver in its own right. because when it comes down to it, nothing compares to the stanley cup. 
The cup was commissioned by lord stanley of preston, governor general of canada, in 1892, and has been award­ed nearly every year since then to north america’s best hockey club. its charm is in its history and tradition, which really can be attributed to the fact that a new cup isn’t made every year, unlike the trophies of america’s other three major leagues. 
admittedly, there is some novelty to having multiple championship trophies in your case. but compared to holding and having your name carved into the cup that’s been held by wayne gretzky, bobby orr, gordie howe and lord stanley him­self? That idea is priceless. 
The league has differenti­ated itself by centering its playoffs around the pursuit of the cup. it’s not the “nhl playoffs,” it’s the “stanley cup playoffs.” nobody ever brags they’ve won 27 commissioner’s Trophies or a dozen larry o’brien Trophies 
— awarded to the mlb and nba champions,  in the likely case that, like me, you didn’t know. 
in fact, for the past several years, the nhl has marketed its playoffs with one simple phrase: “because it’s the cup.” 
and after a team wins the cup, the traditions really take hold. every player takes the cup for a lap around the ice, then gets a personal day with it during the following year. The cup has been in parades, fallen through whitewater rapids and often functioned as a morning cereal bowl for a player — each of which only adds to its mystique. 
most frequently though, a player will take the cup back to his hometown as a win to be shared with everyone that helped him eventually become an nhl champion. small canadian towns that wouldn’t miss a beat in an eight-foot blizzard come to a standstill when the cup comes to town, and even the toughest have been reduced to tears at the sight of it. it’s not only tough to touch the trophy, as it travels with spe­cially designated bodyguards, but foolish to even try, as any­one who lifts the cup without winning it is cursed to never win it. 
so i’ll have to stay away from sports’ greatest trophy for the time being, at least until i learn how to skate and win it for real. 
in the meantime, i guess i’ll just settle for a recsports t-shirt. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NHL 


slumping bruins, maple leafs meet in first round 
Associated Press 
Forget about the way the bruins and maple leafs stumbled into the play­offs. pay no attention to how boston has dominated Toronto in recent seasons. 
That’s what both teams will be trying to do when they meet in the playoffs wednesday night for the first time since 1974. 
“if things would’ve been going all our way, we would’ve been downplay­ing it the same way,” bruins center patrice bergeron said Tuesday. 
The bruins missed a chance to finish second in the eastern conference by losing seven of their last nine games. The maple leafs dropped four of their last six regular-season games and nine of 10 to boston over the past two seasons. They’ve also lost 11 of their last 13 at Td garden. 
“i’d expect we’re going to get a boston bruins team that’s different than the last two weeks of their season and i’d expect we’re going to get a higher brand of hockey from our club also,” maple leafs coach randy carlyle said. 
both teams are likely to get key scorers back from upper-body injuries — nathan horton for boston and Tyler bozak for Toronto. horton missed five games and bozak sat out two. 
“i think we’re playing a lit­tle bit better. we’re just not scoring,” horton said. “we get our chances but we didn’t put the teams away and we just gave them a chance to stick around. That’s how they come back and that’s in the past now. we don’t want to think of that.” 
The bruins’ 131 goals were eighth in the conference and they scored only 18 in their last nine games. The leafs were fifth with 145 goals and now expect bozak, who had 12 goals and 16 assists 

FOR RENT 
Available May 1st. Clean 2BR 1BA. Garage and fenced yard. 1326 E. Chalfant St. $675/mo Call 574-340-6789 
1 BR furnished apt with utilities. $550/mo + deposit. Near airport. 574-233-3565 

this season, to be ready for the opener of Toronto’s first playoff series in nine years. 
“when you have a player that takes all the important faceoffs for you, that’s the first place you miss him,” carlyle said. “bozie is a real smart hockey player. he knows where to be on the ice. The puck kind of follows him around and his game is one where he does a lot of the little things that aren’t noticed, but you notice them when he’s not there.” 
one focal point will be former bruins player phil Kessel and boston’s Tyler seguin, two top young for­wards. boston traded Kessel to Toronto in september 2009 for three draft choices, two of whom turned out to be first-rounders: seguin and rookie defenseman dougie hamilton. both have played key roles this season. 
in 16 games against Toronto, seguin has 10 goals and six assists. Kessel has fared much worse against boston with three goals and six assists in 22 games — and he’s had to endure the jeers of bruins fans. 
“They are obviously going to be loud, probably going to be giving it to phil a little bit,” bozak said. “we’re used to that when we go there, but it might be a little bit more upscale this time around.” 
Kessel probably will have more problems with a bruins defense that allowed just 109 goals, second fewest in the east. 
but the maple leafs be­came a bit tougher them­selves against opposing puck handlers as the season progressed. 
“i think they’ve improved a lot really on their fore-check, on the way that they pressure,” bergeron said. “They really come hard, and they’re in your face, and they’re a pretty physi­cal team. so we’re expecting that.” 
boston missed a chance to be seeded second in the con­ference when it lost 4-2 to the ottawa senators in the reg­ular-season finale sunday. That allowed montreal to take that spot while the bruins slipped to fourth. The maple leafs earned the fifth seed. 
“it doesn’t matter if we finished first or eighth,” boston goalie Tuukka rask said. “you make the playoffs, you’ve still got to start with a clean sheet. and i think nobody’s even talked about the regular season any­more. we’re focused on the playoffs.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Play for Keeps” by B.o.B. 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? How much must I repeat? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has We only play for keeps many resources in place to assist No time-outs, no free throws you. If you or someone you love needs No refs, no penalties confidential support or assistance, No handouts, no pit stops please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or No cheat codes, no sleep Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: But the drinks are on us http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu If you with it then pull up a seat 


paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

NBA 
With Smith’s return, Knicks look to advance 
Associated Press 
greenburgh, n.y. — J.r. smith may have altered a series with one poor decision. he cer­tainly forced his midweek plans to change. 
when he dropped boston’s Jason Terry with an elbow to the chin late in game 3 on Friday night, smith earned a suspen­sion that left the new york Knicks without their no. 2 scor­er during the regular season for game 4 on sunday. 
The Knicks didn’t have enough offense without him, losing 97-90 in overtime as Terry, not the sixth man of the year, hit the big shots off the bench. 
had smith been available, perhaps this series would al­ready be over. 
“it would’ve been,” smith said Tuesday. “i would’ve been play­ing golf today.” 
instead, he was practicing for game 5. 
The Knicks will host it wednesday, their second at­tempt to close out their first se­ries victory since 2000. 
“we want to end it,” leading scorer carmelo anthony said. “we came this far, did our job at home first two games, did our job on the road, got one on the road. we’ve got the opportu­nity to end it here on our home court.” 
The Knicks won the first three games, holding the celtics to an average of 75 points, before boston broke out — sort of — on sunday. The celtics scored 54 points in the first half and led by 20 early in the third quarter before their offensive struggles returned, and they were limited to just 30 points in the third and fourth quarters. 
clean up those bad stretches, and the celtics think they can keep climbing out of the mess they created for themselves. 
“There’s that one quarter where we have mental lapses,” forward paul pierce said. “They pick up the energy. They pick up the defense, and they have us on our heels, so we have to be cau­tious of that.” 
The Knicks had their own problems sunday, shooting 34 percent from the field and mak­ing just 7-of-30 3-pointers (23 percent). anthony, perhaps feel­ing pressure to force things with smith unavailable, scored 36 points but was 10-of-35, missed all seven 3-point attempts and committed seven turnovers. 
smith averaged a career-best 
18.1 points during the regular season, and his recognition as the nba’s top reserve was as much a credit to his improved maturity and decision-making as it was to his scoring streaks. 
but those qualities went miss­ing Friday when smith threw his elbow into Terry with the Knicks 7:06 away from wrap­ping up an easy victory. coach mike woodson appeared to be lecturing smith before he left the court, and they had another talk sunday. 
“we had a major discussion before he left boston to come to new york,” woodson said. “J.r.’s in a good place. we’re fine with J.r.” 
but the Knicks’ offense wasn’t. Though raymond Felton continued his excellent series with 27 points sunday, the Knicks’ bench that had dominated boston’s managed only seven points. Terry scored 18 by himself. 
“we missed 18 points the other night and still put our­selves in position to win the ballgame,” woodson said. “J.r. is a big piece to the puzzle and i hope he’s learned his lesson, and we’ve got to move on with it and he’s got to be ready to go tomorrow night.” 
no team has blown a 3-0 lead in the nba playoffs, so the Knicks remain confident, es­pecially after rallying to take a fourth-quarter lead sunday. The celtics would send the series back to boston for a game 6 on Friday with a victory, and they know the only way they can get it is by coming out with the same energy they had sunday. 
“without a doubt. we have to bring it. it’s the only way we have a chance to win the game. we just have to play all out,” for­ward Jeff green said. 
“we can’t go in with the same outlook (as game 4), because i’m pretty sure they’re going to have different schemes on how they’re going to attack the pressure situations and how we came at melo.” 
a strong game from smith would be the easiest way for the Knicks to address that, but they insist he doesn’t owe them one after being forced to watch game 4 from the hotel. 
“we all owe each other a good game tomorrow,” woodson said. “it’s not on just J.r.’s head. everybody’s got to play well to come out of here with a win.” 







MLB 

nats’ strasburg irritates nerve 

Associated Press 
aTlanTa — washington nationals pitcher stephen strasburg may have irritated a nerve in his right arm us­ing an electrical stimulation machine. 
The machines are used by athletes to build strength and are attached with ad­hesive electrodes. manager davey Johnson said the device could have been placed too close to a nerve in strasburg’s pitching arm, leading to discomfort in monday night’s start against the atlanta braves. 
Johnson said the nationals do not expect strasburg to have continued problems with the irritated nerve but it was too early to determine whether strasburg will make his next scheduled start saturday at pittsburgh. The manager wants to see how the right-hander throws in a bullpen session. 
“i think it will settle down by the time he throws his side,” Johnson said. “i think strasburg feels a lot better about it. so do i.” 
strasburg frequently shook his right arm while pitching six innings and allowing two runs in the nationals’ 3-2 loss monday night. 
Johnson said after the game strasburg “doesn’t look right to me.” The man­ager said he was concerned monday because strasburg struggled with his control while walking four batters and shook his arm so often between pitches. 
“he always does this a little bit, but it was so pronounced yesterday, it really worried me,” Johnson said Tuesday. “but he feels all right about it so i feel all right about it.” 
asked after the game why he was shaking his arm, strasburg said “you just try to stay loose.” 
strasburg insisted monday “i’m not missing my next start. i’ll tell you that right now.” 
he had lost a career-worst four straight starts before pitching six innings and get­ting a no-decision monday night. he is 1-4 with a 3.13 era. 
strasburg struck out the side in the sixth inning, giv­ing him eight strikeouts for the game. 
The right-hander was ex­amined by a doctor after the game but the nationals said he was not given additional tests Tuesday. 
“The way he finished off the sixth was pretty impres­sive, and the doctor didn’t think anything was wrong, so that’s good,” Johnson said. 
washington held out right fielder Jayson werth on Tuesday, a day after werth crumpled to the ground when he fouled a ball off his left foot in the eighth inning. he completed his at-bat and was replaced in right field by roger bernadina in the bot­tom half. 
werth said he also strug­gled with a tight right ham­string on monday night. 
“i’m not too worried about it,” he said of his injuries. 
Tyler moore started in left, with bryce harper shifting to right. 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





TRACK & FIELD 

Irish set sights on team title at Big East meet 

GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Junior Meghan Moore, center, runs in the 60-meter hurdles race at the Meyo Invitational on Feb. 1. Notre Dame senior Nevada Sorenson finished second overall in the event with a final time of 8.26 and sophomore Jade Barber came in sixth at the annual invitational held in Loftus Sports Center. 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish will travel to piscataway, n.J., this week­end on the quest for two crowns at the big east cham­pionship meet. 
notre dame used the ma­jority of the regular-season outdoor meets to build and prepare in order to make sure it peaks during the postseason. sophomore sprinter chris giesting is confident both the men and women are ready to compete to their full potential. 
“i think everyone is very prepared for the big east meet,” giesting said. “The coaches have worked us all year long to get us ready for this one meet, so we just have to trust our training at this point. we’ve been run­ning hard every meet in dif­

“This is really the big team event for us all year. Winning this is the last big thing we do as a team.” 
Chris Giesting 
sophomore sprinter 
ferent events to get us extra work throughout the year. The regular-season meets are seen as training for the big east meet because we all compete our best at the con­ference meet and max out our bodies.” 
The irish expect both sides have the potential to come away from the meet as champions, and a number of athletes seem well posi­tioned to perform well indi­vidually. during the indoor season, senior middle dis­tance runner rebecca Tracy, junior sprinter michelle brown, sophomore hur­dler Jade barber and junior sprinter pat Feeney all won their events. senior mid­dle distance runners J.p. malette and Jeremy rae were both injured during the in­door championships and are looking to make up for that missed opportunity. 
in the multi-events, soph­omore carly loeffel is ex­pected to perform well for the women and senior Ted glasnow should place well for the men. 
This is the only postseason even that is team-oriented, so notre dame’s members are hoping to share success with each other. 
“This is really the big team event for us all year. winning this is the last big thing we do as a team,” giesting said. “anything af­ter this is mainly individual performances as everyone tries to qualify individually for nationals. The coaches have been telling us all week that we have a great shot at winning the meet on both the men’s and women’s side. it will definitely be close but the coaches have em­phasized the importance of every single point, because every point matters in this type of meet.” 


connecticut is expected to be the biggest competition for the irish. on the men’s side, for the past decade, ei­ther notre dame or uconn has won the conference meet. on the women’s side, uconn placed second in this year’s indoor meet, and will be looking to unseat the irish in the outdoor rematch. 
action will begin this Friday and will contin­ue through sunday in piscataway, n.J. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



Softball 
conTinued From page 20 
from this game to prepare for western michigan (14-30, 5-11 mac). 
“we need to continue to work,” she said. “we can’t let our guard down because in the end, defense wins championships.” 
it will be hard for the irish not to look past the broncos to big east rival louisville this weekend, she said. 
“[louisville] is the climax of the regular season,” o’donnell said. “The winner of this series clinches the conference title.” 

This weekend will also cel­ebrate the senior class, as sunday’s game will be accom­panied by festivities to honor the class of 2013. 
“as a class we want to leave a legacy as a group who day-in and day-out represented notre dame softball in its en­tirety,” o’donnell said. 
The irish will be able to stay focused before this weekend, though, because their game 
paid adverTisemenT 

MEN’S GOLF | Third place crucial to helping their stock in order to qualify for the ncaa tournament, o’donnell today against the broncos is 
irish finish last 

said. 
“we haven’t even addressed louisville yet because we are going day by day and are fo­
season in big east 

cused on western michigan,” 
she said. 
game time in Kalamazoo, mich., this afternoon is 4:00 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

Florida and st. Johns. still, Kubinski was proud of his team’s improved play this week after a subpar season. 
“The guys did a great job today of something i call trusting aggressively. The most important thing in our game is committing to the shot you’re about to play,” Kubinski said. “our team did a great job of that today. it’s easy to talk about, as we have all season, but do­ing so is something that was great to see.” 
The irish had success in­dividually as well, placing two golfers in the top five finishers. Freshman cory sciupider finished in third place — the highest fresh­man finish ever at big east tournament according to Kubinski — by shooting a 211, and junior niall platt came in fifth with a score of 214. Freshman Zach Toste notched an impressive de­but in his first start, tying irish senior paul mcnamara for 25th place. Junior andrew lane rounded out the irish lineup by finishing in 55th place. 
Kubinski said he was im­pressed with his freshmen golfers’ performances, es­pecially considering the heightened pressure of the big east tournament. 
“our freshmen made this run possible. cory finish­ing third is extremely sig­nificant. his ceiling is very, very high. i loved the way he handled his emotions today, better than at any point this season,” Kubinski said. “Zach came out pretty amped in round one, lots of adrenaline. he settled in af­ter that. he played as well in round two as today but putted much better today. i’m excited about the next three years for each.” 
despite the irish improve­ment in this tournament, they came up just short of the win, ending their sea­son. according to Kubinski, his team has been defined by perseverance all sea­son, and its hard work fi­nally paid off in the big east tournament. 
“i’m really proud of our guys. we started the sea­son with a very young team, having graduated 60 per­cent of our lineup last may,” Kubinski said. “This team kept learning and never lost belief in themselves.” 
with the third-place fin­ish in the big east tourna­ment, the irish conclude their season. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame posted its best results in weeks and finished third at the big east tournament on watson course in orlando, Fla. 
The irish shot par for the weekend to accumu­late a cumulative score of 864 and trailed only south Florida (858) and st. Johns (862). while round three was the best for the irish, their round one perfor­mance of 288 was enough to give them the lead head­ing into the second day. a tough second round shat­tered the momentum from day one, however, when the irish had trouble in the short game. 
irish coach Jim Kubinski was disappointed by notre dame’s 296 score in the second round, but praised his team’s recovery for day three. 
“we gave away several short putts over the tour­nament, which ultimately cost us a win,” Kubinski said.  “great job of moving on from a tough day, keep­ing the confidence high and playing some inspired golf. i thought the guys showed some of that Fighting irish spirit today.” 
notre dame’s golfers didn’t merely rebound on day three, they posted their best score of the tourna­ment, 280. yet even after leading the pack on both day one and three, notre dame’s poor round two kept it behind both south 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


create some plays.” 
Syracuse 
despite the result, corrigan 
conTinued From page 20 
said he’s confident and indicat­

ed he does not think saturday’s resulted in us playing too much game tells much about the po­defense and we lost our disci-tential outcome of Thursday’s pline at that point in trying to rematch. 
“i’m not worried about [saturday’s performance],” he said. “it was a poor performance. we’re not used to playing that way but we’re certainly not anticipating playing that way again.” 
The loss prevented the irish from earning the no. 1 seed in the tournament and instead dropped them to the no. 3 seed, forcing a rematch with no. 2-seed syracuse. in the other semifinal, tournament host and no. 1-seed villanova will face no. 4-seed georgetown. 
The irish defeated the wildcats (6-7, 5-1) on april 20 and the hoyas (6-8, 3-3) on april 14. notre dame will face the winner of georgetown and villanova on saturday in the big east championship if it defeats the orange. 
“i hope we have the oppor­tunity to play one of them on [saturday],” corrigan said. “we’ve played them both be­fore and both within the last few weeks. so as far as we’re con­cerned, it’s great to know our preparation will be relatively easy for saturday if we can get through Thursday.” 
The irish face syracuse at 4:30 

p.m. on Thursday in the big east semifinals. The big east cham­pionship is scheduled for noon saturday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 20 
well for us.” 
after scoring one run in the third, the chippewas (19-23, 8-10 mac) kept things close by scoring runs in the fifth and sixth innings off junior reliever donnie hissa, making the game 6-3. Freshman right-hander david hearne took over for hissa in the sixth and worked his way out of a jam to end the central michigan rally. 
senior outfielder charlie markson gave notre dame an insurance run in the top of the ninth inning to make the score 7-3 before junior closer dan slania shut things down in the bottom half to secure the irish victory. 
“i thought we swung the bats well, in particular early,” aoki said. “i thought overall it was a good effort from us.” 
nobody in the notre dame lineup, or the country for that matter, has been hotter than mancini, who recorded his sev­enth straight multi-hit game against central michigan. 
mancini, who was 3-for-4 Tuesday, was named big east player of the week and the national collegiate baseball writers association hitter of the week on monday after his weekend performance against connecticut. 
notre dame returns to ac­tion tonight at home against eastern michigan. The origi­nal matchup between the irish and eagles (20-21, 9-9 mac) was postponed due to inclem­ent weather on april 10. 
eastern michigan lost two of three against central michigan last weekend. its lineup is led by junior outfield­er sam ott, whose .352 batting average and 37 rbis are tops among eagles hitters. 
sophomore right-hand­er matt Ternowchek will start for notre dame today. Ternowchek is 4-3 with a 5.03 era. 
Tonight’s game is notre dame’s fifth in sixth days. aoki stressed the importance of his team continuing to play well despite the demanding schedule. 
“we’re down a little bit on pitching right now,” aoki said. “we need matt Ternowchek to go out there and pitch well. we’ll sort of piece together the [bullpen] and then go from there … it’s important for us to come out and play at a high level to help keep us moving forward.” 
First pitch between the irish and eagles is scheduled for 5:35 
p.m. at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact John Sandberg at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricK cross 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Justin vernon, 32; dianna agron, 27; Kirsten dunst, 31; Johnny galecki, 38 
Happy Birthday: wrap things up. put an end to bad habits and strive for perfec­tion in all areas of your life. good fortune is within reach if you show greater determination and drive to accomplish the life goals you set. believing in yourself and your abilities coupled with learning whatever is necessary to advance will pay off. your numbers are 4, 7, 16, 22, 24, 36, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): have a good comeback ready. don’t fold under pres­sure or give in to someone trying to manipulate a situation that involves you. do the unexpected. as long as you are open and honest you will come out on top. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): set goals and stick to them. with a little innovation and ingenuity you will find a way to handle whatever comes your way and more. your responsible attitude will attract someone’s attention who will play an impor­tant role in your life. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): money, contracts and legal issues will be on your mind. search for a way to make extra cash or use your skills to reach a settlement that will give you the freedom you need to move in a lucrative direction. strive for independence. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): interacting with people from different walks of life will open your eyes to new possibilities. The opportunities that develop will help secure your livelihood as well as encourage you to do something you are good at and enjoy doing. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): play, socialize and most of all be a team player. advance­ment will be yours if you present your leadership qualities. don’t let personal responsibilities stand between you and success. show your versatility when fac­ing a challenge or a competitor. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): venture down a path that will stretch your imagination and force you to try something new. interacting with people will lead to a pivotal point and the chance to advance. personal relationships will be enhanced. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): spend more time focusing on your home and family life along with how you handle your money and your assets. do your best to improve your surroundings and to avoid emotional clashes with business or personal partners. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): strong ties will help you accomplish your goals. a love relationship should be given your undivided attention. someone very unique and special to you will help you reach a goal you’ve been struggling to reach. Take on more responsibility. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): avoid overspending, overdoing or expecting too much from others. set your sights on your goals and be willing to do whatever it takes to accomplish them on your own. do your best to avoid interference and focus on success. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll succeed if you avoid unpredictable people and situations. plan your actions carefully and do whatever it takes to avoid any last-minute alterations that might disrupt your plans. preparation will be what keeps you on track. romance is highlighted. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t give in to anyone trying to control your life or put you in a compromising position. use your wit, charm and intelligence and you will find a way to make the most of whatever you do. changes at home will be beneficial. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep travel plans to a minimum. Focus on solid investments and the way you can make your money stretch. look over your re­sume and your current position or one that you’d like to apply for and plan your strategy. love is in the stars. 

Birthday Baby: you are open-minded and willing to work hard to achieve security. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish get another shot against ‘Cuse 
BASEBALL | nd 7, cenTral michigan 3 
bats power fifth-straight win 


By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
occasionally, two college lacrosse teams will face each other twice in a season — once in the regular-season and once in a conference tournament or ncaa tournament game. rare are the circumstances when the initial meeting and the rematch are separated by less than a week. 
but that will be the case when no. 5 notre dame faces no. 3 syracuse in a big east semifinal Thursday in villanova, pa. 
The irish (10-3, 4-2 big east) will look for revenge against the orange (11-3, 5-1) after they dropped a 10-4 contest to syracuse on saturday at the Konica minolta big city classic in east rutherford, n.J. 
irish coach Kevin corrigan said he is glad to have another crack at the orange so quickly. 
“To be honest, i’m excited to have that opportunity,” corrigan said. “as to the way we played the other day, we’re anxious to get back on the field and get back to playing good, smart, solid lacrosse that we’ve played pretty much all year but did not play last week in new Jersey.” 

The then-no. 1 irish held a 3-1 halftime lead saturday and were tied 4-4 after three quarters, be­fore syracuse outscored notre dame, 6-0, in the final 15 min­utes. even with the halftime ad­vantage, corrigan said the irish played poorly the entire contest, not just the fourth quarter. 
“we did not play well the whole game,” he said. “we did some good things defensively, but we’d stop them and then give them the ball back. we’d get down to the offensive end and then turn the ball over. That was just the culmination of four quarters of lacrosse that 
see syracuse PAGE 18 
By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports writer 
notre dame took to the road monday night and continued its winning streak with anoth­er solid offensive performance, defeating central michigan 7-3. 
The irish (27-16, 7-8 big east) have now won five straight games and eight of their last nine. 
“we all understand how im­portant it is that we keep mov­ing forward and keep playing well,” notre dame coach mik aoki said. “coming down to the tail end of the year, every game is critically important for us.” 
The notre dame offense jumped on central michigan starter Jimmy mcnamara ear­ly. Junior first baseman Trey mancini opened the second inning with a double off the left field wall and was driven in two batters later on a triple by sophomore designated hitter phil mosey. Freshman short­stop lane richards brought in mosey with an rbi of his own, and after two innings, the irish led 2-0. 
in the third inning, the irish offense kept rolling. mancini and sophomore outfielder ryan bull hit back-to-back rbi singles, and an error on bull’s hit allowed another notre dame run to score, making it 5-0. after mcnamara left the game with two outs in the third, mosey came to the plate and ripped an rbi double, making the score 6-0 after three innings. 
Junior right-hander sean Fitzgerald started and earned the win for notre dame, his third of the season. Fitzgerald held the chippewas to one run over three innings pitched. 

“[Fitzgerald] looked a lot bet­ter today,” aoki said. “he had his slider going and he pitched 
see baseball PAGE 18 

ND SOFTBALL | nd 5, easTern michigan 3 
Notre Dame beats Eastern Michigan 

By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish handled eastern michigan on Tuesday 5-3 and now look toward a road tilt against western michigan this afternoon. 
notre dame (38-11, 17-2 big east) jumped out to an early lead in the first inning and forced the eagles (15-30-1, 5-12 mac) into a 2-0 hole in the third. The eagles responded in the top of the fourth inning, when junior pitcher laura winter gave up a solo home run to western michigan second baseman amanda stanton. 
some small-ball and a single from irish sophomore desig­nated player cassidy whidden scored freshman pinch runner carly piccinich from third base to extend the irish lead to 3-1 in the bottom of the fourth. notre dame helped its cause with a solo home run by junior short­stop chloe saganowich that made it 4-1. later that inning, senior first baseman Jackie bowe laced a double to right center field with two outs and moved to third on a wild pitch. senior right fielder Kelsey Thornton hit an infield single to score bowe before the in­ning ended at 5-1. 
although the eagles were able to tack on two more runs, the irish pulled out the win. senior pitcher brittany o’donnell said there was a lot the team was able to take away 
see soFTball PAGE 17 





