ThE INDEPENDENT 
TO UNCOVER NEwSPAPER SERVING ThE TRUTh NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


ThE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 
Raising the bar 
Coccia, Joyce engage students in constructive dialogue, implement community-building initiatives 
working to reach students where fitting into that,” he said. “I think “when we started, we had this and his get-it-done attitude and his
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

News Editor they are has been a crucial aspect the sexual assault [initiatives] are a huge platform of things we wanted ability to really go out and figure of the administration’s leadership, great example of that. we definite-to get done, and we have gotten out what it is that we can be do-
Since taking office April 1, stu-Coccia said. Joyce said during ly had that on our platform, but as a lot done, but we certainly think ing is where the inspiration comes dent body president and vice presi-their term, they have been trying something that we wanted to work that there are more things for us from for everybody else,” she said. dent Alex Coccia and Nancy Joyce to “raise the expectations of what on in whatever capacity we could.” to accomplish,” she said. “Part of “I doubt that there are very many have checked off items left and student government should be on Joyce said when examining being efficient in the next three people on campus who don’t rec-right. campus.” ideas and reviewing priorities, at months will be picking some of ognize Alex, and I think that really 
Recent initiatives included sup-“I think we’ve made a very con-the end of the day, they “always go those things and prioritizing some says a lot. porting University admissions certed effort to engage freshmen, back to the platform.” of them. “he’s done such an incredible policies to welcome undocument-which is really important because “But at the same time, I think “I think that we may not get ev-job of getting out and talking to ed students to campus, a week of now, for the next four years, the there’s been a lot that’s come up ery single thing checked off of our people one-on-one and making awareness for mental health issues expectation of that and of every since we’ve been in office that had platform, so we want to make sure people feel like their concerns are facing students and a coffee cart successive class is for a student gov-been generated by people coming that we’re getting as much done as our concerns, because they are. I installed in DeBartolo hall, all of ernment that reaches out to them up to us and saying ‘Look, I have we can and doing the most things know as a team, there’s a lot that which were goals included in their and gives personal invitations to this idea’ or ‘I see this happening that students feel are important.” we’ve done, but it certainly would campaign platform. Though they various invitations, a group that this way,’ and I think we need that,” Coccia said he hopes the rec-not be the same without him, so I have made progress through the is known to them,” she said. “On a she said. “we make that a priority.” ommendations made in the Oct. hope people know that.” concrete to-do list, Joyce said they more macro level of what student The relationships built between 17 report to the Student Affairs Coccia said the group is “enjoy­are most proud of their success government is, we’ve really tried administrators and student gov-Committee of the Board of ing every day” and is excited to re­in engaging students who were to make it something that people ernment have proven “really en-Trustees will help sustain some of turn to campus in January to finish not typically involved in student can expect a lot from, and that we couraging,” Coccia said. the long-term projects beyond the the term strong. government. deliver on it. “Ultimately, I think administra-one-year time frame in which they “we’re loving it. we’re having a 
“I’m really proud of the fact that “hopefully going forward, that tors are impressed by student ideas, will hold office. lot of fun,” he said. “There are cer­we’ve gotten a lot of involvement bar has been raised a little bit.” and so when we bring something “hopefully, this and the next tainly frustrating days, and I think from people, even outside of any Juan Rangel, chief of staff for this to them like the coffee cart idea, board report in May will lay a we recognize that things some-sort of formalized committees,” year’s administration, said he has more often than not, they want to blueprint of recommendations for timestakemore time than what we Joyce said. “I think we’ve done a been “pleasantly surprised” by the get it done,” he said. “where stu-future administrations,” he said. want, but it’s been really fun.” pretty good job of trying to involve level of student involvement and dent government comes in is just “Ultimately, what we’re trying to people who have opinions but who cooperation on campus. to be the best partner we can.” do is address the issues and bring Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski aren’t necessarily interested in be-“Students are really engaged Rangel said their work often the conversation up in a way that is at ajakubo1@nd.edu. ing involved with student govern-on campus, not necessarily in a opens their eyes to the inner work-going to prolong it and make sure it ment, and that’s really what we formalized way, but even just in ings of the University, providing is sustained.” wanted to do from Day One.” the ways that we can reach them, a unique view on the behind-the-To increase the scope of projects, 
Coccia said personal, one-on-whether through social networks scenes action. Coccia said he collaboration with groups outside one interaction with members of like Facebook and Twitter or in finds the activity across the strata student government has been a the Notre Dame community has events that we host,” Rangel said. exciting. “huge success,” Joyce said. 


GRADE: A 

been key to his administration’s “Students are more aware that stu-“It’s certainly been encourag-“we’ve really tried to reach out 
The Coccia-Joyce

policy-making. dent government is active and that ing for me to see on all levels of the to lots of different people, in the 
administration has

“Even at the very beginning, we we’re actively trying to meet their University the number of moving dorms, all the clubs and the ad-
exceeded their goal of focused on how we approach one-needs in any way. I think that’s def-parts on various initiatives,” he ministration,” she said. “I think it’s “raising the expectation of what student government
on-one meetings and making sure initely something to be proud of.” said. “It really does become kind of important to realize that student 
should be on campus,” 

we’re doing a lot of those with stu-a team effort across the University, government can work with other 
as Joyce said. Having dents and administrators, to not ‘Using the momentum’ because as students, we’re all here people.” enacted tangible changes, they have already left a
only get initiatives going, but also Coccia said he attributes much to have a great learning experience 
unique legacy on Notre 

to build important relationships,” of the group’s success in tackling and learning environment, and ‘Above and beyond’ 
Dame and have set a new he said. “we do that every week the initiatives on the platform to the administrators know that stu-In addition to representing the standard of excellence in the student government
with both administrators and the constant connection and inter-dents are the reason they’re here as student body, Coccia was a 2013 
office. The accessible and 

students, and that has just come action between members of the ex-well.” Truman scholar and a finalist for 
energetic leadership style in immensely handy and has just ecutive cabinet and with students both the Rhodes and the Marshall exemplified by Coccia, Joyce and their cabinet
been a powerful, powerful method outside the organization. Reviewing the semester scholarships. Joyce said his leader-
makes them effective

for really working with students to “If someone sends us an idea, Although the group members ship so far has exemplified “setting 
leaders and connects get change going and build trust.” we’re typically going to follow up are pleased with their work to date, the tone at the top.” them to their constituents’ needs.
on that and try to get a better sense Joyce said they will revisit and re-“Alex would never say this be-Setting a standard of what their thoughts are and view their remaining agenda items cause he’s too humble, but the Engaging in social media and how they see student government to pick up after winter break. leadership comes from the top, 
ND CLASS COUNCILS 


Freshman Class Council (FCC) coordinated a Halloween dance, a concession stand during the Brigham Young game weekend and a class rosary event at the Grotto this semester. “Overall, our goal in FCC is to create freshman unity,” president Andrew Green said. “All our events have been reasonably successful in that aspect.” Green said FCC hopes to improve its communication with the freshman class via the class Facebook page, “Notre Dame Class of 2017,” the Twitter account, @ ND17_, and email address, class17@ nd.edu. “Our hope is to have our class outreach grow,” Green said. Other plans for next semester include a skate night at the Compton Family Ice Arena, a First Year of Studies event and a “FROSH week” in March with social and service events for the class. 


This semester, Sophomore Class Council (SCC) aimed to create events that “draw people from different quads, majors and social groups,” president Jake Grefenstette said. SCC’s most successful event this fall was a Great Gatsby-themed dance outside Bond Hall in September. SCC co-sponsored the dance with the Junior Class Council. “One NDSP officer counted over 2,000 attendees [at the dance] and said it was the biggest and liveliest event he had seen is his 30 years at Notre Dame,” Grefenstette said. Next semester, SCC hopes to host a spring dance, a class retreat and faculty talks. It aims to create opportunities for long-term service projects, capitalizing on the Council’s relationship with the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 


Junior Class Council tried to cater to the wishes of the junior class this semester by sponsoring a Great Gatsby dance, planning a volleyball tournament called “Santa, Set, Spike” and organizing a “Day in South Bend,” when local businesses offered discounts to members of the class of 2015. Other popular events included the “Star-Spangled Send-Off,” which targeted students who will study abroad in the spring, and discounted tickets to the show “Cabaret.” “Next semester, we plan on holding more study breaks around finals, an organized trip to Chicago and a retreat for members of the class of 2015,” president Olivia LaMagna said. 


In an effort to bring the class of 2014 together, Senior Class Council hosted a class Mass, an apple-picking event and a Cornhole tournament that benefitted the Center for the Homeless. President Carolina Wilson said the council hopes to continue to organize fun events that include food, while also giving seniors resources that will benefit them after graduation, like information about financing, budgeting and investments. She said to look for the upcoming “Sip and Taste South Bend” restaurant tour. “We want to provide seniors with a year that is fun and memorable, but also beneficial,” Wilson said. “This way, when graduation rolls around, seniors will not only be ready for whatever comes next, but will also look back on their last year at Notre Dame with great memories.” 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 


SMC STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 



Establishing a presence on campus 
Sullivan, Martin foster unity within the SMC community, look to finalize constitution and by-laws 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Since taking office April 1, Saint Mary’s student body president and vice president Kat Sullivan and Maddy Martin have worked with members of Student Government Association (SGA) to promote unity on campus and to increase transparency between student government and the student body. 
when the duo chose to run for office last spring, they focused their platform on three main is­sues: encouraging better com­munication with SGA board members, making SGA more transparent and emphasizing community participation. 
“whenever we pick a board member, plan an event or make a decision, we think about these goals,” Sullivan said. “This year, we have really been able to create a sense of community within stu­dent government, and we worked hard to pick people in SGA that would go off and running with their positions. having people in student government that are pas­sionate about SGA, that are pas­sionate about Saint Mary’s and really want to make a change here on campus, is one way we can fo­cus on these goals.” 
Presence on campus 
Martin said vocal, passionate members of student government, as well as social media cam­paigns, have enabled this SGA administration to have one of the most visible presences on campus in recent history. 
“I think we have done a really great job of having a presence on campus,” Martin said. “It is not necessarily that we are sponsoring events every day, but rather that we are constantly updating our Facebook page, utilizing OrgSync and posting photos on Instagram. At a small school, we have the abil­ity to be recognizable, and I think we are.” 
After attending an American Student Government Association seminar last summer, Martin said, she wanted to encourage students to view SGA as more than just a club. 
“we were taught to think of ways to set ourselves apart as a full governing body,” Martin said. 
As part of their campaign to en­gage more with the student body, Martin said she and Sullivan have encouraged the use of the Belle Tower through OrgSync, the website used to facilitate club registration. Martin said because members of the campus com­munity now understand OrgSync better, more people have gone to club events. 
“On average, in just one day, at least 800 different people access the Belle Tower,” Martin said. “That is a good portion of our stu­dent body, and the numbers have definitely increased since last year. we push our board to uti­lize OrgSync as much as possible. Anything like sign-ups for the up­coming Chicago trip to registering for the Navy Dance are done on OrgSync.” 
Sullivan said she and Martin implemented event evaluation forms for all members of SGA, in order to ensure they attend events sponsored by different groups on campus. 
“we created this form for our board asking each of our board members, including ourselves, to fill out three event evaluations per semester,” Sullivan said. “This is a way to keep people account­able, and it is also a good way to get feedback.” 
Following the word’s of Sr. Madeleva 
Sullivan and Martin said their administration’s motto is the words of Sr. Madeleva wolff, the College’s third presi­dent: “Every one of you has some part in the making of ev­ery other student. This is a fact, a privilege, a responsibility.” “This quote really embod­ies what we are trying to do,” Sullivan said. “I think this can be said for our work with Belles Beginnings and for our work with Support a Belle, Love a Belle [SABLAB].” 
To kick off this year, Martin and Sullivan focused on facili­tating personal interaction be­tween members of the class of 2017 and the College’s student leaders during first-year orienta­tion. Sullivan said these changes to orientation directly resulted from her and Martin’s goal of engaging with the larger campus community. 
“This year we played such an active role in Belles Beginnings, and the first years know who we are, and they know we are a re­source for them on this campus,” Sullivan said. “That is huge.” 
After recognizing mental illness as an issue on college campuses, Sullivan and Martin decided to address the often-stigmatized topic by dedicating a week to promoting dialogue about mental health. This week was called “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” and was the third of its kind. Sullivan and Martin said this week, which occurred in October, was one of their most significant accomplishments so far. 
“Teaming up with the tri-cam­pus community and including Notre Dame and holy Cross on this week was a good decision,” Sullivan said. “I think mental health discussion is very impor­tant and is often not talked about as much as it should be across the nation.” 
Sullivan said Belles attended the week’s events to support their peers. 
“The most successful event was ‘Share your Story,’ where students shared their struggles with mental health,” Sullivan said. “A large portion of the community came to support their peers. … Also, at the prayer service at the Grotto, students from Saint Mary’s walked over. we had about 30 to 40 Saint Mary’s girls there.” 
Looking forward 
Based on midterm evaluations, Martin said SGA members are pleased with the work of student government overall and look for­ward to continuing their work next semester. 
“Overall, we have had pretty good reviews from our board,” Martin said. “Again, it is just im­portant for us to evaluate as a board and as a student body as a whole because we cannot just pat ourselves on the back. we need to know if we are being as efficient and effective as possible.” 
To capitalize on this efficiency, Sullivan said the group will con­tinue to edit its constitution and bylaws next semester. 
“Every council has bylaws, and we have had our senators look at our constitution, and we are ed­iting those,” Sullivan said. “By turnover, our constitution will be revised, which is good because in looking at it now, there are some gray areas, and there shouldn’t be gray areas when you are a govern­ing board.” 
Martin said this accords with SGA’s goal of transparency and its desire for all members of the body to have clear, defined positions. 
“Our constitution is on our OrgSync page with our bylaws for people to reference,” Martin said. “Right now, we are editing the po­sitions so you know exactly what you are getting into. This will also hold people accountable.” 
The duo said they plan to look deeper into sexual assault preven­tion on campus next semester.“I think a lot of that comes down to really promoting the resourc­es that are already on campus, like BAVO [the Belles Against Violence Office] and more so, giving students an understand­ing of what those resources are, what they do and how it can help,” Sullivan said.Looking toward the future, Sullivan said she wants her administration to continue to promote unity within student gov­ernment and amongst the greater student body. She said this would encourage people who are eager to make a difference on campus to become more involved. 

“I am looking forward to see­ing how things will change with­in the next few years,” Sullivan said. “hopefully, this admin­istration can help prepare the future leaders of Saint Mary’s College.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 



GRADE: A 
The Sullivan-Martin administration has successfully increased the use of OrgSync, resulting in a more informed student body. They have executed some of the key points from their campaign platform, such as increasing community participation and creating more dialogue between student government and the student body. They increased student government’s presence on campus with their changes to Belles Beginnings and their sponsorship of Support a Belle, Love a Belle. These 
passionate leaders inspire their board members to create positive change on campus and so far, their board has delivered. 

SMC CLASS BOARDS 


The Saint Mary’s Freshman Class Board aspired to cultivate sisterhood within the community while simultaneously raising awareness for mental health. Freshmen worked alongside Sophomore Class Council to co host Barn Yard Belles in Dalloway’s Coffeehouse. Ellen Raymond, freshman class president, said the event provided an opportunity for first- and second year students to form friendships through country dancing, eating and pumpkin decorating. “Next semester, the Freshman Council will be participating in Love Your Body Week,” Raymond said. “All of these fun and relaxing activities will cater to the student body’s mental health.” Raymond said her board is also looking forward to hosting a Masquerade Formal for the class of 2017. 

The Sophomore Class Board aims to promote a sisterly atmosphere on the Saint Mary’s campus through event planning and fundraising. This semester, the board exceeded its fundraising goal of $500. Brie O Brien, president of the sophomore class, said members of her board planned and executed Barnyard Belles Fall Festival, sold class gear on two occasions and adopted an underprivileged family for Christmas. Next semester, the board will host Sophomore Parents’ Weekend and a class of 2016 ice skating event in the Compton Ice Arena 
— both of which the team has begun to plan. “As a board, our overall goals are to raise funds for our class’s line account and provide opportunities for the class of 2016 to practice the core values of Saint Mary’s, form friendships and have an amazing experience at SMC within their own class, as well as with the entirety of the Saint Mary’s community, O Brien said. 

The Junior Class Board provided Saint Mary’s students with a variety of experiences, products and fundraisers this semester. Board president Nicole O Toole said the group played a key part in planning the Navy Dance for the Naval Academy Midshipmen in October and sponsored a student trip to Chicago in December. Both events were open to all students and crossed class aisles. The board fundraised with a Let’s Spoon give back day, and members sold personalized products created by Courtney Bock Designs, a local business run by an alumna. This semester, the board participated in the Adopt a Family program and donated toys, clothes, and a WalMart gift card for its adopted family’s Christmas dinner. Next semester, the group will prepare for Junior Mom’s Weekend in April, continue its philanthropy and host a T shirt sale. 

The Saint Mary’s Senior Class Board kicked 
off the fall semester with Senior Dads 
Weekend, an annual event that invites 
seniors’ fathers to campus to spend quality 
time with their daughters. The weekend 
began with a beer garden and a silent 
auction that benefitted the senior class, 
president Carolyn Backes said. Fathers and 
daughters played golf, toured campus and 
celebrated Mass. The two day event closed 
with a game watch at CJ’s Pub on South 
Michigan Street. After Dads Weekend, the 
senior class board focused on co hosting 
the Navy Dance, Backes said. With the first 
semester of the members’ last year out of 
the way, the Senior Class Board has begun 
preparations for Senior Week. “The board 
has a schedule of that week with events 
including an alumnae brunch, a wine tasting 
[event] in Michigan and a blessing of Saint 
Mary’s traditional class rings,” Backes said. 
The Senior Class Board is very excited to begin our last semester at Saint Mary’s College, where we have already made a number of unforgettable memories. 


ThE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013  | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ON SEXUAL ASSAULT 



Administrations respond to sexual assault 
students are the ones running the 

By TORI ROECK 

Associate News Editor prayer services and the ones pre­
paring the reflections and the call 

Sexual assault response and pre-to actions is all the more powerful.” vention have been integral compo-Coccia said Keenan hall rec­nents of the Notre Dame and the tor Noel Terranova and Fr. Pete Saint Mary’s student government McCormick are working to finalize administrations this semester. the format of the prayer services for 
Notre Dame student body presi-future administrations. dent Alex Coccia said a “sense of Notre Dame student body vice urgency” seized both campuses at president Nancy Joyce said conver­the beginning of the school year sations in Senate regarding sexual when students received two cam-assault have raised awareness of puswide emails in one weekend the issue on campus and have reporting a rape and an attempted helped student government to im­rape. plement other initiatives. 
These announcements came as “Senate has been a really in-a shock to the Notre Dame com-teresting means of talking about munity, Coccia said, and both [sexual assault] because one, it’s a student government administra-lot of younger students, a lot of un­tions responded with increased derclassmen, and also it’s a group programming concerning sexual of 50 people that come from a lot of somewhat responsible.” concerns and reflections that we our leadership and help them out, assault. different places and a lot of differ-Junior Monica Daegele, student imagined would also come up in so they could come to us.” 
“I think what we realized with ent perspectives,” Joyce said. government’s director of gender these one-on-one conversations During welcome week, student the emails and the conversation “I have spoken to some of them issues, worked with NDSP and for the pledge campaign, and so I government led Know the Facts that happened at the beginning who have said that they have had with Title IX coordinator Dr. Bill think it was a good preview for us, presentations about alcohol, sexu­of the year was that we can have a conversations with their friends. Stackman to institute the changes, in terms of gauging what that con-al assault, depression and anxiety, greater role in addressing this is-At the end of the day, to me at least, Joyce said. versation looks like.” Sullivan said. sue,” he said, “and, in fact, if we’re as the chair of Senate, that’s what Another result of conversa-For the Saint Mary’s Student “I feel like being a freshman in actually going to address it to a I want to have happened. I want tions in Senate was a student-only Government Association (SGA), college, you’re 18, you’re finally point where we start to change at-people to see this as enough of discussion about sexual assault, sexual assault prevention pro-considered an adult, so it’s impor­titudes and culture, it’s got to come an issue that they go talk to their which took place Nov. 20, Joyce gramming began before school tant for us to have that open and from students.” friends about it, and if they talk to said. She said the meeting helped even started, student body presi-honest discussion about these 
Coccia said after students re-three friends about it and 50 people to organize students interested dent Kat Sullivan said. All leaders sorts of issues,” she said. “we’re not ceived the third sexual assault do that, well, there you go, that’s in promoting sexual-assault pre-within SGA received green-dot here to baby you. you’re taking con-email of the semester, student gov-150 people.” vention in preparation for student training, a national certification trol of your own life.” ernment initiated prayer services Senate played a role in amending government’s “One is Too Many” program for preventing sexual vio-Sullivan said she thinks stu­at the Grotto following every cam-the text of the campuswide emails door-to-door pledge campaign, set lence, she said. dent government should inform puswide email. he said this deci-sent by Notre Dame Security Police to begin in January. This year, green-dot train-students of the resources already sion formalized an idea developed (NDSP) to say “sexual battery” in-“The motivation behind [the stu-ing was expanded to athletes as available on campus for dealing in Campus Life Council. stead of “forcible fondling” and to dent-only discussion] was a couple well, student body vice president with sexual assault. 
“with the prayer services, I be more respectful to victims of things: one, to get people in a room Maddy Martin said. Members of “we realized that it’s really im­think we view them in two differ-sexual assault, Joyce said. who don’t typically talk about the College’s basketball and vol-portant for us to emphasize the re­ent ways,” he said. “For one, it’s a “In thinking about ‘forcible fon-[sexual assault] or who have a lot of leyball teams received the training sources that are already available,” moment of healing for people who dling’ versus ‘sexual battery,’ … sway in their dorms and might be in order to act as better bystanders she said. “we don’t want to be re-need it, and I think it does show even though ‘forcible fondling’ is able to add to the conversation but in situations where there is a risk of petitive with what the students al­that there are many in the com-a legal term, that is just something don’t normally have those kinds sexual assault, she said. ready have, and so we really want munity who are healing and want that people associate with some-of conversations, and then also to Martin said this year’s admin-to piggy back on [the Belles Against healing. thing humorous for some reason start building our group of people istration wanted to incorporate Violence Office] and make sure 
“At the same time, it’s also an ac-or another,” she said. “The other who are going to help us with the similar training into first-year that we’re helping advertise and tion that shows immense solidari-piece of it is that the emails are not campaign,” Joyce said. orientation. promote their events, because we ty, and for the people who show up, personal enough which I think is Coccia said of the 70 attendants “Student government wasn’t re-are such a presence on campus. it says that there are a lot of people something that’s inherent a little that night, 40 signed up to lead ally present in regards to welcome “I think that [sexual assault] is a who want to have this conversa-bit in an email communication to door-to-door discussions for the week, so we wanted to make sure major social issue in general, and, tion and who want to make things the whole student body. “One is Too Many” campaign, that we, as leaders, were seen as especially coming from a women’s change. “It’s going to be somewhat im-while all 70 agreed to volunteer in soon as our first years came on college, it’s important that we are 
“But it certainly is a prayer ser-personal, but I think it’s something some other way. campus,” she said. “So we wanted familiar with this issue and how to vice, and it certainly is a time of re-that’s gotten better. The last part of “we were really excited because to, again, be able to promote stuff address it.” flection on the issue. The three that it was that the wording at the end I think the conversation there was that they may face, coming in as we’ve had have been really beauti-of the email was sort of sugges-very genuine,” he said. “I think first years. And we thought that Contact Tori Roeck ful, well-attended, and the fact that tive of the victim or survivor being people brought up the types of this was a great way to implement at vroeck@nd.edu 


ND STUDENT UNION BOARD 

SUB consults students, anticipates spring 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News writer 
Senior Kaitlyn Keelin, execu­tive director of the Student Union Board (SUB), said the group strongly emphasized consulting students to determine the orga­nization’s offerings this semester. 
“we’ve been focusing on get­ting more student input and col­lecting a lot of data so that we can plan events that students want to see on campus,” Keelin said. 
SUB also tried to docu­ment its internal processes and procedures in order to make the group more consistent year-to­year, Keelin said. 
SUB’s most-attended event of the semester was Comedy on the Quad, in which comedian Jim Gaffigan drew approximately 4,000 students to his perfor­mance on South Quad, Keelin said. She said other popular SUB events included a presentation by “Breaking Bad” star R.J. Mitte, a Legends stand-up comedy per­formance by SNL’s Nasim Pedrad and a Legends concert featuring Eric hutchinson. 
The annual Fall Mall sale orga­nized by SUB also stood out, with more sales this year than ever be­fore, Keelin said. 
Keelin said SUB’s biggest chal­lenge was a lack of participation in the Purdue Ticket Lottery. She said SUB purchased the tickets from the Athletic Department at face value last spring, so they lost out when reduced-price tickets became widely available from other sources, such as Stubhub, and few students opted for the ticket lottery. 
The final SUB event of the semester, Stress Relievers, will take place Sunday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room and the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center, Keelin said. The event will feature free food, ener­gy drinks and massages, she said. SUB will also use the event to gar­ner student input about the artist they will bring in for the annual spring concert and about which movies SUB will play on its movie nights. 
Keelin said the spring semester will feature several large-scale events, including the Collegiate Jazz Festival, the Notre Dame Literary Festival, the holy half, The SUB Concert and AnTostal week. 

Next semester, SUB will also distribute frequent moviegoer passes that enable students who regularly attend SUB movies to earn free admission, Keelin said. 
Keelin said the spring’s kick-off event will be a fireside talk and a networking reception with Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 



STUDENT GOVERNMENT ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 


Leaders reimagine diversity, inclusion 
to Action movement. This group going to make members of their
By NICOLE MICHELS 

Assistant Managing Editor formed as a partnership between communities more welcome on 
student government, student-group campus. That argument could not 
Student body leaders at Notre leaders and select members of the have been made, were the Diversity Dame and Saint Mary’s targeted is-administration after the town-hall Council not as strong as it is.” sues of racial and cultural inclusion meeting called to address the dis-Llanos, chair of the Diversity this year by developing program-criminatory incidents inflicted Council, said the group will work ming, orchestrating community-upon the Black Studens Association with student government and ad-building initiatives and advocating (BSA) and African Students ministrators to determine which for institutional changes. Association (ASA) in February of points can be addressed quickly, 
Notre Dame student body presi-that year. while developing a long-term plan. dent Alex Coccia said he believes Joyce said student government “Because the communities in the difficult nature of conversations has worked to extend initiatives our clubs are minorities in number, about race challenges students at-from past year, in order to “bring we make sure that their voices are tempting to dialogue about issues of some of the conversations from the not drowned out whenever there is diversity and inclusion. The student margins into the mainstream.” an important issue. In this way, we government administration’s role is Student government has fo-work hand-in-hand with student to facilitate that dialogue, he said. cused on connecting with indi-government. … I’m happy to say 
“I think, overall, what we recog-viduals in the Office of Student there have been direct lines of com­nized is that race is a tough issue to Affairs and on the President’s munication and close coordination talk about on campus,” Coccia said. Oversight Committee on Diversity between DC and student govern­“And because so many of these is-and Inclusion in order to garner ment, something that had not been sues of violence or harassment or University support for student-led very present in the past,” he said. discrimination are under a layer of initiatives, she said. Coccia said he believes the coor­silence, we don’t know about them, Their administration also has dinated, institutional effort will be College in their capacities on SDB. for the community, Cardenas said. and it makes it evenmore difficult to worked to support the Diversity crucial to efforts to improve the de-“[Saint Mary’s student body vice Cardenas said she and talk about them.” Council, a body comprised of 29 gree of inclusivity on campus. president] Maddy [Martin] and I Macfarlane use an innovative defi-
Student body vice president clubs that include the historically “If you don’t have institutional are very proud of how hard Carmen nition of diversity to orient the work Nancy Joyce said their administra-underrepresented communities on support or if there doesn’t seem and Lucy have worked to really get of SDB. tion aims to create events that foster campus, Coccia said. to be institutional support, it’s an SDBto whereit needs to be this year. “I know [people] sometimes communication. On Dec. 5, the Diversity Council ever harder conversation to have,” They’re approaching diversity in a think of diversity as being just racial 
“There are two things that I think submitted a resolution to the Coccia said. “without that institu-new and innovative way,” Sullivan and ethnic, but for us, we took it a we can pinpoint going forward as University with recommendations tional support, you miss out on a said. step further,” Cardenas said. “we something we can work on. One on how to improve the Notre Dame lot of people who could be engaged SDB, comprised of 30 represen-expanded it to economic diversity, is kind of creating this safe space experience for all members of its in the conversation. That’s why it’s tatives from various ethnic and religious diversity, sexuality, gen-for the conversations to happen-community, and student senate generally very important, when cultural clubs, works to unite the der identity – any part of your iden­ing,” Joyce said. “The other thing is passed a resolution supporting all we talk about people having this College community in “celebra-tity that you feel makes you, you, that I think Notre Dame students measures of the Diversity Council’s conversation, we don’t want it to be tion of all cultural diversity of every we want to make sure that is talked ... when they don’t feel like they are resolution Nov. 20. alienating. woman oncampus,” Cardenas said. about.” an expert on the topic that they “[Senior] Luis [Llanos] has done a “Ultimately, we’re talking about “[Cardenas] likes to say that the Macfarlane said this definition of don’t think they can engage in a real fantastic job with Diversity Council, what is going to make our com-Student Diversity Board is like the diversity is personally important to conversation. which is really important, especial-munity more welcoming to all. United Nations of Saint Mary’s – her, as well. 
“Maybe, on our part, that’s help-ly with how he talks about the reso-… I think working with Diversity we try to make sure that everyone “when we were talking about ing to educate students, whether lution that was just sent up,” Coccia Council like we have, using various is at the table, everyone is heard,” the way our campus thinks about that’s co-sponsoring forum discus-said. “This resolution was not just avenues that we have access to … Macfarlane said. diversity, [we realized] it’s just race sions or different lectures, what-some list of recommendations that to make it clear that this is a priority Cardenas said the group plans and ethnicity,” Macfarlane said. ever it may be, trying to bring those people pulled out of a hat. No, it among students is really where stu-to focus on including international “you know, ‘you look different kinds of things — the educational was after months of discussion and dent government fits in.” students in the College’s cultural from me, you’re diverse.’ The joke piece – into the mainstream, and debate following from the Call to Saint Mary’s student body presi-events, while continuing to co-is always like, ‘Lucy, why are you trying to get people talking. Action and other student initiatives dent Kat Sullivan said her team ordinate the activity of the clubs on Diversity Board? you’re just this 
“That’s something that is defi-like the MEChA [Movimiento de has worked to support the ef-on the Board. She herself also sits white girl.’ nitely doable between now and [the Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlan] sur-forts of the Saint Mary’s Student on the Presidential Council of “well, I have my own back-end of the administration’s term on] veys a couple years ago, and agreed Diversity Board [SDB]. Senior and Multicultural Affairs, she said. ground, too, and that’s just as im-March 31st.” upon by all of the different groups SDB President Maria Del Carmen The fall bonfire and the spring portant, and we want to create that 
Coccia said the student body’s represented on Diversity Council. Cardenas, as well ad senior and Vice Student Diversity Leadership safe environment. recognition of the need to focus on “Twenty-nine groups unani-President of SDB Lucy Macfarlane, Conference are the highlights in racial and cultural inclusion grew mously agreed upon the fact that plan cultural programming and their calendar, which includes issue Contact Nicole Michels at after the 2012 inception of the Call these are the [initiatives] that are foster communication at the weeks highlighting different topics nmichels@nd.edu 


SMC COUNCIL OF COMMITTEE CHAIRS 


Group designs programming to enrich College 
then brought to our specific chairs had an especially busy semester, between the Office of Information discussion panels and alumnae
By REBECCA O’NEIL 

News writer to look into more,” Gutrich said. Gutrich said. Moorhead promoted Technology, SGA and the student speakers will be a part of the week “we meet weekly together, which Support A Belle, Love a Belle — a body. this year.” 
Student Government really helps up be able to collabo-week-long program that promot-“Our technology chairs have Association’s Council of rate across committees.” ed mental-health awareness. been working with [junior] Anna Contact Rebecca O’Neil at Committee Chairs (CCC) sought Sophomore Gloria Zeiger “One of the most popular events Ulliman, who interned with roneil01@saintmarys.edu to be transparent to the student represents the Sustainability was the ‘Share your Story’ event, Google this summer, to promote body this semester, CCC director Committee, while juniors Katie where a group of five students technology on campus by hosting Kelly Gutrich said. Stare and Rachel weir serve the from a variety of years shared ‘Google talks,’” Gutrich said. 
Gutrich, a junior, said 12 com-Food Council Committee. Gutrich their own struggles and triumphs Gutrich said the Council will be mittee chairs worked to address said the two committees teamed while dealing with mental ill-especially busy planning campus-

GRADE: A 

students’ needs. Those commit-up to plan and execute this year’s ness,” Gutrich said. “This really wide events next semester. tees include Missions, Media Food week, which featured excep-showed how prevalent this issue is “This summer will be the The Council of Relations, Sustainability, Sophia tional food at the dining hall. on campus but allowed students 50th year of the death of Sister Committee Chairs has Program, Food, International, “Students got to meet with the to bond together in a community Madeleva and will give heritage 
been one of the more 

Community, Sports, Social director of the dining hall [Barry of support for those struggling.” week a really special aspect this 
successful councils in 

Concerns, Alumnae, First-year Bowles] and voice praise, ques-Lauren Osmanski and Aneth year,” Gutrich said. “Also, Love 
SGA this year, producing

Concerns and Technology. tions and concerns,” Gutrich said. Batamuliza, the Technology your Body week is always an ex-
successful campaigns.

“we brainstorm together, and The Social Concerns Council Committee’s co-chairs, main-tremely popular event on cam-sometimes issues from Senate are chair, junior Sam Moorhead, tained communication pus. Various workout classes, 


EDITORIAL 



A challenge: speak for all voices 
Observer Editorial Board 
As we look for words with which to characterize the student gov­ernment administration of Alex Coccia and Nancy Joyce, the word “activism” comes to mind. So do the words “inclusion,” “conversa­tion” and “justice.” 
These words represent the sub­stance of this administration’s leadership: They are working to empower the community to com­bat issues that divide it. Coccia and Joyce set the bar high during their campaign and first months in of­fice at the end of last school year, and they have made progress on much of their original agenda. 
In Coccia’s May 1 State of the Student Union address to student-body leaders, he outlined an ambi­tious array of goals, and we at The Observer have seen movement on nearly all of them. his Nov. 20 State of the Student Union address demonstrated similar success and a continuing drive to move forward on issues of utmost importance to our campus. 
More importantly, these efforts have occupied a very visible space on our campus. Planning town-hall events, orchestrating prayer services, executing events and fos­tering dialogue between students and community stakeholders 
— we see their work, we see their progress on issues big and small and we commend them for that effort. 
If one person within our com­munity feels hurt by exclusion or discrimination, that alone should drive us. And according to infor­mation in the report submitted by Coccia and Joyce to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, 7 percent of students said they have not had an overall satis­factory experience here at Notre Dame. 
In this report, submitted on be­half of the student body, Coccia and Joyce highlighted several is­sues on which they called for ac­tion: racial and ethnic diversity, sexual orientation and gender is­sues, socioeconomic status and immigration. 
we highlighted three specific issues in this Insider because we believe work in these areas has been at the heart of the Coccia-Joyce administration. And these issues are important to address so that all feel welcome and comfortable in the Notre Dame community. 
while these issues are of the ut­most importance and we are proud to see Coccia and Joyce make prog­ress on them, these issues do not encompass everything and ev­eryone at Notre Dame. when The Observer spoke with Coccia about the foci of his administration, he said they work to empower stu­dents so that they “feel welcome on campus and have a sense of own­ership for their academic, residen­tial, spiritual and extracurricular environments.” 
“Nancy and I were elected with the expectation, among students and administrators, that we would use the opportunity to not just make convenient changes and ad­ditions to student life, but to raise the student voice in areas that are too often neglected — the issues of sexual assault and racial and ethnic inclusion fit into the latter category. … we really do believe in our classmates and our friends and in their ability to be a positive force for good in the world.” 
here is where we perceive a problem. who defines what good the world needs, what justice is? If we return to the four buzzwords at the beginning of this editorial, only “conversation” has a precise meaning. Inclusion, activism, jus­tice — who gets to define these ab­stract ideas? 
To our student body president and vice president, we repeat our commendation for all of your hard work and for your focus in making sure every student feels safe and welcomed on campus. however, we challenge you to consider that some of the issues you elevate in your work might not represent many of our 8,452 undergraduates, especially those who disagree with your prioritization and approach to these issues and those who don’t know exactly where they stand. 
we believe the primary duty of a student government administra­tion is to represent all of the stu­dent body: left, right, center and off the ideological map. And though the progress made by this student government administration on certain issues is remarkable, it ne­glects students who have different views on what “good” is, what “jus­tice” is. 

The conversation should not be defined by The Observer Editorial Board, by the student government administration or by only the stu­dent groups that mobilize their participants effectively. Instead, we believe our student-body gov­ernment should represent all of the student body, even those members who do not exercise a loud voice. Though the Coccia-Joyce adminis­tration said they are working to so­licit opinions and engage students, we do not see this communication represented in their formulation of broad-scale initiatives. 
we give the leaders of this ad­ministration a grade of “A” because their work truly has been outstand­ing, but we also challenge them to think about ways in which their approach has been limited so that we can continue to work toward a better campus community. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ON LGBTQ ISSUES 
PrismND establishes bylaws, unites allies 
Union address, Coccia said his ad-October, with the exception of one 
By MARISA IATI 

Assistant Managing Editor ministration backed the LGBTQ part that was solidified earlier this 
student organization PrismND, week. 
Although student body presi-and reiterated his administration’s Co-president Bryan Ricketts said dent Alex Coccia does not identify support in an interview with The PrismND’s first major event was LGBTQ concerns as a priority of Observer. a celebration of National Coming his administration, he said stu-“we plan to fully support the Out Day on Oct. 11. The group dent government supported the implementation of the new LGBTQ set up “closet” structures outside implementation of the University’s and ally student organization as DeBartolo hall and the LaFortune “Beloved Friends and Allies” pasto-it is incorporated into the student Student Center and encouraged ral plan. unions… and we look forward to students to “come out” as anything 
Specifically, Coccia said he and the honor of co-sponsoring one of — a member of the LGBTQ com-student body vice president Nancy their initial events,” Coccia said in munity, a fan of country music, a Joyce sat on the selection panel for the address. peace studies major or something the assistant director who would This group now can assume else. address LGBTQ student concerns. the role played by the former Ricketts, a sophomore, said he said he also named a student LGBTQ student group, which op-PrismND also sponsored a representative to the advisory erated without official University National Coming Out Day lunch committee on LGBTQ issues to approval. with Pasquerilla East hall. he said Vice President for Student Affairs “Students had a huge victory a two speakers at the lunch dis-Erin hoffmann harding. year ago, which was the recogni-cussed the concept of coming out 
“One of our recommendations tion of the LGBTQ student group,” both from an academic perspec­in the [Oct. 17] Board of Trustees re-Coccia said. “Many of the efforts tive and on a personal level. where community can grow,” he possible. … I think that’s kind of a port was that the [advisory] council that I think were necessary [be-PrismND’s other main event this said. “we want to have a space guiding principle to a lot of things meet regularly … that it gets off to a fore] … can now be facilitated by semester was StaND Against hate where people can just come and that we do.” good start,” Coccia said. “The pur-PrismND.” week from Nov. 4 through 8, hayes talk about issues on campus, is-hayes said now that PrismND’s pose is essentially to gauge campus The founding members of said. The week, which the Gender sues they’re having, issues they see working dynamics are established, climate on LGBTQ inclusion and PrismND began to develop the Relations Center and Multicultural in the world outside of the Notre the group aims to host more pro-help make recommendations to group’s bylaws last semester, Student Programs and Services Dame bubble.” gramming next semester. [hoffmann harding] as we move Coccia said. co-sponsored, featured a “what It PrismND aims to be a welcom-LGBTQ concerns remain a “very forward on this issue.” “Then we started to formal-Means to be an Ally” dinner, two ing space for all parts of the LGBTQ personal priority” for Coccia, he 
In the report to the Student ize them a bit more, make the lectures and a candlelight prayer and ally communities on campus, said. Affairs Committee of the Board of language consonant with what service. hayes said. “we’ve really come to a new step Trustees, Coccia’s administration organization languages are and hayes said,between 20 and 30 “we want to make sure that [the in campus culture,” Coccia said. recommended the advisory com-what organization bylaws look people attend the group’s orga-group] doesn’t develop some sort “The way I like to frame it … is two­mittee meet for the first time no like, which includes components nizational meetings, every oth-of reputation of being associated and-a-half years ago, the question later than Thanksgiving break and of funding and membership and er week. he said next semester with certain things, associated was, ‘Are you an ally?’ … The ques­gather four times in the spring 2014 meeting logistics,” he said. “Then PrismND will hold separate meet-with certain parts of the University. tion now is, ‘why wouldn’t you be semester. The administration also it was back-and-forth conversation ings in which people can discuss Someone could be like, ‘Oh, that’s a an ally?’ suggested the Office of Student … to ensure that the bylaws were issues they face. liberal part of the University, and I “Student government’s role in Affairs “engage in action-oriented solid and reflective of what the pur-The organizational meetings identify as gay, but I’m kind of con-this respect, I think, is continually conversation regarding trans-pose of the organization was.” do not serve this function because servative, and I don’t think I feel at providing a support for that.” gender students in the University Sophomore Connor hayes, co-they are mainly meant as time for home there.’ housing system.” president of PrismND, said the planning events, Ricketts said. “That kind of thing — mak-Contact Marisa Iati at                            
In his May 1 State of the Student club finalized its bylaws in early “They’re not necessarily a space ing sure that it is as inclusive as miati@nd.edu 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013 | ThE OBSERVER 




ND SENATE 

Group focuses on sexual assault, inclusion 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
News writer 
Student body vice president Nancy Joyce said she has been “very proud” of senate’s progress this year.
 “My perception is that people, when they are here, and then when they are going to their department meetings, [are] very committed,” she said. “I’m very pleased with the way they’ve acted with each other, with me, and their dorms.” 
Senate has already tackled some tough issues in the first half of the year, Joyce said, including resolutions on sexual assault and diversity. 

“I’m really proud of the way they’ve handled these issues,” Joyce said. “They’ve done a good job of contributing different view­points and bringing different per­spectives to the table.” 
To address sexual assault on campus, Senate passed a resolu­tion in mid-September in support of NDSP’s decision to change the wording of emails sent to the stu­dent body following sexual assault reports. Most noticeably, the term “sexual battery” replaced “forcible fondling.” 
Although the official decision was made by NDSP, at the time, student body president Alex Coccia said, “[the resolution] shows our support of the fact that they asked for our input.” 
In its last meeting before Thanksgiving, the group passed a resolution to support recom­mendations regarding inclusion on campus issued by the Diversity Council. A similar resolution had failed to pass a week earlier after a series of heated debates leading up to the vote. 
“I think [those two] resolutions are the biggest ones to come out of Senate, not just because of what the resolutions said, but because of the discussions we had,” Joyce said. “More than anything, I was really pleased with the fact that it seemed to me that senators were going back to their dorms and talk­ing with [their constituents].” 
Joyce said senate acts as a “great soundboard” for ideas to help de­termine how the student body might react to different things. 
“I hope they view their role as one that comes with a lot of im­portance and weight because I take their opinions very seriously,” she said. “I hope they view their role as one that has a lot of influ­ence over what happens in student government. 
“In general, I think that the sena­tors can go underappreciated, so I’d like to say to anyone reading this article that they should go back to their dorms and thank them.” 
Joyce said for the rest of the aca­demic year, the group will deal with procedural issues and prob­ably continue its conversations about diversity and sexual assault on campus. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 



CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Board analyzes community, academic needs 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
News writer 
Alex Coccia, student body presi­dent and chair of the Campus Life Council (CLC) said the organiza­tion brings together students and faculty for a wide range of different perspectives on campus. 
“when we come together to dis­cuss issues related to student life, I think it’s very important to have those varied perspectives,” he said. 
This year, the council is or­ganized into three task forces, Coccia said, in an effort to address comprehensive issues. The three groups focus on safety and health, community building and holistic student development, and they will draft reports of their findings next semester. 
Coccia said the third task force 

GRADE: B 
CLC is primarily an advisory body, but it does not seem like they achieved many concrete goals this semester. 
focuses on students’ overall growth and improvement especially out­side the classroom. 
This semester, the safety and health group initiated the prayer services following email alerts of sexual assault, Coccia said. 
“Now that’s a small action step,” he said. “At the same time, we’re talking about sexual assault and alcohol culture on campus. One of the things we’ll be focusing on next semester is doing focus groups with students to really get a sense of what people look for in parties and in building healthy relation­ships, whether people understand the signs of alcohol poisoning, and what the potential barriers are to helping someone who is intoxicat­ed if they need help.” 
The community building task force is examining program­ming, Coccia said, and examining “where people find their primary community.” 
“They’re going to look at dorms that have a high rate of rector turn­over, and they’re going to look at the effect that that has had on dorms, in order to help make recommenda­tions on rector recruiting,” he said. “They’ve also been looking at Mass attendance information to see how we can better serve people in that area, and with consistent presiders. Also, they’re working with Diversity Council and the recommendations they’ve made recently.” 
The third task force has exam­ined potential improvements in academic areas, Coccia said. 
“One of the things they’re look­ing at right now is office hours, what best practices for office hours are and ensuring students have a mentoring relationship with their faculty,” he said. “They’ve also been looking at class timing, to see if there are ways we can ensure that students aren’t getting out of labs at crazy hour of the night, so people can actually have time to work on their own and have extracurricular engagement, as well.” 
The CLC works to “benchmark” the practices of peer institutions, Coccia said, as well as soliciting student feedback, in the process of making recommendations. 
“It’s a very deliberate procedure, but it’s also good because it allows us to the time to have ongoing dis­cussions, rather than just jump­ing in and saying ‘this is what I think we should do,’” he said. “we have the opportunity and the per­spective to really challenge each other on various issues and make sure we’re going to make proper recommendations.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
SMC SENATE 



Assembly adopts new structure 
By KELLY KONYA 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s Student Senate completed its third semester of meetings with high hopes for the spring, SGA vice president Maddy Martin said. 
“I’m really proud of the new structure we formatted this year, because we added some new positions and also evened out the amount of senators per grade,” she said. 
Martin said permanent attendees included rep­resentatives of each “big board” on campus, includ­ing the presidents of Student Diversity Board, Residence hall Association and Student Activities Board. Senators elected from each class, of­ficers of SGA and ordinary students also participated. 
“[That] encouraged a town-hall setting,” Martin said. “Essentially, we are covering every corner of campus, and this is the only sort of collective meeting that accomplishes that.” 
Senate added a new amendment to the SGA constitution, establishing guidelines for the group’s parliamentary order, Martin said. 
“we are still in the midst of revising our constitution right now, because we real­ized many things in it that we are not using or we have something new that needs to be incorporated,” she said. “we hope the modified guidelines will encourage efficiency within the Senate and uphold the traditions set in the place by previous SGA officers. 
“Each board has been working to go through their part of the constitution, and so our final goal is to have the constitution revised and fi­nalized by April’s turnover.” 
This semester, senate also discussed the fiscal bud­get for the remainder of the school year, vice president of finance Emily Murphy said. Rachel Sinchak, a junior senator, said this financial evaluation was especial­ly important for all of the big-board and class-board members. 

“It’s hard because the SGA budget isn’t able to allocate huge funds to every board, but Emily [Murphy] and the other officers really try their best to share the finances equally across the groups,” Sinchak said. “The goal of the senate is to be as ben­eficial to as many student groups as possible while also being cost-effective, and I think most of the de­cisions reached this year in the meetings reflected that principle.” 
Another issue senate con­sidered was the decision to host a dance with the Naval Academy following the Notre Dame-Navy football game Nov. 2. Though the dance was eventually approved, senate spent an entire meet­ing addressing whether or not the event would be ad­vantageous for SGA’s overall budget, Martin said. 
“I thought it was great for our senators to be able to see from start to finish how this sort of process works,” Martin said. “Our senators were surprised with how much involvement they had in decisions like this, as they were the ultimate deciding factor in events and their opinions truly mattered.” 
Looking ahead to the spring, Martin said the sena­tors have been encouraged to bring to the group ideas that may be forming in indi­vidual class meetings. 
“we hope to continue to answer all unanswered questions on campus, like issues with technology or parking and so on,” Martin said. “I think the senate is most constructive because the senators who are per­tinent to their respective classes come and raise ques­tions that have been floating around campus. 
“This helps with our goal of transparency, as the girls can provide the answers to the rest of the student body after we have decided what will benefit the entire campus.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

GRADE: A­
SMC senate has succeeded in finding a structure that makes it effective and incorporates voices from various boards on campus. The group has also formalized this organization for future administrations. 








DEPARTMENT REVIEWS 
The Observer evaluated every department within Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s student governments to evalu­ate their level of achievement thus far in their terms. 
The departments within Notre Dame student govern­ment are highlighted in dark blue and gold. 
Our analyses of Saint Mary’s boards are featured in light 
blue. 


The Department of Constituent 
conversation about Notre Dame Food Services. It developed the “One Is Too Many” campaign that seeks to combat sexual violence at a grassroots level. The Department is investigating increased movie-rental options and developing a community-improvement award to recognize students who serve South Bend. 
A 

This department devoted great attention this semester to benchmarking Notre Dame’s policies regarding gender relations, financial programs, food services and museums with peer and aspirational universities, examining how such programs, policies and student outreach are structured at other schools. These efforts can show Notre Dame students the relevance and fairness of University policy, but the department has yet to endow its outreach work with great relevance for the student body. This department earns a B+ for its work. 
B+ 



Saint Mary’s Residence Hall Association 
governing body, RHA president Kaitlyn Baker said. Because of these transitions and its work promoting events like its annual spirit week, Cookies and Coast­ers Freshmen Social, all-hall kickball tournament and hall directors’ tea par­ties, the association deserves an A for its work. 
A 



The department coordinated the 
community summit facilitated goal sharing between local leaders and the University administration. The department also sponsored a bus tour to expose new students to entertainment spots and South Bend’s history. They created committees of students from all higher education institutions in South Bend, connecting them with community leaders to learn about internship and entertainment opportunities. Through this, they expanded students’ lives beyond campus and into South Bend, earning 
them the A. 

This department developed the first annual Irish State of Mind Week to raise awareness about mental health on campus, working with SMC and Holy Cross College. In addition, they are developing a formal proposal for open dining hall hours, a Grab and Go satellite and a swipes plan. Hopefully, they will fulfill their pledge to improve RecSports and student housing next semester. The Department deserves an A- for completing a number of very important issues affecting student life, and making progress on even more. 

Break Rescue, Bella-Boo, Winter Wonderland and Study Day Massages. The club has hosted several successful events but should work on advertising their events more. Because of this, the board deserves an A-. 

A 
A­
A-


The Department of Academic Affairs met with administrators to discuss potential improvements to “DARTing” and PIN distribution. It continued its Last Lecture series, introduced a First Lectures series and teamed up with several University offices to bring TEDxUND to campus in January. It also created a study-space map, available on InsideND and mobileND. The department has many ambitious initiatives planned but has much to do in order to accomplish all of its goals by the end of the term. 
A-



The department co-sponsored a day 
aggregate all the on-campus service groups. In addition, the department orchestrated a prayer services and discussion in response to the crisis in Syria. They planned spring events including a benefit dinner for Syria, a local food campaign, another Playing for Peace event and a Social Action Network to facilitate collaboration among service groups at Notre Dame. These events and the ones in progress earned the department an A-. 
A-

The Department of Gender Issues worked with NDSP to revise its sexual-assault alert emails — specifically, to change “forcible fondling” to “sexual battery” and to make the language more clearly supportive of victims. The department organized prayer services to follow alert emails and partnered with the Gender Relations Center to promote Sexual Violence Awareness Month. It will team up with PrismND to coordinate transgender awareness events in the spring and will continue to investigate the effects of updated dorm alarm policies. 


Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board 
at the S’more Diversity Bonfire and closed the semester with a Hunger Banquet. It will host its annual Diverse Students’ Leadership Conference this March. The board deserves an A for its unique way of expressing diversity. 


A 

The Department of University Affairs increased the hours of access to DeBartolo Hall and worked with NDSP to repair emergency phones outside dorms. It partnered with Notre Dame Food Services to promote food sustainability. The department hopes to establish an easy and affordable transportation system for off-campus students and to implement a bike rental program. To improve from its B- ranking, the department will have to see more tangible results and must 
make significant progress. 



in their dorms. However, they have a low grade because they failed to successfully improve policies on campus. They do have potentially significant projects in progress, such as upgrading the DART and printing systems, creating an updated mobile app and purchasing a new scanner for the Coleman-Morse Center. Each of these improvements would drastically enhance student life, but the department needs to make more headway. 


The department successfully addressed technical problems regarding language in the Constitution but has not successfully completed initiatives that affect the wider student body. In fact, their ongoing projects also are fairly trivial – most address clarifications regarding the Senate or the Constitution. They competently take on behind-the-scenes work and small tasks, but they need to evaluate ways to work toward a larger-scale initiative that can impact student life or student government as a whole. Because of this, the department earned a B. 


The Saint Mary’s Council of Clubs, part of 
used increased advertising to encourage students to take advantage of the money available to them via student government. The council deserves an A because this year, it gave out more sponsorships than ever before and went through its entire budgeted amount for on-campus events, as well as for travel grants. 
B­
C+ 
B 
A 



