

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

COMMENTARY 

Last year seems so far away 


Joseph Monardo 
Associate sports editor 

There is a point when compari­sons to notre dame’s 2012 national championship runner-up team are unwarranted, unnecessary and even counterproductive. but that point is not here yet. 
nor should it be. Last season was a high point for one of the most storied and accomplished football programs in history. It was the greatest season for a notre dame team during the lives of any of the University’s current students. It was a season that looked highly improbable against a strong sched­ule and played out in a fashion that made it seem even more unlikely, as though it would collapse with the slightest shift in the wind. 
And, sure, it did collapse eventu­ally in dramatic fashion, with the Irish on the wrong end of an em­barrassing loss to Alabama in the bcs title game. offseason drama emerged to taint the memories of the year. but the undefeated season of 2012 remains an historic feat. 
so it is a little bit of bad luck that this year’s team has to follow up a miracle season. In the program’s recent past, a 6-2 start would likely have been cause for celebration. This year fans, and the national media, have greeted it with mild appreciation and minimal praise. It’s not fair that the standards are as high for this team as they are, but that is what happens when the predecessor took down no. 10 michigan state, no. 18 michigan, no. 17 stanford and no. 8 oklahoma in its opening eight games. 

The drop-off in defensive pro­duction from last year to this is the most obvious (and perhaps most significant) difference, but one of the more high-profile and contro­versial changes in the offseason came with the suspension of junior quarterback everett Golson fol­lowing an academic violation. The dual-threat quarterback recently confirmed in an interview with sports Illustrated’s Andy staples that his infraction was cheating on a test. but the video interview likely had Irish fans wondering what could have been — a much bigger-and stronger-looking Golson flings around perfectly-placed passes while blindfolded. 
but has there really been a drop-off in production at the quarter­back position? In his debut season last year, Golson completed 56.9 percent of his passes through his first eight contests. he threw four interceptions, eight touchdowns and accumulated 1,372 yards. Through eight games this year, senior quarterback Tommy rees has a lower completion percent­age (55.3 percent) and has tossed more interceptions (six), but has thrown for 1,944 yards and 20 touchdowns. his current efficiency rating of 143.3 exceeds Golson’s season-ending rating of 131.01. 
obviously, Golson and rees are different quarterbacks. rees’ high-volume passing attack provides him with more opportunities to compile gaudy numbers than Golson had, the two are asked to do different things within the offense, etc. more to the point, it is impossible to simply substitute one player’s passing statistics into another time and place as if they fit perfectly. For instance, Golson could very well have powered the Irish rushing attack to a level of production well above that of this year’s unit. 
There is no easy way to compare last year’s Golson and this year’s rees, just as there is no surefire way to compare last year’s Irish to the current version. That is, of course, excepting the respective records. notre dame forfeited 8-0 many weeks ago, but improving to 7-2 is not a bad way to move forward. If the Irish can do that, they move one step closer toward an accomplishment that can stand independent of last year’s results. 
but until that point comes, com­parisons are not yet invalid. That could be good news for the Irish, albeit tense times for their fans. Last year, on the first weekend of november, notre dame escaped from a home matchup with under­dog Pittsburgh in triple overtime with a 29-26 win. maybe some of the luck that played a part in Pitt missing a would-be game-winning 33-yard field goal will descend upon this year’s squad. 
You know, for old time’s sake. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
RECRUITING 



Irish await commitments after promising USC visits 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
Two weeks removed from the Usc game and the big­gest recruiting weekend of the season for notre dame, the Irish still have yet to re­ceive any commitments from the nearly 30 visitors who de­scended on campus for the game against the Trojans. 
nonetheless, Irish recruit­ing expert mike Frank still hailed the landmark week­end as a major success for notre dame. 
“I think it was a great op­portunity to kind of sell their program to a lot of the elite guys left on their list right now and I think they did a wonderful job,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. 
Frank said despite the lack of immediate returns, it was important for notre dame to get the recruits on cam­pus so they could “remain in the game” by getting them on campus early and having the opportunity to sell the school and the program. 
Twelve offer-holding pros­pects from the class of 2014, who aren’t committed to the Irish, made the visit to south bend. 
“I don’t know exactly how many commitments they’re going to get out of this, but it wouldn’t surprise me to see five, six, maybe even seven of these kids pull the trigger for notre dame,” Frank said. 
Frank said of those 12 re­cruits, he believes lineback­er/safety drue Tranquill and tight end Tyler Luatua are the closest to pledging to notre dame. Tranquill, who is committed to Purdue and hails from Fort Wayne, Ind., is expected to visit the boilermakers this weekend. Luatua, meanwhile, is the no. 1 h-type tight end in the na­tion, according to esPn. 
Frank also said he thinks the Irish made a particularly strong impression on safety Payton hendrix and corner­back nick Watkins, who share the same secondary at bishop dunne high school in dallas. 
According to Frank, notre dame also made an impact with defensive tackle matt elam, who is also strongly considering Kentucky and Alabama, receiver Allen Lazard, who is committed to Iowa state, linebacker nyles morgan, who at one point had notre dame outside his top-six schools and a trio of california prospects — Luatua, offensive lineman damien mama and athlete John (Juju) smith — who made the trek from the West coast. 
“so I think overall, I think everything went really well,” Frank said. 
notre dame did, in fact, receive a commitment from receiver Isaiah mcKenzie the day before (oct. 18) the Usc game, per Irish sports daily. mcKenzie, who had been scheduled to make a visit to notre dame for the game against the Trojans but did not, became the 17th com­mitment in the class of 2014. 
despite mcKenzie’s com­mitment, Frank said there is still work to be done before the Plantation, Fla., native is qualified for notre dame. 
“Well, he’s got to have both the qualifying test score and the grades to get into notre dame. … I think he obviously wants to come to notre dame and I think notre dame would take him currently if he can qualify. but it just de­pends on how soon he can get qualified for notre dame.” 
Academics aside, Frank said the Irish are undoubt­edly high on mcKenzie’s skill set. 
“They think he’s a tre­mendous talent and he’s got excellent speed, rocket Ismail-type speed, and the ability to make people miss, very big-time explosion,” Frank said. “he’s a home-run hitter. he’s a guy that can play in space and make a lot of things happen. You want to grab that guy if you can.” 
In the wake of the massive recruiting efforts over Usc weekend, Frank said there is not much activity this week. 
“I think earlier in the year you wanted to get a lot of your 2015 kids in and they did bring in quite a few top 2015 kids,” Frank said. “It’s hard to get [2014 prospects] to come especially when they’re se­niors, hard to get them on campus, especially when they have to travel from so far away. I don’t expect a lot of other visitors.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. Email Mike at mikefrank18@ sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | The observer 





By JACK HEFFERON 
sports Writer 

It can be hard to remember that Jaylon smith is just a freshman. 
he has come in as a rookie and made an immediate impact at outside linebacker, starting every game. he’s picked up the schemes and packages, forced and recovered fumbles and in­tercepted pass­es. he’s even savvy in the media room, answer­ing questions with the poise of a fifth-year senior. 
nothing about smith gives off the vibe that he’s new at this, that is, until someone points out his sweatpants. The no. 11 on the thigh is a giveaway that they be­long to junior linebacker Ishaq Williams, and his shirt belongs to senior linebacker Prince shembo. 
“I don’t have much gear yet,” smith said, sheepish for the first time in the interview. “I am still a 
freshman.” 

The reminder is helpful. 
still, smith is no ordinary 
freshman, as Irish coach 
brian Kelly will be the first 
to tell you. Kelly expects all 
of his players to come in and 
compete in their first year, but 
for one to insert himself as a 
reliable starter and immediate 
weapon exceeded any of those 
expectations. 

“We don’t believe that [fresh­men] are going to come in and be All-Americans, but they’re going to be contributors,” Kelly said. “I think if you look at the freshmen, the one guy that’s been more than a contributor is Jaylon smith, ob­viously … if there’s one freshman that has really impacted our foot­ball team, I think you’d have to point to Jaylon.” 
so far smith’s play has lived up to the hype, which is impressive considering just how much has surrounded him. smith won four straight state championships at bishop Luers high school in Fort Wayne, Ind., and was unanimous­ly rated as a five-star recruit. 
smith didn’t grow up watching college football, and his only loy­alties lied with ohio state, where his older brother rod is a junior running back. still, notre dame was able to secure smith’s com­mitment at the end of his junior year, which was seen by many as one of Kelly’s biggest recruit­ing hauls. After his commitment smith immediately went to work for the Irish, reaching out through phone calls and Twitter to try to recruit other top members of his class to join what he coined the “Irish mob.” 
“At that point, there was no oth­er school I had interest in,” smith said. “so I committed, and started to rally the mob.” 
his zeal for the program con­tinued when he reached campus this summer, receiving praise throughout the preseason as he earned reps over more experi­enced teammates. smith said he wasn’t surprised by any of the changes that came from the tran­sition to college, and just tried to make up for his inexperience in any way he could. 
“I just wanted to contribute anyway I could,” he said. “You’re a little behind, because you don’t know the playbook as much, but you just have to go out and com­pete every day, and that’s what I wanted to do.” 
The results were apparent to everyone around him, includ­ing junior safety matthias Farley, who said smith’s transition to the college ranks has been one of the quickest he’s seen. 
“I don’t think at any point he was playing like a freshman, but at the beginning of the year he might not have reacted as fast even though he knew what to do, just because of hesitation,” Farley said. “There’s definitely none of that now. he sees it and he goes, and he’s play­ing phenomenally well.” 
smith started from the season opener, but his biggest test came in his sixth game, the shamrock series matchup with then-no. 24 Arizona state in AT&T stadium in Arlington, Texas. The sun devils chose to isolate the young fresh­man, betting on the matchup as one that they could win. smith was thrown into the spotlight in front of a nationwide, primetime audience — and responded with a career-high and team-leading nine tackles to help notre dame secure the win. 
“The Arizona state game, there were a lot of times where I had to just ‘shoot my gun’ and make the play,” smith said. “I really had to get out of my comfort zone, and just play football.” 
since then, smith’s play has looked even more veteran. In a long-awaited matchup with archrival Usc on oct. 19, smith stonewalled the Trojans only three plays into the second half by picking off a Trojan pass for his first career interception. 
smith was a linchpin for the Irish defense once again last week, as notre dame traveled up into the mountains to face Air Force and its triple option. The option’s strength is forcing matchups and tough decisions, and smith re­peatedly had to choose between the quarterback and pitchman out in space. he struggled as the Falcons took an early lead, but 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

learned from his mistakes and ad­justed almost immediately. soon, smith was running downhill and blowing up plays, and his eight tackles once again led the team in the victory. 
“he was slow playing the quar­terback, the pitch,” Kelly said. “And the patience that he showed to buy time for the mike [lineback­er] to get over a block, or the safety to come from the backside hash, you just don’t teach that.  It’s just instincts that he had that he could slow play the option. … The kid just has those things that are hard to teach.” 
In the third quarter, smith pulled what may have been his most veteran move yet. When a teammate forced the ball loose, he picked it up as whistles blew and ran all of 60 yards to the end zone, then turned to the officials and raised his arms to signal a touch­down, holding the pose for the better part of a minute. eventually, his unsuccessful appeal netted him only a fumble recovery, not the touchdown. 
“I thought the play was still alive, so I continued to run,” he said. “… Unfortunately they didn’t call it a touchdown, but hopefully I’ll get another opportunity at that.” 
That opportunity may come this weekend against navy, an­other triple-option team that will force smith to get physical and fight in the trenches. In such times it helps to get mean, but smith is naturally handicapped in that re­gard, recognized by many as one of the nicest kids on the team. smith said he’s still working on playing angry on game day, but doesn’t let it boil over to affect his off-the-field kindness. 
“It’s football. Playing on the de­fensive side, you have to have that nastiness,” he said. “You don’t have to make it a lifestyle, though.” 
It’s been a whirlwind of a ride for smith, and it can be hard for him to believe at times that one year ago he was still playing for the Knights, helping his teammates on the way to another state cham­pionship. smith is just starting off his college career, but knows it can go just as fast. In the meantime, he’s working his hardest to make every day count, and not let any distractions get in the way. 
“It’s a dream come true,” he said. “It’s a blessing, and you re­ally have to cherish it, and not take a day of it for granted … We’re not looking forward at anything down the path, we’re just looking forward to the next game and the next play.” 
Another veteran answer from the rookie. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 





HEAD TO 

Observer File Photo 
MIDSHIPMEN PASSING MIDSHIPMENOFFENSIVECOACHING 
This category may seem like an oxymoron, before Ken niumatalolo arrived at the as navy averages just over five completions naval Academy, the mids had just one per game. however, midshipmen sophomore win against the Irish in their last 44 tries. Keenan reynolds is a legitimate dual-threat Under niumatalolo, they’ve won two out at quarterback, and can sling the ball around of five. In niumatalolo’s first meeting with the field when given the chance. The mids Irish coach brian Kelly in 2010, navy sliced force opposing secondaries to think run first notre dame for 367 yards rushing and 35 with their triple-option barrage, then are points, but the Irish have held them to just able to get big gains over the top when they 24 points in the two games since. still, navy pass. navy has averaged 16.2 yards per com-has reached the end zone on 39 percent of pletion this season, the sixth best mark in the their drives this season, the 12th best mark country. in the country. 
Less is more for the midshipmen here, as Kelly talked this week about how difficult going back to 2003 they are 18-1 when throw-navy’s slight variations can be to defend, ing five times or less, and have a losing record meaning defensive coordinator bob diaco when they pass 10 times or more. will have his hands full in gameplanning. 
That paucity of passes will require vigi-The Irish were able to work out the kinks af­lance from notre dame’s corners who also ter getting gashed by the option last week, factored heavily into the run defense last adjusting on the fly to take some automatic week. senior captain bennett Jackson and checks out of their systems. The Irish will sophomore Keivarae russell will have their need to be similarly flexible this week, but work cut out for them at cornerback, and two weeks with the option is still far less will need to stay disciplined on every down. experience than navy can respond with. The duo was up to that challenge last week EDGE: EVEN against Air Force’s option attack though, shutting down the pass while recording 10 MIDSHIPMEN SPECIAL TEAMS tackles. In addition to the grinding triple op-
If notre dame can stop the big momentum tion game, the midshipmen can con-plays here, they’ll control the air. trol field position with the leg of junior EDGE: NOTRE DAME punter Pablo beltran. beltran has aver­aged 43 yards per punt this season, but MIDSHIPMEN RUSHING has downed 1/3 of his kicks inside the 20. 
navy runs the triple option as well as any That should further limit senior TJ Jones one in the country, and is able to make little in punt returns, as Jones has just one re­adjustments to tweak the legendary scheme turn of more than five yards in his last six every week. reynolds calls the shots un-games. der center, and so far has preferred to call midshipmen sophomore kicker nick his own number, as he has nearly twice as sloan has had an average year, with a long many rushes as any other back. The system of 40 yards and and 5-8 kicking overall. has continued to be prolific though, as navy EDGE: NAVY grinds opponents down by averaging five yards per carry and 292 yards per game. MIDSHIPMEN SCHEDULE (4-3) 
The Irish will benefit from good scheduling sept. 7 @ Indiana W 41-35 in this game, as they were able to get a primer sept. 14 Delaware W 51-7 in defending the triple option from Air Force sept. 28 @ Western Kentucky L 19-7 last week. however, two consecutive weeks oct. 5 Air Force W 28-10 against the option can be especially punish-oct. 12 @ Duke L 35-7 ing to the front seven, and senior defensive oct. 19 @ Toledo L 45-44 lineman Louis nix is questionable to return. oct. 26 Pittsburgh W 24-21 much of the spotlight will fall on freshman nov. 2 @ Notre Dame outside linebacker Jaylon smith, who was nov. 9 Hawaii regularly put on an island to slow down the nov. 16 South Alabama quarterback in space last week. nov. 22 @ San Jose State
 EDGE: NAVY dec. 14 Army 
Observer File Photo 


Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 
Almost everyone is talking about stanford and the game that will determine a bcs bowl. but if the Irish aren’t careful, they won’t even make it that far. With some key injuries throughout the defense, a better triple-option attack this week at home could be just the sneak attack to send the Irish spiraling. 
but somehow the Irish defense has only gotten stronger in recent weeks while Tommy rees has been impeccable in his last two games (which has been roughly five quarters). 
don’t write this matchup off as just another blowout win, but the Irish should have enough firepower to continue rolling on its path to Palo Alto and potentially new orleans. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 31, navy 23 


Matthew DeFranks 
Assistant managing editor 
This notre dame team is finally starting to resemble the one it was a season ago. but then again, maybe it’s just the teams they are playing. After squeaking by a Usc team in transition, the Irish pummelled Air Force by five touchdowns this past weekend. The defense has been dominant and the offense has been sharp (under Tommy rees). 
how much of that is a mirage, though? It could be a lot but we will not find that out this weekend against navy. The Irish are bigger and better than the midshipmen and should win this game comfortably. brian Kelly and the coaching staff adjusted quickly to the option a week ago and I expect them to do the same as notre dame rolls to an easy win over another academy. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 45, navy 10 


3:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
(Jr.) Geoffrey Whiteside
(so.) debrandon sanders 
(So.) Keenan Reynolds

QB
(Fr.) Tago smith 18 
(Jr.) Noah Copeland 

FB
(so.) chris swain 37 
(Sr.) Darius Staten 
(sr.) marcus Thomas 


WR
87 

79 
LT 

71 
LG 

63 
C 

71 
RG 

79 
RT 

81 
WR 
(Jr.) Chris Ferguson

S
(sr.) Wave ryder 8 
(Sr.) Cody Peterson
(Jr.) James britton 
(Sr.) DJ Sargenti
(so.) don Pearson 
(Jr.) Parrish Gaines 

S
(Jr.) Lonnie richardson 3 
(So.) Nick Sloan


PK
(so.) Austin Grebe 43 
(Jr.) Pablo Beltran

P
(so.) Gavin Jernigan 16 
(Sr.) Shawn Lynch

PR
(sr.) matt Aiken 85 

NAVY 

(Sr.) Matt Aiken
 (sr.) shawn Lynch 

21 
SB 
(Jr.) Bradyn Heap
(sr.) matthew van halanger 
(So.) E.K. Binns 
(sr.) Thomas stone 
(Jr.) Tanner Fleming
(so.) blaze ryder 
(Jr.) Jake Zuzek 
(sr.) Thomas stone 
(So.) Brandon Greene 
(sr.) matthew van halanger 

26 
SB 
(Sr.) Casey Bolena
(Jr.) brendan dudeck 
17 CB
(So.) Kwazel Bertrand 
(so.) Quincy Adams 5 
(Jr.) Jordan Drake 
13 OLB(Jr.) obi Uzoma 44 
45 DE
(Jr.) Paul Quessenberry
(Jr.) Aaron davis 91 
51 

53 ILB 
77 NG
(So.) Bernard Sarra 
52 (sr.) Travis bridges 72 50 
ILB 
58 DE
(Sr.) Evan Palelei 
(so.) Will Anthony 90 
(Jr.) Chris Johnson 

46 OLB
(Fr.) William Tuider  38  
(Fr.) Brendon Clements (so.) Quincy Adams  1 5  CB  
(So.) Austin Grebe (so.) Gavin Jernigan  43 16  KO  
(Sr.) Marcus Thomas (Jr.) Geoffrey Whiteside  26 29  KR  
(Jr.) Joe Cardona (Fr.) Josh Antol  93 94  LS  



Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
I’m not sleeping on navy, but I’m not wide awake either. call it sleeping with one eye open. 
This isn’t quite the same as another Air Force cake­walk. In fact, the midshipmen defeated the Falcons, 28-10, four weeks back. navy has scored a touchdown on roughly 39 percent of its drives this year, the 12th­best percentage in the country. With sophomore Keenan reynolds at quarterback, that percentage jumps to 43. 
but I remember last year in dublin, when notre dame dropped an easy 50 points on the mids and rushed for 293 yards. This year, I think navy gears up to defend notre dame’s recently explosive passing at­tack, only to be gashed on the ground by the likes of cam mcdaniel and Tarean Folston. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 31, navy 14 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | The observer 




O HEAD 

ON NBC 
NO. 25 NOTRE DAME 

MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer MICHAEL KRAMM | The Observer 
IRISHPASSING Folston to emerge by game’s end.  notre senior quarterback Tommy rees had dame will spread the ball around to the KeiVarae Russell (So.) 
a career day against Air Force last week, many horses in its stable, and the Irish 

CB 23 Lo Wood (sr.) 
spreading the love to hit five different re-offensive line should make use of its size 
ceivers for touchdowns. advantage to guarentee success on the senior captain TJ Jones has been an ground. 

Jaylon Smith (Fr.) 
OLB 
elite receiver for the Irish this year, and      EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
30 ben councell (Jr.) 
Austin Collinsworth (Sr.) 


41 matthias Farley(Jr.) freshmen receivers Will Fuller and corey 
S
Sheldon Day (So.) 

robinson have emerged to give the unit IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
DE 
90 Isaac rochell (Fr.) 
Dan Fox (Gr.) even more depth below its veterans. The     It’s hard to argue with what brian Kelly, 

ILB 
38 Joe schmidt (Jr.) 
Louis Nix (Sr.) Irish offensive line will be without senior chuck martin and the rest of the Irish staff 
NG 
Kona schwenke (sr.) 

Carlo Calabrese (Gr.) christian Lombard for the rest of the year, have done in the past few weeks. notre 


96 ILB 
8 Kendall moore (sr.) 
DE 
Stephon Tuitt (Jr.) and graduate student chris Watt is recov-dame only managed 300 yards against 
94 Jarron Jones (so.) 
Elijah Shumate (So.) ering from an injury that sidelined him Usc two weeks ago, in large part due 
10 max redfield (Fr.) 
S 
last week. even with instability on the line to rees’ exit due to injury, but on either 
Prince Shembo (Sr.) 
OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (Jr.) last week, the pass blocking was still good side of the offensive dud the Irish put up enough to keep rees off the ground most 424 yards against Arizona state and 466 of the day, and freshman steve elmer has yards against Air Force. With the luxury showed early composure as a new starter. of opening things up by allowing rees to 
The midshipmen will have their work spread the ball around and pounding it 
Bennett Jackson (Sr.) 
CB 
36 cole Luke (Fr.) cut out for them in trying to slow the Irish on the ground, notre dame’s coaching down, as notre dame has put up 106 points staff could cause major headaches for the in their last two meetings. still, navy has midshipmen. 
TJ Jones (Sr.) 
WR 
88 
held opponents to 204 yards passing per    EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
corey robinson (Fr.) 
game, and their most experienced starter 
DaVaris Daniels (Jr.) 

20 c.J. Prosise (so.) is junior safety Parrish Gaines, who has IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS started 25 straight games. Junior outside    George Atkinson still looks ready to ex-linebacker chris Johnson missed his first plode for a kickoff-return touchdown. he’s 
RT 

Ronnie Stanley (So.) two seasons with the team due to redshirt-worked his way up to a 27.3-yard return av-
WR 
79 steve elmer (Fr.) 

ing and tearing his AcL, but has busted out erage by taking a few kicks to the threshold 
George Atkinson (Jr.) 
Steve Elmer (Fr.) 

3 Amir carlisle (Jr.) to lead the mids with three interceptions of the opponent’s territory. Kyle brindza’s this season, as well as 48 tackles. navy’s punting has been servicable, but his per-
RB RG 
65 conor hanratty (Jr.) 
Tommy Rees (Sr.) 
Nick Martin (Jr.) 
C 
77 matt hegarty(Jr.) QB 
12 Andrew hendrix (sr.) corners are both in their first year as full formance on the field-goal unit has been time starters, however, and may have is-notably better. he has converted nine of 
Chris Watt (Gr.) 
75 mark harrell (so.) 
LG 
sues covering notre dame’s multitude of 13 attempts on the year but hasn’t missed 
LT 

Zack Martin (Gr.) weapons on the outside. a crucial kick yet. TJ Jones has looked con-
hunter bivin (Fr.) 

57     EDGE: NOTRE DAME siderably more comfortable at punt retun 
TE 
Troy Niklas (Jr.) than he had earlier in the year, making 
18 ben Koyack (Jr.) 
IRISHRUSHING tough fair catches when necessary and     The Irish rushing attack has reached at putting together a few nice retuns. 
WR 

Chris Brown (So.) least 134 yards in four straight games, but       EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
17 James onwualu (Fr.) 
the efficiency has not been there. Against Air Force, notre dame needed 37 rushes to IRISH SCHEDULE (6-2) accumulate 135 yards. The yards-per-rush Aug. 31 Temple W 28-6 is probably lower than brian Kelly would sept. 7 @ Michigan L 41-30 like, but saturday offers a chance for the sept. 14 @ Purdue W 31-24 running backs to improve on its 4.1 yards-sept. 21 Michigan State W      17-13 


Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 

40 nick Tausch (Gr.) per-attempt average. navy has allowed sept. 26 Oklahoma L 35-21 
KO PK 
P 
KR 

4.7 yards-per-rush to its opponents this oct. 5 vs. Arizona State W 37-34 
George Atkinson (Jr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 
33 cam mcdaniel (Jr.) 98 Alex Wulfeck (Gr.) 
season. oct. 19 USC W 14-10 
PR 
LS 

TJ Jones (Sr.)   Who will carry the load for the Irish from oct. 26 @ Air Force W 45-10 
Scott Daly (So.) 

3 Amir carlisle (Jr.) 
week to week is still a toss up. despite nov. 2 Navy George Atkinson receiving a bulk of the nov. 9 @ Pittsburgh chances early on, in recent weeks it has nov. 23 BYU 
Notre Dame vs. Temple 
been cam mcdaniel and freshman Tarean nov. 30 @ Stanford 


Joseph Monardo 
Associate sports editor 
For 86 straight years notre dame and navy have faced off, and saturday will bring the latest entry in what has become a cherished tradition for both sides. 
The Irish enter this one on the heels of a successful out­ing against another academy relying on the triple-option attack, in what may prove to have been a valuable tune­up. navy is not Air Force, however, and has scored a cou­ple of respectable wins against Indiana and Pittsburgh. on the other hand, notre dame is not Indiana or Pitt. With a shiny new ranking next to their name, the Irish have gotten their season back on track and won’t slip up here against a navy team that is 1-3 on the road this year. even though notre dame stadium may be a welcoming, respecting venue for the midshipmen, the Irish rushing game will make sure the home team wins out. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 41, navy 20 


Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
over the last 60 years, notre dame losing to navy has been almost unimaginable. but over the last six, this matchup has been a coinflip. 
This has all the makings of a trap game for the Irish, as the talk surrounding the team has improbably shifted to the bcs once again. navy is a better team than Air Force, and has outpunched several respectable teams this year. 
notre dame’s saving grace though will be their trip to colorado last week. The Falcons jumped on the Irish with the triple option and grabbed early momentum, but the Irish had time to work out the kinks in their option de­fense. Against the midshipmen, a start like that may have been fatal (see: The meadowlands, 2010). but the dress rehearsal has the Irish ready to handle the option, and they’ll sing both Alma maters after a comfortable win. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 34, navy 17 

Where does Jaylon Smith spend all his flex points? Find out with our new “Lightning Round” video series at 
youtube.com/ NDSMCObserver 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Elmer fills all roles 
the early error. 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
“steve knows we have a lot of confi­dence in him,” martin said. “he’s been steve elmer was not always an of-here since the spring and we’ve been fensive lineman. kind of light on the o-Line since then, 
For one 60-yard drive in eighth too ... he’s a very bright kid and very grade, elmer transformed from line-talented.” man to a 6-foot-3, 230-pound wreck-Irish coach brian Kelly said elmer’s ing ball at fullback. elmer carried the intelligence was just one thing that ball on every play of the touchdown-makes the freshman stand out. scoring drive. “The other plus is he’s long,” Kelly 
“It was awesome,” elmer said. said. “I mean, he’s a long, athletic kid. 
nowadays, elmer is paving the way he can make up for some deficiencies for touchdowns instead of scoring in terms of some of his techniques, them. because of his athleticism. Got to get 
The freshman from midland, mich. stronger, physically stronger. ... but has been inserted at nearly every posi-all-in-all, if you’re asking about a true tion on the line and helped the Irish of-freshman playing, the pluses definite­fense post 45 points against Air Force ly outweigh the minuses.” last week in his first career start. elmer has been the first man off the 
The now 6-foot-5.5, 317-pounder bench for much of the season, before said he saw a lot of areas for improve-starting against the Falcons follow­ment when reviewing his first full ing a season-ending back injury to game. senior offensive lineman christian 
“I saw a lot of things that I need to Lombard. however, elmer said he had clean up,” elmer said. “I definitely feel never played guard before coming to pretty good about it. There’s lots of notredame. things I need to work on. I think I han-“I think I was a little bit more dled it pretty well.” stressed about it than I really should 
one of those things may be appar-have been,” elmer said. “I wasn’t that ent to Irish fans. At the end of no. 25 stressed but it wasn’t a huge adjust­notre dame’s first drive at Air Force, ment, it’s still offensive line. sets are a the Irish faced a fourth-and-two from little bit different, assignments are a lit-the Falcons 24-yard line. but that’s tle different but it’s still doing the same when elmer was whistled for a false sort of things.” start and the Irish were forced to at-elmer will look to build off his strong tempt a 46-yard field goal. first start this weekend when the Irish 
“It happens,” elmer said. “obviously, (6-2) take on navy in notre dame I wasn’t happy I jumped. It happens to stadium. everybody but I didn’t let it get to me.” 
Graduate student left tackle Zack Contact Matthew DeFranks at martin said elmer responded well to mdefrank@nd.edu PAId AdverTIsemenT 
Assistant managing editor 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2013 | The observer 



QB Reynolds propels top triple-option attack 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
Tahj boyd. Teddy bridgewater. Johnny manziel. marcus mariota. AJ mccarron. braxton miller. 
These six star quarterbacks and 28 of the other best quarterbacks in the nation were named to the 2013 davey o’brien Award Watch List in July. but the watch list for the o’brien Award, presented annually to the nation’s best col­lege quarterback, featured just one true sophomore: Keenan reynolds. 
navy’s sophomore quarterback earned the preseason recogni­tion beside the likes of the afore­mentioned heisman candidates. since then, reynolds has pow­ered the midshipmen offensively, racking up 546 rushing yards and 11 touchdowns on the ground in addition to throwing for 667 yards and four scores. 
“They’re led offensively by reynolds, outstanding quarter­back who has really been the cata­lyst for their offense,” Irish coach brian Kelly said Tuesday. 
navy’s triple-option attack has averaged 292.1 rushing yards per game this season, good for 10th in the nation. reynolds is tied for ninth in the country and first among quarterbacks in rushing touchdowns with 11. The 5-foot­11, 185-pounder is fourth among quarterbacks in rushing yards per game at 78.0, ahead of miller, mariota and manziel. 
In navy’s 24-21 come-from­behind win over Pittsburgh on saturday, reynolds scampered for 93 yards, including a 2-yard rumble to tie the game at 21 with less than four minutes remain­ing in the fourth quarter. on the midshipmen’s next drive, reynolds churned out another 18 yards to set up the game-winning field goal. As a team, navy (4-3) country,” Kelly said. “I mean, it’s rushed for 220 yards against the what they do. And they have so Panthers. many variations off of it, just little 
“navy runs the triple op-variations that make a huge dif­tion better than anybody in the ference, splits, the preciseness of 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 


how they run it may not to the un­trained eye look like much but it’s a real big difference.” 
Kelly said having just faced an­other triple-option team in Air Force is beneficial in the attempt to stymie the midshipmen. The Irish (6-2) did surrender 290 to­tal rushing yards to the Falcons, but Air Force ran 12 times for 101 yards (8.4 per carry) in the first quarter and 53 times for just 189 yards (3.6 per carry) in the final three quarters. 
“certainly from our standpoint, the most important thing for us is to be disciplined again defen­sively,” Kelly said. “In one respect having gone against Air Force and having the principles of option al­ready repped out is an advantage. but certainly [navy has] seen us and how we defend the option as well. so that gives them a week to do some things as well.” 
Aside from defending the op­tion, reynolds presents a pass­ing threat navy hasn’t possessed since former star quarterback ricky dobbs was under center. since 2003, navy is 18-1 when throwing 0-5 times in a game and 61-14 when throwing 10 or fewer passes. In that same timeframe, the midshipmen are 26-34 when they throw it 11 times or more and 6-13 when they reach at least 16 pass attempts. 
but against the Panthers on saturday, reynolds attempted 18 throws (completing eight for 105 yards, a touchdown and an inter­ception) and navy earned a cru­cial victory to jump back over the .500 mark. 
With reynolds as the starting quarterback, The midshipmen are 6-5 when throwing at least 11 times. 
“You know he can throw the ball extremely well,” Kelly said. “And so he gives you that option, no pun intended, that he can, if you’re just sitting on playing the triple option, he can throw the ball effectively.” 
reynolds is 10-5 in his career as the starting quarterback, and saturday’s victory — during which navy was trailing enter­ing the final quarter — was al­ready the fourth fourth-quarter comeback win of the sophomore’s career. 
Contact Mike Monaco jmonaco@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




