ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVEr NEWSPAPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE dAmE ANd ANd rEPOrT SAINT mArY’S IT ACCurATELY 

VOLumE 47, ISSuE 6 |  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2013 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
Morris Inn completes expansion 
After nine-month renovation, on-campus hotel opens doors for football home opener 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Editor 
After a $30 million, nine-month renovation process, Notre dame’s morris Inn re­opened to the public Friday for the first time since the project began in October. 
The building expanded from 72,000 to 137,000 square feet, with 150 guest rooms, new ballrooms and meet­ing rooms, a fireside out­door terrace and a separate entrance on the north side. director and general man­ager Joe Kurth said the Inn, known as “the living room of the university,” will serve as an “economic engine” for Notre dame. 
“What many will remem­ber as the old twin bed rooms now have plush king beds and double queens, and the bathrooms … are now spacious and comfortable,” Kurth said. “The rooms themselves went from an average of 260 square feet to 375 square feet, and the white tent outside was re­placed with a beautiful ball­room, so we can now host those January weddings a little more comfortably.” 
Although the hotel was closed during the nine-month construction process, no employees of the Inn were laid off during the past year, Kurth said. 
“At Notre dame, we talk about both what we do and how we do it. The construc­tion team worked double shifts from 7 a.m. to mid­night every day, essentially doing an 18-month project in nine months,” he said. “Not a single associate lost his job. 
“In corporate America, that wouldn’t be a possibil­ity, but at Notre dame, it was 50-plus people placed in jobs 
see INN PAGE 5 

LAUREN FRITZ | The Observer 
Construction at the Morris Inn cost $30 million and was funded by University donors. Now 137,000 square feet, the new hotel includes more guest rooms, a ballroom and expanded dining options. 


Program helps exchange students 


Panelists discuss Syrian refugee dilemma 

By STACEY AVTGIS 
News Writer 

For international students traveling great distances to at­tend Saint mary’s, a revamped International Peer mentor pro­gram will help ease the transi­tion to campus life. 
Junior huyaling (Nora) Wang, co-chair of the International Committee of the Student government Association (SgA), said the Peer mentor program was not efficiently promot­ed last year, leaving interna­tional students susceptible to homesickness. 
“The program actually started second semester last year,” said Kaitlyn Tarullo, the commit­tee’s other co-chair. “This year, we met with the international students at orientation in order 
see mENTOrS PAGE 4 

By TORI ROECK 
Associate News Editor 

As President Obama rallies congressional support to in­tervene in the Syrian conflict, panelists Asher Kaufman, Kevin Appleby and Fr. dan groody discussed the volatile middle Eastern country’s ref­ugee diaspora monday night in geddes hall. 
In a presentation titled “dignity and Justice for migrants and refugees: the Case of Syria,” part of the Center for Social Concerns’ lecture series on dignity and justice, the panelists covered the history of modern-day Syria, its current political conflict, the refugee crisis that resulted from it and the theology behind support for refugee rights. 
Kaufman, an associate pro­fessor of history and peace studies, began the discus­sion relating the history of Syria since the breakup of the Ottoman Empire during World War I. 
As the modern nation state of Syria developed through­out the 20th century, the Alawites, a minority group from the northeast part of the region, began to gain power in the country’s military and Ba’ath Party, Kaufman said. 
“For the Alawites, the mili­tary became almost the only possibility for social mobil­ity,” he said. “And they used another venue for social mo­bility and that was the Ba’ath Party, the political party that advocated Arab nationalism as the most important identi­ty, not only for Syrians but for all Arabic-speaking peoples in the middle East.” 
Syria endured 14 coup d’états between 1949 and 1970, and during that time, the military and the Ba’ath Party converged, leading to an Alawite takeover of politics, Kaufman said. 
hafez al-Assad, father of current leader Bashar al-Assad, took over in 1971, lead­ing to nationwide stability, despite his ruthless tactics, he said. 
“From a weak country, he turned Syria into a re­gional sort of a superpower,” Kaufman said. “Syria slowly but surely enjoyed a stabil­ity that it did not have before 1970.” 
When hafez al-Assad died in 2000, Kaufman said his son Bashar took power, promised reform and formed alliances with minority groups in Syria, including Jews, Christians and Sunni urbanites. 
The Arab Spring arose in 2011, and Syrians realized Bashar al-Assad’s government never delivered the reform it promised, Kaufman said. The opposition deteriorated into a 
see rEFugEES PAGE 3 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 VOLLEYBALL PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole michels 
News Editor: Ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hilstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, Assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTmASTEr Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


What body wash do you use? 


Gracious Adegbite 

Martin Orjales 
junior 

junior morrissey manor 
morrissey manor “Sometimes Olay, because I like 
“Something mexican.” to take care of myself.  Other times, I like to use Old Spice’s Swagger because it’s manly.” 


Cecilia Nyugen 
sophomore 
Pangborn hall 

“Bath and Bodyworks, the green one.” 

Dan Padden 
junior morrissey manor 
“Irish Springs.” 



Joy Tao 
junior 
Pangborn hall 

“dove, for winter skin.” 

Lucy Du 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“h20 Apricot something.” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Ann marie Jakubowski Sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca O’Neil Katie heit Kelly Konya Aaron Sant-miller 
Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 
Lector Training Freshman Night at Momix “Can Notre Dame SatAWAY Fitness 
grant Tobin Austin Talioferro 
Basilica of the Sacred the Snite DeBartolo Performing Women Have it All?” Class Heart Snite Museum of Art Arts Center South Dining Hall Snite Museum of Art 8 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 9:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m. 
Corrections 
Read at Basilica Mass. Reception and tours. Contemporary dance. Panel discussion. Free outdoor yoga. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 
Classic Films RCIA Information Iron Sharpens Iron Women’s Volleyball Film Presentation 
strives for the highest standards 
DeBartolo Performing Session Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Arts Center Coleman-Morse Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m. Center 10 p.m.-11 p.m. The Irish take on 6:30 p.m. & 9:00 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Silent films “Where 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Interdenominational, Bowling Green in Showing of “Frances 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Are My Children?” and Learn about Notre student-led Christian the Golden Dome Ha” (2012). 
we can correct our error. 
“The Immigrant.” Dame’s RCIA process. fellowship. Invitational 

NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

Elkhart Community Schools teams up with SMC 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI 
News Writer 
Saint mary’s has part­nered with Elkhart Community Schools to launch a Laboratory School Network, serving the coun­ty school system while expanding the College’s ed­ucation program. 
The program began last summer with funding from an Elkhart County Community Foundation grant. The arrangement al­lows for a three-year part­nership with the county, the College and Indiana 
university  South  Bend  
(IuSB),  according  to  a  
College press release.  

A report in The Elkhart Truth said the Laboratory School Network’s goals are “to improve student learn­ing, to reduce summer learning loss and to increase the application of research-based practices in elemen­tary classrooms.” 
during the summer, stu­dents in the Laboratory School Network worked with Saint mary’s educa­tion majors at Cleveland Elementary. Senior educa­tion majors Ellen Smith, megan Calender, griffin Bemisderfer, Kaley Jones and Allison Vasile partici­pated in the new partner­ship this summer. 
Smith said the six-week experience furthered her development as an educa­tion major, 
“This summer I taught first grade summer school and it was an incredible ex­perience,” Smith said. “It was so rewarding for myself 
“It was rewarding for myself and for my students because we always were learning from each other and I was able to practice being a teacher.” 
Ellen Smith 
senior 
and for my students because we always were learning from each other and I was 
able  to  practice  being  a  
teacher.  
“Saint  mary’s  does  so  

much to help make an im­pact in our schools by giving these students another posi­tive adult in their lives.” 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
director of media relations gwen O’Brien said in the press release that the mission of the Laboratory School Network is “to sup­port learning for [Elkhart Community Schools] stu­dents and the professional development of pre-service teachers from Saint mary’s.” 
According to The Elkhart Truth, “student teachers had taken it on their own to write grants for Saint mary’s spi­ral notebooks, folders, pen­cils and other supplies that each student at Cleveland’s program will receive.” 
The program benefited the students’ education dur­ing summer, a time in which students often forget about schoolwork. It also offered Saint mary’s students the experience of working with children in a classroom. 
According to an Elkhart Community Schools report, “Saint mary’s and IuSB are the first higher education schools to put programs in operation … These lab schools are the first summer laboratory schools in north­ern Indiana public school setting.” 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk01@saintmarys.edu 
Refugees 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
sectarian war. 
To gain support, Bashar al-Assad told minority groups they would not survive if they did not support him, Kaufman said. 
“he has played the sectar­ian card, using his pull with other minorities – Christians and Jews – saying that he is the supporter of their safe­ty,” he said. “If this uprising is successful, then they will lose their own safety. They will lose their own ability to live … in Syria” 
The issues in Syria have become more complex since then, spreading to neighbor­ing countries, Kaufman said. 
“The conflict has dete­riorated into … a regional conflict complex, where different states around are involved, where ethnic com­munities straddle the bor­ders,” he said. 
This dispersion of con­flict and violence has led to a refugee diaspora from Syria into neighboring coun­tries such as Lebanon, Iraq, Turkey and Jordan. Appleby, the director of the Office of migration Policy and Public Affairs within the united States Conference of Catholic Bishops (uSCCB), said 1.7 million refugees in the re­gion have registered with the united Nations high Commissioner for refugees, but he estimates more than two million refugees roam the area in total. 
Appleby said the middle East is experiencing “refu­gee fatigue” because refu­gees from Iraq, Palestine and Syria are all seeking perma­nency in the area, leading countries to contemplate closing their borders. 
“You’ve got the issue of a domestic discontent over this new wave of refugees that are here that are on top of Iraqis that are also on top of other refugee populations,” Appleby said. “governments are starting to get more rest­less, and it puts pressure on the governments to do more or puts pressure on the gov­ernments to close their bor­ders. And then you’ve got a situation where people are fleeing persecution or death and they have nowhere to go.” 
Appleby said it’s up to the international community to share the burden of resettle­ment so deserving refugees can find stability. 
“unless the international community antes up, then there’s a risk that these coun­tries are going to close their borders, and one of the rea­sons that they might close their borders is because the resident population is feeling threatened,” he said. 
The united States intend­ed to resettle most of the Iraqi refugees living in Syria before the conflict erupt­ed, but poor relations with the Syrian government pre­vented this from happening, leaving thousands of Iraqis stranded in turbulent Syria, Appleby said. 
“We’re debating these cruise missiles going into Syria, which is a serious is­sue, but there’s really no discussion of this major hu­manitarian crisis that’s oc­curring,” he said. “In that way our priorities are back­wards, in my opinion.” 
groody, an associate pro­fessor of theology at Notre dame, ended the discussion by sharing some reflections from his and Appleby’s visit to the middle East as part of the uSCCB’s Syrian refugee delegation last fall. 
groody said as he stood atop mount Nebo in Jordan, where moses died waiting to cross into the Promised Land, he realized to a cer­tain extent we still have not reached it because we con­tinue to search for right relationships. 
“The god who had every­thing migrated into the for­eign, distant territory of our sinful, broken existence, and there he laid down his life on a cross so we can be reconciled to god and mi­grate back to our homeland,” groody said. “What we see god doing in Jesus is con­stantly trying to overcome those borders, those divi­sions, those walls, those bar­riers that keep us from being in right relationships.” 
groody said four dimen­sions shape migration theol­ogy: crossing the inhuman/ human divide, crossing the divine/human divide, cross­ing the human/human divide and crossing the country/ kingdom divide. 
When he met a Syrian woman stranded in Lebanon whose husband, three sons and grandson had all been killed, he realized that all the divides break down in the face of true suffering. 
“When you really get to the place where you see the suf­fering of humanity in such raw form, to me it just totally dissolves many of these dif­ferences because you really see what I think is at the base of all of us, which is our basic humanity,” he said. 
groody said the Church seeks to bring a message of reconciliation in hopes that future generations will cross into the Promised Land. 
“At the heart of the theol­ogy of migration is that even in these situations you must not despair because I think that the god who crossed over these borders is the same god who continues to tell us to cross over borders and try to make interconnec­tions with our brothers and sisters in need,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


ThE OBSErVEr | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2013 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

Mentors 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
to promote a cohesive relation­ship with the new Belles and the returning students.” 
There are 20 new international students at Saint mary’s this se­mester, coming from countries such as Australia, China, Japan and Korea, Wang said. While each student chooses to stay at the College for either a semester, a year or all four years, she said the difficulties they face are similar. Smooth transitioning to another country requires easy access to cultural and second-language norms, which can be facilitated with the help of a peer mentor. 
Wang said Saint mary’s stu­dents interested in the peer men­tor position will undergo an online application and interview process. Once chosen and paired with an international student, they will serve as an outlet of support for that student. 
Wang, a degree-seeking student from China, said she recalls good memories from her transition to Saint mary’s as a first-year but the process would be easier with the help of a peer mentor. At that time, there was no peer mentor program offered. 
“We did have international ac­tivities on campus before this year, but I don’t think it had a large influence on campus,” she said. “We always had an international orientation, but we now have more activities for international stu­dents that will be noticed by the whole student body.” 
Wang said this addition will help the international students adjust to Saint mary’s campus life as soon as possible, enabling them to become active participants in the student body. 
Senior ImJung ha, an interna­tional student from South Korea, 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
said peer mentors help exchange students adjust to the nuances of American life. 
“Peer mentors are great because they help you make friends and help with English when the dic­tionary does not explain which word is right,” she said. 
Simple activities such as taking international students shopping for supplies, helping them become familiar with the campus and the norms of an American college classroom and providing compan­ionship will be incorporated in the Peer mentor Program, Wang said. 
Wang said she believes that this program will also affect the entire Saint mary’s campus. She also said that involving Saint mary’s students in this program will in­crease the awareness of interna­tional students attending Saint mary’s. 
“I think it would be really enough if all the students noticed,” Wang said. “I know students are always busy here, so sometimes they might not have the spare time. If we could promote the in­fluence of the international stu­dent body this year, we would make progress.” 
Contact Stacey Avtgis at savtgi01@saintmarys.edu 


NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

Inn 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
all around campus, and as we reopened, they had the option to return with us.” 
With the expanded prop­erty, the hotel now em­ploys over 150 associates compared to the 65 before, Kurth said. As part of the renovations, the Inn com­
“It was amazing how many students came in to the open house like ‘Wow, are we allowed to be here?’” 
Joe Kurth 
director and general manager 
bined business operations with mcKenna hall, home of the Notre dame Conference Center. 
“Our core business is hosting academic confer­ences and supporting the university in its entire aca­demic mission,” he said. “having options in both buildings provides us with a lot of flexibility, and we’ve been tasked with returning profits to the academic mis­sion since the university spent over 30 million [dol-to improve life on campus. megan Akatu, director of lars] on renovation work.” “It was amazing how many sales for the morris Inn, said 


Kurth said the public open students came in to the open the new space will have sev­house held last week brought house like ‘Wow, are we al-eral points of interaction many students into the lowed to be here?’ We want with student life. building for the first time, to be a good partner to the “Our restaurants are open and he hopes the renovations university, which means every day from 11 a.m. to 2 will help the Inn partner connecting with students,” a.m., and we accept domer with the university overall Kurth said. dollars everywhere in 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
here,” Akatu said. “There’s a small gift shop which is part of the hammes Notre dame Bookstore, and when your parents are in town it’s a great place to dine with them. As far as student functions go, the ballrooms would be an ideal space for dances too.” 
Other new services include valet parking for day and night events and iPad tech­nology in each room. Kurth said the Inn is seeking LEEd Silver certification from the united States green Building Council as well, partnering with Notre dame’s Office of Sustainability to include fea­tures such as a “green roof” for storm water management and improved air quality, LEd lights throughout the building and single stream recycling. 
The original donation for the 2012 renovation came from Ernestine morris Carmichael raclin, ac­cording to Kurth. She is the daughter of Ernest and Ella morris, who made the 1952 version possible, and Kurth said her contribution was the starting gift that was joined by donations from other benefactors. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
We need progress, not hype 

INSIDE COLUMN 
my strange love 
Charlie Ducey 
News Writer 
I love, absolutely love, working on the South dining hall’s dish line. 
Yes, you read right. That was no sarcasm-infused opener. Washing those sauce-stained dishes, plung­ing my hand into the watery trough of unknown food waste to retrieve a renegade fork, removing rack after rack of trays stacked high with plates, cups and half-eaten meals — that is my passion. 
For those of you who don’t know what lies beyond the veiled carousel of trays in South dining hall, let me summarize. The trays rotate along the three-tier carousel of foody fun into the sweaty underbelly of the South dining hall, manned by hard work­ing employees of both the student and fulltime variety. A conveyer belt carrying its stow of dirty dishware runs below the carousel at waist level. Between that conveyer belt and the workers is the “trough.” You do not want to touch the trough for any rea­son, unless you desire to lose an ex­tremity in the garbage disposal at the trough’s end. 
Behind the front line of fearless dish washers sits what I like to call “the behemoth,” a seven-foot tall, 30-foot long metal beast through which the once-dirty dishes pass, emerging at the other end at the steamy tempera­ture of 130 degrees Fahrenheit. This is the dish line. This is my playground. 
Its language is that of clanking dishes and grinding machinery, the occasional phrase in Spanish or Vietnamese and rapid gesticula­tion when the cacophony nullifies all speech. Its currency is hard work, bent forks and the all-too-common lost cell phone. Amidst all of this, it is a place for listening and contemplation. my best ideas are born here. 
Now, my love for the dish line might not yet seem justified by this less than endearing description. But as with many places that outwardly seem bad, the people and events contained within are what make the place good, even lovable. There are the fellow student workers, student managers, authoritative kitchen managers and the experienced full-time staffers, all surprisingly happy on the dish line. 
Their happiness is contagious but of­ten interrupted by the tasks of the job: cut gloves, untied aprons, shattered plates and minimal wages. If there’s one thing South dining hall patrons could do to make them all happier, it would be this: Please lay the cups on their sides when the trays are loaded. Either way, the dish line is my strange, strange love — sauce stains and all. 
Charles Logue and Dan McMurtrie 
The Constructive Critics 
Anyone who introduced them­selves as a Notre dame student over the summer probably heard something about the BCS National Championship massacre mentioned within 10 seconds. It’s almost as­tounding to see the deep satisfac­tion so many individuals across the country derived from our defeat. 
But why? Were they simply jeal­ous watching those blue and gold colors rack up a 12-0 season record? Perhaps. But maybe it was some­thing else. maybe most of the coun­try saw a “rich, white school” that had an extraordinary run of miracu­lous luck that allowed them to eke out narrow victories. maybe a school that bought into its own Pr so much that they went to the title game in “#1” t-shirts. Whatever they saw, ev­eryone saw the game, witnessing the Irish virtually evacuate the stadium once the reality check had been is­sued by Alabama. 
Why have we taken you on this unpleasant trip down memory lane? Because sometimes becoming the very best means acknowledging your faults. Every student at Notre dame has heard — or will hear — countless times about our status as an elite in­stitution, rivaling Ivy League schools in student quality, number of varsity sports, rich/famous alumni, land­scaping budget, froyo consumption etc. however, we at Notre dame have a favorite buzzword that eternally elevates us: tradition. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but tradi­tion often becomes an excuse for stagnation — a belief that our way, the “Notre dame way,” was, is and always will be the best way. 
The 2012 Irish was a great team with a defense any program would be proud to claim. But frankly, we were up against an opponent on a completely different level and al­lowed ourselves to ride the hype train straight into a wall. Leading up to the game, any such sugges­tion was practically blasphemy, but there’s a wonderful thing in football: short feedback loops. If a play does not work, you know within about three seconds when an Alabama linebacker crushes you like a soda can. On the field of play, this allows Brian “Big hugs” Kelly to make on-the-fly adjustments to our strategy. unfortunately, we in the general Notre dame community have no such feedback loop. 
The reason we don’t have a feed­back loop is simple in concept but complex in motivation. The concept is that we, as a community, have an appalling ability to handle construc­tive criticism. We are so enamoured with our own success that we fail to consider that just because we are winning here and there does not mean we’ve won. We do this while simultaneously failing to do what others will to ensure they actually win when the games that matter roll around. 
Why we do this has a lot to do with who we are. Obviously, a lot of Notre dame’s culture and heritage draws on the Catholic Church, and nobody is bigger than the beloved Church on tradition. One of the chief criticisms of the religious community is that organized religion has indisputably not been a fan of questioning in general (historically speaking, of course). This is dangerous because any person, organization or culture that believes it already knows all the answers cannot be improved. They have at best sentenced themselves to obsolescence and mediocrity, and this is what Notre dame faces if it cannot develop a healthy sense of internal constructive criticism. 
We are not ranked No. 1 right now. We are not even top 10. We are pres­tigious amongst football schools for academics, but we are not pres­tigious in academics or football against schools that are genuinely focused on either endeavor. We need to stop pretending we are, and the only reason that’s true is that Notre dame actually could be all of these things. We need to be innovative. We need to be humble. We need to be less of a Pr machine and more like former Notre dame football coach Jesse harper. Notre dame shouldn’t ever be the type of school that runs delusionally into an embarrassing slaughter. Notre dame should be the type of school that throws a pass and changes the game. 
To quote American historian daniel J. Boorstin,”The greatest ob­stacle to discovery is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.” 
Charles Logue is a senior living in Knott Hall. Dan McMurtrie is a senior living in Dillon Hall. They can be reached at  clogue@nd.edu and Daniel.H.McMurtrie.4@nd.edu, respectively. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Charlie Ducey at      cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A letter to all pre-med students 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 
I love when I talk to someone who tells me they hope to go to medical school. Becoming a doctor is one of society’s most important professions and the need for them has never been greater. however, while it is great to see young people excited about medicine, it is embarrassing how little they know about the profession they are entering. 
The health care field is changing very fast and there are many reasons why this is happening. The most important reason is cost. Our health care system is costly — we spend far more on health care as a percent­age of our gross domestic product and per person than any other country in the world. The obvious response to this is, “Sure, we spend a lot, but we also have the highest quality health care system.” however, this really is not the case. On any quality indica­tor, whether it be infant mortality, length of life, five-year cancer survival rates and countless other quality indicators, America provides roughly the same and in many cases, worse quality than countries that spend less than us on health care. 
To many, this does not make sense. “America has the smartest doctors, the most 
Carter Boyd 
god, Country, Notre dame 
In our seemingly overzealous capital­istic society, the dire extremes of exces­sive wealth juxtaposed with a desperate life of poverty exemplify the unjust problems which exist within our econ­omy and systems of governance in 21st century America. In all of history, never has there been such a discrepancy in the haves and have nots in our society. There seems to be a far greater number of people suffering from a deficiency of services deemed necessary for a sus­tainable, healthy and decent standard of living in this world. These services include food, shelter and health care. my summer experience provided me the opportunity to see firsthand those in need and gave me a glimpse of how we as a community can help those in need. 
This summer, I spent time outside of Boston serving in Lawrence, mass. and commuting from Andover, the next town down the highway. While I had been cognizant of the discrepancy between the two extreme financial groups existing in this nation growing up, my time this summer memorably had me experience both lifestyles si­multaneously. Andover, for the most part, is a town for the affluent. many of the houses are mansions, perfectly quaint and red-bricked. There are great innovative drugs and the most advanced technology. Why can we not produce high quality health care?” The reason is these factors, while all good, are extremely frag­mented and do not coalesce together in a way that provides smooth, cost-effective care. Atul gawande, a renowned surgeon and health policy expert, has written, “[Imagine] building a car with Porsche brakes, a Ferrari engine, a BmW chassis and a Volvo body. Put it all together and what you have is an expensive pile of junk that doesn’t go anywhere because the pieces don’t work together.” 
What health care needs is doctors to work less as individuals and more as a team across specialties. Currently, 40 percent of doctors work in a solo or two-person prac­tice. Now, the number of solo and and small group practices is declining as many hospi­tals are acquiring small practices. however, even within hospitals and health care sys­tems, the culture largely tends to be based on individuality rather than team care. 
Why is it important to provide care in a team? many doctors believe they work better alone, or that they do not want their compensation tied to the performance of others. The reason is that team-based care is important to take care of the sickest and most expensive patients in the system. health care spending is skewed towards the sickest patients, as the one percent of most costly patients are responsible for 23 percent of the costs and the top five percent are responsible for 45 percent of all costs. The bottom 50 percent of spenders are re­sponsible for three percent of all costs. The most expensive patients are those that have many chronic diseases (diabetes, cancer etc.) and need to see many doctors, undergo numerous treatments and take multiple drugs. When each doctor contributes a piece on the continuum of care without knowing what everyone else is doing, medi­cal errors, adverse reactions, duplicative tests, readmissions, missed prevention op­portunities and other bad outcomes occur. If doctors work together to create a course of care for a patient, many of these issues can be avoided and lead to a better quality of life for the patient at a lower cost. 
There are many doctors (usually older doctors) who are very cynical about the state of American health care. many doc­tors reflect upon the “good old days” and lambaste the current system that seems to be going to hell. This is, of course, their opinion. But what should be known is that these physicians advocate for a system that has grown much faster than the economy, has devastated the savings of families, low­ered wages, put companies on the brink of insolvency and forced state governments 
The poverty of wealth 
schools, barely any crime and deep fi­nancial security. In contrast, Lawrence, or as one Boston publication deemed it, “The City of the damned,” is one of the poorest cities in massachusetts and the country. In this poverty-stricken immi­grant city, I served at an organization called the Lazarus house, which acts as a homeless shelter, thrift store, soup kitchen and food pantry while provid­ing educational courses and job place­ment for thousands of impoverished men, women and children.  
Working with the guests in all of the various forms of ministry in the orga­nization, I was able to hear countless stories of personal struggle, loss, hard­ship and pain, but along with these, I also heard beautiful stories of triumph, gain, blessings and healing. The ex­periences I built up in an eight-week immersive service program compelled me to further realize and ponder the deep injustices that exist not only in our world but in our nation, states and communities. Although many of us have worked with the disadvantaged and downtrodden, it is evident that many of us also live in a bubble at Notre dame as we are somewhat hidden and distanced from some of the pains and sufferings of the world. This makes it difficult for many of us to recognize and act on the deep-rooted injustices that affect so many other individuals battling the ravages of life below the poverty line. It is hard to comprehend how so many can live in destitution, barely making it from day to day on welfare with no home and a few ragged pairs of clothes, while those around us seem to have what they need and more. 
great examples of this phenom­enon exist here at Notre dame within the South Bend community. There are parts of South Bend that are stricken by poverty, with people dependent on soup kitchens, food pantries and home­less shelters within a few mile radius of Our Lady’s university.  Consider going, seeing and helping at Our Lady of the road, the South Bend Center for the homeless, The Catholic Worker or any other organization that meets the poor people in our community where they are trying to provide comfort, services and smiles to them.  
I take the words of President Fr. Jenkins to heart when he says Notre dame needs to “heal, unify and en­lighten for a world deeply in need.” When I look at the golden dome, I know many enjoy its beauty, but I think of the humble woman who gave birth to her son in a manger and how they were appreciative just to have a stable for shelter. The Basilica has provided inspi­ration and spiritual growth for many, but I have relished the times I attended mass in the Log Cabin Chapel, with its refreshing simplicity. I know our religious places of worship and sacra­mental statues are so important to our society, culture and religious spiritual and the federal government to cut back on essential priorities. moreover, the older health care system too often placed the financial interests of the health care stake­holders over the health of patients. 
The health care system is changing, which will surely upset some due to a natural opposition to change. however, we should be rejoicing that our health care sys­tem is becoming more focused on provid­ing greater value — meaning higher quality care —  at a lower cost. many systems are experimenting with having nurses man­age the care of the sickest patients. New technology systems are making it easier to create and share records. Insurance companies are beginning to hold groups of physicians accountable for the cost and quality of the medicine they provide. All these things are happening  regardless of what physicians want. Even still, without having physicians, especially young physi­cians, who embrace this change, America can never hope to cure its broken health care system. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be contacted at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
journey. That’s why it has been refresh­ing that Pope Francis is encouraging us to be less materialistic and to simply help the poor and those in need. Pope Francis has shrugged the thought of a fancy car and has tried to live in a less extravagant apartment at the Vatican. maybe we should follow our holy Father’s lead in prayerful thought and consideration of others. 
I challenge all of my fellow domers to help those in need just a little more than we normally do. Let’s raise the bar on helping the poor, sick and down­trodden in our community of South Bend. reach out to those in desperate need of your help. I encourage you to apply to work in the SSLP program through Notre dame. It will be a life-changing experience for you and the lives of those you touch. Seeing the Notre dame alumni helping the poor and unfortunate, as well as mentoring the students of Notre dame, encour­ages me to continue helping those in need. Will we hear the call? Will we as a university work harder to alleviate the poverty that surrounds the glow of our dome? 
And when will it ever be enough? 
Carter Boyd is a sophomore studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The hour changes, but I’m an the dollar. 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor observational guy so it’s kind of OS: Now that you’re on tour bits and pieces, it’s not huge, new constantly, and you’ve got a fam OS: how often do people come Observer Scene: how long have ideas. ily at home, how many kids is it? up to you and do the “meow” you been on tour so far? thing from “Super Troopers?” OS: What’s the college set going Jg: Five. 
Jim gaffigan: Well, I’m always to look like tonight in compari Jg: I would say of people that doing shows. This hour, I’ve been son to like a club? OS: how is touring different come up and do things, out of 10 working on it for two years. now than it was when you first people approaching and saying a Jg: College students are more started out, now that you’ve made weird thing, seven of them would OS: have you done a taped intelligent than a club audience it but you have more responsibili be hot pockets, two of them show yet for television? on a whole, usually, but you know ties at home as compared to not would be bacon and one of them 
if it’s a drunk college audience, having anything but not having would be meow. Jg: No, I do that near the end. then it might as well be a prom any responsibilities either? So I’ll probably do that in January. show. It’s also different types of OS: I know you’re on the road, schools have different cultures, Jg: Yeah, it’s a huge difference. but are there are other comedi 
OS: And you have the book out too. You can’t really say that When I leave, because I have five ans that you make time to watch right now, too, “dad is Fat.” So Notre dame would be similar to kids, there’s a shuffling of re when they do new stuff? now when you go places do peo Boston College, you can’t say that sponsibilities. Not to say that I do ple ask you more about the book Notre dame would be similar to a fraction of what my wife does. Jg: You know, it’s weird. I’ve or your stand up? any other midwestern school. It’s So it has to be worth it for me to been doing stand up for 20 years. 
the best university in the world. leave town. And then when I tour I have friends that I like that I’ll 
Jg: The thing that’s deceptive at like spring break and during watch and I’ll have a kind of emo about books is that, even to be a OS: I agree with you, you’re go the summer I’ll go for two weeks tional attachment and an inter New York Times bestseller, you ing to make some fans out there and I take the whole family and est in them succeeding. There’s don’t have to sell that many of saying that. did you do stand up we go on a tour bus. new comics, and the weird thing them. You know, compared to when you were in college? is that’s always the question: ticket sales or albums; like there OS: I think I read somewhere ‘Who are the new comics?’ I try will probably be 2,000 [people Jg: I did like a talent show, that you have a CBS show in the and change it up, but some of the out there tonight]. You can sell where I hosted and I kind of did works, has that got a green light “new” comics are not that new. 2,000 books in a week and be on stand up, but I was too terrified. on it? Like John mulaney is not that the New York Times Bestseller I didn’t think that I wanted to be new, hannibal Burress is not that List, which is amazing. You’d a comedian. I studied finance Jg: I mean, kind of. But network new. I think Nate Bargatze is fun think it would be a lot more. I love in college. It’s weird because I television is such a crapshoot. ny, there’s tons of funny people. the book thing because there used to go to Notre dame on I mean I’d love for it to happen. are some people that are just so Saturdays. I grew up in north maybe I’m too superstitious to OS: We had a lot of coverage much more impressed by a book, western Indiana, so I’d come to think that it will. I don’t know, it’s in the paper last week about because stand up is like, the sta Notre dame on Saturdays and just a long shot. “Breaking Bad,” do you watch the tus down there with mime and see games occasionally. I would show? prop work. I’m not saying it is, but wear the Notre dame stuff all OS: do you have other future some people might. through high school, and then I plans, do you want to keep do Jg: Yeah. 
didn’t get in. ing stand up or more books or 
OS: So if you’ve worked on this movies? OS: do you have any predic hour for two years now, how dif OS: Are you still a fan? tions for how the show’s going to ferent is it now than when you Jg: I like doing stand up, and end? started? Jg: Yeah. I mean, I don’t watch the book was really fun. I’ve kind 
college football as much as I did of learned that there’s really no Jg: I think he’s probably going 
Jg: It’s evolving, and it’s still when I was in high school. But it’s guarantee what’s going to hap to die, right? And think that hank evolving. I’ll take bolder steps at also, I’m from Indiana, and I’m pen. I thought that I was going to is probably going to get in a posi different times. College shows Catholic. If you’re Catholic and be like a writer on Letterman, I tion where he can expose him, are very unique, they’re a unique from Indiana, first of all if you’re didn’t know I’d be doing theaters and then I think that Walt’s wife task in that, everyone is below the Catholic and from the united and stuff like that, or colleges for is going to kill someone. There we age of what, 23? So there’s some States, then by law you have to people that are secretly drunk. go, I’m going on the record. Take reference points that we can like Notre dame. It’s just like So I’m flexible. I love acting, but it from me, I tell diarrhea jokes for share; a view of being broke. me mormons with BYu. So I think I’m not holding my breath. The a living. talking about my kids, not that everyone’s a Notre dame fan. It’s process of getting acting roles is I do it that much, but I wouldn’t like St. Patrick’s day, everyone’s pretty humiliating. I describe it Contact Kevin Noonan at do it at a college show probably. Irish on St. Patrick’s day. as like stripping, but you don’t get knoonan2@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

By MATTHEW NIENDORF 
Scene Writer 
When the mastermind and frontman of Bon Iver Justin Vernon announced in late 2012 that the band would be going on hiatus, it seemed the Indie mu­sic world was left slightly empty. From 2007 onwards Bon Iver set a new standard for Indie folk, flawlessly weaving tracks of stark simplicity with ones of brutal complexity to make revolutionary albums. The one de­ficiency in Bon Iver’s career is that it only produced two full-length albums, “For Emma, Forever Ago” in 2007 and “Bon Iver, Bon Iver” in 2011. despite this uncertain future, there is hope for the Indie world: Vernon’s band Volcano Choir. 
While fans of Bon Iver wait for the reentry of the band into the music scene, they can for the time enjoy Vernon’s side project, Volcano Choir, which could in fact turn into his main musical focus. Volcano Choir was formed in 2009 with the release of its first album, “unmap,” which is certainly a sophisticated album relative to the genre but falls short of the lyricism pro­duced by Vernon on “For Emma, Forever Ago.” Volcano Choir’s newest album, “repave,” overcomes the faults of “unmap” to become a worthy companion to the her­alded works of Bon Iver. “repave” is simply haunting, 
Meghan Thomassen and Erin Thomassen 
managing Editor and Scene Writer 
In Notre Dame’s hallowed halls, the Thomassen sisters recall their defining parallel moments facing new friend­ships, football weekends and issues of faith. Erin is a fresh­man and Meghan is a senior. These are their stories. 
The night before Frosh-O 2013. 
Erin: I know I’m desperate when I start counting lep­rechauns instead of sheep. Who was I kidding? I can’t fall asleep early the night before Frosh-O. 
Meghan: Erin moves in tomorrow, and all I can think about is the look on her face when she sees the dome for the first time. I can’t sleep, I’m so excited. Campus might not mean a lot to her now, but soon it will feel just like home. 
Erin: I grope in the dark for the handy-dandy book light the salesman insisted I buy at Bed, Bath and Beyond while shopping for dorm stuff, only to find it fails to turn on without batteries — the things they fail beginning with the whirling of an organ that slowly becomes overshadowed by the gentle acoustic guitar of Vernon. And then it begins: Vernon gently sings, “We wake up” as the cadence picks up, then the song becomes awash with the familiar Bon Iver elements: auto-tuning, sporadic flourishes of heavy drums and Vernon’s layered back-up vocals. After finishing the first track “Tiderays,” listeners can rest assured that al­though Bon Iver may never make music again, the mu­sical style itself lives on. 
While the album does not necessarily reinvent the genre, “repave” takes risks and pushes pre-existing components to limits even Bon Iver was not willing to try. The electronic manipulation of vocals intertwined with the distortion of guitars provides a sufficient base from which Vernon’s unsettling but (mostly) profound lyrics may be cast.  The result is an immensely satis­fying display of grandiose musicianship. The music of “repave” is often overwhelming, and the themes at first seem meandering and disjointed. however, the album leaves listeners with perfect contentedness, as it sud­denly seems to manage the chaos at its very close. Bon Iver could sadly be finished for good, but after listening to “repave” solace is found. 
When to listen: After we lose our first football game, so probably this month. 
to teach at prep school. 
Meghan: I’m unfamiliar with the small, stuffy room in my house off campus. I yearn for the sweet, sweet air conditioning that came with living in Pasquerilla East. Erin is going to get so spoiled this year. 
Erin: With a sigh, I roll out of bed to flip the lights switch on, stumbling over the bag of clothes I forgot to donate in the process. Though it’s hard to part with my army of t-shirts, I know my life will be simpler and my dorm neater when my stuff fits in just a few bags. And two suitcases. And six shoeboxes. maybe I still need to narrow it down a bit ... 
Meghan: None of the things that worried me when I was her age worry me now. I remember how much I stressed about the way my hair frizzed in the South Bend humidity. That was really dumb. I could have done so many better things with that time. 
Erin: I abandon the anthill of clothes on my floor and start flipping through the Bible I forgot to pack. hmmm, which verse will help me stop sweating and start sleep­ing? I cast my cares on him to find I can do all things through Christ — except fall asleep. 
Where to listen: On your friend’s futon, the one he bought from Target because it was cheap and looked cool, but it has that weird fold in the middle that makes it practically unusable. On second thought, go out and lay on the quad. 
What to eat when you listen: Pretzels. Not because they’re on the album or anything, but because, hey, who doesn’t like pretzels? 
Who to talk after you listen: unless they’ve listened, the answer is no one, because they probably won’t want to hear about how that Pangborn girl they just met at domerfest is going to break their heart in Alaska. 
Contact Matthew Niendorf at mniendor@nd.edu 
“Repave” 
Volcano Choir 
Label: Jagjaguwar Tracks: Tiderays, Acetate If you like: Bon Iver 

Meghan: I’m determined that this year will be the year that I do a better job of connecting my faith with my religion. I missed mass on campus so much while I was in London last semester. I never thought a small chapel on the ground floor of a cement-block dorm would be­come so important to me. 
Erin: dejected, I unwrap the book of Fighting Irish football history that my dad, Class of 1978, gave me for graduation. Somewhere between Knute rockne and Joe montana, I drift off into a rEm cycle and dream about a hippo named Larry. 
Meghan: And eventually, Erin will grow to like foot­ball. hopefully. 
Erin: At 4 a.m., my phone quacks at me to get up and get dressed. As I run out the door, I slip the football book into my carry-on. I never know when I’ll need another good night’s sleep. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu and Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Manziel just lives a normal college life 

Matthew DeFranks 
Assistant managing Editor 
You are a college kid. What did you do this past weekend? 
I’m sure you enjoyed some drinks on Friday night before possibly engaging in some questionable decisions. On Saturday, I’m sure you tailgat­ed before the game, whether you were legally allowed to or not. And on Saturday night? I’m sure the festivities continued. 
So what makes your actions better than Johnny manziel’s? They are not. 
The reigning heisman Trophy winner has been under the microscope like he was a new dinosaur species since 20-year-olds do. They go out and drink and party. They would sit courtside and hit up concerts if they could. They like to trash-talk and rub it in (even in interhall sports, it’s true). As college students, no one knows that better than us. 
manziel is being accused as the most immature person out there but the fact is that we would all do the same things he has been doing. Plenty of us have drunk underage and a fair bit of us have fake Ids. Let’s not pretend that he’s do­ing stuff we have not done. 
his autograph scandal still remains a bit shady, and that is just about the only thing I do not think he should have done. his one-half suspension was an odd decision by the 
Plenty of us have drunk underage and a fair bit of us have fake IDs. Let’s not pretend that he’s doing stuff we have not 
done.  
he won college football’s big- NCAA, but when was the last  
gest award. First came the  time the NCAA did anything  
pictures with James harden  logically?  
and LeBron James. Then came  maybe the only organization  
the drake concert. Then came  that has paid closer attention  
the first pitches at rangers and  to manziel than the NCAA has  
Padres games.  been ESPN. manziel does not  
Then came the manning  need to be on every segment  
Passing Academy dismissal.  of “SportsCenter” for two days  
Then came the Texas frat  in a row. his Instagram posts  
party. Then came the auto- have no spot on a sports high- 
graph scandal. Then came the  light show. his party plans do  
suspension.  not belong on TmZ, let alone  
And then, finally, Johnny  “PTI.” And his personal life  
Football played some, er,  should not be equated with his  
football in the second half of  athletic career.  
a season-opening 52-31 win  In fact, ESPN is partly to  
over rice on Saturday. So ev­ blame for all the Johnny  
erything was back to normal,  Football hate. People just get  
right?  tired of hearing about the same  
Yes, but only if you include  thing over and over again. do  
some trash talking and an  you think it’s Tim Tebow’s and  
unsportsmanlike conduct  LeBron James’ fault that ESPN  
penalty along with more  keeps them on television? No,  
touchdowns than incomple­ but because they are, people  
tions. he was clearly not ready  begin to hate them, whether  
for the friendly banter from  it’s warranted or not.  
the rice defenders and could  So what will Johnny manziel  
have handled it better than  do next weekend? Whatever it  
gesturing an autograph mo- is, I’m sure he’ll be criticized  
tion. The scoreboard point,  for it, whether it’s warranted or  
though, was the purest form  not. meanwhile, you won’t be.  
of trash talk. manziel’s actions  
simply said, “We’re better than  Contact Matthew DeFranks  
you and we (and the score- at mdefrank@nd.edu  
board) know it.”  The views expressed in this  
But all that is just fine with  Sports Authority are those of  
me. manziel is 20 years old  the author and not necessarily  
and is doing exactly what  those of The Observer.  


NFL 
Tebow’s NFL career left uncertain following release 
Associated Press 
FOXBOrOugh, mass. — A heisman Trophy, a riveting playoff game, an international following. 
Tim Tebow won all that in his football career. 
On Saturday, he lost his third NFL job in 18 months. It might be hard to find another. 
The quarterback with two big problems — throwing the ball and reading defenses — was cut by the New England Patriots less than 12 weeks after they signed him and just five days before the season. 
But, as Tebow sees it, this long journey is not over. 
“I will remain in relentless pursuit of continuing my life­long dream of being an NFL quarterback,” he tweeted. 
Coach Bill Belichick gave the player whose profile was high­er than his production what may have been his last chance when he signed him June 11, the day the Patriots’ three-day minicamp began. And Tebow is grateful. 
he thanked Belichick, offen­sive coordinator Josh mcdaniels and owner robert Kraft, who said last Tuesday he was “root­ing” for Tebow but would let Belichick make the decision. 
In his tweet, Tebow thanked the “entire Patriots organiza­tion for giving me the opportu­nity to be a part of such a classy organization.” 
The Patriots cut 12 other players and put safety Adrian Wilson on injured reserve. That left them with 51 players, two below the regular-season limit they had to reach by 6 p.m. EdT. 
Belichick didn’t comment on Tebow’s release. 
But NFL.com analyst and for­mer NFL executive gil Brandt wasn’t surprised. 
“he has had a great career and I think it’s probably time for him to admit that he just wasn’t right up to NFL standards,” Brandt said. “I’m sure that whatever he does in life he’ll be a huge success. 
Tebow was surely that at Florida, where he won the heisman and two na­tional championships while 
surrounded  by  talented  
teammates.  
he  was  a  success  with  

denver, for one season, when he went 7-1 in his first eight starts in 2011 then threw an 80-yard touchdown pass to demaryius Thomas on the first play of over­time to give the Broncos a 29-23 playoff win over the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Tebow knelt on one knee — an expression of faith known as Tebowing — in the end zone. 
But then a career of accom­plishment descended into adversity. 
Tebow led the Broncos into Foxborough the next weekend and lost 45-10 while completing barely a third of his passes. 
he was traded to the New York Jets the following march and languished on the bench while coach rex ryan ignored fans’ calls for Tebow to replace a struggling mark Sanchez. Tebow threw just eight passes, ran only 32 times and was cut last April 29. 
For six weeks no team wanted him until the Patriots signed him to a low-risk, two-year con­tract with no guaranteed mon­ey. One person with knowledge of the deal told The Associated Press that Tebow would make the veteran’s minimum sal­ary, $630,000 in 2013, with incentives. 
At least he wouldn’t be in the center ring of a media circus that surrounded him in New York, not with Belichick’s tight rein on players’ interactions with reporters. 
If anyone could turn him into a good NFL quarterback, it seemed, it would be Belichick. And mcdaniels was a booster of Tebow, drafting him in the first round in 2010 as denver’s head coach. There even was speculation that Belichick might find other positions for the mobile Tebow to play, but he worked out only with the quarterbacks. 
And his passes still bounced at receivers’ feet and flew over their heads. 
“We see things like the pass that he threw in overtime to Thomas,” Brandt said. “I think we see that every once in a while. It really gets us excited about the guy. 
“I don’t know if he’s ever go­ing to be a quarterback, and the reasons that I say that is that I think it’s very, very hard with somebody that doesn’t have real good accuracy (and) I don’t know if he has a real good feel for the game.” 
Now, barely two weeks after his 26th birthday, Tebow’s NFL career may be over. 
“I can’t predict that,” said John Fox, who took over as denver’s coach in 2011 and traded him after the season. “I wish nothing but the best for him, as I’ve said many times. he did a lot of good things for us, was great to this or­ganization and to this coaching staff, myself included.” 
The Patriots have carried just two quarterbacks in three of the past four seasons. So with ryan mallett entrenched as the back­up to Tom Brady, Tebow’s chal­lenge was a difficult one, even before the preseason started. Then he posted a quarterback rating of just 47.2 with two touch­down passes, two interceptions and seven sacks in three exhibi­tion games. 
Tebow’s last play with the Patriots, and perhaps in the NFL, was a 9-yard touchdown to rookie free agent Quentin Sims with six seconds left in a 28-20 win over the New York giants on Thursday night. 
With two scoring passes, it was the best of Tebow’s three games during a shaky preseason in which he completed 11 of 30 passes for 145 yards and ran 16 times for 91 yards. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
better on the other side. No way, no way. No way out of here. You see the little monkey sitting up in his monkey tree. One day decided to climb down and run off to the city. But look at him now lost tired living in the street. As good as dead you see what a monkey does -stay up your tree. 
But oh God. Under the weight of life. Thingsseembrighterontheotherside. 
Oh God. Under the weight of life. Things seem so much better on the other side. 
No way, no way, no way. No way out of here. Rain in my dreams. Fall away. 
PERSONAL 
Music Lessons: Guitar, Bass, Mandolin, Dulcimer, Autoharp, Ukulele. 574-256-9836 
Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults. 574-256-9836 
Dave Matthews - “Big Eyed Fish” Look at this big - eyed fish swimming in the sea oh. How it dreams to be a bird swoop and diving through the breeze. So one day caught a big old wave up on to the beach. Now he’s dead you see beneath 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
the sea is where a fish should be. 
But oh God. Under the weight of life. Thingsseembrighterontheotherside. 
You see this crazy man decided not to breathe. He turned red and blue 
-purple, colorful indeed. No matter how his friends begged and pleaded the man would not concede. And now he’s dead you see the silly man should know you got to breathe. 
But oh God. Under the weight of life. Thingsseembrighterontheotherside. 
Oh God. Under the weight of life. Things seem so much 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 



SMC GOLF 
Belles finish third in season opener 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Writer 
In Kim moore’s first tour­nament as head coach, Saint mary’s took third place out of eight teams at the Olivet Labor day Tee-Off, held Saturday and Sunday at medalist golf Club in marshall, mich. 
The Belles shot a two-day team score of 672 — 338 on Saturday and 334 on Sunday 
— to finish behind winner Washington university and runner-up Olivet, which shot 628 and 634, respectively. 
moore said her team im­pressed her at the tourna­ment by finishing in the top half of the standings, but it still has room to grow and improve. 
“I was pleasantly happy with the way things turned out,” she said. “We did better as a team the second round, so that’s always a positive, so I thought we did well. I know we could have played a little bit better, but for the major­ity of how it went, it went well.” 
Senior Paige Pollak led Saint mary’s with a career-low, second-round score of 75, six strokes lower than her Saturday score of 81. Pollak swung her way to fifth place individually and earned a spot on the all-tournament team. 
moore also said the per­formance of freshman Ali mahoney made an impres­sion. In her first collegiate tournament, mahoney shot an opening-round 81 to fin­ish Saturday in 11th place, and eventually finished 21st overall out of 55 golfers after shooting a 90 on Sunday. 
“She played pretty well for her first event as a col­lege golfer,” moore said. “She started off really well in her first round with an 81, which really put her up towards the top. She didn’t finish as well as she would have liked, but I think she started out well. … [She and Paige] really stood out for me on my team.” 
With one tournament and a top-three finish under their belts, moore said she would like to see the Belles continue to show the focus they did over the weekend in michigan. 
“I’d like for them to con­tinue their patience, taking it hole-by-hole, shot-by-shot,” she said. “That’s something that they’ll have to work on and learn, and the more ex­perience they get, the better. [I want them] to continue to be confident with their swings and in their game and practice hard this week. We have a nice little break be­fore our next event, so we’ll try to take what we’ve done O’Brien National Invitational in practice and put that on at the Warren golf Course. the course.” 

The Belles will next hit the Contact Mary Green at links Sept. 15 and 16 for the mgreen8@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint mary’s to begin mIAA play in Kalamazoo 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles finished 1-3 at the Ohio Northern Invitational last weekend. meanwhile, Kalamazoo swept its annual green hornet Invitational. 
On paper, as the Belles (1­
3) travel to Kalamazoo to take on the hornets (4-0) tonight in their conference opener, it would appear they are facing an uphill battle. 
Just don’t tell that to Belles head coach Toni Elyea. 
“We are not concerned,” Elyea said. “We know they will be tough. We will need to play to our full potential, as well as eliminate some of our errors.” 
The ONu Invitational fea­tured Ohio Northern (4-0), who received votes in the AVCA Coaches Preseason Poll, as well as heidelberg (2-1), a squad that has made the NCAA tour­nament the last six seasons. 
Elyea believes this opening weekend served as a trial-by­fire to prepare for conference play. 
“That is one of the main rea­sons we went to such a tough tournament to start out the year,” Elyea said. “We wanted to prepare ourselves against some of the top teams in the country so we would be prepared for conference play. I believe we were able to do just that.” 
The hornets have a stout de­fense anchored by senior mid­dle hitter Quinn mcCormick and junior middle hitter Kelsey hill. Sophomore outside hitter Nya greenstone was named to the all-tournament team at the green hornet Invitational and led the hornets with 285 kills last season. 
The Belles will look to coun­ter via the offensive abilities of players such as junior mid­dle hitter melanie Kuczek — who was named to the ONu Invitational all-tournament team — and junior outside hit­ter Kati Schneider, who had 44 kills over the weekend. 
Elyea highlighted Kuczek and Schneider’s performanc­es in the ONu Invitational as bright spots going into to­night’s match. 
“Kati [Schneider] had a great weekend,” Elyea said. “She had two double-doubles and had an all-around great weekend. melanie [Kuczek] had a fantas­tic weekend. Offensively, she was a game-changer for us.” 
ultimately, the Belles’ chanc­es will rest on their ability to limit unforced errors. 
“As we went through the weekend, we were able to elim­inate some of our unforced errors, which helped, but we net to get the win. If both teams open conference play against still cannot start out a match are playing great volleyball, it the hornets at 7 p.m. down by five points,” Elyea will be an excellent match.” said. “We are focused on what The Belles travel to Contact Mike Ginocchio at we need to do on our side of the Kalamazoo, mich. tonight to mginocch@nd.edu 

PAId AdVErTISEmENT NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 



mental stability and has with a three-under 67. he 
SMC SOCCER 
Sciupider 
coached him through occa-finished the season with an 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 16 
sional hot-headed moments. average score of 74.13. 
“Our assistant coach Sciupider said he believes the clutch, lifting the team played on [the PgA Tour] he can improve his play this to success with a five-under for about 20 years, so he has year, especially with more 
67. had a lot of experience, so he competition in the ACC. 
“It was pretty exciting be-trained me through when I “The teams in the ACC cause my whole team was would get mad,” Sciupider will definitely be better; watching, and all the teams said. “he is the complete op-the tournaments will be were watching on the last posite, too. Nothing makes more challenging as well,” hole, and I made a birdie putt him mad. And in general, he Sciupider said. “It’s going to from about 15 feet,” he said. helped me a lot.” help us a lot because of bet-
Sciupider is no stranger But Sciupider’s first coach ter competition and better to great success. At his high is his dad, david Sciupider. tournaments.” school, Christ School in “my dad taught me how Sciupider said many of Arden, N.C., Sciupider was to play when I was three,” his hometown friends and a three-time all-conference Sciupider said. “We still teammates from high school player and helped his team play together a lot in the play on ACC teams, and he is win two state titles. summer.” excited to compete against 
“during the playoffs for Sciupider said his older sis-them. our first state championship, ter, Kayla Sciupider, who is “I grew up in the ACC,” I made the winning putt on also a college golfer at rollins Sciupider said. “All my the last hole in front of ev-College in Orlando Fla., joins friends that went ACC are re­eryone,” he said. “There were them on the course. ally good players, so it will 100 people there, and it was “It’s definitely a family be a great experience play-pretty crazy. The whole team sport,” Sciupider said. ing with them again.” went crazy after, and it was a For the future, Sciupider Although the competition lot of fun.” said he is on the right track will be stiffer, Sciupider said 
Sciupider had many col-to go professional after his the Irish will find success lege offers after high school, senior year. From there, he this season. from schools like North hopes to play on the PgA “more people should start Carolina and East Carolina, Tour. looking at Notre dame once yet decided Notre dame was But this year, Sciupider we start playing better in the place for him. hopes to continue his great ACC tournaments,” he said. 
“I came and visited here success from last season. The Irish open their and pretty much fell in love In addition to his season Sunday at the with the team, the coaches strong play at the Big East gopher Invitational in Courtney Wright thread the 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
and everything,” he said. Championship, Sciupider Independence, minn. 
Sports Writer needle with a pass between Sciupider said Irish as-was the top Irish performer in 
two Scarlet hawks defenders sistant coach Scott gump the C&F Bank Intercollegiate Contact Meri Kelly at 
Saint mary’s overcame to sophomore forward maggie helped him improve his in march, tying for first place mkelly29@nd.edu 
an early scare to blow out Wenzel, who converted the Illinois Tech, 4-1, on monday short-range opportunity from 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT in a game that was even more five yards out. lopsided than the final score After a flurry of Belles shots would indicate. on goal, mcLaughlin added 
In the seventh minute, an assist to an incredible stat Scarlet hawks freshman for-line — she tied for the team ward Anida Phetchanpheng lead with five shots, as well rocketed a shot from the right — when she found freshman side of the box past Belles midfielder Jenn Jarmy wide junior goalkeeper Natalie open outside the 18-yard box Warner. That goal woke the in the 75th minute. Belles (1-1-0) up, as the Scarlet Jarmy took a quick touch be-hawks (0-3-0) failed to get a fore ripping a shot past Scarlet shot off the rest of the game hawks keeper mariah Kuitse and were outshot 30-2 by the for her first collegiate goal. Belles. “[mcLaughlin] came in as 
Saint mary’s would equal-a freshman last year and just ize with its first goal of the got stronger and stronger,” 2013 season when senior for-Joyce said. “She’s someone we ward Kaitlin Teichman sent can count on from the attack a long cross over the Scarlet position, and it’s great for us hawk defense to awaiting that she’s gotten off to a quick sophomore forward maggie start.” mcLaughlin, who acrobati-Twenty-five Belles saw ac­cally headed it into the back tion, including seven of eight of the net in the 20th minute. freshmen on the roster. Joyce Just eight minutes later, Belles credits the upperclassmen junior forward Kelly Wilson for getting the freshmen took advantage of a failed game-ready. Illinois Tech clear to score the “The season’s short, with go-ahead goal. only two weeks between our 
The Belles dominated pos-first practice and first game,” session in the second half, Joyce said. “It’s a testament to constantly putting pressure the upperclassmen that they on the Illinois Tech defense, were able to get the freshmen something Belles coach mike integrated into the team and Joyce was particularly pleased develop that chemistry. with. “As much as we dominated, 
“[Controlling possession] I think we can get a little bet-is something we always try to ter defensively. If we can do do, especially early in the sea-that and attack with some son,” Joyce said. “It’s some-more variations we’ll be in thing that’s easy in practice, good shape moving forward.” but in games can get a little The Belles next travel to take sloppy, so it was great to see on Wilmington on Saturday at 


us play a clean game.” 2 p.m. 
The Belles increased the margin in the 60th min-Contact A.J. Godeaux at ute when junior midfielder agodeaux@nd.edu 

ThE OBSErVEr | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2013 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

Football 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 16 
66-yard rumble for a score in the second quarter. 
rees was only under center for two plays in the season-opening victory. 
After the game, Kelly said the Irish ran the ball effec­tively out of the pistol. 
“I think there is more to come,” he said. “I think we only showed a little bit of it. There were a lot more pieces to it. Today was just a small segment of it. 
“We didn’t obviously show a lot of our stuff today, which was our intention. We’re happy that we didn’t have to put our entire game plan out there for everybody to see. So that was a pretty good deal.” 
Junior running back Amir Carlisle started the game for the Irish in the backfield and sprinted 45 yards down the right side on the first play from scrimmage out of the pistol. 
“The pistol adds another dimension to our offensive attack,” Carlisle said. “It’s a downhill, hard-hitter and it’ll be a great weapon for us going forward this season. 
“It forces you to stick your nose in it sometimes and just get as many yards as you can.” 
Carlisle finished his first game in an Irish uniform with 68 yards on seven carries. 
The running style of ju­nior running back george Atkinson fit nicely with the principles of the pistol formation. 
“he ran downhill very well in high school, and we felt like the pistol could fit him very well,” Kelly said. “Not just him, but we felt like it was something that could benefit us moving forward.” 
Former Nevada coach Chris Ault conceived the offense in 2005 and further popular­ized the formation when he was coaching current San Francisco 49ers quarter­back Colin Kaepernick with the Wolf Pack from 2007 to 2010. Kelly said Ault spent a couple of days in South Bend this spring to consult with the Irish coaches about the formation. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

XC 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 16 
of upperclassmen, Quinn sees a lot of potential in this year’s freshman class, including Jacob dumford, whom Quinn said has large versatility as a runner. 
“[dumford] and another freshman, Chris moran, will do well for the team,” Quinn said. “I’m not sure if they’ll be running varsity because we have a really strong ju­nior and senior class, as well as two fifth-years, but I definitely think having re­ally talented freshmen com­ing in will push everyone forward.” 
In order for the team to reach its top-10 goal, Quinn said he believes all team members must stay focused, even if they are not one of the top seven runners who score in meets. 
“I think the most impor­tant thing is everybody being accountable for them­selves, even if they’re not within that top seven, and making sure that everyone stays healthy,” Quinn said. “That was the biggest prob­lem we had last year, where guys were letting small in­juries go unnoticed and then they developed into big injuries.” 
The Irish open their sea­son Friday at the Crusader Open in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

Alugbue 
CONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 16 
was going to have a large role on our team,” mchugh said. “She’s definitely looked at as one of the key players on offense, along with [junior middle blocker Jeni houser].” 
Brown said Alugbue’s main responsibility lies in her abil­ity to be an all-around player. 
“She can play the whole game,” Brown said. “She’ll pass, receive a lot of serves and she gets a lot of digs. She is a major contributor in her all-around play.” 
heading into this season, Alugbue is eager for a new conference — the ACC — and new opportunities. 
“The Big East was good to us, but I’m very excited to play new teams,” Alugbue said. “This whole season is a new set of volleyball and I’m excited to travel and play good teams every single weekend.” 
Alugbue said she thinks the 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
Irish will have a successful season, especially due to the number of returning players. 
“We have a lot of seasoned vets,” Alugbue said. “Our team chemistry is awesome and we’re going to be looking good on the court.” 
Alugbue and the Irish are back in action Friday at 7 p.m. when they take on Bowling green at home in the golden dome Invitational. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

CROSSWORD | WILL ShOrTZ 

SUDOKU | ThE mEPhAm grOuP 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: Patience will help you tip the scales in your favor when it comes to getting the results you are looking for. Communication will be dependent on how sincere you are as well as how willing you are to compromise. meeting someone halfway will ensure that everyone wins. Share the work and the rewards. Your num­bers are 3, 7, 18, 13, 32, 11, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Taking part in challenging activities will help you keep your personal life and dilemmas in check. Less time spent worrying about what ev­eryone else is doing and more time on self-improvement will bring the best results. Love is highlighted. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take part in conversations that utilize your expertise. Try to see what you can learn to help you raise your earning potential. don’t let petty arguments cost you emotionally or financially. honor promises and stand behind your word. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make positive changes at home that will allow you to en­tertain more often. Creative plans for redecorating will make you more comfortable. Love is on the rise, and sharing an unusual experience with someone from your past will bring you closer together. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): What you think is an opportunity must be considered carefully. don’t let compliments lead you into an agreement that doesn’t have much growth potential. discuss your concerns and thoughts with someone who will be honest and sincere. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Anger will peak if you are given too many responsibilities. Weigh what you get in return before saying yes to anyone asking for something. romance is in the stars, and making special plans for two will bring the highest rewards. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A deal that tempts you will be riddled with improper intentions and ulterior motives, leaving you with less than you anticipated. use your head and decide whether or not you really have time to pursue someone else’s dream. make personal changes. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Concentrate on whatever will help you reach the level of comfort and success at work and at home. It’s important to feel good about your accomplishments in order to project the confidence required to keep personal and professional relationships equal. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You’ll need to put brains over brawn if you intend to get things done properly. Letting anyone goad you or emotionally manipulate you into doing something will be counterproductive. Say no and do what benefits you. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put money matters at the top of your list. Invest in something you do well. Fixing up your residence or making it less costly to run will free up some cash that you can use to support something you really want to do. romance is highlighted. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone is thinking too big. Avoid being talked into something you can’t afford. Tie up your cash so it’s safe from those wanting to help you spend. Serious talks can help you set a household budget and enforce it. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): discuss your plans, intentions and financial concerns with someone you love and trust. You will come up with the answer you need to make a solid commitment to a person or project that can alter your life. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The changes going on around you at work, school or with your peers must not be allowed to disrupt your plans. You have to keep moving in the direction that best suits you if you want to get ahead. money and contracts look positive. 

Birthday Baby: You are precise, patient and imaginative. You are sensitive and adaptable. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOYT ANd JEFF KNurEK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


FOOTBALL 
Pistol perfect 
Irish reveal new offensive formation during Saturday’s win over Temple 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant managing Editor 
during Saturday’s 28-6 win over Temple, No. 14 Notre dame debuted a few mem­bers of its prized freshman class, junior Ishaq Williams at defensive end and perhaps most interestingly, a new for­mation — the pistol. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly’s offense has primarily been a shotgun-orientated attack, with the quarterback five yards behind the center and the running back at his side. In the pistol formation, the quarterback takes the snap slightly closer to the line of scrimmage and the running back is positioned behind him. 
“We just think it’s anoth­er piece that we can use to get some downhill runs,” Kelly said last Tuesday in his weekly press conference. “I don’t think we’ve turned into a pistol offense. We’re still a shotgun offense that will op­erate similar to what we have in the past.” 
With senior quarterback Tommy rees in the game against the Owls (0-1), the Irish offense ran 26 plays out of the pistol, racking up 263 yards (10.1 yards per play). Notre dame (1-0) had four plays of more than 25 yards in the pistol and scored two touchdowns out of the formation. 
By comparison, Notre dame gained 188 yards on 23 plays out of its familiar shot­gun formation. The lone play of more than 25 yards was junior tight end Troy Niklas’ 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 14 

LAUREN FRITZ | The Observer 
Irish senior quarterback Tommy Rees hands the ball to junior running back Cam McDaniel during Notre Dame’s 28-6 win Saturday. 
MEN’S GOLF 
Sciupider finds success 
By MERI KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Irish sophomore Cory Sciupider ended his freshman season on a high note. 
In the final tournament of last season, Sciupider indi­vidually placed third in the Big East Championship and helped his team finish third overall. 
Sciupider led the team after two rounds, with scores of 72 in both the first and second rounds. But after 36 holes, Notre dame was falling be­hind and needed a promising round on the last day to stay in contention, Sciupider said. 
Sciupider came through in 
see SCIuPIdEr PAGE 13 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Experienced runners lead Irish charge 
year’s finish, when the Irish expectations are to be at least potential of several runners, he could’ve done better, but 
By ALEX WILCOX 
Sports Writer men placed third in the Big [in the] top 10 at nationals. including sophomore michael he had a minor hamstring in-East and 28th at the NCAA We definitely have the talent Clevenger, junior Jake Kildoo jury. he worked hard during 
After a disappointing finish championships. for it. We only lost two seniors and himself. the track season and over the to what had been a promising “I think we finished out the from the varsity and we have “Clevenger, who redshirted summer, and he’s definitely season last year, Notre dame season as best we could with a couple of sophomores and last season, started out really going to be one of the top sev­comes into this year with what we had,” Quinn said. “I juniors who will be able to well [last year],” Quinn said. en for us.” lofty expectations. think this year we can do a step up and really help out.” “he was at about 24:38 for the In addition to the lineup 
Junior Chris Quinn said he lot better, assuming everyone Quinn was particularly ex-8-kilometer, which is terrific expects to improve upon last stays healthy. As a team, our cited about the darkhorse for a freshman, and I think see XC PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL 
Alugbue cements role as leader on offense 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After earning All-American honors in the 2012 season, junior outside hitter Toni Alugbue continued her domi­nant streak at the Blue raider Bash on Friday and Saturday, earning all-tournament hon­ors in the first matches of the season. 
Though the Irish went 1-2 in the tournament — dropping matches to North Carolina and middle Tennessee State before claiming victory against San Francisco on Saturday — Alugbue was a major force on offense, total­ing 35 kills and 22 digs for the weekend. 
“Toni has been a major force for us,” Irish coach debbie Brown said. “She’s returning as our high scorer, and for us to have the success we want to have this year, she’s going to carry a huge offensive load.” 
A del Aire, Calif., native, Alugbue said choosing her college and her team wasn’t difficult. 
“I’m a homebody,” Alugbue said. “All of my family went to school in California. But I never felt like I was more than just an athlete at those schools. Volleyball won’t last forever and when it came down to it, I knew I would get more out of my time at Notre dame.” 
Though she has been a starter since her freshman year, Alugbue came to Notre dame as a middle blocker, making the change to outside hitter her sophomore season. Alugbue said the transition took some time, but now she sees herself as a consistent force on the outside. 
Senior captain and outside hitter Andrea mchugh said Alugbue has been an influ­ential part of the team since she arrived. 
“Ever since she came in as a freshman, we knew she 
see ALugBuE PAGE 14 




