The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 86 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Phelps promotes ‘GameDay’ 
Former coach encourages student participation in ESPN program 
By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
Former notre dame bas­ketball coach richard ‘digger’ phelps has seen it all at notre dame. 
he recorded an ncaa-record seven wins over no. 1 teams as a head coach and guided the program to its only Final Four appearance. 

This weekend, he’s challeng­ing the student body to show the enthusiasm it displayed for so much of his coaching tenure when espn’s “college gameday” visits campus. 
phelps currently serves as an analyst for “gameday” and oth­er espn programming. 
“gameday,” which visited notre dame on oct. 13 prior to the 20-13 overtime victory over stanford in football, will broadcast from inside purcell pavilion on saturday from 10 a.m. to noon. notre dame is just the seventh school to earn a “gameday” visit for each sport in one academic year. 
“when you’re here for four years, you have certain mo­ments,” phelps said. “For a student body at your 20-year re­union, it will be ‘hey, remember louisville week? it was snowy and cold and it was a must-win for us.’ here we are cracking the top-25 again and looking to make a statement.” 
phelps visited both dining halls wednesday to promote the game against louisville and espn’s on-campus appearance. 
“To have it here for our stu­dent body, it’s second to none. i just want the student body to know that we’re unique,” phelps said. “‘gameday’ is about the enthusiasm of the student body. 
“what i want is like when we played san Francisco here and they were no. 1 and 29-0 and we had the pep rally the night before and the chant for an hour 
see digger PAGE 4 



Results delayed again 

Observer Staff Report 
The results of wednesday’s stu­dent body presidential and vice presidential election will be re­leased today at 10 a.m. in the third-floor atrium of the laFortune student center, according to Katie hennessy, judicial council’s vice president for elections. 
contrary to a report in Thursday’s issue of The observer, the results were not publicized Thursday morning due to an al­legation of campaign misconduct made shortly before the 11:59 p.m. deadline wednesday. The election committee, the group within judicial council responsible for handling possible campaign viola­tions, met to discuss the allegation and found it had no merit. 
The allegation was the third made in this election. Two allega­tions were made against separate 
see elecTion PAGE 4 




conference presents student research 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
This weekend’s fifth an­nual human development conference, “in the Field: cultivating collaboration and innovation,” will highlight stu­dents’ research on their chosen topics. 
“it suggests a duel meaning,” senior and conference co-chair Kara ryan said. “it can be in the field physically, or in the field of health or art, an abstract field.” 
The conference, sponsored by the Ford Family program in human development studies and solidarity, features more than 60 student presenters from universities all over the country. 
ryan said the students will present their research on a wide variety of topics that took them to every continent except antarctica. 
“we promote that it’s kind of for everyone,” she said. “we have students who present on architecture and students who present on health or culture.” 
The conference is organized into a series of panels with dif­ferent foci depending the re­search topics, ryan said. 
“we have a couple health ones, some post-conflict ones,” she said. “Those are interesting because it’s cool to see students who have gone to such different places and have similar themes emerging and compare.” 
other panels are geared to­ward specific places across the globe. allowing student pre­senters from all universities enables the conference to dis­play research from some places notre dame students do not travel to, such as rwanda, ryan said. 
at the end of the 
see conFerence PAGE 4 



Administrator shares lessons 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
as part of the last lecture series, lou nanni, vice presi­dent for university relations, outlined five life lessons in the hammes lounge of the coleman-morse center on Thursday. 

nanni said he has learned to seek to be faithful and not suc­cessful, to surround himself with great people, to keep the sense of being a beginner, to give abundantly and to develop a long-term vision. 
“leadership is best when it is given, not sought after,” he said. “be a person of integrity and let faithfulness guide you. success will follow.” 
part of seeking to be faithful is pursuing one’s passions regard­less of what others think or the money to be made, nanni said. 
“The toughest thing in life is having the courage to follow your passions,” he said. “if it is playing the flute that you love, play the flute day and night.” 
The second lesson is to find the best, most inspiring people and get to know them, nanni said. 
“Find people whose lives you want to model your lives after, then emulate, imitate and find out what makes them tick,” he said. 
nanni said the third lesson is expressed by a statement of st. benedict to the effect of “if you think you’ve gotten ahead, it’s a sign you’ve fallen behind.” 
nanni said he was at his best in his work with the south bend center for the homeless when 
see lecTure PAGE 6 


journalism PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 hocKey PAGE 20 men’s basKeTball PAGE 20 





ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle                              jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: john cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 


Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 

as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the last song you listened to? 

Ben Councell 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“all gold.” 

Heather Fredrickson 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 
“until the sunrise.” 

Phil Leavers 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“Thrift shop.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Charlie Jorden 
freshman 
Keough hall 
“running on empty.” 


Katelyn Whelan 
freshman 
ryan hall 

“Total eclipse of the heart.” 

Toni Schreier 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“hey jude.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
marisa iati cory bernard Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca o’ neil isaac lorton Katie mccarty sami Zuba 
Graphics Scene 
brandon Keelean maddie daly 


Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Photo Viewpoint 
grant Tobin laura rosas 

Apollo Talent Show Vigil Mass “Touching Ground: Mammograms on Workshot: Exploring auditions Basilica of the Sacred Finding the American campus Career Options Carroll Hall Heart South.” Hesburgh Library Flanner Hall 
Corrections 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. Snite Museum of Art 8 a.m.- 5 p.m. 12 p.m.- 1 p.m. The observer regards itself as For St. Mary’s Mass. 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. Free for female faculty. Five-week workshop a professional publication and students. Exhibit reception. series. strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, Men’s Hockey Men’s Basketball Alleluia Sunday Women’s Basketball Four:7 Catholic however, recognize that we will make Compton Family Ice Joyce Center Celebration Joyce Center Fellowship 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arena 9 p.m.- 11 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred 9 p.m.- 11 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7:35p.m.- 9:35 p.m. College GameDay. Heart ND vs. Louisville. 8:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

ND vs. Michigan. ND vs. Louisvillle. 7:15 p.m.- 8:15 p.m. Student-led. 


 Week previews Dance Marathon fundraiser 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
as saint mary’s prepares for its dance marathon on march 28, members of the planning com­mittee will host a week of events to involve students in the cause. 
executive fundraising chair and senior alex munsey said riley week aims to raise aware­ness of the marathon, which benefits the riley hospital for children in indianapolis and has a “rock of ages” theme this year. 
senior meghan cronin, a member of the fundraising committee, said the group has been planning riley week since november. 
“everything from decorating to catering and T-shirt ideas has been bounced around in our meetings,” cronin said. 
students can contribute to the dance marathon by decorating records in the student center on monday. The records will feature positive messages for the danc­ers and dedications to those served by riley. They will hang in angela athletic Facility during the dance marathon. 
munsey said an instructor from Tu sei bella dance Fitness studio will teach a Zumba class Tuesday in angela. 
“it fits in with the overall theme of dance marathon,” munsey said. “we do a morale dance. it’s like a fun way to tie all that in to­gether, dancing and Zumba.” 
wednesday will be let’s spoon give back night, munsey said. Twenty percent of each purchase made with a riley week coupon will go to the dance marathon, according to the event’s Facebook page. 
The dance marathon com­mittee will also hold tryouts for the event’s master of ceremonies from 6 to 7 p.m. wednesday in the vander-vennet Theater in the student center, munsey said. 
“we’re looking for someone who is upbeat and funny [and who will] encourage people to stay on their feet,” she said. 
The dance marathon will dec­orate vases to spread awareness of the event and generate interest Thursday in reignbeaux lounge in lemans hall. 
The week closes with cof­fee and doughnuts donated by sodexo and dunkin’ donuts in spes unica hall. There, dance marathon committee will dis­cuss its “no zero-zero” policy, which encourages students to raise a least $1 for the cause. 
“it makes people accountable … and helps dancers to feel like they’re a part of the marathon and that they have helped out in some way,” munsey said. 
cronin said students can con­tribute to the dance marathon by registering as a dancer next week in the student center. she said this is the last week to regis­ter and get a T-shirt for the event. students can also drop change in containers around south bend. 
“riley week is a fun way to get connected with other stu­dents all while supporting a good cause,” cronin said. 
The dance marathon is more than just a fundraiser for munsey. she said the cause is personal because her friend re­ceived treatment from riley. 
“i fell in the love with the place because of the doctors and nurs­es,” she said. “They didn’t treat him just like a patient, but like a real person. They went above and beyond to show him kindness.” 
cronin said she became in­volved with the dance marathon after she heard stories of people who benefited from riley’s ser­vices. she said she was moved by their motivation to beat their illnesses. 
“Their happiness was so genu­ine and their appreciation for the marathon was extremely heart warming,” cronin said. “i felt obligated to help. hospital expenses are astronomical and are only increasing. every per­son has a right to fight for their life, and money should not be a hindrance.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

project addresses ideas of beauty 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
The identity project of notre dame will address contempo­rary conceptualizations of beau­ty at this weekend’s edith stein project conference. 
senior co-chair samantha stempky said the organizers discussed beauty as a broad concept and acknowledged “beautiful” is used to describe many different kinds of women. They chose “modern beauty: unveiling the mystery” as the conference’s theme. 
stempky said the conference, which takes place today and saturday, asks what it means to be beautiful. 
“no wonder we’re striving for this [idea of beauty] and never feel fulfilled, because nobody can be both mother Teresa and marilyn monroe,” she said. 
approximately 15 students, professors and professionals will present papers they submitted to the conference saturday morn­ing, senior co-chair margaret Kennedy said. 
“That’s really cool because this is a full-scale academic con­ference, and yet students are able to participate,” she said. “[The papers] will be related to the conference theme in some way, from ‘a woman’s pursuit of beauty’ to more philosophical perspectives.” 
Kennedy said approximately 25 speakers from a variety of backgrounds will also speak at the conference, from magazine editors to professors from other universities. 
“most of the people coming to the conference have a christian background, but they’re not all religious talks,” Kennedy said. “They’re meant to be talks that deal with a combination of the academic side and the personal side.” 
professors of theology Tim o’malley and Fr. michael heintz will be among the presenters. 
The conference is about femi­ninity, but these issues are rel­evant to men as well as women, stempky said. 
Kennedy said although the conference originated to ad­dress feminine issues, men can also appreciate the talks. 
“as the conference expand­ed, we have as many sessions that deal with issues related to men as related to women,” Kennedy said. “That creates a really unique atmosphere where there’s this open engagement from both men and women.” 
The conference aims to gener­ate discussion about the com­plex topic of beauty, Kennedy said. 
stempky said although the conference will not concretely answer “what is beauty?,” it will give people tools to explore that question in their own lives. 
“it’s not like we have all the an­swers,” she said. “it’s more, ‘here are some different aspects of this issue.’ it’s more to prompt your own thinking and reflection.” 
stempky said the conference benefits from being hosted at the university. 
“it has this academic element, as well as the personal, con­temporary element,” she said. “The place where i think those two things meet best is at notre dame.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 





Columnist addresses politics and journalism 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
american studies profes­sor jack colwell delivered the fourth and final lecture in the mendoza college of business ethics week series Thursday, stressing the public’s respon­sibility to stay informed and invested in politics without falling into the trap of “taking things for granted.” 
colwell, who is also a po­litical columnist for The south bend Tribune, framed his dis­cussion of ethics with the in­teraction between politicians and journalists, two entities that deeply affect the public experience of government. he said the role of the journalist has shifted to accommodate the partisanship and divisive nature of politics today. 
“many viewers seek out the news that they want to believe,” colwell said. “objectivity is boring and fact-checking is biased if those facts dispute what you want to believe.” 
The business of journal­ism affects the content of the message the public receives, colwell said, and voters today are very willing to avoid logic and rationality in order to doggedly adhere to their po­litical parties of choice. 
“voters want to believe what 


Digger 
conTinued From page 1 
was ‘29-1.’ Then with 30 seconds to go we were up by double fig­ures. nbc made the announce­ment that the most-valuable player was the student body.” 
phelps said the atmosphere for saturday’s 9 p.m. tip-off be­gins during “gameday.” he said it was evident indiana fed off its student body last week prior to knocking off no. 1 michigan. 
“The [players] were on the court [at gameday] and said, ‘wow’ when they saw the stu­dent body and how gameday was going,” phelps said. “i look at our student body as unique. That’s why we are notre dame. i’m very, very happy.” 
Four years ago, “gameday” made its only other appear­ance at notre dame for a bas­ketball game. The irish fell to connecticut and notre dame’s 
Election 
conTinued From page 1 
tickets earlier wednesday. The election committee found these allegations to be unfounded. 
under the student government constitution, specifics of allegations are not made public to avoid swaying voters. 
in the event of a run-off elec­tion, a debate is tentatively set for sunday, with a final election taking place monday. 
is claimed by candidates and commentators of their partic­ular side of the political spec­trum,” colwell said. “They think the other side must be lying, must be cheating, must be stealing the election, must be defeated.” 
colwell discussed the prev­alence of negative political ad­vertisements and their success in altering the public opinion of political figures. The ads’ target populations take the policies of their affiliated par­ties for granted and assume 

45-game unbeaten streak at home was snapped. 
“it was a great ‘gameday.’ great atmosphere. a lot of things went on,” phelps said. “we stood our own with the rest of the ‘gamedays.’ That’s what i want the students to realize — it’s your game. you’re the sixth man. you can’t let up for 40 min­utes. we beat [north] carolina here in ’87. we were down 16 in the first half. same thing with ucla — we were down 17.” 
espnu will broadcast the first hour of “college gameday” on saturday, while the second hour will be shown on espn. students can enter the joyce center anytime between 10 
p.m. and 1 a.m. Friday night to get into saturday’s broadcast before the rest of the student body. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

these loyalties should super­sede practicality, he said. 
The parties’ unwillingness to compromise severely in­hibits legislative productivity and polarizes news outlets, colwell said. 
“in congress, it is easy to spout anger at any time, for any purpose, in any way and that is not good for democra­cy,” he said. “divisiveness and anger in politics is not totally uncommon … but [compro­mise] is something i fear we lack today.” 
Conference 
conTinued From page 1 

conference, sarah sievers of the earth institute at columbia university will deliver the key­note address. 
ryan said she and senior co-chair hannah reiser chose sievers for a variety of reasons, including her ability to speak to seniors about their futures in the field of development. 
“it’s a career that doesn’t real­ly have a trajectory,” ryan said. “she’s been involved in a lot of different organizations and i think she would have a positive message for students who are interested in getting involved in development.” 
ryan, who is pursuing a minor in international development studies, will present her re­search from this past summer in india, where she worked in rural health clinics and ana­lyzed data related to health and development. 
The conference’s strength lies in its ability to connect human development to a wide variety of fields, ryan said. 
“depending on what you’re interested in, there’s something at the conference that includes that,” she said. “it’s kind of a fundamental thing that every­one can relate to.” 
The conference will run from this afternoon to the keynote dinner on saturday night. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at    mflanag3@nd.edu 
colwell said the increased number of news sources, le­gitimate or not, creates a dis­connect between the reality of politics and public awareness. 
“don’t think that [everyone] is providing unbiased news or objective news,” colwell said. “i hate the term ‘news media.’ The term has come to encom­pass everything from The wall street journal to tabloids at the supermarket … to Twitter to some blogger writing in the basement in his underwear. 
“The term now means anything and everything and thus, it now means nothing.” 
colwell said the unbiased presentation of facts and po­litical information is an im­portant part of journalists’ duty, and society needs more qualified reporters to take on this mission. 
“we need reliable news in our democracy, even if it isn’t coming from newspapers de­livered on our porch like it used to be,” colwell said. “we need real journalists. we need real news. we can’t rely on what is said by that blogger in the basement, nor can we rely on what politicians say in their 30-second spots.” 
The ethical dilemma of the political media relates to the unbiased presentation of facts, colwell said. The ma­nipulation of public opinion to win elections is a danger­ous, ignoble result of the me­dia culture today. 
“it’s possible, though i won’t say probable, that the vot­ers will stop taking things for granted,” colwell said. “and if they do, the political consul­tants will respond. Their job is to win and the negative at­tacks have won [in the past], but if that changes, their strat­egies will change as well.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 





alumna shares experience 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
a recent saint mary’s alumna and Fulbright scholar retuned to campus Thursday to discuss her time abroad in asia in a pre­sentation called “Take it with you when you go: a Fulbright journey.” 
rachael chesley received a de­gree in business administration with concentrations in manage­ment and international business from the college in 2011. she then lived and taught in malaysia for 11 months with a Fulbright english teaching assistantship. 
“i loved my experiences abroad,” chesley said. “i knew the Fulbright scholarship was some­thing that was for me and some­thing that i’d enjoy.” 
chesley said sen. j. william Fulbright founded the Fulbright program, sponsored by the u.s. department of state, in 1946 to encourage mutual understand­ing and cultural exchange be­tween countries. The program now operates in more than 155 countries, according to its web site. 
chesley served as the student body president during her se­nior year at saint mary’s. she also studied abroad in rome and seoul, south Korea, while she was at saint mary’s. These months away from the united states shaped her decision to apply for a Fulbright scholarship. 
Though chesley said she was initially hesitant to apply for the program, her parents and profes­sors gave her the push she needed to take the first step. 
“i thought, ‘There is no way i am going to get [the scholarship],’” she said. “but my mom and dad and professors encouraged me to apply, and then i earned it.” 
although the application pro­cess was lengthy, chesley said she wanted to remove herself from her comfort zone. 

“i knew i wanted an experience that allowed full immersion in a foreign environment with noth­ing familiar,” chesley said. 
chesley spent the duration of her scholarship living in the ru­ral state of Terengganu, malaysia, teaching english as a second lan­guage to students aged 12 to 18. her town and school were located in the muslim village of besut near Thailand, she said. 
she said adapting to muslim culture was challenging. 
“i learned a lot about islam and found it so interesting,” she said. “but as a woman, it meant i had to adapt. i made sure i was covered at all times, especially my wrists and ankles. i would also always wear a scarf.” 
a native of chicago, chesley said her day-to-day experiences in malaysia were significantly dif­ferent than those she had known. 
“Things that were familiar were replaced by something complete­ly different than something i had ever experienced,” she said. 
chesley had to get used to new shopping and dining options, she said. 
“my walmarts and Targets and starbucks were replaced with lo­cal stalls, mom-and-pop shops and restaurants that had cats that became your friends,” chesley said. 
chesley said she was not fluent in malay, malaysia’s national lan­guage, when she arrived. she said she struggled to communicate with her students at first. 
“people in my school didn’t speak english, or were too scared to,” chesley said. “as i spent more time there, i learned and spoke more malay to them to build up some trust. it was an intercultural experience, so there’s going to be some frustra­tions sometimes.” 
homesickness posed another challenge, chesley said. although she was used to having internet access and a cell phone, she had to adjust to a quieter lifestyle in malaysia because these tools were not always available. 
“i had to prevent my mind from wandering,” chesley said. “it was a question of ‘how do you rein­vent yourself somewhere else?’ i had to find new things to keep myself busy. one thing i did every day was write. i wrote a lot in jour­nals and on my blog.” 
chesley also occupied her free time by completing the projects and initiatives that are required of Fulbright scholars. For one of her initiatives, chesley said she turned to her hometown in the united states for help. 
“i spoke with one of my teach­ers from my local high school and we set up a pen pal program with my students,” she said. “at first, i thought it was a really bad idea because my kids didn’t un­derstand the concept. it took five weeks to write and send that first letter.” 
however, chesley said the re­sults were impressive once the language barriers were knocked down. 
“it was so worthwhile when my students received those letters back,” she said. “we exchanged six letters total, and they were even published in one of the newspapers in malaysia. my school was one of the low-per­forming schools in the country, and for my students to be recog­nized like that made me so proud of them.” 
chesley, who completed the Fulbright scholarship program a few months ago, said she is thankful for the experience de­spite its difficulties. 
“perhaps the most rewarding part of an adventure is the after­math,” she said, “when the trav­eler gains a new lens towards the way she sees and experiences the world.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

shirt project’s vendor revealed 

By NICOLE MCALEE 
news writer 
with the announcement that The shirt project will use alta gracia as its vendor again this year, proceeds from the sale of The shirt will continue to improve the lives of apparel factory workers in villa altagracia, dominican republic. 
The 2013 shirt marks the sec­ond collaboration between notre dame and alta gracia, a brand division of Knights apparel that provides licensed apparel to uni­versities around the country. alta gracia’s stated commitment to providing its workers with a living wage makes it a unique vendor. 
Knights apparel founder and ceo joe bozich said it has been independently verified that alta gracia pays its workers a living wage. 
“This means they are getting paid the amount of money re­quired for their family to meet all of life’s necessities, including food, water, clothing, housing, and energy, healthcare, child care, transportation and education,” bozich said. “we have included in the wages paid to the employees enough money so they can afford to send their children to school, get an education and have hope for a better future. 
“alta gracia is a pathway out of poverty and hope for a better fu­ture for the people making this college apparel.” 
junior catherine simonson, a shirt project executive committee member in charge of ¬¬media and public relations, said the decision to use alta gracia again was based on the quality of its product and its commitment to workers’ rights. 
“They were a top runner to be­gin with,” simonson said. “Their presentation was just extremely impressive, and we did consider a couple of different vendors, but at the end of the day, it was pretty unanimous that we wanted alta [gracia] again.” 
simonson said the company pays its workers in the dominican republic more than 340 percent of what the law requires them to pay. 
”we’re really happy to work with them again,” she said. 
simonson noted notre dame’s contributions to alta gracia have been significant. 
“last year, the opportunity af­forded by The shirt committee paid 135 workers and their fami­lies a living wage, which was the largest single school commitment to alta gracia for 2012,” simonson said. 
bozich said the relationship be­tween notre dame and alta gracia is founded on a strong, shared dedication to justice, dignity and hope for workers. 
“[notre dame and alta gracia] have something very important in common, and that is a com­mitment to social justice,” he said. “Through the charitable nature of The shirt program, [notre dame] and The shirt program are pro­viding hope for those in need and those less fortunate.” 
simonson couldn’t divulge any details about the design of the 2013 shirt, which will officially be un­veiled april 19, but she promised it would be worth the wait. 
“people [from The shirt committee] just went down to one of the warehouses in south carolina to go see a couple mark­ups of The shirt design that we have right now,” simonson said. “we have some really cool stuff in the works.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Fired police officer kills three 

Associated Press 
los angeles — a fired po­lice officer who threatened to bring “warfare” to the los angeles police department went on a shooting rampage that left a policeman and two others dead and set off an extraordinary manhunt that had three states and mexico on alert for much of Thursday. 
The search for christopher dorner led hair-trigger offi­cers to mistakenly shoot at innocent citizens and forced police to guard their own. 
but the focus of police ef­forts shifted Thursday after­noon to the snowy mountains around big bear lake, about 80 miles east of los angeles, where police found dorner’s burned-out pickup truck and tracks leading away from the vehicle. 
san bernardino county sheriff john mcmahon said 125 officers were going door to door and attempting to track the suspect, and that a swaT team was provid­ing added security to those in the community. schools were put on lockdown while investigators examined the vehicle and spread out across the area. 
“he could be anywhere at this point, and that’s why we’re searching door to door,” mcmahon said, add­ing that the manhunt would continue “as long as we can.” a snow storm was expected in the region with tempera­tures dipping into the teens overnight. 
said lapd assistant chief michel moore: “This complex and violent investigation has led to this mountain.” 
The pickup was to be processed at a crime lab Thursday evening and exam­ined by investigators from multiple agencies. 
Throughout the day, thou­sands of heavily armed officers patrolled high­ways throughout southern california, while some stood guard outside the homes of people police say dorner vowed to attack in a rant posted online. electronic billboards, which usually alert motorists about the commute, urged them to call 911 if they saw him. 
“i will bring unconven­tional and asymmetrical warfare” to los angeles police department offi­cers, on or off duty, said the manifesto. it also asserted: “unfortunately, i will not be alive to see my name cleared. That’s what this is about, my name. a man is nothing without his name.” 
dorner, 33, had several weapons including an as­sault rifle, said police chief charlie beck, who urged him to surrender at a news confer­ence held amid heightened security in an underground room at police headquarters. 
“of course he knows what he’s doing; we trained him. he was also a member of the armed Forces,” he said. “it is extremely worrisome and scary.” 
The nearly 10,000-member lapd dispatched officers to protect more than 40 poten­tial targets, including police officers and their families. The department also pulled officers from motorcycle duty, fearing they would make for easy targets. 
“i never had the opportu­nity to have a family of my own, i’m terminating yours,” the manifesto said. 
at one point, officers guarding one location mis­takenly opened fire on a pickup truck, believing it matched the description of dorner’s dark-colored 2005 nissan Titan. Two occupants were injured. 
The chief said there had been a “night of extreme tragedy in the los angeles area” and that the depart­ment was taking measures to ensure the safety of officers. 
The search for dorner, who was fired from the lapd in 2008 for making false state­ments, began after he was linked to a weekend killing in which one of the victims was the daughter of a former police captain who had rep­resented him during his dis­ciplinary hearing. Thursday was the anniversary of his first day on the job at the de­partment eight years ago. 

monica Quan and her fi­ance, Keith lawrence, were found shot in their car at a parking structure at their condominium on sunday in irvine. Quan, 28, was an assistant women’s bas­ketball coach at cal state Fullerton. lawrence, 27, was a public safety officer at the university of southern california. 
Lecture 
conTinued From page 1 
he first began and worked es­pecially hard because he was aware of the knowledge he lacked. he also said it is impor­tant to remember where you came from. 
“never forget where you came from, never forget your hometown and never forget childhood friends,” he said. 
nanni said he has met people who regret not giving more, but has never met anyone who felt he gave to excess. 
“no one has ever said to me: ‘i’ve given too much’,” he said. 
nanni’s fifth and final lesson was the need to have a long­term vision for one’s life. 
“you should be able to say in one sentence your vision for your life,” he said. “when i was 27, i came up with my vision to be the best christian i could be, and have my identifying roles be husband and father.” 
nanni said people need to overcome the tendency to think in small time increments and to think about the distant future and the end goals of their lives. 
a 1984 alumnus of notre dame, nanni said he spent two years after graduating in santiago, chile, with the holy cross associates, teaching school and meeting with fe­male political prisoners. 
he said he fell in love with the poetry of uruguayan writer mario benedetti while learning spanish. nanni quoted a poem by benedetti in which a dying woman writes: “To live means 
paid adverTisemenT 
this: to be close.” 
nanni said his father’s death after battling bone cancer taught him this lesson. 
“death means separation,” nanni said. “death is loneli­ness, to be apart. i realized this wasn’t just a metaphor when my father died.” 
nanni said he completed notre dame’s one-year peace studies master’s program after returning from chile. he then worked on catholic and eco­nomic issues in the dominican republic for three years. 
he spent the next eight years as executive director of the south bend center for the homeless. 
nanni said he was the fifth executive director in two years and that when he started, the center was $100,000 in debt. 
“after working harder than i ever had before, we were no longer $100,000 in debt, we were $140,000 in debt,” he said. 
The center eventually be­came a very successful nation­al model, nanni said. 
nanne has been an admin­istrator at the university for 13 years. 
“what brought me back to notre dame was that i wanted the energy to be present for my kids,” he said. 
To conclude, nanni read from the end of canadian writer edmund vance cooke’s poem “how did you die.”
 “it isn’t the fact that you’re dead that counts,” he quoted, but only how did you die?” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 




GUAM 

Military practices for crisis 
Associated Press 
andersen air Force base — Fighter jets from the 
u.s. and two key allies roared into western pacific skies in the combat phase of annual exercises that have gained importance as the region re­sponds to the rise of china and other potential threats. 
The cope north drills — which could soon swell in participants — are aimed at preparing air forces of the u.s., japan and australia to fight together if a military cri­sis erupts. They also send a vivid reminder to beijing that america’s regional alliances are strong, though officers leading the maneuvers say they are not looking to bait the chinese military. 
“The training is not against a specific country, like china,” japan air self-defense Force lt. gen. masayuki hironaka said. “however, i think (the fact) that our alliance with the 
u.s.
 and australia is healthy is a strong message.” 

The three allies began flying sorties together earlier in the week around the u.s. territory of guam in a humanitarian phase of the exercises, drop­ping emergency assistance in packages that wafted down under parachutes to jungle airfields. on Thursday, fighter jets were joined by bombers, transport planes and tankers that refuel the fighters in mid­air. For the first time, japanese tankers were joining the drills. 

u.s.
 officials said they be­lieve more allies, particu­larly new Zealand and the philippines, will join the exer­cises soon. 


maneuvers like cope north are a key element of washington’s evolving strat­egy in the pacific as the u.s. shifts its emphasis away from afghanistan and fighting ground wars. it is now plac­ing more attention on asia and the possibility of an air or sea confrontation with the rapidly modernizing chinese military, which has been briskly im­proving its forces and using its growing muscle to back up ter­ritorial claims that have raised regional tensions. 
This “pacific rebalance” will bring newer and more ad­vanced aircraft and ships to the pacific theater over the next several years and spread out the tens of thousands of u.s. troops now primarily based in japan and south Korea. 
u.s. marines have already be­gun rotational deployments to darwin, in northern australia, and about 9,000 marines sta­tioned on the southern japan island of okinawa are to be moved to this tiny island, hawaii and other locations. 
The changes reflect a deep­ening strategic concern over the rise of china as a regional military power with the poten­tial to challenge washington’s ability to intervene in a crisis, particularly around Taiwan or islands in the south and east china seas that are contested by china and u.s. allies such as the philippines and japan. 
but the emphasis on alliance-building through exercises like cope north also under­scores fears in the pentagon that major budget cuts loom­ing in congress could make it difficult for washington to shoulder the whole burden of keeping china in check. 
pacific air Forces com­mander gen. herbert carlisle said he believes the budget cuts now being considered could threaten america’s role as a superpower. he noted that china’s military, and es­pecially its navy, have been undergoing a “massive build­up” and are becoming a more credible challenge to their u.s. counterparts. 
so, strategic alliances are now more important than ever. 
“The united states and our partners are taking ‘joint’ to the next level,” he said. “The amount of commerce that goes through here, the amount of the world gdp that goes through here, if you look at the world’s population that is in this part of the world, the im­portance of the pacific can’t be overstated.” 
washington’s renewed focus on asia has generally been wel­comed by its more-established and prosperous allies — like japan and australia — because they share the u.s. concerns that changes in the balance of power could hurt economic growth throughout the region. 
“i think nations throughout the region are looking for that increased support that work­ing with the u.s. is likely to bring,” said royal australian air Force air commodore anthony grady. “australia wel­comes the refocus.” 
japan also has a more urgent need to tout its u.s. alliance. 
its coast guard ships and fighter aircraft have been de­ployed frequently over the past several months to drive their chinese counterparts away from a group of small unin­habited islands that both na­tions claim as their own. The dispute has soured diplomatic and trade relations and shows no sign of abating. 


paid adverTisemenT 

boy scouts consider membership policy 

AP 

Jonathan Saenz, president of Texas Values, announces the Boy Scouts will postpone its decision to admit gays in Irving, Texas, on Wednesday. 
Associated Press 
it promises to be a campaign as passionate and dramatic as any big election. For the next 14 weeks, the boy scouts of america will be the focus of prayers, peti­tions and pressure tactics aimed at swaying a vote on whether to ease its ban on gays as scouts or adult leaders. 
The decision will be made the week of may 20 by the roughly 1,400 voting members of the bsa’s national council. The policy was supposed to be set­tled wednesday by the scouts’ 70-member national executive board, but the board concluded the issue was so complex that the organization needed more time to study it. 
at stake is a proposal to ease the ban by allowing sponsors of local scout units to decide for themselves whether to ad­mit gays. gay-rights groups say the plan is inadequate, and that no units should be allowed to discriminate. some conserva­tive religious leaders and advo­cacy groups want the ban to stay in place nationwide. 
both sides are girding for in­tensive lobbying between now and late may, hoping to influ­ence the outcome. 
“Keep the pressure on,” was the message Thursday from the gay & lesbian alliance against defamation to its supporters. 
glaad, which has been ac­tive in several recent campaigns opposing the ban, provided in­formation on how to telephone or email bsa headquarters and offered suggestions for how to advocate using Twitter and Facebook. 
“Take action!” glaad exhort­ed. “send a message to the boy scouts that we won’t rest until they end the ban.” 
The human rights campaign, a major gay-rights group, said it will caution the bsa’s corpo­rate donors that they would lose points in an annual “equality in­dex” if they continued to support the scouts as long as any units were allowed to exclude gays. 
similar campaigns were being waged by conservative groups seeking to keep the ban in place. 
“This is far from over,” wrote Tony perkins of the Family research center in an online message. The center “will con­tinue in our efforts to help the bsa stand strong against the corporate executives and activ­ists who care more about con­formity than character.” 
perkins said the efforts would include outreach to scouting parents, liaisons with religious denominations that sponsor scout units and an extension of an ongoing campaign to flood bsa offices with calls and emails. 
several other conservative groups have joined in an online campaign calling for the resig­nation of bsa executive board member randall stephenson, the ceo of aT&T, who said last year he would try to move the scouts away from the ban on gays. 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Fall and laugh 

Marisa Iati 
news writer 
i fall a lot. 

anyone who studied abroad with me could verify that it’s one of my defining characteristics. 
First i wiped out in the cafeteria of my international school in Toledo, spain. luckily, i managed to keep all my food on the plate. Talk about the luck of the irish (or spanish?). 
Then i faceplanted outside a cathe­dral in granada. a mildly amused man selling trinkets on the sidewalk asked if i was okay. 
when i returned to notre dame, i made it through approximately one week of the semester before tripping up the stairs in ryan hall. 
if there’s anything my tendency to fall has taught me, it’s that i should perma­nently be clothed in bubble wrap. 
but if there’s a second thing it has taught me, it’s not to take myself too seriously. 
when i took my tumble outside the cathedral, i was incredibly frustrated. i grumbled to my friend about why i couldn’t just stay on my feet like a nor­mal person. 
Then something surprising happened 
— she laughed. 

after an initial moment of shock, i laughed, too. within moments, we were both laughing so hard we could barely breathe, latching onto each other’s arms as we strolled away from the building. 
instead of sympathizing and stok­ing my largely undeserved self-pity, my friend demonstrated to me that my fall wasn’t actually such a big deal. where was complaining about my bad luck and lack of coordination going to get me? it would just leave me on the ground — angry, disillusioned and go­ing nowhere. 
getting up and laughing though would enable me to keep moving for­ward, focusing on the road ahead and not the path (or ground) behind me. and if i didn’t think about them too much, i would barely notice the battle scars. 
i’m going to fall sometimes. maybe a tray-on-tray collision will leave me more acquainted with the floor of north dining hall than i’d like to be (very probable). or maybe i’ll bomb a test, struggle in a relationship or just get a little under the south bend weather. 
i’m not going to say that when we fall, we just need a good friend to pick us up. 
i’m going to say that when we fall, we need a good friend to laugh at us, remind us the world isn’t ending and make us get up, dust the dirt off our knees and keep walking. 
as a wise friend once said, there’s no use crying over spilled dining hall trays. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
More government transparency 

EDITORIAL 

in the days leading up to wednesday’s student govern­ment election, students became acquainted with the diverse platforms of each of the six tickets running for student body president and vice president. each platform contained promises and pledges, and their ideas ranged from town hall forums to balloting students on their pri­orities, working more closely with the south bend mayor to an intercollegiate social justice forum, making sure the proposed gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgendered and ques­tioning (glbTQ) student organization comes to fruition to more concerts in the jacc. and yet these different plat­forms all included a uniting thread — more transparency in student government. 
juniors alex coccia and nancy joyce proposed regular “state of student government” reports. juniors dominic romeo and philip hootsmans pledged to keep an acces­sible list for all students of their checkpoints in major projects and to update it throughout their administra­tion. sophomores billy christy and pat roemer would post monthly youTube videos to update the student body on their work. junior michael masi and sophomore Tim scanlan would build the student government presence on Facebook and Twitter. Freshmen austin o’brien and nick boggess wanted to release student senate meeting minutes every week. even freshmen Kevin salat and paul mascarenhas, the traditional Zahm house ticket, pledged to use social media in their administration, even if they pledged to do so in order to help students avoid friends during their most stressful or insufferable moments (i.e. before an organic chemistry exam). 
we can be guaranteed that whatever ticket wins the elec­tion will take steps toward a more accessible, more trans­parent student government. The names of the victorious candidates or of the tickets to compete in a runoff election, however, have been withheld from students twice now in the wake of allegations of campaign misconduct. 
information on what those allegations are, what tickets have been challenged and the possible response from the judicial council has also been withheld from students. we’re waiting with more questions than answers, and the need for more transparency is especially apparent as we continue to wonder the names of the students who will lead student government next year. 
honestly, The observer staff has editorialized about this more than once, and that in itself should be telling. in 2009, the editorial board requested the judicial council publi­cize the reasons it found a class council ticket guilty of two charges of campaign misconduct, which meant they could not spend any additional money on their campaign during the runoff election. 
“This policy should change and student government should amend the constitution to allow the judicial council to disclose election violations,” the 2008-2009 board members wrote. 
in 2011, the board called for a more transparent election process when a campaign “ethics clause” violation delayed the results of the student body elections, just as this year’s allegations have caused the council to withhold results again. The ticket found guilty of an election violation was required to submit an apology email to the council before election results could be published. The observer editorial proposed a number of alternate solutions, including a re­peat election or eliminating the offending ticket. 
“regardless of the challenges and imperfections of these alternatives, each proposal would have made at least some impact on the results of monday’s election — something the election committee’s final decision completely and ut­terly failed to do,” the editorial stated. 
This year, we know even less about these vague allega­tions. when the council delayed results wednesday eve­ning, vice president of elections Katie hennessy explained she reviewed two allegations against two tickets and found them considerable enough to be brought before the election committee. The committee dismissed the allega­tions, yet another accusation was made before the window for complaints closed at 11:59 p.m. wednesday. hennessy said the names of the tickets in question would not be released so as not to sway any votes in a potential runoff election. 
we understand the challenges faced by the judicial council are difficult ones, and we applaud the way the council challenges student government leaders to meet the standards of their constitution. we also appreciate how seriously the council takes its responsibility to run fair elections. but without informing students about these allegations, the judicial council continues to close the doors to the second floor offices in laFortune and student government as a whole. 
when students know what these allegations were, we can contribute to the debate about the best response to broken rules. we can be a part of a larger conversation about the constitution of the student government. we can learn more about the candidates who campaign with their best selves and make informed decisions about who we want in office. 
The candidates vying for the role of student body presi­dent and vice president are all ready to make their admin­istrations more transparent and more open. it’s time the judicial council worked for that same goal. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Fostering discussion and debate 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet 

as we are students at one of the most prominent universities in the world, i believe it is our duty to en­gage ourselves in the realm of public policy. For years, we’ve heard our parents and grandparents say, “you kids are going to be the leaders of the future,” and if that is true, should we not start talking about controversial issues now? one of my professors jokingly mentions “notre dame stu­dents are too nice,” and i believe part of that is true because no one wants to say anything controversial in fear of backlash. but here is the sad truth: if we are scared to voice our opinions at a university — the literal institute for academic discovery and debate 
— where else is there for us to dis­cuss such divisive issues? i decided to apply to write for The observer because i wanted to discuss some of my libertarian-leaning ideas, hoping to probe some response from the stu­dent body. it feels like there is a grey cloud shadowing the younger genera­tion all across america with apathy, and if we, the “young leaders,” want to make the future better than today, it is crucial to start discussing things sooner rather than later. 
For these reasons, i would like to thank the readers of my last column on gun control who contacted me in agreement with my position — it’s great to hear people care enough to show their support — but i would more importantly like to applaud those who contacted me in disagree­ment, particularly ms. conron, who ran an article, “if gun control is fu­tile, what isn’t?” on Feb. 6. i know i wouldn’t be providing provocative or stimulating articles if i didn’t rustle any jimmies in the process. criticism forces you to discuss in further detail where you stand on particular issues and also develops your argument, just as practicing free throws will make you a better basketball player. but, it is this area of dissent i would like to discuss in further detail. 
i’d much rather discuss something like gun control with someone who completely disagrees with me on the topic than with someone who is in­different to the issue. debate is the way we as americans can change culture and you can’t debate some­one who is ignorant to the world sur­rounding them. one of my favorite quotes reads, “an idea whose time has come cannot be stopped,” and to be quite honest, i was expecting completely different oppositions to aspects of my last article. with my anti-gun-centralization position, i was expecting some people to send me emails asking questions, “are you suggesting american citizens should be able to buy sniper rifles or aK­47s?” or “do you believe there should be armed guards in public schools?” Those are relevant issues and are obviously not held uniformly in the pro-gun arena, but instead of those topics arising, the primary criticism i received was for apparently being anti-speed limit, anti-driver’s license and anti-safety. 

in order to create a community that will foster debate, discussion and a free-flow of ideas, we need to do our best to hold back emotion and ap­proach things analytically. in my last article, i was attempting to weave a political philosophy of anti-force and anti-coercion, stating government guns will be necessary to collect guns of private citizens; i then continued to offer statistics that suggest cities or countries with more “anti-gun” laws actually have more crime and violence. i was then incredulously surprised to see a response stating i must be against “basic regard for oth­er people’s safety,” when in actuality, i was offering a platform that would help make our country better off (by being more safe). ms. conron argued in her article, “if expanding gun con­trol is futile … basically ever other government activity imaginable [will be too],” which is another argument in itself, but has absolutely nothing to do with the issue at hand. we are discussing how guns affect the safety of the public, not whether or not i disagree with being taxed for driving 67 in a 60 mile-per-hour zone. 
so to answer the question, “does that mean our society should aban­don all legal attempts to ensure public safety?” the obvious, simple answer is “no.” if we want to fur­ther this discussion of what is the most efficient at stopping violence in america, it won’t help to attack a misrepresentation of one side’s argument (see “straw man”). in or­der to delve into debate and actually mitigate the country’s problems, we need to be concise and stick to the issues at hand. so please, let’s have a discussion. let’s talk about divisive policies that will stir up emotion, but let’s also attempt to hold back our passions and keep the issues in clear sight. without doing so, the one per­cent will just be known as “those who don’t care about the poor” and the pro-choice proponents will just be labeled as “baby killers.” as soon as one side just starts throwing around demeaning accusations and fails to provide any concrete, relevant point or counterargument, any hope of positive change will fade into oblivi­on and the “debate” will simply turn into name-calling. 
i would also like to clarify for those students confused by ms. conron’s statement: “i must have missed the day in class where we learned about our right to defend ourselves … not given by congress, but by god.” don’t worry, none of you were daydream­ing in Foundations of Theology the day natural law was mentioned. That idea is explained in the declaration of independence — check the first sentence. 
Connor Roth is a sophomore eco­nomics major and constitutional studies minor. He can be reached at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Thoughts on the student election 
Joel Kolb 
The provocateur 

coverage of the student body presidential race intensified over the past week, with the election be­ing held wednesday. even with the delayed results, i thought i’d offer my thoughts on the election and voting as a whole. 
in most elections, it is often tough to discern the best way to cast your vote. This election is no differ­ent.  essential questions need to be asked, such as, “what does a vote for a candidate actually mean?” is a vote an endorsement for the whole person? if i vote for the pair of stu­dents running from Zahm, am i en­dorsing Zahm house as a whole? as a stedsman, i surely hope this isn’t the case. or is a vote an endorse­ment of strictly someone’s platform, judging them solely on what they could feasibly accomplish in of­fice, regardless of their stances on broader moral issues? For example, a candidate might be a morally challenged person but successful at fostering pragmatic solutions to take place between two schools of thought. does a vote for this person implicitly tell society that it is okay to live an immoral life as long as you are good at your job? 
admittedly, i have no real answers to any of these tough questions. even so, i believe just trying to an­swer these questions can lead you in the right direction when choosing a candidate. 
additionally, every election re­minds me how skeptical i am of most politicians, no matter if it involves electing a student body president or electing a united states senator. is there any way to know for certain the person i am voting for really is the person they say he is? it is entirely possible that my vote for the earnest ben stiller in “night at the museum” is actually a vote for the obnoxious and knifing, al­beit hilarious white goodman from “dodgeball.” in the end, it’s always tough for me to realize that there is no way to know exactly what i have voted for. 
getting past the general uncer­tainty of elections as a whole, a review of the candidates in this election shows a particularly ambi­tious group. we have heard about printers in each academic building and a restaurant in debartolo, as well as a social justice forum and even renovations to the stadium. at the end of the day, however, i’m not sure realistically what impact the election of any of the pairings will bring about.  as far as probability of occurrence, the promise of domer dollars on eddy street might as well be a monorail running from Zahm to st. mary’s. The sad fact is many of the election promises and goals are bound to be broken and unfulfilled. 

For me, it is always tough to get past inevitable letdowns which accompany elections. maybe it’s because i’m cynical. maybe it’s because the last election i ran in resulted in a loss to a close friend. regardless, one thing which con­tinued to bother me in this elec­tion cycle was the lack of a catholic identity on any single ticket’s plat­form. i may be wrong, but i did not see any platform which included something close to building notre dame as a catholic campus. sure, candidates cited being more inclu­sive and broadening the notre dame family, but not a single ticket high­lighted or looked to improve upon the foundation of this university. i feel, if a ticket really wanted to break out from the pack, they would assert and embrace our catholic tradition. if the student body fully embraced these ideals, inclusion and a sense of family would surely follow. instead, i was left to choose between five similar tickets and one ticket which at best brought about some needed comic relief. 
my challenge for everyone, includ­ing myself, is to look past all the shortcomings of the election. we all need to realize most of the action items in the platforms will go un­fulfilled. but in the end, it is really okay. These candidates will all sure­ly put their best effort forth, but it is our job to realize they are students, like us, who need to balance work, play and potentially running the student government on top of that. if nothing else, it makes more sense to vote for those who i feel best rep­resent the university and its ideals rather than who will get a redbox on campus the fastest. 
if there is a runoff, i implore ev­eryone to ask themselves the afore­mentioned questions before casting their ballot.  exercising the right to vote is important to be an active member of any society  and i hope that my reflections shed light onto what your vote really means. 
Joel Kolb lives in St. Edward’s Hall and is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. He can be reached at jkolb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By WILLIAM NEAL 
scene writer 

The following is a list of shows that, while not widely adored, redefine the typical definition of a sitcom. 
“30 Rock” 

“good god, lemon!” “30 rock” isn’t your average sitcom. it’s a show that un­derstands the mechanics of television comedy backwards and forwards, allow­ing it to dance circles around the genre. its humor often doesn’t connect widely with audiences because it’s a satirical show. but under the obscure references and fast-paced nonsense, the writing is truly smart. The main cast embodies stereotypical and peculiar personas that come off more as caricatures than real people, yet the result is witty and successful. The show laughs at itself, embraces vertical integration and never strays from its oddball format. “30 rock” changed the game by encouraging future comedies to be weird and find hu­mor in the bizarre. 
“Arrested Development” 
“arrested development” is like the “breaking bad” of comedies, by which i mean you will incessantly hear from peo­ple that you have to watch it. well, they’d be right to say so, because i can say with confidence that “arrested development” is one of the funniest shows of all time. it’s a show about an everyday guy trying to handle his family of imbeciles. each family member is unique and hilarious in his or her own way, and while they drive each other to the point of insanity, they need one another to get by. The writ­ing is beyond clever and forces you to re-watch and find countless obscure jokes and references. it took a cancellation for audiences to truly appreciate the humor of this show, and with a fourth season arriving soon on netflix, i insist that you find time to sit down and appreci­ate what this show has to offer. “arrested development” changed the game by encouraging shows like “community” to focus on wit and quality, even if they aren’t commercial successes. 

“Curb Your Enthusiasm” 
drawing inspiration from his own life, seinfeld co-creator larry david shows through “curb your enthusiasm” that there’s always humor to be found in first world misfortunes. david plays him­self in the leading role with each plot focusing on a series of unfortunate cir­cumstances that always build to great­er humor. what’s really unique about “curb” is that each scene of an episode is given a premise and is then completely improvised by the actors. From this we get hysterically absurd, yet completely genuine dialogue. it has a tendency to go beyond edgy but does so to prove that there’s always humor to be found in any situation. “curb your enthusiasm” changed the game by breaking away from scripts and telling us it’s o.K. to laugh at taboo topics. 
“Louie” 

it’s hard to call “louie” a comedy be­cause it so often strays into dark and dreary territory. but then again, that’s what makes the show stand out. louis 
c.K. plays himself as a single dad rais­ing two girls and working as a comedian, all while trying not to let reality suck the life out of him. he highlights that quite frequently, life can be totally a drag … but that’s o.K. each episode is filled with awkward, dull and infuriating moments for louie that are not only hilarious but also realistic and often relatable. he opens nearly every episode with a hys­terical monologue that, like “seinfeld,” ties itself into the episode. what follows are stories covering a range of heavy sub­ject matter that audiences can’t help but laugh at. This show is not only smart but also one of a kind and certainly unlike any other series listed in this article. it may be hard to watch at times, but that may be because it’s all too relatable. “louie” changed the game because co­medic genius louie c.K. shows viewers that the hardships of reality are funny, even when they happen to us. 
Contact William Neal at wneal@nd.edu 

SAM STRYKER |  The Observer 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By LAUREN MATICH 
scene writer 

in the dead of a south bend winter, a step taken into the blistering cold is not taken lightly. often making the ef­fort to don all of the gear necessary for trudging through salty snow that will eventually stain boot toes and wind so cold that ears ache is just not worth the time it takes. This quandary is especial­ly typical around dinnertime, when the realization hits that i will have to leave the warmth of my room to eat some­thing besides lean cuisine and vend­ing machine snacks. Then i discovered delivery. 
The different restaurants that extend delivery services in south bend have gone far beyond my expectations. There is something for every hour of the day or night, every budget and every crav­ing. a quick glance at the urbanspoon delivery listing details the many piz­zerias and italian eateries in the area open later than the average restaurant, but if you’re in the mood for something 
By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

notre dame’s newest addition to the creative writing program faculty, azareen van der vliet oloomi, has many reasons to be happy.  not only did she receive several literary awards during her time at brown university, but also she has a newly published work to add to her already-impressive resume.  her first novel, “Fra Keeler”, was released last fall by independent publisher dorothy, a publishing project.  oloomi calls it “two joyful things happening at once.” 
with reviews cropping up in The los angeles Times as well as online jour­nals such as publisher’s weekly and The millions, the book is receiving plenty of positive press.  jenny hendrix from The los angeles Times called it “a stunning psychological thriller, a total identifica­tion with madness that creates drama a little more exotic, dine-in delivery has a great selection.according to a rep­resentative from the company, there is a noticeable upward trend in ethnic foods being a favorite among students. 
pad Thai from siam Thai is one such favorite that makes a frequent appear­ance on campus. in addition to the ex­pected dishes, the restaurant offers a variety of chicken, beef, tofu and even a few seafood dishes. while the menu isn’t as extensive as other more exotic options, siam Thai sticks to the basics and does them well. 
The india garden is also gaining pop­ularity with the younger crowd. a favor­ite across-the-board is the savory, spicy chicken Tikka masala, but unlike siam Thai, there is no end to the spicy and exotic combinations on the extensive menu.  you have the choice between six different kinds of naan, along with a host of endless sides, appetizers, soups and desserts. 
aladdin’s eatery fills in the gap be­tween the infrequent greek food rotations at the dining hall. The 
without either belittling or romanticiz­ing the insane.” 
“Fra Keeler” is the story of a man who purchases a home because of the former inhabitant’s intriguing death.  he pro­ceeds to investigate the death, slowly re­vealing his own madness to the readers. This unique approach makes readers question the cliché madness motif seen over and over again in similar works, a welcome change that critics have over­whelmingly applauded. 
oloomi attributes much of “Fra Keeler” to the French new wave films she began to watch while writing the novel.  her new midwestern surroundings are be­coming influential in their own right as well.
 “i have started thinking about writing a piece about south bend because i’m more interested these days in represent­ing space and landscape,” oloomi said. 
right now it’s just a casual idea tossed mediterranean-style bistro has been contracted for less than a month in conjunction with the dine-in delivery service, but sales have already taken off. The wide-ranging menu offers ev­erything from pitas and party platters to shish kabobs and salads. many op­tions are also vegetarian and gluten free. 

if you’ve been desperate enough to eat the purple-tinted refried beans from the dining hall, it’s time to call up Fiesta Tapatia.  The mexican food dive serves mouthwatering burritos and offers a surprising number of combination plates with a taste of different tradition­al and authentic dishes. if the entrees don’t tempt you, the side dish options will. Fiesta Tapatia is a top-scorer in south bend dining, and with generous entrees that average around eight dol­lars, it’s hard to beat. 
if you’re looking for something a lit­tle more familiar, you can’t go wrong with the staples. i recently ordered the cheesy royale yum yum good Times burger from mishawaka’s houlihan’s, 
around, but a novel about south bend, or gasp, notre dame, would definitely re­ceive a lot of attention on campus.  “Fra Keeler” can relate to notre dame in its own way as oloomi suggests. 
“There’s a lot of philosophical thinking that happens in the novel,” oloomi said. “Thinking about death, intellectual mys­ticism, that could relate to the culture at notre dame and why i feel that the university is a good place for me in terms of my aesthetics.” 
oloomi is now finishing her second book.  she said she is hugely thankful for the support she’s received on campus and from her colleagues. 
“They’ve been fantastic,” oloomi said. “it’s the most supportive department i’ve ever been in.” 
she also describes notre dame’s cre­ative writing program to be very different from others, especially brown university, where she completed her master of Fine and needless to say, it lived up to its name. in addition to burgers promising good times, you’re sure to find some­thing that whets your appetite on the menu of sandwiches, salads and home-style entrees. The well-known menus of chili’s and T.g.i. Friday’s both are only a phone call or a click away through the delivery service as well. 
although not part of the dine-in delivery clientele, einstein bros. bagels makes upwards of 50 individual de­liveries to campus per week. delivery services aren’t limited to large quanti­ties or a catering menu, so an ultimate blueberry smoothie and bagel to match really are just a call away. 
The next time eldorado casserole is the best option at north dining hall, glance over these delivery menus. on a cold snowy night, the ease of ordering a delicious dinner from a laptop is en­ticing to say the least. stay inside, keep warm and indulge. you deserve it. 
Contact Lauren Matich at lmatich@nd.edu 
arts (mFa) in literary arts, because of the variety of artists notre dame has to offer.  oloomi said notre dame’s mFa program in creative writing is especially rich because of the diversity of aesthetics among its faculty. 
notre dame’s mFa faculty boasts a line­up including surreal poets like johannes goransson and joyelle mcsweeney, who publish on their own press action books, bilingual poet orlando menes, nonfic­tion writer william o’rourke, novelist valerie sayers and biotech revolutionary author steve Tomasula.  Tomasula’s most recent novel, “in & oz,” was published just this winter and is also receiving great reviews. 
“Fra Keeler” can be purchased in the hammes notre dame bookstore as well as online at dorothyproject.com. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

global argument for the cup 

Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports editor 
Editor’s note: This is the 10th story in a 10-part series discussing the best events in sports. In this installment, Andrew Gastelum argues for the World Cup. 
i remember exactly where i was and you probably do, too. i woke up at 5:30 a.m. just a few days removed from my high school graduation and went to wake my best friend up. just for the united states vs. algeria game in the 2010 world cup. crazy? yeah, but so was the ending. 
in fact, those 90 minutes were the most miserable decision of the summer, until the last 30 seconds. 
The words “go, go, u.s.a.” now ring in glory, and true american sports fans remember where they were at that moment landon donovan put away the goal that spit in the face of ex­pected elimination and contin­ued irrelevance. 
but here’s why the world cup is the best event in sports. because 10,000 miles away from my cel­ebration flowed tears from an algerian soccer fan whose hope of soccer relevance was crushed while mine was realized. and 10,000 miles away from that was a Korean soccer fan up way past his bedtime gawking in amaze­ment at that thriller of a finish. 
There was no longer an excuse for soccer in america. That mo­ment was the sport’s battle of yorktown, because it could fi­nally start to legitimately build itself into the fabric of the nation. 
while we grow up dreaming about draining a buzzer beater in the nba Finals or hitting a walk-off in game 7, every other kid in the world dreams about doing what donovan did that day in south africa. 
no event in sports tugs on this global thread, not even the olympics. disagree? well, can you imagine entire countries shutting down and gathering in city centers to watch usain bolt run or michael phelps swim for days at a time? 
now i’m not just talking about a city or school shutting down for the super bowl or national championship, but an entire country for just a group stage game. For just one month, fans of the most intense rivalries in soccer sing the same anthem and cheer the same cheers. you cannot tell a barcelona fan from a real madrid fan when they wear red and yellow; the same goes for an arsenal and chelsea fan wearing white with a union jack wrapped around their back. 
in 2006, the world cup shut down a country for more than just a day.  Try the entire sum­mer. in ivory coast, a civil war that left thousands dead and spanned four years forced a truce for the summer because warlords just love their soccer so. less than a year later, the war ended. i don’t remember a sport­ing event ever stopping a war, but then again my memory may just be a little hazy. 
The world cup is the only sporting event that affects just about every country in the world. From the qualifying stages to the event itself, billions of eyes take a glance at this sultan of spec­tacles, this colossus of clout. 
it doesn’t just apply to every­one outside the u.s. can you re­member a sporting event where american patriotism was higher than where it was at the 2010 world cup after that single goal? Tough call. 
it is simply mind-blowing how the world cup holds this literal, earth-shattering power. but nothing quite beats one month of do-or-die soccer between 32 of the world’s best teams. call it a global march madness, where enrollment is in the millions and tailgates become unofficial countrywide holidays. 
The world cup is the ultimate competitive stage for soccer, the world’s game. The olympics are an amateur’s afterthought com­pared to the world cup. and there is no way to predict a win­ner, especially since there hasn’t been a repeat winner since brazil won it in 1958 and 1962. 
it embraces sports’ most ad­mirable themes: perennial powerhouses, rooting for the underdogs and celebrity status. even americans know who pele is, soccer’s most beloved fig­ure. but what they don’t know is that pele never played in europe against the top competition. yet he is the only player to win three world cups and because of that he is the globe’s indisputable champ. 
The fact that it happens every four years gives it the anticipa­tion of the olympics with the grandeur of the super bowl. it combines the best of the best, because it truly is the best. 
This sports authority series over the past two weeks has put us all in the midst of the greatest events in sports. Those moments in sports that we remember for the rest of our lives stem from the 10 discussed in this space right here. it’s the beauty of de­bate, mixed in with the world of sports we all love so much. 
but good thing they saved the best for last. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Williams apologizes for bounty scandal 
Associated Press 

nashville, Tenn. — gregg williams knows he’s got to prove himself every day. 
The former saints defensive coordinator said he received a “great rebirth” Thursday when he was reinstated by the nFl and hired by the Tennessee Titans after serv­ing a nearly yearlong suspen­sion for his role in the new orleans bounty scandal. 
but now that he’s back in the league, he’ll have to change the way he’s done things in the past. 
“i’ve got a very positive out­look on things,” williams said. “i understand and respect the game an awful lot, and the past is the past and what i’m talking about doing right now is creating a resume from this day forward.” 
williams took the first step when the Titans hired him as a senior assistant coach for defense. williams thanked commissioner roger goodell for reinstating him while speaking at a news conference. 
“i take full responsibility and apologize for my previous actions, and i’ve used this year to reorganize my life and put focus on positive energy and positive ways to inspire and coach and motivate in this profession,” williams said, reading from a statement. 
“i’m  grateful  for  this  
opportunity.”  
The  league  issued  a  


statement saying that goodell cited several reasons for re­instating williams, including williams accepting responsi­bility for his role in the bounty program, his commitment to never be involved in any pay for performance system and pledging to teach safe play and respect for the rules. 
“The commissioner em­phasized that williams must fully conform to league rules and will be subject to periodic monitoring to confirm his compliance,” the nFl said in its statement. 
while he was out of football in 2012, williams started his path back. 
he said he spoke to football players from the pop warner level up to high school over the past year. he also worked with his charity, traveled and tried to improve himself including losing about “a kindergar­tener” when challenged by his sons to lose weight. 
williams, suspended in­definitely last march, now is the last person involved in the scandal to be reinstated by league. new orleans coach sean payton had his suspen­sion lifted on jan. 22. 
saints general manager mickey loomis was suspend­ed for eight games and assis­tant head coach joe vitt for six. Four current or former saints players were also suspended after an investigation found the club had a performance pool offering cash rewards for key plays, including big hits. The player suspensions even­tually were overturned. 

RECSPORTS | cheese Faces 33, w.i. 32 
cheese Faces defeat w.i. 
Special to The Observer 

This week’s big game cer­tainly did not have the same viewership as the super bowl, but it did have all the mak­ings of a game to be remem­bered. in the recsports game of the week, the cheese Faces topped The w.i. 39-32 in 4 vs. 4 flag football. 
The w.i. took control early, jumping out to a 19-0 lead after three straight scoring possessions. at the end of the first half, the cheese Faces got on the board and closed the gap to 19-7. 
in the second half, momen­tum swung as the cheese Faces scored on their first possession to further cut the deficit. The 
w.i. answered with another touchdown to make the score 26-13, but two unanswered scoring drives from the cheese Faces tied the game at 26 with less than a minute remaining. 
next, a flurry of passing saw both teams trade touchdowns. however, the cheese Faces successfully converted their extra-point attempt, and took a 33-32 lead to complete the comeback with just seconds remaining. 
The w.i. attempted a last-gasp series of laterals on the last drive, but the cheese Faces intercepted the ball and ran it back for a touchdown to ice the win. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

FOR SALE PERSONAL 
Move in ready townhome UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
near ND. $75K. 574-532-5961 Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Countdown to MLB Spring Training: 4 days until pitchers & catchers report 



FENCING 

Irish seek to continue success against Duke 

By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 

after a strong day at the northwestern duals on Feb. 2, notre dame will travel to durham, n.c., for the two-day duke duals this weekend. 
sophomore epee nicole ameli said the team fenced well together at nort hwestern. 
“we all fenced really well, and we had solid per­formances throughout the day,” she said. “we helped each other out.” 
The irish competed against a number of top-ranked teams in evanston, ill., last weekend and both the men and women per­formed well. The women’s side did not drop a match, going 8-0 in dual matches. The strongest performance of the day for the no. 2 irish women’s team came against no. 1 princeton, when it won 14-13 against the Tigers. ameli said the breaks between matches allowed notre dame to rest and helped it achieve v ictor y. 
“we had a pretty big break between our second-to­last match and the match against ohio state,” ameli said. “That turned out re­ally well for us and we are focused for next week.” 
The men went 5-1 on the day. The no. 3 notre dame men’s team dropped their only match against no. 1 ohio state.  even in that match, the irish out-fenced the buckeyes in two of the three events. notre dame went 5-4 in both the foil and sabre, but lost the epee 7-2. 
notre dame will now di­vert its attention to the duke duals, where the irish will look to continue their streak of success against top teams. ameli expects more strong competi­tion this weekend, includ­ing the no. 10 duke men. nonetheless, the irish stuck to the same routine this week as they have most of the season. ameli said the team analyzed the positives and negatives of their last performance and will be prepared saturday. 
“usually when we get back from a meet we have a day off and then we have a few days to just recap and look at what we did well and what areas we need to focus on,” ameli said. “i think we will be ready to go.” 
The irish travel to durham, n.c., today and begin fencing at the duke duals on saturday before concluding competition sunday. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Team hopes to carry momentum to Toledo 
travel to Toledo, ohio, on saturday, 
By ALEX WILCOX 

sports writer although the outcome does not overly concern them, according to 
as notre dame’s regular season senior diver jenny chiang. draws to a close, the team may be “we’re treating this more of a treating its last meet against Toledo tune-up,” chiang said. “at this more as a tune-up. The irish will point everyone’s focusing on the big east championships. This meet is a good feeler to see what we still need to work on.” 


while chiang and the rest of the irish may not be very excited for this meet, she said the season has come to a quick end. 
“it went by a lot faster than any of us expected, but its nice to know that it’s ending because a lot of what we do is to build up to the confer­ence meet,” chiang said. 
chiang said notre dame hopes to carry its current momentum through Toledo and into the confer­ence championships. 
“The team feels really good,” chiang said. “The divers have had a couple of good meets and the swimmers had a really good meet at ohio state, so i think we’ve got some good momentum going that will hopefully just continue into conference.” 
sophomore emma reaney and senior Kim holden have led the swim team this season, with several swimmers already qualified for the ncaa championships in march. but according to chiang, the div­ers have also posted a strong season while surpassing expectations. 
“[The season]’s been going well, we’ve been doing pretty good,” chiang said. “we’ve got two fresh­men on the team who we’re really impressed with, they’ve just gone above and beyond our expecta­tions, so i’m excited to see what the next three or four years will bring.” 
chiang said the coaches are also treating the dual meet with the rockets as a more of an extension of practice.
 “For this meet, the coaches just want to see that we’re taking what we learned in practice and using it in competition,” chiang said. “They The irish wrap up the regular just want to see that we’re making season saturday in Toledo, ohio. improvements. They’re trying to competition against the rockets keep us excited about the season, begins at 3 p.m. because it is a long season, so by the time the end of February rolls Contact Alex Wilcox at around we’re all pretty tired.” awilcox1@nd.edu 




MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish trek to East Lansing 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
no. 30 notre dame is on the road this weekend, trav­eling to east lansing to face no. 48 michigan state on saturday. both squads are 4-3, presenting equal op­portunities for victory as they enter the weekend. 
all of the losses for both teams have been to ranked opponents. These include no. 37 northwestern, no. 28 harvard and most re­cently no. 9 duke (ranked no. 5 when they faced the irish). michigan state has fallen to no. 31 memphis, no. 7 Kentucky and no. 64 princeton. 
memphis offers the only source of comparison. 

The spartans lost 6-1 to the Tigers, while the irish took the win with a 4-0 sweep. despite this match up, notre dame is still fo­cused on the present and the competition facing the weekend. 
“michigan state is a very tough team and they are very good at home,” senior blas moros said. “Their courts are some of the fast­est in the country and take some getting used to, but most of us have played there before and know what to expect.” 
The veterans on the irish will provide leadership this weekend, as many mem­bers of the squad have throughout the season. notre dame brings four ranked opponents to the competition, led by no. 80 junior greg andrews in the no. 1 singles spot. junior billy pecor stands at no. 88, moros is tied at 110 and sophomore wyatt mccoy is no. 120. The spartans do not have any ranked players. 
“we are excited and ready,” moros said. “a win always helps for sure and it is always good to get some different guys in the lineup.” 
The irish come off a split weekend, falling to duke but bouncing back to sweep iupui 7-0. The weekend marked improvement in all areas and added momen­tum to the squad. 
“with big opportunities like these where we have a chance to beat some good teams, motivation is nev­er a concern,” moros said. “doubles has been pro­gressing very nicely with our no. 2 team playing es­pecially well.” 
if the irish can win the doubles point, they will start the weekend on a good foot. 
The match will begin at saturday, Feb. 9 at 12 p.m. in east lansing. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


TRACK & FIELD 

Four prepare for league finals 

By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
with the conference champion­ship just a week away, four irish athletes will travel to grand valley state this weekend for some last minute preparation. 
Freshman aaron dunn and ju­niors jarod buchanon and bryce wood, all hurdlers, will compete for the men, while junior sprinter aijah urssery will represent the women. buchanon was a mem­ber of the winning 4-by-400 meter relay team at last weekend’s meyo invitational. The squad’s time was the 12th best in the nation this year to date. 
“This meet is a last chance to ei­ther qualify for big east or get some confidence,” junior captain logan renwick said. “a lot of people will be using it as a final tune-up.” 
This is the second trip the irish have made to grand valley state this year. The first time was for the bob eubanks open on jan. 11-12. renwick said that the facilities will work to the advantage of the irish. 
“They have very nice indoor fa­cilites,” renwick said. “Their track is big, over 300 meters. it’s actually a lot like our track.” 
buchanon and wood are entered in the 60-meter hurdles, while dunn is entered in the 400-meter. urssery is scheduled to compete in the 200-meter. while the irish are sending a small contingent, the meet itself will be large, with near­ly 2500 entries from every level of collegiate competition. because the meet is so big, the competition is divided into an invitational sec­tion Friday and an open section saturday. all the irish athletes are entered in the invitational section. 
“it’s a great place to face some good competition,” renwick said. Teams from all over the midwest are entered, including michigan state, indiana state and marquette. 
looking ahead, renwick said the entire team feels confident as they approach the postseason. 
“everyone’s very positive,” renwick said. “we know that when everyone does what they’re expected to do, we have a great chance to win both [the men’s and women’s] titles. based off of the last two meets, we’re ready to go down to ohio and compete.” 
The irish compete one last time before the big east conference championship at grand valley state, this Friday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Michigan 
conTinued From page 20 
difficult, no matter the opponent. 
“i can guarantee you that they’re playing a lot better right now,” lee said. “That was months and months ago, so they’ve been a team that much longer and been playing together that much lon­ger, and at the same time, it’s the ccha, getting ready for the final standings and that battle for the last final spots, so no matter who it is, it’s going to be a grind.” 
while the wolverines have struggled most of the season, the irish have had their own difficul­ties since the winter break layoff, managing a 2-7-1 record since jan. 
8. The irish defeated Ferris state on jan. 26, but dropped their next game at ohio state on Feb. 1. The next night, however, the irish out-shot the buckeyes 47-22 in a 2-2 tie, which jackson hopes is a sign of future progress. 
“it didn’t take us a game or two to get into that mess in january,” jackson said. “it took us some time for that to develop. it’s go­ing to take us a little time for us to get out of it, and i saw progress last weekend against Ferris, but i saw more progress this weekend against ohio state. … we’ll see this weekend if we’re continuing to progress in a good direction.” 
irish junior goaltender steven summerhays has started the vast majority of games for notre dame this season, but was pulled after two periods Friday against ohio state after allowing five goals. in more than four periods of action on Friday and saturday against the buckeyes, senior goalten­der mike johnson allowed just two goals, and didn’t surrender a goal in saturday’s shootout. jackson did not reveal his plans at netminder for both nights of the michigan series, but stood behind summerhays. 

“i’d say [the goaltending situ­ation is] a little more in flux than maybe it was a month ago, but i still have confidence in steven summerhays,” jackson said. “he’s shown he can win games like we’ll need to win this weekend. we’ll need good goaltending to win this weekend. and he’s showed when he played michigan in the early stages of the year that he’s capable of making the big save and play­ing big games and big moments, and he has to get that mojo back. 
“i still believe steven’s a guy that can win in a big environment for us, and right now every game is big, so i haven’t bailed on him yet.” 
This weekend’s series marks the final regular season ccha meet­ings between the two programs, as michigan begins its first season of big Ten hockey next year while notre dame moves to hockey east. jackson said he hopes the series will continue as a sched­uled non-conference matchup in future years due to the passion of the rivalry, which will be on dis­play this weekend. 

“any time we play michigan, it’s always intense,” jackson said. “There’s not going to be much motivation from my end as far as playing this weekend, and i’m sure it’s the same for them. it’s just always an intense series. i won’t need to get them more physically engaged, that’ll happen naturally.” 
The irish and wolverines are set to face off at 7:35 p.m. Friday and 7:05 p.m. saturday at the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
Louisville 
conTinued From page 20 
it to be that way saturday night, but i can’t put my finger on why it’s like that. 
“[pitino or i] usually says, ‘how many extra do we want to play tonight? one, two, five?’” 
espn’s “college gameday” will visit campus this weekend as notre dame attempts to pass louisville in the conference standings. it’s the first time the show has featured an irish bas­ketball game since 2009 when connecticut snapped notre dame’s 45-game home-unbeat­en streak. 
brey said his squad gained some experience against the zone defense monday in a 63-47 loss at syracuse, who subscribes to a similar defensive philosophy as louisville. 
“we came in Tuesday and watched a lot of our zone stuff against syracuse,” brey said. “more of it was not good than good. we had a couple posses­sions obviously, but i felt we re­ally needed a … lesson. The first thing you have to watch is the pressure and two small guards that really get up on you and pressure you in the backcourt. That’s my first concern as we prepare for louisville. 
“once you get it across mid-court, you’re dealing with the zone and i think there are things we need to clean up in the next two days of practice before we play the 2-3 zone.” 
brey said he is “thrilled” with notre dame’s performance since losing 63-47 to georgetown on jan. 21. during that time, the irish won three consecutive games before dropping its fourth conference loss at syracuse. 
“we were up against it right then and playing bigger,” he said. “[senior center Tom Knight] has given us great energy and play­ing two big guys has made us more physical. … i still think we’re in the middle of improving now that we’ve had a reinven­tion, but i’m also excited about the prospect of if we get [gradu­ate student guard scott martin] back to energize us, whenever that is.” 
brey said martin, who has been sidelined the past four games with a knee injury, could play saturday but sounded skep­tical about the chances of it. 
“he hasn’t done anything in two weeks,” brey said. “i’m in­terested to see how he moves in shooting drills today and how he feels tomorrow. That’s as far as we can go right now. so that’s kind of my mindset with it. his frame of mind Tuesday was that he wanted to get in there and move around and see how it felt.” 
currently, two-and-a-half games separates the top 10 teams in the big east. notre dame — tied for seventh in the conference heading into saturday’s matchup — trails big east-leading syracuse by one­and-a-half games with eight contests remaining. 
“it’s great,” brey said of the conference’s parity. “how about the drama in college basketball? it’s going to make for an unbe­lievable ncaa tournament. i just hope we’re a part of it and get one of those 68 spots. 
“our league continues to be the drama queen league and the most-watched league. we’re right in the thick of this thing.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Squad begins season in Charlotte 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
This weekend, the irish fi­nally break free from indoor practice and travel to charlotte, n.c., for the charlotte Fast pitch classic. The season-open­ing slate includes two games saturday against wisconsin and charlotte and two games sunday against the badgers and presbyterian. 
The irish finished 40-16 last year, concluding the season with an 8-3 loss to arizona on the fi­nal day of the ncaa regionals. notre dame enters this season ranked second in the big east preseason poll, sitting behind only defending big east cham­pion south Florida. 
The irish return a majority of last year’s squad, including 2012 national Fastpitch association all-american senior catcher amy buntin and big east pitcher of the year junior laura winter. The squad will also look to se­nior outfielder Kelsey Thornton and junior infielder chloe saganowich, who were both named to the 2012 all-big east second team, for leadership. 
Five freshmen also join the roster this season. 
“i believe each freshman will make valuable contributions to our program this year,” buntin said. “we will especially look for [pitcher] allie rhodes to have a big impact in the circle for us this year. everyone else will def­initely let their names be known with their bats.” 
buntin and Thornton will lead the irish as captains this sea­son. infielders Kathryn lux and jackie bowe and pitcher brittany o’donnell round out the return­ing senior class. “we are all very excited and ready to get out­side on the dirt this weekend,” buntin said. “we have had sev­eral weeks of practice so we are all ready to take it to the field.” 
notre dame looks forward to emerging from the offseason and showcasing its hard work after months of indoor training. 
“our main focus this off­season has been building our confidence and bringing a pres­ence to the field and to each at bat,” buntin said. “physically we are more than ready to take on any opponent, so we wanted to focus a little more on our mental game.” 


The irish begin play in charlotte, n.c. at the charlotte Fast pitch classic on saturday morning at 10 a.m. against wisconsin followed by charlotte at noon. They continue the ac­tion sunday against wisconsin at 10 a.m. followed by with a game against presbyterian at noon. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
Big East 
conTinued From page 20 
said. “it’s not good for the [big east] conference. you get all this talk about when people are leaving instead of who’s in your conference.” 
rutgers announced nov. 20 it will leave the big east for the big Ten. louisville announced it will join notre dame in the acc. The ‘catholic 7’ bas­ketball schools — depaul, georgetown, marquette, providence, st. john’s, seton hall and villanova — have informed the big east of their plans to exit the conference. 
“especially with the an­nouncement now that you’ve got 10 schools [giving] their intention to leave, i think it’s in everyone’s interest to make that as early as possible,” swarbrick said. 
syracuse and pittsburgh are also both leaving the big east for the acc at the conclusion of this season. The orange and panthers are allowed to leave july 1 and will pay $7.5 million fees each, according to espn. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 




Gameday 
conTinued From page 20 
counterparts were heading into that mid-october weekend: a solid squad needing to prove itself against elite competition, in this case no. 11 louisville. 
notre dame had its chance to do so against no. 9 syracuse on monday night at the carrier dome, but the irish shot 34.6 percent from the field en route to a 63-47 loss. 
it seemed that maybe notre dame got its signature win against Kentucky way back on nov. 29, when the irish upset the then-no. 8 wildcats 64-50 and the students stormed the court. 
but the court didn’t deserve to be stormed. not against an inferior and inexperienced opponent playing on the road at purcell pavilion. The court now sits empty, waiting for the “gameday” gang to set up shop. The time for a signa­ture win wasn’t a week after Thanksgiving. The time is now. 
notre dame sits at 18-5 overall and 6-4 in the big east. “Quality” wins on the ncaa tournament résumé likely read as follows: cincinnati (maybe), Kentucky (maybe), villanova (maybe) and byu. i use the term “quality” lightly here because niT teams might be able to beat those squads. 

so the irish undoubtedly need a marquee win against louisville in a conference tilt, in a primetime matchup against an elite program that will still be elite at the season’s end. 
notre dame has few chances remaining to get a statement victory that not only boosts its stock in the eyes of the tourna­ment selection committee, but also sets the tone for the rest of 
paid adverTisemenT 
the season. and think about the stanford game for the football team. That team had one more true chance (oklahoma) to make believers out of the bcs constituents. 
The irish hoopsters are run­ning out of chances themselves. sure, they get another crack at the cardinals and the bearcats, and they take on marquette in early march, but those are three of the last four games of the regular season. The irish need momentum now, not heading into the big east tournament. 
if this was an experienced squad, i’d be fine with notre dame getting hot in madison square garden and riding that surge into march madness. but the irish aren’t the veteran squad we thought they were heading into the season. 
This is a team trying to find itself, especially without gradu­ate student guard scott martin. junior guards eric atkins and jerian grant and senior forward jack cooley may be upperclass­men, but they are each just in their second seasons as start­ers. sophomore guard/forward pat connaughton is still young and the only two reserves who saw time against the orange on monday, cameron biedscheid and Zach auguste, are freshmen. 
This team needs the req­uisite momentum and confi­dence now so they can build through the remainder of the regular season into the big east tournament. 
and momentum and confi­dence would surely follow a win against louisville. Fresh off a trip to last year’s Final Four, the cardinals began this season with high expectations and a no. 2 preseason ranking. after a hot 5-0 start, louisville fell 76­71 to no. 4 duke but responded by ripping off 11 consecutives victories. The cardinals lost to syracuse on jan. 19, a loss that started a three-game losing skid in conference play. but since then they have won three and a row and are trying to creep back into the top 10 in the nation. 
The top 10, a place where stanford football eventu­ally found itself at the end of the season despite its loss to the irish. That win over the cardinal catapulted the irish from comfortably-ranked squad to title contender. 
notre dame eventually played in the championship jan. 7, the same night notre dame basketball got a 66-60 win on the road against cincinnati. 
not just any win. a quality win. 
Contact  Mike Monaco at  mmonaco@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish head to New Jersey to face Pirates 

By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
after irish coach muffet mcgraw celebrated her 700th win wednesday against villanova, she quickly got back to business. no. 2 notre dame has another game to play against seton hall. 
mcgraw, who stresses focus and defense, doesn’t want her team to forget that. 
“i think for us going into every game with real focus is something we have to work on on the road,” she said. “we’ve got a big game coming up because it’s the next game on the schedule.” 
with winter storm nemo threatening the northeast this play through adversity.” 
The irish will also face basket­ball-related challenges. seton hall (8-13, 3-5) enters the contest in 11th place in the big east, but the pirates feature two guards who each average double-digit points. senior brittany morris scores 12.4 points per game, and sophomore Ka-deidre simmons supplies 11 points per game. mcgraw said seton hall also plays excellent defense. 
“They’re just a good defensive team,” mcgraw said. “They’re holding teams to 60 points per game, and we like to put up 80. i think it will come down to our of­fense versus their defense.” 
although the irish entered the game averaging 81.4 points per contest, the offense mustered only 59 points in the win over villanova on Tuesday. cincinnati managed to hold notre dame to 64 points saturday. despite these below-average scoring outputs, mcgraw said she is pleased with the of­fense. in both games, the irish forced turnovers and executed scoring plays whenever they had an opportunity. but villanova and cincinnati consistently took full advantage of the 30-second shot clock to keep the ball away from the notre dame offense. 
“i think we’re playing well of­fensively,” mcgraw said. “other teams hold the ball and try to milk the clock. you can’t look at the villanova game. we do like to score quickly.” 
even though villanova kept the ball away from the irish, notre dame still shot 40.7 percent from the field. mcgraw attributed the team’s recent success.to remark­able performances by key starters. she also praised the emergence of several bench players. 
“[junior guard] Kayla mcbride has been phenomenal and [ju­nior forward] natalie achonwa has been playing great basketball this year,” mcgraw said. “[senior guard] skylar diggins has been great of course. we’ve been get­ting more production from the bench. we’d like them to add to the offense. [sophomore guard] madison cable is ready. [Freshman guard] michaela mabrey is looking for more playing time.” 
The irish and their high-pow­ered offense will take on the pirates at 2 p.m. saturday at walsh gymnasium in south orange, n.j. 
Contact Samantha  Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

weekend, notre dame (21-1, 9-0 big east) heads to south orange, n.j., to face the pirates on saturday. The irish will need to remain men­tally focused despite a change in travel plans. 
“The weather is a factor,” mcgraw said. “we’re changing plans with the storm coming in, but we have to be prepared and 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
ACROSS 38 Went after 

1 Inveigle 40 Planes are DOWN studied in it 
5 Some 1 Really go downloads 41 Kitchen device 

through 9 Go for a light 43 Tear up 
2 Anti-agingbite? 
45 ___ gratia product name 14 It may follow ye 46 Sari 3 Lake cabin 15 Thin accompaniment sight 16 Sapphire 48 Put safely 4 Some gasalternative away, in a way atoms

17 Target of some 50 Finish political attacks 5 Ways to go
52 Mata ___ 20 How many 6 You may feel 
53 Gray shade learn below it 
55 ___ instruction 
21 Turn 7 Does street 56 Harps (on) 

22 Corps of campaigning
Engineers 59 Words from project one who’s at a 8 Bobby of the loss for words Black Panther 
23 Nonpareil Party 62 Racket 24 Submitted 63 Amanuensis, 9 Part of many a 26 Cook up 

e.g.: Abbr. welcome kit 29 Learn of 
64 Finish 10 Suffix with 32 Important 
65 Danish man’s specialconnection? 
name with a 
11 1894 novel 33 Noted trisyllabic line through the whose title metrist second letter character 

35 Snow ___ 66 Actor LaBeouf 

likes to collect 36 Snow ___ 67 Certain stake fingerprints 
12 “Votre toast,” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
e.g. 


13 Span 18 Measures 19 Kind of bean 25 News clipping 26 “Prelude 
to War” documentarian, 1943 
27 “There’s ___ every crowd” 
28 French urban network 
30 ___ Lauder, cosmetics giant 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by DAVID J. KAHN 

31 Secreted again 44 Haggard 54 It may be said with a brushing
34 Outbreak of motion 
47 Ring figure in 
2003 
“Carmen” 57 Brest milk 37 Actress Ward 

58 Last word of a
49 Zesties! maker 

party song 
39 Fortune 500 microcomputer 60 Japanese 
51 “… ___ the eye

firm bourse: Abbr. 
can see” 42 2010 Jude 61 Hit CBS series Law/Forest 53 Grass starting in Whitaker movie appendages 2000 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ashton Kutcher, 35; chris rock, 48; garth brooks, 51; james spader, 53 
Happy Birthday: do what you can for others. This is a take-charge year filled with options and opportunities. The more you contribute to the well being of your com­munity, workplace or your family, the more respect you will gain and the easier it will be to get your own way. Think ahead and you will be victorious. your numbers are 6, 17, 19, 23, 26, 34, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): an emotional situation will entice you to say something that will make matters worse. bide your time, focus on a creative endeavor, and do your best to keep the peace with people you deal with daily. let past experience be your lesson. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): engage in discussions with people you can share information with and you will stumble upon a way to make a difference. don’t let a partner limit what you can do or put pressure on you to go in a direction you don’t agree with. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): concentrate on what you have and how you can make it grow — or at least maintain what you’ve got. making personal changes that will enhance your outlook or your appearance will lead to interesting new acquaintances. love is highlighted. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): speak up and take action and you can make a difference. a partnership will take an unusual turn toward greater stability. Travel to a destina­tion that will motivate you to follow through with a plan. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): added responsibilities will surface. The way you handle your personal and financial life will set the stage for what’s to come. creative accounting and building up your assets should be your first choice. partnership opportunities should be considered. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): discuss your ideas and plans with peers and do whatever you can to position yourself for future advancement. an unusual investment or trendy idea will pay off as long as you avoid overdoing and overspending. a challenge will entice you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): change will catch you by surprise. don’t lose sight of your dreams, hopes and wishes just because someone has a change of heart or plans. secure your position by socializing with people who can help you excel. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put your skills to the test. don’t let a relationship come between you and your goals. making simple yet unique changes at home will help you embrace new ways of doing daily tasks. stand up and make demands and you’ll get your way. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t be fooled by a big talker who makes empty promises. Trust in your talent and ability to do things on your own. you don’t need a partner taking advantage of your good nature or your skills. Focus on love, not work. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): revisit a plan and find a way to make it successful. mixing the old with the new will bring back old memories and reconnect you to people from your past. listen to what others say, but follow your own path. limit spending. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): discretion will be necessary when dealing with people from different backgrounds. indulge in something new, but don’t forget where you come from and what works best for you. protect your health and your heart. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t look back. Focus on what must be done and move swiftly. if you slow down or let uncertainty take over, you will lose ground and be faced with opposition. don’t let shortsightedness lead to a costly mishap. cover your back. 


Birthday Baby: you are diligent, progressive, outgoing and willing to make sacrifices. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and jeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish hope to avoid overtime with the Cardinals 
By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
it’s occurred four of the last five times notre dame and louisville have played. it’s es­sentially become standard procedure when the irish and cardinals face-off. it’s even got­ten to the point where the two coaches joke about it with each other. 
regardless of venue, dates or ranking, the annual notre dame-louisville matchup seems destined to require over­time. heading into saturday night’s marquee matchup be­tween the no. 25 irish (18-5, 6-4 big east) and no. 11 cardinals (19-4, 7-3), it’s the top storyline as the programs try to navigate their way through the jumbled big east standings. 
“There’s just been great games,” irish coach mike brey said of the rivalry with louisville. “hard-played, kids really competing and i expect 
see louisville PAGE 16 

More than just ‘Gameday’ 

Team positioned just right for late season surge  

Mike Monaco 
sports writer 
we all remember what hap­pened when espn’s “college gameday” came to town for what is now one of the most leg­endary football games of recent irish gridiron lore. 
The irish, sitting at 5-0 at the time, got a signature win against a stanford team that would be elite at the end of the year. 
it was a win that typified the season. 
it was a win that propelled the irish. 
it was a win that made the team — and fans — believe. 
well, “gameday” is shipping out of bristol to visit south bend once again, this time for some basketball action. 
and it comes at just the right time for notre dame. 
The no. 25 irish are posi­tioned much like their football 
see gameday PAGE 17 
HOCKEY 

Squad looks to repeat sweep against Wolverines 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
as no. 12 notre dame at­tempts to make a move toward the top of the ccha standings, it will welcome a familiar foe to the compton Family ice arena when michigan comes to town. 
The irish (16-11-1, 12-7-1-1 ccha) and wolverines (10-16-2, 7-13-2-2) will meet for the third and fourth times this season Friday and saturday, respectively. notre dame swept the wolverines at yost arena in ann arbor, mich., in november, its first sweep at michigan since 1978. 
michigan was selected first in the ccha preseason media poll and began the season ranked no. 3 in the country, but has not per­formed up to preseason expecta­tions and currently sits tied for eighth in the 11-team conference. however, the wolverines swept michigan state last weekend and are playing better hockey lately with the recent returns of ju­nior defenseman jon merrill and sophomore defenseman brennan serville from injury and improve-much better team.” ment from freshman goaltender irish junior captain and center jared rutledge, irish coach jeff anders lee said not only are the jackson said. wolverines improved from the 

“michigan had a bad first half,” teams’ first series, but the current jackson said. “That doesn’t mean ccha race makes every game you can’t recover from it. so they certainly concern me. They’re a see michigan PAGE 16 
CONFERENCE REALIGNMENT 

nd to stay in big east for 2013-14 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
notre dame director of athletics jack swarbrick told espn on Thursday that notre dame will remain in the big east for the 2013-14 season. 
“it’s important to say all we’re confirming is where we are next year,” swarbrick said. 
swarbrick’s comments came on the heels of the announce­ment made by irish men’s bas­ketball coach mike brey, who said during a teleconference Thursday that notre dame would play in the big east next season before heading to the atlantic coast conference (acc). notre dame announced sept. 12 that it would join the acc in all sports except foot­ball and hockey, which will be independent and join hockey east, respectively. 
“we do know we’ll be in the big east next season,” brey said when asked of schedul­ing for the 2013-2014 season. “That decision was made [Feb. 
1]. so thank god we have some direction. we will play in the big east next year.” 
swarbrick said the decision to remain in the conference applies to those other sports, excluding hockey and foot­ball, as well. The timetable for the move to the acc, how­ever, was initially unclear in september. big east rules stip­ulate that a school must wait 27 months before leaving the conference and must pay an exit fee. schools typically have the ability to expedite the pro­cess by paying a larger exit fee. 
swarbrick told espn on Thursday that he thinks it’s in everyone’s best interest for notre dame and the nine other big east schools plan­ning on exiting the conference to do so “sooner rather than later.” 
“i think it’s in the inter­est of everybody to figure out a way to get it done sooner rather than later,” swarbrick 
see big easT PAGE 16 



