

The observer | FRIDAY, FebRuARY 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Stout backline thrives on symbiotic relationship 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports Writer 
The Irish play on an artifi­cial surface in Arlotta stadium, but Irish coach Kevin corrigan speaks about his team in natu­ral terms. corrigan describes the dynamic between his All-American senior goaltender John Kemp and the rest of the defensive unit as a “symbiotic relationship.” 
“We have a good goalie so we can do certain things,” corrigan said. “We have a good goalie be­cause we do certain things. We try to put our goalies in a situa­tion where they can be comfort­able and know what they’re going to get on a consistent basis.” 
As a preseason All-American pick, Kemp enters the season as the premier man between the pipes on the national scene. Last year, he led the nation in goals-against average at just over six per game. 
but the credit does not go en­tirely to the shot-stopper. Kemp is surrounded by a culture of 


SCHEDULE 
Feb. 16 at Duke, 1 p.m., durham, n.c. Feb. 24 at Penn State, 12 p.m., University Park, Pa. March 2 vs. North Carolina, 12 p.m., Arlotta stadium March 9 vs. Hofstra, 12 p.m., Arlotta stadium March 16 at Denver, 6:30 p.m., denver, colo. March 20 vs. Ohio State, 4 p.m., Arlotta stadium 
defensive dominance, some­thing corrigan and the notre dame staff has carefully cultivated. 
“It starts with that’s how we choose to build our teams,” corrigan said. “There’s a com­mitment throughout our team to be a good defense. That af­fects the way you play offense, it affects the way you ride and clear. It affects the commitment with the personnel you have and who’s going to play and so forth.” 
Assistant coach Gerry byrne, who is in his seventh season as the team’s defensive guru, echoed corrigan’s sentiments about the two-way dynamic be­tween Kemp and the rest of the defense. 
“You have to have confidence on a dual-directional level,” byrne said. “You have to have confidence that John’s going to stop shots at a high percentage. There’s a confidence that John is great on certain kinds of shots. Like most goalies he struggles on some others. but we try to minimize shots he doesn’t like. 


March 24 at Rutgers, 1 p.m., Arlotta stadium March 30 vs. St. John’s, 1 p.m., Arlotta stadium April 2 vs. Marquette, 5 p.m., chicago, Ill. April 7 at Providence, 1 p.m., Providence, r.I. April 14 vs. Georgetown, 11 a.m., Arlotta stadium April 20 vs. Villanova, 2 p.m., Arlotta stadium April 27 vs. Syracuse, 6:30 p.m., east rutherford, n.J. 
conversely, he has confidence that our guys aren’t going to do things out of character.” 
This season, three veterans will flank Kemp: senior matt miller and juniors stephen o’hara and brian buglione. Junior mike shephardson and senior long stick midfielder Tyler Andersen will offer their services on a con­sistent basis as well. 
miller gave Kemp some high praise. but he said he recognizes the defensive system plays right into a goaltender’s hands — or stick. 
“Kemp would be the best goal­ie in the nation even if he didn’t play on our defense,” miller said. “but I guess, we really kind of crowd the crease, I guess you could say. We always have good middies who guide them down the alley, having the slide ready, the backside push. everyone knowing their role just helps to force the 12-yard shots down the alley that are pretty easy for Kemp to gobble up.” 
It might be easy to consider the goaltender the last line of defense in a sport like lacrosse. If all else fails, he’s there to take a stab at the incoming shot. but in many ways, everything starts with the goaltender as well. he’s the axis around which the defense rotates. 
“Technically, you can say I’m the last line of defense,” Kemp said. “but I think the philosophy that we have as a defense is that I’m part of it. The role that the goalie plays in lacrosse is much 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
bigger — obviously the first job is to stop the ball, but I think it’s a lot bigger than that — commu­nication of the slide packages, where the ball is, running out the shot. There’s just a lot that goes into it.” 
Although the attackmen are never allowed to cross the mid­field line, their play works into notre dame’s defensive philoso­phy as well. midfielders play the full length of the field, so their performance is important on both sides of the ball. 
The attack need to avoid taking poor shots to keep the opponent out of a transition game. The midfielders need to ride the op­ponent as they clear. 
“If any of those pieces aren’t in place then you aren’t a good de­fensive team,” corrigan said. “We know we don’t need to score 15 to win a game. but at the same time they’ve got a responsibility to making that be true. That’s some­thing they do pretty effectively. I think they’re part of us being a good defensive team, rather than passive beneficiaries of us being a good defensive team.” 
There are millions of examples of symbiotic relationships in na­ture, and notre dame has an ex­ample in its own backyard — it’s on the turf in Arlotta stadium. 

Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, FebRuARY 15, 2013 | The observer 




TOP RETURNER 
senior goalie John Kemp is coming off a pair of stellar sea­sons in the Irish cage. As a soph­omore in 2011, Kemp ranked second nationally in goals against average and earned honorable mention all-America honors as well as all-big east accolades. In 2012 Kemp was a first team all-American and was one of 25 nominees for the Tewaaraton Award after playing all but seven minutes and 16 sec­onds in net for notre dame. 
X-FACTOR 
The X-factor this season will be consistent offensive output in the ncAA tournament. Though it’s months away, the Irish of­fense will need to kick into over­drive when the tournament rolls around. Last season notre dame scored just five goals in the na­tional semifinal loss to Loyola. In 2011, the Irish fell in the ncAA quarterfinals to duke after net­ting just five goals. In three tour­nament wins in the past two seasons, however, notre dame has averaged nearly 13 goals per game. 
TELLING 

NUMBER 
6.31. In 2012 notre dame al­lowed an average of 6.31 goals per game, the top mark in the nation. The Irish play a slower, grind-it-out style of lacrosse than many teams across the na­tion, yet their defense is still pro­digious for any pace. With three of the four backline players re­turning for the Irish — Kemp, miller and o’hara — expect more defensive dominance from notre dame. Junior brian buglione steps into the void created by the since-graduated Kevin randall. 


WHAT’S NEW 
The Irish will be infused with new blood on attack with the arrival of freshman matt Kavanagh. The 5-foot-8 rookie spent a year of prep school at hotchkiss (conn.) and was the nation’s top-ranked post­graduate player according to Inside Lacrosse. Kavanagh led Team UsA with 20 goals at the Under-19 World championships in Finland over the summer and was named tournament mvP. Kavanagh netted a buzzer-beating goal from his stomach in notre dame’s scrimmage against detroit on Feb. 2. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



WHAT’S NOT 
notre dame returns eight of its 10 starters from last season. Kemp, miller, o’hara, Foley, marlatt, hopkins and rogers started all 16 games while doyle started 15 as a freshman. The Irish have a slew of contributing upperclassmen cycling in off the bench and are both deep and experienced. Irish coach Kevin corrigan will be looking for sim­ilar results from a team that fin­ished 13-3 overall, lost just one game in the regular season and ripped off a string of 10 consecu­tive wins from the beginning of march through the end of April. 

BEST CASE 
The Irish do just what they did in the regular season a year ago: dominate. except this time they ride that momentum into the big east tournament, where they make it out of the first round, make another run to the Final Four and explode offensively en route to a national title. The up­perclassmen build on last year’s success and newcomers such as Kavanagh and buglione fill the voids left by last year’s seniors without missing a beat. 

WORST CASE 
The Irish don’t win the close games. The bounces don’t go their way. notre dame won two overtime games in 2012, includ­ing a triple overtime thriller against denver. The squad won three games by one goal and four games by two goals. The Irish struggle to replace max Pfeifer and Kevin randall and teams fol­low the Loyola blueprint of shut­ting down notre dame’s offense while finding ways to penetrate the typically stout defense. 

2012 RECAP 
The Irish began the season ranked ninth in the nation and bested no. 2 duke 7-3 in the season opener. After losing to Penn state in overtime the next weekend, notre dame tore off 10 straight wins and ascended to no. 2 in the rankings before the big east tournament. notre dame fell to st. John’s 8-7 in the confer­ence semifinals but still earned the no. 4 seed in the ncAA tour­nament. The Irish defeated Yale and virginia in the opening two rounds before losing to Loyola 7-5 in the national semifinals. 

GAME TO WATCH 
The season opener, Feb. 16, against duke in durham, n.c. The no. 4 blue devils enter the 2013 campaign a spot behind the third-ranked Irish. This matchup has become a rivalry over the past few seasons. In each of the last three years notre dame, a typically dominant team in February, has defeated duke, a notorious slow starter, in the Irish’s season opener. In 2011 and 2010, however, duke avenged those early losses by knocking notre dame out of the postsea­son. In 2010, duke defeated the Irish 6-5 in overtime to win the ncAA championship. 
PROJECTED 


LINEUP 
Goaltender: No. 1 John Kemp, senior, 16 Gs, 6.27 GAA, .637 save percentage Defense: No. 9 Matt Miller, senior, 16 Gs, 30 Gb, 18 cT 
Defense: No. 4 Stephen O’Hara, Junior, 16 Gs, 39 Gb, 12 cT 
Defense: No. 25 brian buglione, Junior, 2 GP Midfield: No. 5 Jim Marlatt, Junior, 16 Gs, 19 G, 12 A Midfield: No. 15 Ryan Foley, senior, 16 Gs, 13 G, 8 A Midfield: No. 17 Will Corrigan, 
sophomore, 16 GP, 5 G, 1 A Attack: No. 12 Westy Hopkins, Junior, 16 Gs, 18 G, 7 A Attack: No. 18 Sean Rogers, senior, 16 Gs, 22 G, 8 A Attack: No. 28 Conor Doyle, sophomore, 15 Gs, 13 G, 7 A FO: No. 31 Liam O’Connor, Junior, 14 GP, 94-189 (49.7%) Fo, 43 Gb LSM: No. 27 Tyler Andersen, senior, 16 GP, 20 Gb, 8 cT 
GS = Games Started GAA = Goals-against average Gb = Ground balls CT = Caused turnovers GP = Games Played G = Goals A = Assists 


The observer | FRIDAY, FebRuARY 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 



Halfpenny welcomes familiarity of year two 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports Writer 
Last spring, first-year coach chris halfpenny led the Irish to the ncAA tournament follow­ing a two-year drought. now in her second season, halfpenny doesn’t need to focus on adjust­ing to a new school or a new ros­ter. Instead, no. 9 notre dame can focus on returning to the tournament and challenging for a national championship. 
“I think that every year has its own challenges, quite honestly,” halfpenny said. “some things are smoother just because af­ter a year here you start to get to understand the way things are done at notre dame. It’s easier to understand their class schedules, academic timing of testing and things like that that you really do have to build it for mentality reasons.” 
It did not take halfpenny long to adjust to the academic expec­tations placed upon notre dame student-athletes. In 2012, the team maintained a cumulative GPA above 3.0 and was named an Intercollegiate Women’s Lacrosse coaches Association Academic squad. halfpenny attributed her understanding of notre dame’s academic demands to her pre­vious coaching stops. she be­gan her coaching career in 2001 as an assistant at brown. From 2004 to 2006 she was the top as­sistant coach for duke. And in her five seasons as the head coach of William and mary, her players earned a combined 59 
colonial  Athletic  Association  
commissioner’s  Academic  
Awards.  

“I’ve had such similar stops with the academic-athletic paral­lel,” she said. “obviously drawing off my time at duke but also just dealing with this style student athlete at the brown and William and mary and duke stops. nothing much there [was differ­ent academically.]” 
Though she understood the classroom lives of her players, halfpenny said she had to learn more about the competition in an entirely new conference. halfpenny had rarely coached against most of notre dame’s big east foes, she said. 
“I would certainly say the big east is the biggest difference [coming to notre dame],” she said. “heading into this sea­son it’s nice to know I’m better. I didn’t play that many teams in the big east before I came here so it had been years since I had seen some of them.” 
halfpenny said she also feels more familiar with the rest of notre dame’s opponents this season. The Irish will host four ranked teams this year, includ­ing defending ncAA champion and top-ranked northwestern on April 24. The Irish will also travel to syracuse to face the ncAA runner-up and no. 2 orange. 
“coming right out of the gate we have stanford,” halfpenny said. “We played them last year. now I haven’t seen them in a year, because we played them early and I hadn’t had the opportunity to see them down the stretch at all. but now at least there’s com­fort because last year it felt like we were going, as a staff, again it was an opener so you didn’t have that much film on them and you didn’t know their tendencies. but I certainly feel a little bit more comfort with our opponents this year.” 
The coaches aren’t the only ones feeling more comfortable in 2013. The players have had a year’s worth of integration into halfpenny’s system and termi­nology, and the coach said her team can communicate more to be tapering. What does a taper easily this season. mean?’ when we’re heading into 

“There’s certainly a little bit of a game week, whereas last year comfort for the upperclassmen,” they’d be like, ‘Taper? What does she said. “The upperclassmen are that mean?’ truly upperclassmen this year. “They understand that this The younger kids can ask an older year. so I think it’s certainly been 

“Some things are smoother just because after a year here you start to get to understand the way things are done at Notre Dame.” 
Chris Halfpenny 
Irish coach 

kid what to expect the first day more comfortable,” halfpenny of preseason and what to expect said, in week two and ‘when she says After bowing out in the first this, what does that mean?’ or round of last season’s ncAA tour-where we say, ‘hey we’re going nament, halfpenny said the Irish are more focused than ever at achieving success. 
“We gave northwestern all they could handle the first 52 minutes of that first-round ncAA game on their field and came up just short with unforced errors,” she said. 
“We really set our sights on be­ing the best we can be each day taking it one day at a time, tak­ing it one game at a time and be­ing not just good and great but notre dame good, notre dame great. What is that? That’s cham­pionships. That’s competing for championships.” 
The Irish begin their search for a title at 6 p.m. saturday in Palo Alto, calif., against stanford. 

Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, FebRuARY 15, 2013 | The observer 

season. The Irish ranked 34th 



TOP RETURNER 
nationally in scoring defense and were tied with boston 

Junior midfielder and co-cap-college for the highest aver­tain margaret smith returns age of goals per game allowed from a strong 2012 campaign, among teams that finished in during which she compiled 47 the top 20 of rPI last season. draw controls, 37 ground balls The Irish have proven they have and 31 caused turnovers. she the offensive firepower to win also helped the Irish on the of-games, but they’ll need strong fensive end, scoring 12 goals defensive efforts to defeat their on the season. As a unanimous elite competition. preseason all-big east selection, the Irish will count on smith to contribute at both ends of the WHAT’S NEW field. her communication and leadership will also help de-Although notre dame has termine the success of a young successfully transitioned be­notre dame midfield unit. tween head coaches, the team 
will look to adapt to two new assistant coaches, former Irish include senior attacks Jenny record before losing in the big 

X-FACTOR WORST CASE 
All-American Jill byers and for-Granger and Jaimie morrison, east semifinals and in the first mer Irish men’s lacrosse stand-senior goalkeeper ellie hilling round of the ncAA tourna-Junior attack Lindsay Powell out Jake marmul. As notre and senior defense emily notre dame struggles against ment. Under halfpenny’s new led the Irish in scoring with 44 dame’s career leader in goals, conner. a schedule filled with several of offensive sets, the team’s scor­goals in 16 games last season. byers will bring valuable exper-the top teams in the country. ing average climbed from 12 but Powell suffered a season-tise to the team’s offense, while The Irish are slated to play five goals per game in 2011 to nearly ending torn AcL, her second marmul will look to apply the teams ranked in the preseason 14 goals per game last season. 

BEST CASE 

torn AcL in her college career, lessons he learned playing un-debeer media Poll — no. 1 shortly before notre dame’s der Irish men’s defensive coor-“once again, our sights are syracuse, no. 2 northwestern, big east semifinal game against dinator Gerry byrne to bolster set on making it all the way to no. 7 Loyola (md.), no. 14 

GAME TO WATCH 

Loyola. If Powell can return to the defense. [Philadelphia] come memorial Georgetown and no. 20 ohio last season’s form, she will be day weekend,” halfpenny said. state, in addition to a tough northwestern has been the a main catalyst for the Irish of-The second-year coach has high slate of big east games. notre model program in women’s la­fense. but, if her recovery from WHAT’S NOT expectations for her squad, but dame went 2-5 against the crosse for the last decade, as the her second AcL injury is not as her goal of reaching the Final aforementioned five teams last Wildcats have claimed seven of smooth as her first, notre dame “It’s nice to know that I have Four is attainable for this Irish season and will likely need to the last eight ncAA champion-might have difficulty generat-21 girls on the team that know team. The squad returns eight get by syracuse and Loyola to ships. The Wildcats defeated ing goals. me this year,” Irish coach of 12 starters from last season capture the conference crown. notre dame twice last year, 
christine halfpenny said. “Ten and has considerable depth on but the Irish hung with them new faces, but 21 that really offense, where it excelled last for much of the second game, a 

TELLING 2012 RECAP 
know me after last year getting season. The Irish lost some key 12-7 loss in the first round of the a little bit more comfortable in contributors on defense but will ncAA tournament. This sea-

NUMBER 

our system.” look to replace them with some notre dame got off to a blis-son, the two teams will meet in halfpenny’s quote summa-highly acclaimed underclass-tering start in halfpenny’s Arlotta stadium on April 24, and 
10.56. That’s the average rizes the depth and experience men and freshmen. first season, winning its first an Irish win could do wonders number of goals per game al-of this year’s Irish team. some eight games. The Irish finished for the national perception of lowed by notre dame last of the team’s main veterans the regular season with a 13-3 the program. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

PROJECTED SCHEDULE 

LINEUP 
Feb. 16 at Stanford, 6 p.m., 

stanford, calif. Goaltender: No. 33 ellie Feb. 27 vs. Ohio State, 6 p.m., Hilling, senior, 10.9 GAA, 44.9 Arlotta stadium save percentage, 12-5 record March 2 at Duquesne, 12 p.m., Defense: No. 29 barbara Pittsburgh, Pa. Sullivan, sophomore, 32 cT, 40 March 5 vs. Detroit, 6 p.m. Gb, 32 dc Arlotta stadium 
Defense: No. 28 emily March 9 vs. boston Conner, senior, 14 cT, 14 Gb, 2 university, 3 p.m., Arlotta dc stadium Defense: No. 10 Leah March 13 at Vanderbilt, 4 Gallagher, sophomore,  14 GP, p.m., nashville, Tenn. 3 Gb, 1 cT March 22 vs. Rutgers, 7 p.m., Midfield: No. 13 Jenny Arlotta stadium Granger, senior, 20 G, 12 A, 14 March 24 vs. Villanova, 1 p.m., Gb Arlotta stadium Midfield: No. 22 Margaret April 5 at Louisville, 5 p.m., Smith, Junior, 12 G, 47 dc, 31 cT Louisville, Ky. Midfield: No. 9 Grace Dooley, April 7 at Cincinnati, 1 p.m., Junior, 4 G, 10 Gb, 14 dc cincinnati Midfield: No. 2 Caitlin April 12 vs. Loyola (Md.), 1 Gargan, sophomore, 11 G, 4 A, p.m., Arlotta stadium 10 dc April 14 vs. Georgetown, 2 Midfield: No. 21 McKenzie p.m., Arlotta stadium brown, senior,  8 G, 2 A,  22 dc April 19 at Syracuse, 7 p.m., Attack: No. 18 Lindsay Powell, syracuse, n.Y. Junior, 44 G, 1 A, 23 dc April 21 at Connecticut, 12 Attack: No. 14 Jaimie p.m., storrs, conn. Morrison, senior, 34 G, 8 A, 14 April 24 vs. Northwestern, 7 Gb p.m., Arlotta stadium Attack: No. 4 Kaitlyn brosco, April 27 vs. Marquette, 1 p.m., Junior, 22 G, 7 A, 7 Gb Arlotta stadium 
GAA = Goals-against average CT = Caused turnovers Gb = Ground balls DC = Draw controls G = Goals,  A = Assists 





The observer | FRIDAY, FebRuARY 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BASEBALL 




Juniors Jagielo and Slania return to same team 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports Writer 
When eric Jagielo agreed to play for the harwich mariners last summer, he knew he was signing up to be one of the cape cod League’s iconic “boys of summer.” What he didn’t re­alize was that he would be getting an introduction to live­stock management to go along with batting tips and exposure in front of major-league scouts. 
The junior third baseman spent the summer living on a farm with host parents and four of his teammates, an expe­rience completely alien to the native of the chicago suburbs. 
“We spent a lot of time with our host mom, helping her out on the farm, whether it was getting eggs from the chick­ens or wetting down the pigs when they got too hot,” Jagielo said.  “We definitely did mess around with the animals a little bit more than she prob­ably would’ve liked us to, but it was also fun to learn some new things.” 
While Jagielo and his team­mates were busy playing pranks on the farm, his notre dame teammate, junior right-handed pitcher dan slania, was enjoying time with his own host family and their two young grandchildren when he wasn’t closing for the cotuit Kettleers. 
“The riccis were unbeliev­able people,” slania said. “They had a couple of jet skis and a boat, and we would go down to the lake and hang out and have fun all day. especially on off-days, it was a great way to have fun and relax.” 
but slania and Jagielo didn’t get too many of those days. each cape cod League team played seven days a week, with just six days off during the 44­game season. 
slania, for one, wouldn’t have had it any other way. 
“The competition is so much fun,” slania said. “I would do camps in the morning, get a quick bite to eat, and then go right back to the field. so I would spend six hours a day at the field, trying to get better, learning from all the coaches and everybody.” 
The cape cod League has been one of the premier ama­teur leagues in the country since its inception in 1885, and both slania and Jagielo rel­ished the opportunity to com­pete with some of the nation’s best college players. 
“It’s definitely more competi­tive [than college baseball], but it’s also more fun,” slania said. 
“It was kind of crazy to be playing with kids who will be going in the first round [of the major league draft] next spring and then becoming re­ally good friends with them,” Jagielo said. “There’s an out-but when it came to individ­fielder who goes to stanford by ual matchups, it was clear who the name Austin Wilson, and came out the winner. he was just a different type of “I faced him twice, struck athlete. You’ll be hearing his him out both times,” slania name in the top five to 10 picks overall. I’m glad that he was on little friendly competition.” 

The teammates were sup­posed to have another notre dame player join them on the cape last summer, but junior 


“He got the best of me in those times in the 
my team, and it was fun to play with him.” 


Cape, but that’s how baseball works.” 
first baseman Trey mancini was injured a few weeks into the season while playing for the mariners. 
“he was going to live with me, but he only got to stay there for a couple weeks, which was disappointing because I wanted to have some fun with him, not only playing with him but going to the beach and all that kind of stuff,” Jagielo said. “At least he’s healthy now and this season should be fun to be back out on the field with him.” 
but for both players, the ex­perience of playing on the cape will not be easily forgotten. 
“The community knew that you were coming in for the summer to play baseball and what they did at night for fun was to come out and watch you play,” Jagielo said. “It was kind of fun to see how the whole community kind of revolved around the teams and the cape.” 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
not that the two Irish players were too shabby themselves. slania’s Kettleers went 30-14, winning the Western division, the President’s cup and the barnstable Patriot cup. The right-hander played in the All-star game and was named relief Pitcher of the Year. Jagielo hit .291 with 13 hom­ers and was named an All-star himself, while the mariners were eastern division champs. 
Eric Jagielo Irish junior third baseman 
said. “I don’t think he’ll admit to that.” 
Jagielo, though, was willing to give his college teammate some credit. 
“he got the best of me in those times in the cape, but that’s how baseball works,” Jagielo said. “It’s always good to have a 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, FebRuARY 15, 2013 | The observer 



TOP RETURNER 
notre dame has a handful of talent returning for the 2013 season, but no one has gar­nered as much national atten­tion as junior third baseman eric Jagielo. he led the big east with 13 home runs in 2012 to go along with a .310 batting average and 43 rbIs. Jagielo batted .291 with 13 home runs in the cape cod League this summer and has been tabbed by many as a potential first-round pick in the 2013 mLb draft. 

X-FACTOR 
notre dame has one of the best closers in the nation in ju­nior dan slania. he’s available to come in and shut the door on opponents as long as the Irish can maintain a lead late into ballgames. The righthander led the big east in saves (12) and appearances (31) in 2012. While there were talks of mov­ing slania to the starting rota­tion, Irish coach mik Aoki said he will remain in his closing role for now. Whatever role he’s used in, slania will be a key contribu­tor in 2013. 
TELLING 

NUMBER 
The number three has be­come an intriguing theme for notre dame in 2013. In his third season as skipper, Aoki leads the Irish, predicted to finish in the no. 3 spot in the big east by the conference’s coaches. he will rely on a trio of third-year play­ers, eric Jagielo, dan slania and Trey mancini to live up to their selections on the preseason all-big east team. With a success­ful season, the Irish could be in contention for an ncAA tourna­ment appearance, the third in school history. 

WHAT’S NEW 
Junior catcher Forrest Johnson will step into the starting role behind home plate, filling the void left by Joe hudson, who was taken by the reds in last year’s mLb draft. notre dame will rely on Johnson, who has ap­peared in just one career game, to handle notre dame’s veteran pitching staff. That will be no easy task, but the Irish coaches were unanimous in their praise for Johnson, who all agreed he is notre dame’s most improved player entering the season. 

WHAT’S NOT 
Jagielo and fellow junior Trey mancini made for a formidable one-two punch in the middle of notre dame’s order in 2012, and Irish fans can expect that same power this season. Jagielo and mancini combined for 25 home runs in 2012, helping notre dame lead the big east in that category. Aoki said he expects both Jagielo and mancini to be generating quite a bit of buzz come the June mLb draft. 

BEST CASE 
 We see the Irish in omaha this summer as they “estab­lish [themselves] as a big east contender and an ncAA con­tender,” Aoki said. To do this, notre dame needs to win the midweek games and compete for all five games of the week at a high level. The Irish have a deep enough lineup of proven vet­eran talent and new young guns to do so. 

WORST CASE 
notre dame continues to struggle with confidence is­sues and gets overwhelmed by its schedule. The Irish have the toughest schedule in the big east, with harsh non-confer­ence games and road trips to co-big east champions Louisville and st. John’s. notre dame will play 11 games against teams that reached the ncAA tourna­ment, seven of those against teams that advanced to the ncAA super regionals or college World series. 


2012 RECAP 
notre dame (31-27, 14-13 big east) had promising moments last season, but hit a mid-sea­son wall that took too long to overcome, Aoki said. “I think our confidence eroded some­times when we lost a couple of tough games on the road or in the conference and then lost a game that on paper we weren’t supposed to lose,” he said. notre dame made it to the semifinals of the big east tournament, but a heartbreak­ing 2-1 loss to st. John’s ended its run. 


SERIES TO 


WATCH 
 There will be a wait for this series, as it takes place on may 11 and 12, but the wait will be well worth it. Last season in conference play, st. John’s swept the Irish at eck stadium in a three-game series, 6-4, 6-4, 3-1 respectively. When the two teams met again in the big east tournament, the red storm routed the Irish in the first round 12-2. After advancing through two elimination games against rutgers (9-0) and seton hall (4-3), notre dame was once again shut down by the red storm 2-1 in the semifinals and was eliminated from the tournament.  st. John’s won the big east last year and advanced to the Tuscon super regional, finishing with a 40-23 record. The Irish will seek vengeance against st. John’s at Jack Kaiser stadium in Queens, n.Y. in may. 
PROJECTED 


LINEUP 
C: No. 30 Forrest Johnson, Junior, did not play in 2012 1b: No. 3 Trey Mancini, Junior, .317 avg, 47 runs, 45 rbI 2b: No. 35 Frank DeSico, senior, 75 hits, 13 sb, 174 assists 3b: No. 7 eric Jagielo, Junior, .546 slugging percent­age, 13 hr, 15 2b SS: No, 15 Jason McMurray, sophomore, 53 assists, .261 avg, 6 extra-base hits RF: No. 13 Mac Hudgins, sophomore, .976 field per­centage, .331 obP, 2 errors 
CF: No. 20 Charlie Markson, senior, .390 obP, 10 hbP, 19 sb 
LF: No. 10 Conor biggio, sophomore, 7 sb, .308 obP, 0 GdP DH: No. 19 Ryan bull, sophomore, 27 bb, 8 2b, 1 GdP 
SP: No. 18 Sean Fitzgerald, Junior, 27 ap­pearances (7 starts), 3.82 erA, .268 opp avg SP: No. 1 Adam Norton, senior, 15 starts, 98.0 IP, 
4.32 erA, 7 bb SP: No. 11 David Hearne, Freshman SP: No. 5 Nick McCarty, Freshman 
Set-up: No. 51 Donnie Hissa, Junior, 25 appear­ances, 0 hr, 5.27 erA Lefty set-up: no. 16 Zak Kutsulis, Freshman 
Closer: No. 40 Dan Slania, Junior, 12 saves, 31 appearances 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


SCHEDULE 
Feb. 16 vs. Florida Gulf Coast, 
2:30 p.m., sarasota, Fla. Feb. 16 vs. Ohio State, 6 p.m., sarasota, Fla. Feb. 17 vs. Mercer, 12 p.m., sarasota, Fla. Feb. 22 vs. Tulane, 5:30 p.m., new orleans Feb. 23 vs. Tulane, 1 p.m., new orleans Feb. 24 vs. Tulane, 11 p.m., new orleans March 1 vs. Massachusetts, 3 p.m., cary, n.c. March 1 vs. Tennessee, 6:30 p.m., cary, n.c. March 2 vs. Virginia Tech, 6 p.m., cary, n.c. March 3 vs. Rhode Island, 11 a.m., cary, n.c. March 8 vs. uCLA, 9 p.m., Los Angeles March 9 vs. uSC, 5 p.m., Los Angeles March 10 vs. Oklahoma, 7 a.m., Los Angeles 
March 12 at uC Santa barbara, 6 p.m., santa barbara, calif. March 14 at Cal Poly, 12 a.m., san Luis obispo, calif. March 15 at Cal Poly, 12 a.m., san Luis obispo, calif. March 16 at Cal Poly, 10 a.m., san Luis obispo, calif. 
March 22 vs. Seton Hall, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium March 23 vs. Seton Hall, 2:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium March 24 vs. Seton Hall, 12:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium March 25 vs. Kent State, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium March 26 vs. Kent State, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium March 28 at Louisville, 6 p.m., Louisville, Ky. March 29 at Louisville, 6 p.m., Louisville, Ky. March 30 at Louisville, 1 p.m., Louisville, Ky. April 2 vs. uIC, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 3 vs. Valparaiso, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 5 vs. Villanova, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 6 vs. Villanova, 2:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 7 vs. Villanova, 1:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 9 vs. Michigan, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 10 vs. eastern Michigan, 
5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 12 at Pittsburgh, 6 p.m., Pittsburgh April 13 at Pittsburgh, 3 p.m., Pittsburgh April 14 at Pittsburgh, 12 p.m., Pittsburgh April 16 at Michigan, 4:05 p.m., Ann Arbor, mich. 
April 17 vs. bowling Green, 
5:35
 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 19 vs. Quinnipiac, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 20 vs. Quinnipiac, 3:30 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 21 vs. Quinnipiac, 1:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 23 vs. Toledo, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 24 vs. Michigan State, 

5:35
 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 26 vs. Connecticut, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 27 vs. Connecticut, 2:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 28 vs. Connecticut, 1:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium April 30 at Central Michigan, 


4:05 p.m., mount Pleasant, mich. May 3 vs. uSF, 5:35 p.m., Frank eck stadium May 4 vs. uSF, 2:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium May 5 vs. uSF, 1:05 p.m., Frank eck stadium May 11 at St. John’s (double­header), 12:00 p.m., Queens, n.Y. May 12 at St. John’s, 1:00 p.m., Queens, n.Y. May 14 at Western Michigan, 3 p.m., Kalamazoo, mich. May 16 at Cincinnati, 6:30 p.m., cincinnati May 17 at Cincinnati, 6:30 p.m., cincinnati May 18 at Cincinnati, 1 p.m., cincinnati 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





