THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSPAPER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

vOLUME 47, ISSUE 30 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
‘We’ve got your back’ 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s student governments host week promoting dialogue about mental health 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

Editor’s note: This is the first installment in a three-part series discussing mental health at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in recog­nition of national Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
After recognizing mental ill­ness as an issue on all three lo­cal Holy Cross college campuses, student government leaders de­cided to address the often stig­matized topic by dedicating this entire week to promoting dia­logue about mental health. 
The student leaders’ efforts coincide with national Mental Illness Awareness Week, which Congress established in 1990 in recognition of the National Alliance on Mental Illness’ ef­forts to raise awareness of the issue. 
Although Saint Mary’s titled its week “Support a Belle, Love a Belle” and Notre Dame titled its week “Irish State of Mind,” the campuses are collaborating on events with the central theme of “We’ve Got Your Back,” Saint Mary’s student body president Kat Sullivan said. 
“We initially were going to call [the week] ‘You Are Not Alone’ because this is a community is­sue and something that we can work with as a tri-campus com­munity, but we decided to go with ‘We’ve Got Your Back’ be­cause we thought it really em­bodies the mission of all three colleges. … We are part of the Order of the Holy Cross commu­nity, and I think it is important for us to be there to support our community, no matter what we are facing.” 
Lisa Anderson, president of the St. Joseph County chapter of 
see HEALTH PAGE 7 



NDream celebrates new admissions policy 
Students get colorful in local 5K 

By SARAH McCARTHY 
News Writer 

Students and faculty gath­ered outside Main Building Friday afternoon to celebrate Notre Dame’s decision to ad­mit undocumented students. 
The University announced this decision in August. 
The event, titled “NDream Immigration Celebration,” was sponsored by student govern­ment, the Student Coalition for Immigration Advocacy, the Progressive Student Alliance, the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for Latino Studies. 
In a speech given at the celebration, student body president Alex Coccia said he 
see NDream PAGE 8 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
News Writer 

On Saturday morning, many Notre Dame students participated in the self-pro­claimed “happiest 5K on the planet” when the Color Run came to South Bend. 
Senior Kelly Cronin said different colors of powder were thrown at runners at every kilometer of the 5K route. 
“That was a nice punctua­tion [because] it made it feel like I was going through it a lot faster than if it had just been every mile, or every now and then,” she said. “It was nice to keep track of where I was based on how many colors I had thrown at me.” 
Because of the high hu­midity on Saturday morn­ing, Cronin said the color stayed on the runners.
 “I was told that the dye would come out of my clothes, and I’m sure with another shower or two, the dye will come out of my skin,” she said. 
Cronin said she enjoyed the casual, non-competitive environment of the Color Run. 
“People were just there to have fun, so I felt like it was okay for me to not be a very serious runner,” she said. “It was a cool atmosphere. I’m not a very competitive per­son, so just having a loving, joyful running atmosphere was great.” 
The lack of tracking devic­es for runners to time them­selves added to the informal race set-up, she said. 
“They didn’t even have a screen telling you how long it took you to run,” Cronin said. “The idea of not hav­ing a timing device at the beginning and the end made it a lot more casual 
see RUN PAGE 6 


NEWS PAGE 3 vIEWPOINT PAGE 11 SCENE PAGE 12 FOOTBALL INSIDER 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew Gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: Grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby Hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could give a newborn child one piece of advice, what would it be? 



Caitlyn Migawa 
freshman 
McCandless Hall 

“Don’t be afraid to take chances, because good or bad, a lesson will come from it.” 

Angela Villagomez 
freshman 
McCandless Hall 

“Try to learn a second language. It will take you a long way.” 

Tess Siver 
junior 
Le Mans Hall 
“Read the Tractatus.” 


Emma Kate Conlin 
freshman 
Le Mans Hall 

“Be kind to other people.” 

Chism Igwe 
freshman Le Mans Hall 

“Never try to look for love in the wrong places.” 

Emily Rush 
freshman Le Mans Hall 

“Life is too short to not be friends with good people.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Kaitlyn Rabach Mike Monaco Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kelly Konya Joseph Monardo Nicole McAlee A.J. Godeaux 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Maria Massa Gabriela Leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Red Mass Snite Salon Series Jory Vinkour concert Zen Meditation Mobile Summit 
Grant Tobin Dan Brombach Wei Lin Basilica of the Sacred Snite Museum of Art DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Eck Hall of Law Heart 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Arts Center Center 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. Collegial art exchange 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Notre Dame holds it 
Corrections Celebrate those who viewing with follow-up Harpsichord concert. Open to students, 2013 Mobile Summit. serve in politics. discussion. faculty and staff. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at Panel Discussion on Men’s Soccer Theatre: On the Film: Elena Men’s and Women’s all times. We do, however, recognize that Pope Francis Alumni Stadium Verge DeBartolo Performing Swimming and Diving we will make mistakes. If we have made Coleman-Morse 7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Rolfs Aquatic Center a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-Center The Irish take on the Arts Center 7 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-8 p.m. 
4541 so we can correct our error. 

8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Maryland Terrapins. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Winner of the Cannes The Irish host the Talk on the Pope. Play by Eric Overmyer. Special Jury Prize. Dennis Stark Relays. 


ND research team retains grant, despite shutdown 
team headed by Scott Egan, 
By ALEX CAO 

News Writer research associate profes­sor in biological sciences, 
The United States to create new technology to Department of Agriculture track genetically engineered awarded a $500,000 grant organisms. to a Notre Dame research Egan said the grant will 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

fund two different methods of detecting genetically en­gineered organisms, one of which is called environmen­tal DNA, or e-DNA. 
Egan said e-DNA refers to tissue and cells that organ­isms naturally lose or shed into the environment, which can be used to detect the presence of certain species. He said an example of this is genetically modified salmon produced by a private com­pany to breed year-round rather than only during the spring or summer. 
“When you take water sam­ples, you can filter those tis­sues and cells and do a DNA extraction, and then use standard genetic tools to de­tect species present in given environment,” Egan said. “Instead, we’re going to fo­cus on genetically modified organisms rather than inva­sive species.” 
The second technology funded by the grant centers around environmental pro­teins, Egan said. 
“We have a collaborator in our grant, professor Jennifer Tank in the [Notre Dame] biology department, as well as co-collaborator Emma Rosi-Marshall at the Cary 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
Institute in New York, and they have used other tech­nology to find that some ge­netically engineered corn releases different proteins into the environment that we could also detect,” Egan said. 
“We were very lucky that our grant was funded this summer and the paperwork was just recently delivered and finalized with Notre Dame literally weeks before the shutdown.” 
Scott Egan 
professor of biology 
Egan said they will also collaborate with physicists to develop a device that per­forms “light-transmission spectroscopy” (LTS) on the proteins to learn more about their nature. Carol Tanner, Notre Dame physics profes­sor and developer of the LTS device, said in a press release the information provided by the LTS technology could provide much more thor­ough information about the proteins. 

“The LTS technology ex­hibits the potential to be a field-ready device that can generate rapid and highly accurate detection results, even when a target is at low densities,” Tanner said in the release. 
In light of the recent gov­ernment shutdown, Egan said luckily, their project still would remain funded. 
“We were very lucky in that our grant was funded this summer and the paper­work was just recently de­livered and finalized with Notre Dame literally weeks before the shutdown,” Egan said. “Two weeks later, we would have been affected. We would have had graduate students who didn’t have any money.” 
Egan said though changes to their approach may have to be confirmed with gov­ernment officials, his re­search and his collaborators’ research will go on. 
Contact Alex Cao at                      acao@nd.edu 


“MOBILE ATHLETICS” BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
Coach Muffet McGraw, Discussions on teaching and learning with mobile, state ND Women’s Basketball Coach of the platforms, user engagement and mobile at ND 
“HUMANITARIAN MOBILE TOOLKIT” VENDOR FAIR 
Carol Bothwell, Catholic Relief Services Get the latest from premier mobile companies 
“GOING MOBILE TO RE-ELECT THE FREE LUNCH PRESIDENT” (Registration required, limited space available) Dan Ryan and Jason Kunesh, Obama for America 
Go to: mobile.nd.edu to register. 

hashtag: #mobileND 
facebook.com/ndmobilesummit 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




Belles invite fathers for Senior Dads Weekend 
By CAROLINE STICKELL 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary’s class of 2014 and their fathers enjoyed events at Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame this weekend during the College’s annual Senior Dads Weekend. 
Susie Larson, vice president of the 2014 class board, who helped organize the event, said the board worked hard to find an open weekend for this event since last spring, because it had to account for the numerous events on campus and the foot­ball schedule. 
Larson said there was a great deal of interest in all of the scheduled events, which result­ed in a large turnout from the senior class and their fathers. 
“The weekend had 280 stu­dents register and our class is 298 strong, so we were ex­tremely excited about the turn­out,” Larson said. 
Student body president Kat Sullivan said the class board did a good job of including the entire senior class community. 
“Regardless of who the father figure is in a girl’s life, the class board made sure the events were welcoming to all, includ­ing some mothers,” Sullivan said. 
The weekend’s events opened with a beer garden and silent auction Friday evening in the College’s Student Center. 
Sullivan said the event in­cluded an open bar with all types of beer and wine, and the silent auction was filled with donated items from the fathers. 
“Whatever money that was made from the auction was then given to the class of 2014’s board, so it was a great way to fundraise for future class events,” Sullivan said.  “Also, everyone who went got a beer sty with a French cross on it and little koozies with bowties on them to commemorate the weekend.”  


On Saturday, the College Archives and the Riedinger House were open for morning tours. Sullivan said this helped the girls to share their College’s history with their fathers. 
Senior Bridget Byrne said the tours of Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday afternoon were one of her favorite parts of the 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
weekend, as well as a watch party for the Notre Dame vs. ASU game at CJ’s Bar later that evening. 
“I have always loved watch­ing games with my Dad, so this was something special for us to do together before graduation,” Byrne said. “It was also so fun to do push-ups in CJ’s during the game watch, and I know all of my friends were really looking forward to this week­end after all of the fun we had at Junior Mom’s Weekend last spring.” 

The weekend culminated with Mass in the Chapel of the Holy Spirit in Le Mans Hall on Saturday night, Sullivan said. 
At the Mass, Saint Mary’s students and their fathers cel­ebrated their relationships. 
The celebrant, Fr. John Pearson, stressed the impor­tance of letting their parents know how grateful the students were for their love and support, Sullivan said. 
“Fr. John talked a lot about making sure us girls recog­nized that our fathers make sacrifices for us not because they’re expecting a thank you, but because they love us,” Sullivan said. “I think that that really resonated with a lot of girls and their fathers that were present.” 
The parent weekends at Saint Mary’s are among many stu­dents’ favorite traditions on campus, Larson said. 
“I am a strong supporter in how Saint Mary’s orga­nizes their parent weekends throughout our four years on campus because I think it re­flects our experience growing as young women,” she said. 
Contact Caroline Stickell at cstick01@saintmarys.edu 




Run 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
… then you could just focus on having fun and getting as much color thrown at you as possible.” 
The run started at the Silver Hawks’ stadium, Cronin said, and went through downtown South Bend and several resi­dential areas before return­ing to the stadium. 
“The track took us through downtown, and that’s an area you don’t normally get to ex­plore that often,” she said. “It was nice to run through it and see different areas. 
“This is Indiana, so there aren’t exactly large hills to climb up. There were some moments where there was an incline, but it was nothing that was very worrisome.” 
Freshman Kate Walsh said because the powder was dif­ficult to run through, many 
people  walked  or  jogged  
through  the  areas  it  was  
thrown.  

“You couldn’t really see, 
and you would breathe in the powder,” she said. “Most peo­ple, through the zones where it was thrown, would just re­ally slowly run and get cov­ered in color.” 
Walsh said she heard about the Color Run through Runner’s World magazine’s website. 
“I was looking up races in South Bend over the sum­mer, when I was feeling mo­tivated,” she said. “I figured if I signed up for races, then I would have to run them.” 
The entire run had a “party atmosphere,” Walsh said, in keeping with its goal as the “happiest 5K on the planet.” 
According to the Color Run’s website, the unique paint race celebrates “health­iness, happiness and individ­uality” and  has grown from more than 50 events and 600,000 participants in 2001, to more than 100 events and a million participants in 2013. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of Kelly Cronin 



Notre Dame students Kelly Cronin (left) and Kate Walsh pose after the 5k Color Run in downtown South Bend on Saturday morning. 

SMC establishes Comedy Creators improv club 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s recently es­tablished an improvisational club called Comedy Creators, or C-Squared. 
This club stands as the new sister club to the Notre Dame Humor Artists, co-creator and junior Megan Steron said. 
The founders’ love for mak­ing others laugh inspired the club, Steron said. 
“Comedy Creators was developed to be a low-key, approachable and self-es­teem-building opportunity for anyone interested — with or without experience,” Steron said.  “It is a miscon­ception that improv is ex­tremely difficult and scary, so I wanted to diminish that idea.” 
Steron said there is a strict open-door policy at C-Squared, as well as a good community environment. The meetings are started with warm-ups and simple exercises to make the improv games easier for their new attendees. 
“It does not matter if your schedule only allows you to come once a month, for an hour only, or even the last 30 minutes,” Steron said. “We are an optional stress reliever.” 

Junior and C-Squared member Payton Moore said she has thoroughly enjoyed the club so far, since it is a fun way to expand her acting skills. 
“There is no such thing as a stupid idea or a failed im­prov here,” Moore said. “It isn’t about performance; it is about improvement and hav­ing fun. Feeling stressed? Go to Comedy Creators. Feeling sad? Go to Comedy Creators. You really can’t go wrong by attending.” 
Junior Claire Stewart said the best aspect of the club is the overall atmosphere. 
“The impression is meant to be silly, goofy, undignified and most importantly, won­derful,” Stewart said. 
Freshman Kimberly Orlando said attempting  im­prov was scary at first, but the positive atmosphere of the club allowed her to step out of her comfort zone and open up to a new community on campus. 
“I saw the booth for Comedy Creators and Megan [Steron] explained it to me as being a bunch of students having fun and playing improv games like those seen in ‘Whose Line is it Anyway?’” Orlando said. “The first meeting, I was 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
“Comedy Creators was developed to be a low-key, approachable and self­esteem-building opportunity for anyone interested 
– with or without experience.” 
Megan Steron 
Comedy Creators co-creator 

a little nervous, but after a few ice-breakers, everyone opened up and was having a lot of fun.” 
Orlando said the meetings are a good, alternative way to relieve stress. 
“The whole meeting was two hours of games and laughing, which is pretty awesome,” she said. “Some people put it all out there, and no one was judged for how far they went. It’s just a fun way to let loose for a few hours and get over the stresses of tests and upcoming midterms.” 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 



illness, the chances of it hap-Health pening in those years is pretty 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
likely.” 

Sarah Senseman, Notre Dame the National Alliance on Mental student government director of Illness and a community fellow constituent services, said Saint at Notre Dame’s Center for Social Mary’s sponsorship of Support Concerns, said college students a Belle, Love a Belle for the last across the nation face mental two years served as inspiration health issues because members for Irish State of Mind, but that of this age group are prone to de-inspiration was accompanied by veloping mental illnesses. a demand from the Notre Dame 
student body. 

“Support a Belle, Love a Belle “People are always gave us the foundation for the there for each week, but then feedback from the students allowed us to add 
other on these 
a focus,” Senseman said. “Some 
campuses. We 

students have given us feedback are very family-that they are not aware of the oriented. ... [It’s resources for mental health on 
campus. … We want to encour­
a] ‘You have been 
age students to use the campus’ 
there for me, so 

resources more, to talk to each I am going to be other more and to have a more there for you’ kind positive outlook on the resourc­
es, which we have very many of.” 
of an idea.” 

Stephanie Klotter, Notre Dame to get past it and deal with men-issue and to see what resources Newtown, Conn.] and who has 
Nancy Joyce 

student government director of tal illness in a happy and posi-are available to them. shot a bunch of people.” 
student body vice president 

residence life, said the collab-tive way.” “I think a lot of times, for But mental illnesses are medi­orative group made sure events With this goal in mind, the people who are struggling with cal diseases, Anderson said, and 
“The age for the onset of men-for the week were positive and week’s events will appeal to as issues of mental health, the many students at Notre Dame tal illness is typically from the showed hopeful ways in which many people on campus as pos-hardest part is engaging for the and Saint Mary’s face some sort teen years through the mid-20s, people dealing with mental ill-sible, Notre Dame student body first time. So I think the more of mental health issue. and stress is a huge contribu-ness could combat the disease. vice president Nancy Joyce said. opportunities there are, then “If people can understand that tor to either onset or making “We thought it was important “You have the panel for people the more likely people who need probably when you are walking things worse in that paradigm,” to show that mental health week who want to hear about the issue help or who could use some sup-around campus on any given Anderson said. “You are right at is not just a bunch of events talk-from their friends’ perspectives, port will find that somewhere in day, one out of the four people that age because of the develop-ing about depression, schizo-as well as from the perspec-this six or seven events planned you pass may have some form of ment of things within your body phrenia and anorexia,” Klotter tives of administrators on cam-for the week.” mental illness, we can become that you have no control over. said. “That would not be uplift-pus,” Joyce said. “Then we have Since this week is a student-more sensitive to all of our fel­
“Those [things] are naturally ing, nor would it be the message a speaker to talk more broadly run initiative, Anderson said low human beings dealing with happening during those years, we want to send. We wanted to about mental health for people she expects the Notre Dame and a mental illness,” Anderson said. and kids are under a lot of stress show that there are positive ways interested in the issue in that Saint Mary’s community to re-“That way, we can improve our today. It is a bad combination, in to deal with all of those issues — way. Other events, like yoga on ceive it well. communication skills with peo­one sense. If you have a vulner-a way to overcome and show that the quad, give people yet another “Having the students start this ple, instead of shunning people ability to some kind of mental things happen and there is a way opportunity to engage with the dialogue on campus is the best out.” 
way to get the message across,” This week is about improving PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
she said. “I am a middle-aged communication about mental mother. I can talk about the is-health issues and ensuring that sue all I want. I am someone all students feel welcome in our else. I am not them. I am not you. campus communities, Joyce It is someone that is your own said. age, that is living in the same “People are always there for worldview, that is going to be each other on these campuses,” able to relay this message. It will she said. “We are very family-ori­be more readily received from ented. … [It’s a] ‘You have been someone that is in your own there for me, so I am going to be circumstance.” there for you’ kind of an idea. 
Anderson said sponsoring “I don’t know if that exists on events like this allows people to every college campus, but since better understand mental illness it exists here at Notre Dame, as a disease. Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross, 
“Statistics say one out of ev-then I think it is really important ery four American families that we capitalize on that sense have either a relative or a friend of community to help people who has some form of mental that are struggling with mental illness,” she said. “We tend to health issues.” think of mental illness, unfor­tunately, as someone who has Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at    gone into Sandy Hook [School in krabac01@saintmarys.edu 




THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

NDream 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
supported the administra­tion’s move to include undoc­umented students in future 
“I hope that this gathering of students shows that we are ready to welcome undocumented students to campus. They contribute their histories, cultures and traditions with us throughout the United States.” 
Juan Rangel 
chief of staff and chairman of 
the Immigration Task Force 
Notre Dame classes. 
“We’re proud of our univer­sity for making this decision,” Coccia said. “Our primary purpose is making sure [un­documented students] feel ex­tremely welcome.” 
Notre Dame’s decision is also relevant in the larger sphere of federal politics, Coccia said. 
“This is a critical moment for us nationally, and we urge Congress to pass national im­migration reform,” he said. 
Juan Rangel, student body chief of staff and chairman of the Immigration Task Force, a sub-division of student gov­ernment, said he believes this decision will benefit the cam­pus community overall. 
“I hope that this gathering of students shows that we are ready to welcome undocu­mented students to campus,” he said. “They contribute their histories, cultures and tra­ditions with us throughout the United States. It’s one of the many benefits that we as Americans receive from our immigrant communities.” 
Fr. Dan Groody, associate professor of theology and di­rector of the Center for Latino Spirituality and Culture at Notre Dame’s Institute for Latino Studies, read a statement from University President Fr. John Jenkins re­garding the new policy. 
In the statement, Jenkins called for a “just and effec­tive immigration reform” within the United States that would allow “deserving, aca­demically qualified young men and women who are brought to the United States as children to have access to higher education in the United States and opportunities fol­lowing from educational achievement.” 


Senior Stephen Zerfas said he supports the new policy be­cause it reflects Notre Dame’s role as a religious institution. 
“I’m excited that the University has been able to 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
take a stance more in line with our Catholic tradition,” he said. 
To conclude the event, Dara Marquez, a junior from Saint Mary’s College, read a poem that highlighted the experi­ence of undocumented immi­grants in the United States. 
As an undocumented student herself, Marquez said the poli­cy change is influential. 

“It’s able to provide more aid for those students that are wanting to come that are un­documented,” she said. “That’s empowering.” 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at     smccart6@nd.edu 




Raids suggest future shape of counterterror bids 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The U.S. commando raids in Libya and Somalia suggest the future shape of U.S. counterterrorism efforts — brief, targeted raids against highly sought extrem­ist figures — and highlight the rise of Africa as a terrorist haven. 
The strikes also raise ques­tions about where to interro­gate and try captured terrorist suspects such as Abu Anas al-Libi, accused by the U.S. of involvement in the 1998 bomb­ings of two American embas­sies in Africa. 
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said Sunday that al-Libi was in U.S. custody. A U.S. of­ficial familiar with the case said later that al-Libi was tak­en aboard a U.S. warship in the region for questioning. The dangerous terrorist to justice,” collaborating more with other official spoke on condition of said the White House National al-Qaida affiliated Islamic in-anonymity because he was not Security Council’s spokes-surgent groups across Africa. authorized to release details. woman, Caitlin Hayden. In a speech in May outlin-

The chairman of the House The outcome of a second U.S. ing his strategy for the use Armed Services Committee, commando raid Saturday, tar-of drones, Obama counted Rep. Howard “Buck” McKeon, geting a leader of the al-Qaida Somalia as among the places said al-Libi has “vast intelli-affiliated terror group, al-Sha-where the U.S. and its allies gence value.” bab, was less clear. face “lethal yet less capable al-
McKeon, R-Calif., said A Navy SEAL team swam Qaida affiliates.” President Barack Obama ashore in Somalia early in the The commando assaults should “fully exploit this po-morning and engaged in a unfolded against the back­tential” before moving on to fierce firefight. A U.S. official drop of political paralysis his prosecution. The White said afterward the Americans in Washington, where the House seemed to agree, saying disengaged after inflicting Congress and the White House Saturday’s raid in Tripoli was some al-Shabab casualties, but are locked in battle over bud-specifically designed to appre-it was unclear who was hit. The gets but have agreed to keep hend, not kill, the suspect. official was granted anonym-the military operating and 
“The president has made ity because he was not autho-paid on time. clear our preference for cap-rized to speak publicly. Libya said Sunday it has turing terrorist targets when The raid in Somalia reflected asked the United States for possible, and that’s exactly the importance the Obama “clarifications” regarding the what we’ve done in order to administration attaches to capture of al-Libi by U.S. Delta elicit as much valuable intel-combating al-Shabab, whose Force commandos. ligence as we can and bring a leaders are believed to be The Tripoli government said 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

that al-Libi, as a Libyan na­tional, should be tried in his own country. He is on the FBI’s most-wanted list of terrorists with a $5 million bounty on his head. He was indicted by the 
U.S. in November 1998. 

In a statement, Libya also said it hoped the incident would not affect its strategic re­lationship with the U.S., which is evolving in the aftermath of the 2011 ouster of longtime ruler Moammar Gadhafi. Ties were complicated by the Sept. 11, 2012, attack on U.S. diplo­matic facilities in Benghazi, in eastern Libya. 
Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., a vocal advocate of placing captured high-value terrorist suspects in the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay, said Sunday that al-Libi should be treated as an enemy combatant, de­tained in military custody “and interrogated to gather information that will prevent future attacks and help locate other al-Qaida terrorists.” 
Al-Libi was indicted by a federal court in New York for his alleged role in the bomb­ings of the U.S. Embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya, on Aug. 7, 1998, that killed more than 220 people. 
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, in Indonesia for an eco­nomic summit, said the U.S. hopes the raids make clear that America “will never stop in the effort to hold those ac­countable who conduct acts of terror.” He added, “Members of al-Qaida and other terrorist organizations literally can run but they can’t hide.” 
It was not immediately clear whether al-Libi had been in­volved with al-Qaida since or had been connected to militant activities in Libya, where al-Qaida has a growing presence since Gadhafi was unseated. 
The family of al-Libi de­nied he was ever a member of al-Qaida and said he was not involved in militant activity since his return. 
In a 157-page indictment filed in the Southern District of New York in November 1998, the U.S. government accused al-Libi and others of conspir­ing to kill American civil­ians and military members at 
the  embassies  in  Kenya and  
Tanzania.  
Specifically,  prosecutors  

said al-Libi helped bin Laden and al-Qaida plan the attacks on the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi by scouting and photograph­ing the site in 1993. The in­dictment also alleges al-Libi discussed other attacks on the 
U.S. Agency for International Development as well as British, French and Israeli targets in Kenya. 
The court filing does not charge al-Libi in the bombing and deaths of those at the em­bassies, but rather says he con­spired to achieve that result. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

LSAT and real talk 

Christian Myers 
News Writer 

Faithful readers of my Inside Columns 
(a.k.a. only my mom) will know that I am 100 percent serious about not taking these columns seriously. Today, however, there is something important I have to say, so I hope you’ll forgive me for devot­ing a portion of my column to some “real talk.” 
Immigration reform in the United States is a vitally important and press­ing issue. I and others on campus are working hard to advocate for reform and would appreciate your support. If you really want to find out more you can email me, and if you want to know about upcoming immigration related events, subscribe to the NDream text service. By texting “NDream” to 97779 and then providing an email address and zip code, you will receive text message updates about various immigration events on campus. 
Now, back to the frivolity. 

On Saturday, I took the LSAT so that I can go to law school. To quote “Legally Blonde,” “What? Like, it’s hard?” 
I memorized some questions and re­produced them here so you can all see if you have what it takes to become dis­cipulos legum. 
From the analytical reasoning, or logic games, section: Five children – Jamie, Xavier, D’squarius, Lashawnda and Ozamataz 
– went apple picking, and only one child picked apples at a time (I guess they’re anti-social?). The apple picking process followed the following rules: Ozamataz picked apples before Xavier but after D’Squarius. If Xavier picked before Lashawnda, then Ozamataz was the third to pick apples. If Jamie picked first, D’squarius went home in protest and Ozamataz’s basket broke. 
13. If D’squarius picked first, how many pears did Ozamataz eat the day before? A) Twelve | B) None | C) Don’t count on it | D) Who? | E) Why do ani­mals eat other animals? 
15. Where is the apple orchard? 

A) Osseo, MN | B) It does not ex­ist | C) Xavier picks puce apples | D) “Braveheart” | E) Jamie is older than Lashawnda 
From the logical reasoning section: 
Author: Corporations need to reduce carbon emissions because greenhouse gasses destroy the ozone layer, which re­sults in melting polar ice caps. The melt­ing of the polar ice caps in turn destroys the habitats of polar bears and puts the species at risk of extinction. 
22. Calculate the cube root of the pro­to-hypotenuse of the argument. 
A) 867.5309 | B) Where’s the beef? | C) She assumes corporations are people | D) Quetzalcoatl is coming, repent | E) Polar bears are white. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Caleb Cobbin 
viewpoint Columnist 

I have been singing for as long as I can remember. And oftentimes, my grandmother would make me play the piano and sing whenever or wherever an opportu­nity presented itself. I, being an extremely shy child, would hate it. I would cry, complain or hide, but even­tually I sang whether I liked it or not. Now a senior at Notre Dame, the seemingly endless years of torture shed light on my grandma’s reasoning. She knew this is what I loved, and she knew this would make me happy. 
A friend told me a story of her singing “How Can I Keep from Singing” to herself as she was walking to work one afternoon. When she encountered people she immediately stopped and thought to herself, “Wait, I’m missing the point of the song.” She salvaged her voice and her pride and continued singing despite the fur­tive glances and quizzical stares from others. I laughed at her story. I know all too well the feeling of wanting to sing, smile, dance or cry, yet stifling that true hon­esty in order to belong in a world of  “normalcy.” Here at Notre Dame, I have become truly cognizant of the importance of honesty of emotion and how that very thing we hide from others usually has the great power to bond us together. 
For me I have engaged in this expression of hon­esty mostly through music. Walter Savage Landor once wrote, “Music is God’s gift to man, the only art of Heaven given to earth, the only art of earth we take to heaven.” This is one of the ways I lament, have fun, reflect and even simply pass the time. Music is the principal way I encounter completeness, whether it be dorm Mass on Sunday evenings, in the loft with the Folk Choir, on South Quad on the way to class or during the Alma Mater after victorious football games (too soon?). Music is how I grew during my Notre Dame career, and my hope is that all students find this zeal in something they love. 
So what is the purpose of this article? It is not some controversial topic or highly debated issue but it is extremely important. Poet E. E. Cummings once said, “It takes courage to become who you really are,” and isn’t there no better time than here and now to start that process? You must force yourself during your col­lege academic — and social — career to make a point of branching out and allowing yourself continued self-dis­covery via the cultivation of your passions. Flexing your independence is not an activity reserved for breaking away from your parents. Be honest with yourself and al­low yourself to do what you love. Don’t stay in that ma­jor or class you hate. Don’t do something for the mere purpose of doing it. Live a life of passion, allow yourself time to do the things you love and love the people you are with. Make the most of your Notre Dame experi­ence, but more importantly, make the most of yourself. 
Caleb Cobbin is a senior. He can be reached at ccobbin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A response to Mr. Jack Swarbrick 
Like Coach Brian Kelly and Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick, my wife and I have recently experienced the challenges that come with implementing a new policy relative to post-game activities. Fortunately for us, we now have Mr. Swarbrick’s very persuasive Letter to the Editor to support our own decision regarding how our family’s post-game routine changes when our son’s soc­cer team loses a match. 
For some time, it was our practice to share a family meal after his soccer games — win or lose — but in light of recent circumstances and the wisdom we have re­ceived from Mr. Swarbrick’s defense of Coach Kelly, we have decided to cancel our family meal when our son’s team fails to achieve what they set out to do. 
The policy shift is important to our family for two rea­sons. First, we do not want to support failure by coming together as a family when one of our children’s teams falls short. Second, we do not want to subject any of our children (or ourselves) to the ridicule that may come from other kids’ families were we to go out to eat to­gether when our son’s team plays in another city. Since we want to protect our children and ourselves from this potential ridicule on the road, we have decided that for the sake of consistency we will implement one policy regarding the post-game meal, applicable to both home and away matches. 
This policy emerged as an issue within our family when, to our embarrassment, our younger children sat down together at the kitchen table last Saturday after their older brother lost a home soccer game earlier in the day. While our eldest son remembered our directives and thus refrained from sitting down with his siblings, his younger sister and brother “had forgotten the policy” due to the fact that they “had no frame of reference be­cause they had never experienced a home defeat.” All they remembered was the incredible last-second victory their older brother’s team accomplished the previous season and the equally incredible family meal we shared afterwards. My wife and I have since reminded them that our family is “deeply appreciative of the support each of [them] provides to [their brother’s] team,” and that our new family policy is really designed to acknowl­edge and encourage their ongoing support. 
We are grateful to Mr. Swarbrick for helping us put our family’s post-game activities in perspective. We have come to recognize that the meal that our family shares after my son’s team is victorious on the soccer field is “an expression of solidarity” among the members of our family that we can “enjoy only after we achieve our shared goal of victory […] whether that triumph comes at home or on the road.” Our unity is not nearly as tangi­ble or as meaningful when his team goes down in defeat, and so we require our children to eat dinner separately on those nights. On the whole, we prefer “to preserve the special experience [of sharing a meal for] when they achieve the shared goal of victory.”  Our eldest son un­derstands this because he knows that we are raising him to believe that victory is by far the most important thing. The unity of our family is secondary to the primary goal of winning and subsequently bringing honor to our fam­ily. Therefore, expressions of our family’s unity should not take place in undesirable circumstances. 
Despite the clarity and conscientiousness of our de­cision, our other children are still a bit upset with this arrangement. However, we remain confident that this approach is consistent with the general educational mission of our family. We have reassured our dissenting children that we will use the off-season to “talk about what we might do differently in 2014.” All the same, we have also been forthcoming in letting them know that “we cannot promise [them] that, in consultation with [the] players, we will reach a different conclusion about our approach to the post-game [meal].” Nevertheless, they should trust that “we will carefully consider the is­sue in light of the concerns [they] have raised.” 
Ultimately, we welcome the conversation we will have with the players and leadership of our son’s team to de­termine what might be the best course of action for our family going forward. For now, all of our children know that they must come to terms with the fact that, “for the remainder of this season” our family will solely focus on doing “all we can to be in a position, as victors [to share a meal together] after each game.” After all, this meal is a reward for what really matters: winning. 
Leonard J. DeLorenzo 
Class of 2003 director Notre Dame vision Oct. 4 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Finding a better way forward 
Alexandra Stembaugh 
Subject to Change 

2,226,800. That is how many U.S. adults were sitting in federal and state prisons or jails as of 2011. Add those who are under any form of correction­al supervision and that number jumps to 6,977,700v — more than the popu­lation of Indiana. This huge group of people is not often the topic of discus­sion because prisoners themselves are given no voice. Dramas and comedies like “Orange is the New Black” or “Lockup” feed our interest in the mat­ter only because we are intrigued by a concept that seems so foreign to our lives. Prison is depicted as some sort of zoo that we can all be entertained by without having to deal with more difficult questions of justice. 
I have been taking a Notre Dame course that challenges this percep­tion and rethinks justice through di­rect interaction. Our class travels to a correctional facility each week to take classes with students who are inmates at the prison. We learn alongside each other as we explore difficult topics and share our own experiences. It is difficult to describe the enormous impact these classes have had on my own thinking. I leave with an entirely new perspective on our justice system and those being affected by it. The men in class aren’t violent or mean, but kind, funny and refreshing. 
Many of the men — and nearly half of federal prisoners — are a product of mandatory minimum-sentencing laws. They are not the leaders of some large drug ring, but rather small-scale sellers or addicts. Many prison­ers are locked up for years for a bad mistake they have no way to undo. A man found with just five grams of crack cocaine could have avoided the five-year mandatory sentence if he had only had 0.1 less of a gram when arrested. 
After these class sessions, it is dif­ficult to say that everyone in prison should be in prison. Interacting with these individuals week after week puts a face on the concept of a pris­oner. I hear the skills, dreams, hopes and fears of inmates, and the sad truth is this: There is no easy way for­ward for them. While work, education or substance abuse programs may be helpful for some, many are ineligible and the programs simply aren’t large enough. 
Imagine leaving prison at the end of a five-year sentence and trying to re­enter a society entirely transformed by technology. Imagine trying to re­enter a family that doesn’t remember what it’s like to have a father and imagine the difficulty of trying to find a job in a sluggish economy where every application will mark you as a felon. Prison teaches individuals a harsh lesson, but also incapacitates these people for the rest of their lives. Many non-violent criminals leave prison as even more of a risk to society because of the truly violent offenders they spend time with in prison, and because of the severed ties to family, work and community they face when trying to re-enter society. 
The prison reform debate has been an ongoing one. Attorney General Eric Holder made news in August by stat­ing that the Justice Department would spare minor drug dealers from man­datory minimum-sentencing laws and would even release elder, non-violent criminals early. This helps but does not provide a complete answer. Holder has recognized that prison is a system with diminishing returns. Holding people in jail for longer amounts of time or jailing more people for the same types of non-violent crime pro­vides little benefit to the criminal or society as a whole. 

Obviously, nearly all people in prison deserve to be there. They have broken the law and likely brought harm to someone in society. Prison is meant as a mechanism to keep society safe and to deter criminal ac­tivity. However, we must ask if these goals are currently being met within our system. Shouldn’t a workable system be punishing those who have done wrong without incapacitating them? Shouldn’t a system be allowing small-time, non-violent criminals to learn from their mistakes and allow a fresh start if there is a true desire to change? Shouldn’t a system be work­ing to reduce the root causes of crime? The need for better-targeted poli­cies is great, and the lives of people and communities are at stake in the process. 
Alexandra Stembaugh is a junior studying economics and English living in Welsh Family Hall. She can be reached at astembau@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Our generation’s challenge 
Conor Durkin 
Thinking Differently 

It’s not hyperbole to say that our current government might be more dysfunctional than any we have ever had. The events of the past week serve as a perfect indication of this. Their inability to broker a budget deal has resulted in a government shutdown marked by politicians playing the blame game and staging political theatrics like forbidding World War II veterans from visiting national monu­ments. All in all, it’s safe to say our government probably isn’t working as intended at the moment. 
Moreover, this sort of dysfunction is happening at the worst possible time for members of our generation. Today’s students are well aware of the economic challenges we are fac­ing. Student loan debt is higher than ever, driven by college tuitions that have continued to balloon even as prices in the general economy have virtually stagnated. At the same time, employment prospects for graduates are still at some of their worst levels in decades, with young adult unem­ployment rates in the double digits. Yet perhaps the most concerning fig­ure for members of our generation is the size of our fiscal gap: $200 trillion dollars. That’s the size of future debts our generation will have to pay, and if our government doesn’t work soon to resolve the threat it poses, future gen­erations will have a truly devastating public policy problem on their hands. 
It’s important to understand what this number means. When we talk about the current national debt, what we’re referring to is the total amount of money that the U.S. government has borrowed thus far — its existing bills. What it doesn’t include, how­ever, is what we’re projected to bor­row in the future. That’s where the fiscal gap comes in, by projecting the government’s future revenues and expenditures to pinpoint the present value of our future debts. As of today, that number is right around $200 tril­lion dollars, a frighteningly large fig­ure driven largely by future increases in spending on programs like Social Security and Medicare. 
To be frank, if our leaders keep kick­ing the can down the road and refus­ing to cooperate and address this debt problem, our generation is screwed. As spending on entitlement programs increases, spending on other im­portant areas — like infrastructure, education, the environment, job cre­ation or scientific research — will get crowded out. Instead of investing in the future of future generations, we’ll instead be subsidizing past genera­tions. By 2031, every penny of federal revenues will be just enough to cover mandatory spending (consisting primarily of entitlements, as well as interest payments on existing debts), meaning that all other spending will have to be financed with borrowing. By 2033, the Social Security trust fund will run totally dry and the program will only be able to pay a fraction of its benefits. In summation, if we don’t address this problem soon, we’ll be left with more debt, higher taxes, fewer benefits and a lower standard of living. 
We may not all agree on what the proper solution is, but any solu­tion has to begin with a real dis­cussion about what the problem is. Fortunately, this week we have an opportunity to do just that. At 
7:00 pm in Washington Hall this Wednesday, you have the opportunity to hear from Stanley Druckenmiller and Jimmy Dunne in a presentation entitled “Mortgaging the Future: Millennials’ Declining Share of the Economic Pie.” Mr. Druckenmiller is a world-renowned hedge fund man­ager and philanthropist who founded and ran Duquesne Capital for many years and is famed for both breaking the Bank of England and predicting the 2008 financial crisis. Mr. Dunne is a member of the University Board of Trustees and is co-founder and senior managing partner of Sandler O’Neill and Partners. Those who have taken Introduction to Business Ethics will be familiar with Mr. Dunne’s remarkable management of Sandler O’Neil after the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001. 

The event is sure to provide valu­able insight into the economic chal­lenges our generation is facing with respect to our government’s fiscal policy, and I strongly encourage any­one who cares about our economic future to attend. Brought to you by the Notre Dame College Republicans, Notre Dame College Democrats, Notre Dame Student Government, the Notre Dame Investment Office and the College of Arts and Letters, this event truly represents a cohesive university-wide effort to engage in one of the most substantive public policy challenges of our age, and is well worth your attention. 
Our generation stands at a cross­roads. Our economic future is un­certain. We must work to ensure that the challenge of the fiscal gap is dealt with so as to ensure continued pros­perity for future generations, and that must begin by understanding what the problem entails. I hope you’ll take the opportunity this Wednesday to do just that. 
Conor Durkin is a senior studying economics and political science. He can be contacted at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013  | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

Matt McMahon 
Scene Writer 

Recently, Notre Dame students have been treated to show after show of our favorite artists during those em­barrassing, pre-teen years of our pasts. 
This weekend, the tradition continued when MTv pop punk outfit The Red Jumpsuit Apparatus hit Legends. Most famous for their we-feel-your-pain-more-than-you­could-ever-know single “Face Down,” the band came into Legends on Friday night celebrating its 10-year an­niversary and an EP released in March. 
The first act of the night to take the stage was a friend of Red Jumpsuit, Lonely Roads Records label-mate Eversay. Under the wing of Red Jumpsuit Apparatus’s lead singer Ronnie Winter, Eversay’s recently released EP gives pro­duction and co-writing credits to Winter. With a female vocalist and a typical pop metal sound, Eversay falls somewhere between the pop of Paramore and the metal of Halestorm.  For the short stage time they had, Eversay offered solid energy and made its presence known. 
During the intermission, people in the crowd sang a capella renditions of “Face Down” while the audience made a few half-hearted attempts at a mosh pit. Then, the second opening-act, War Generation, walked onto the stage. 
War Generation’s set consisted of a myriad of power chords and audience participation. The band seemed too old to be playing their post-hardcore, emo, straight­edge music. But despite the seeming disconnect between artist and genre, they were able to gain command with some call-and-response chorus work that incorporated the audience. 
The moment everyone’s middle school selves were waiting for finally came as the members of Red Jumpsuit Apparatus walked out onto the stage to cheers from the crowd. 
Unfortunately, however, lead singer Winter relied too heavily on the familiarity of the band’s songs rather than attempting to build rapport with his audience between songs to excite the crowd.  Throughout the set, he polled the crowd to find out who had followed the band for the longest time and at one point he asked everyone to get out their cell phones to light up the crowd while he played one of his ballads. 
It’s a concert pet peeve of mine for bands to say things like, “You probably don’t know this one; it’s a bit obscure,” or, “If you’ve been listening to us since the beginning, you’ll remember this track” to introduce their next song. This makes it seem as though the band has contempt for any fans that came across them after that first big hit, and it alienates people who go to a concert because they are interested in checking out the band. 
Because they exhibited this condescending attitude, the band members did not perform well enough to make up for their lack of stage presence.  Winter’s voice was fairly good live and sounded similar to his studio work, but he was unable to sustain a note long enough to add power to the emotional style of his lyrics.  Likewise, either the growls backing him up were too low, or they simply lacked the pop of their recorded counterparts to round out the band’s sound.  Along with a pair of weak, unener­getic solos and songs existing in unpleasant, indiscern­ible cacophony, the concert was rather underwhelming. 
For a recent concert here at Notre Dame, the set falls somewhere between the performances of two other acts with similar success.  While Red Jumpsuit did not have the stage presence and command of Flobots at its show last year, it did structure its set list well, saving “Face Down” for the closer. Boys Like Girls made a very dif­ferent set list for the B1 Block Party: the band exhausted their biggest hits first and subsequently lost their crowd. Overall, it was nice to experience “In Fate’s Hand” and “Face Down” live, but those two tracks were not nearly worth the amount of time spent sitting through the rest of the night. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

Notre Dame 37, arIZoNa State 34 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSmcobServer.com 
Texas-sized win 
Irish ‘D’ comes alive, Rees fires three TDs as ND takes down Sun Devils in the Lone Star State 
Jerry World lived up to the hype, impressed fans 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 
Jaws dropped, hitting the dusty trail. cowboys tipped their 10-gal­lon hats in respect. In arlington, texas there was a knife shop here, a saloon there and a longhorn steer at every corner, which made the site of this anachronism even more stunning. 
this was the Wild West, as pure as it can get. then in the matter of two blocks we teleported back to medieval times. before us, a pal­ace stood in all its futuristic glory. 
With the sign of a check and a welcome wave of hand, King Jerry opened the eyes of Notre Dame fans who dared to step outside their bubble.  this, my friends, was Jerry World: the happiest place on earth. 
the Shamrock Series got one right for once. For the first time, the Shamrock Series was sup­posed to be about the matchup on the field and not about the city, jerseys or expanding the brand — at least that was the idea against No. 22 arizona State. It’s not our fault that the stadium wooed us into a hypnotic stupor. at Jerry World, all who were invited took a stadium tour and forgot to watch as a football game broke out. 
It was as if Domers were the amazon tribes who had just been introduced to modern technol­ogy, a word perhaps overshad­owed at Notre Dame Stadium by “tradition.” 
there were actual speakers (not the whiny, blown-out computer speakers in South bend), there was a 160-foot-long Jumbotron, there were actual replays on chal­lenges (not your dad texting you to say it was incomplete), there was a 72-foot-tall-Jumbotron, there were game highlights (not waiting until Sunday to watch a four-hour replay) and there was a 25,000­plus square foot high-definition Jumbotron. 
but ultimately, there was a les­son learned. Get the picture? 
Notre Dame fans went home with vertical whiplash, square-eyed vertigo and a dream of what could be from all the tv they watched. 
the Notre Dame graphics de­partment, Fighting Irish Digital 
see JerrY WorLD PAGE 3 


By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 

armed with an opportu­nistic defense and an explo­sive offense, Notre Dame won a texas shootout over No. 22 arizona State, 37-34, on Saturday night at at&t Stadium in arlington, texas in front of 66,690 people. 
the Irish defense forced three second-half turnovers against the Sun Devils (3-2, 1-1 Pac-12) and piled up six sacks in the win. the six sacks, three by senior linebacker Prince Shembo, were the most by Notre Dame (4-2) this season. 
“this was the first time that we really got into a true drop back passing game,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “and the more drop back passing game that we see, we are going to get home. and tonight we were able to.” 
the Irish defense surren­dered 427 total yards and 22 first downs to the Sun Devils. Irish freshman linebacker Jaylon Smith led Notre Dame with nine tackles, including 
1.5 for loss, and also forced a fumble and broke up a pass. 
Despite the big offensive numbers notched by arizona State, Kelly said his defensive unit is improving. 
“I just felt like we were get­ting better,” Kelly said. “You know, not to the level where we feel like we have arrived. We think there’s a lot left out there that needs to get better.” 
Notre Dame’s defense was able to close the game out when its offense could not in the fourth quarter. 
With 1:16 left in the fourth 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
TJ JONES 

IRISH SENIOR RECEIVER 
Jones finished with eight catches for 135 yards and a pivotal touchdown right before halftime. on Notre Dame’s first three scoring drives, Jones totaled a combined five receptions for 109 yards. on Notre Dame’s fourth-quarter scoring drive on which it took a 30-27 lead, Jones made two grabs for 27 yards. 
quarter and on his own 1-yard line, Sun Devils redshirt ju­nior quarterback taylor Kelly dropped back into the end zone and threw a pass over the middle. Irish graduate student linebacker Dan Fox intercept­ed it and ran it back 14 yards for a touchdown to give the Irish a 37-27 lead. 
Fox’s touchdown ended up being the game-winning score. 
“I think we all remember what we saw last year defen­sively salting away games and we feel like our defense is con­tinually getting better,” brian Kelly said. “We are not there yet.” 
the previous possession, the Notre Dame offense had the ball with a chance to ice the game. Following junior safety matthias Farley’s fourth-down interception, the Irish had the ball at midfield with just 1:44 left in the game. 
but the Irish could not gain a first down on the ensuing drive and punted the ball back to the Sun Devils. that’s when Fox clinched the game with his pick. He finished the game with seven tackles, an inter­ception and a fumble recovery. 
“You can’t take negative yardage plays and you can’t turn the ball over,” Sun Devils 
see battLe PAGE 2 
TJ Jones shines as ‘big-play guy’ for Rees and Irish 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
editor-in-chief 

on Sundays at what was former­ly known as cowboys Stadium, a star aligns right at midfield for all to see. on this particular Saturday night, he lined up outside the numbers. 
His labels include receiver, punt returner, captain and originally, tai-ler, but senior tJ Jones is now adding to his stellar resume. the 5-foot-11.5, 195-pound wideout paced the Irish with eight recep­tions and 135 receiving yards to go with a touchdown in a 37-34 win over No. 22 arizona State in arlington, texas. 
“Well, tJ is our big-play guy,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “I mean, he’s somebody that we have to rely on.” 
but being the big-play guy with a gold helmet brings a certain amount of attention, something Jones has had to adjust to as much as he had to adjust to having a ‘c’ on his jersey. 
Jones only had one catch in the first quarter but followed up with a big second quarter with four. 
“He’s such a smart football play­er,” senior quarterback tommy rees said. “I think that’s one of the things that all good receivers have is they understand coverage. they understand leverage and how to run routes.  tJ’s best asset is how well he understands de­fenders are playing him, and then he runs routes based off of that. You know, a guy like that I can trust and count on being on the same page.  He obviously catches everything and does a great job.” 
before Jones, NFL first-round talents michael Floyd and tyler eifert were rees’ go-to targets. the shoes may have been bigger than when he first arrived as a freshman starter at Notre Dame, but the soft-spoken yet deter­mined Jones has since embraced the role. 
“It means a lot to me,” Jones said. “and I know it means a lot to the team to just be the guy they look to make those tough plays and just be the guy that can own up to wearing that ‘c’ on my chest.” 
but Jones has added another letter to his legacy at Notre Dame: X, as in X-factor. on the five drives 
see DeFeNSe PAGE 3 

tHe obServer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSmcobServer.com 

REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

tommy rees completed 17 of 38 passes for 279 yards and three touchdowns. rees made just one major mistake — an interception that was returned for a touchdown in the fourth quarter — and was mostly in control, though he again finished with a completion percentage under 50. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Juniors cam mcDaniel and George atkinson did the heavy lifting for the Irish. mcDaniel saw most of his work in the fourth quarter and racked up 82 yards, while atkinson av­eraged three yards per carry on 18 rushes. Neither back fac­tored into the receiving game. 
RECEIVERS 

tJ Jones had his way with the Sun Devil secondary, notch­ing eight receptions for 135 yards and a crucial touchdown heading to halftime.  Davaris Daniels began to get back on track with four grabs for 67 yards, and tight ends troy Niklas and ben Koyack each caught touchdowns. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

the Irish kept rees upright, holding arizona State to no sacks and just one official quarterback hurry. Irish coach brian Kelly praised the work of the unit, which also paved the way on the ground for atkinson and mcDaniel against a strong front seven. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Stephon tuitt had one sack and two quarterback hurries, and the run defense was stout, limiting the Sun Devils to 
2.6 yards per carry on 25 attempts. Playing again without Sheldon Day, the line held strong as Kona Schwenke pro­vided a strong showing. 
LINEBACKERS 

Jaylon Smith had a breakout game with a career-high and team-leading nine tackles. Prince Shembo busted out, as well, with three sacks totaling a loss of 25 yards. Dan Fox totaled seven tackles, recovered a fumble and returned an interception for a touchdown. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

aSU quarterback taylor Kelly threw for 362 and three touchdowns, and Sun Devil receivers flew past the second­ary on a few occasions, most notably when Jaelen Strong hauled in a 36-yard touchdown on fourth-and-four. ben­nett Jackson made a great play to force a fumble. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kyle brindza bounced back from an early missed field goal 
— from 38 yards out — to drill his other three attempts, including a career-long 53-yarder. brindza also blasted a terrific punt that was downed at the 1-yard line late in the fourth quarter. tJ Jones’ only punt return went for 27 yards and the kick-return game averaged roughly 20 yards. 
COACHING 

brian Kelly had his team playing at full speed in a must-win game. the offense was balanced and the defense returned to a 2012 level. In the fourth quarter, Notre Dame faced third-and-nine, and, instead of forcing aSU to use its final timeout by running, the Irish went to the air and threw an incompletion. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.26 

Notre Dame put together its most complete effort of the season, rid­ing a relentless and turnover-forcing defense, a competent offense and steady special teams. the Irish claimed a much-needed victory against a ranked opponent and gained momentum heading into the bye week before the primetime matchup with USc on oct. 19. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
BENNETT JACKSON FORCES FUMBLE, DAN FOX RECOVERS 
Notre Dame, leading by just four, had gone three-and-out on each of its last two drives in the third quarter. on a short pass near the side­line, Jackson dove and swiped the ball from arizona State’s richard Smith, and Fox recovered. the Irish went on to score to make it 24-13. 
Battle 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
coach todd Graham said. “You can’t get sacked six times and give up three turnovers and win a game like that. It’s not go­ing to happen. So what causes that is their team playing at a really high level. I thought their defense played at a really high level. I thought that was the dif­ference in the game too.” 
Following Fox’s fumble re­covery with 4:12 left in the third quarter, Notre Dame se­nior quarterback tommy rees and the Irish did not take long to capitalize on the turnover. on second-and-10 from the 21-yard line, rees scrambled to his left and lofted a ball into the end zone for junior tight end troy Niklas. Niklas leaped above Sun Devil senior safety alden Darby and pulled down the ball to put Notre Dame ahead 24-13. 
rees finished the game 17­for-38 for 279 yards, three touchdowns and an intercep­tion. the game was rees’ sev­enth three-touchdown game of his career and second of this season. 
“I think as an offense, we settled in and had a good un­derstanding of what they were trying to do,” rees said. “arizona State had a great game plan, they did a lot of things on defense to get us thinking. So we made some plays there in the second quarter, and proud of how the offense played.” 
the Notre Dame offense rolled up 424 total yards — 145 on the ground and 279 through the air. 
“their choice was to make it difficult to run the football, but I thought we did a better job, 145 yards rushing, 279 [passing], that’s a little bit better mix with the kind of pressure defense that arizona State brought to­day,” brian Kelly said. “I think that’s a little bit better in terms of where we want to be, so we got better today offensively.” 


after arizona State scored with 1:30 left in the second quarter to go up 13-7, Notre Dame scored 17 unanswered points to take an 11-point advantage. 
the Sun Devils ended that streak when rees threw an interception to arizona State graduate student cornerback osahon Irabor that was re­turned for a touchdown, cut­ting the lead to 24-20. the 37-yard return was Irabor’s first touchdown of his career. 
Despite the second pick-six in as many weeks by rees, the Irish still won the turnover battle 3-1. Under brian Kelly, the Irish are now 19-1 when they are ahead in the turnover margin. 
Down 27-20 in the fourth quarter, arizona State faced a third-and-20 from its own 38­yard line. taylor Kelly stepped up to his right and found red-shirt receiver Kevin ozier for a 31-yard gain. the completion was one of three plays of 20 yards or longer on the drive for the Sun Devils. 
Later on the drive, taylor Kelly connected with redshirt junior tight end De’marieya Nelson down the sideline for a 21-yard touchdown to knot the game at 27 with 8:18 remaining in the fourth quarter. 
at the end of the first half, rees threw an 8-yard touch­down pass to senior receiver tJ Jones. the score came with just 10 seconds left in the half and gave Notre Dame the lead again. 
Jones finished the game with eight catches for 135 yards and one touchdown. 
earlier, rees found junior tight end ben Koyack on a 19­yard touchdown reception with 
3:35 left in the second quarter to give Notre Dame its first lead of the game, 7-6. Koyack found space in the middle of the field and dove into the end zone for his first career touchdown. 
“as it relates to ben Koyack, confidence is the big thing here,” brian Kelly said. “He’s gaining confidence week in and week out.” 
arizona State answered Notre Dame quickly with a sev­en-play, 78-yard march in less than two minutes. taylor Kelly connected with redshirt soph­omore receiver Jaelen Strong for a 36-yard touchdown pass on fourth-and-four. Strong was matched up with senior safety austin collinsworth and ran past him for the scoring snag and a 13-7 lead. 
Notre Dame covered 59 yards on 13 plays on its opening drive but came away without points when junior kicker Kyle brindza missed a 38-yard field goal. the Irish had the ball for 8:08 and converted once on third down and once on fourth down. 
the drive was the longest march of the season for Notre Dame, time-wise. It tied for the longest of the year, play-wise. the Irish also notched a 13-play drive against Purdue. 
Notre Dame is idle this week and will return to action oct. 19 when USc visits Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




Defense 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
Jones had a reception, Notre Dame scored four times (the one failure was a missed field goal). but on the eight drives Jones did not record a reception, the Irish only scored once, albeit on a two-play drive after a Sun Devils turnover at the arizona State 21­yard line. 
one of those scoring drives ended on an 8-yard touchdown pass from rees to Jones, after a textbook corner route right be­fore the end of the first half. rees had his eye on his fellow senior the entire time, and Jones made the most of the opportunity in man coverage. 
“tommy and tJ have come through this program together,” Kelly said. “Whereas sometimes we misfire with some of the oth­er younger receivers, and I think 
Jerry World 
coNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
media, and the poor, deprived scoreboard operator got their one chance a year to go big (liter­ally). Yet they painted their high-definition canvas to perfection. No obnoxious advertisements, no “catch of the Game” spon­sored by allstate and no cheesy promos. 
the thing is, Notre Dame has never been able to do “hip” right without embarrassing itself. If Friday’s lame, cringe-worthy pep rally in Fort Worth was any indi­cation of how Notre Dame would use a modern stage, a network crash was sure to ensue at at&t Stadium in front of over 65,000. 
Instead, they marveled. High-production value videos showcased the University. a “#shamrockpics” feature let fans fill the screen(s) with their own you probably saw that at times, him and tJ Jones are right on the same page. and when he’s in trouble, he’s looking for tJ Jones. … When he needs to throw, he’s looking for tJ Jones.“ 
Jones has also made a signifi­cant impact on special teams, where Kelly said the captain has a passion and determination to succeed. after the departure of Floyd, the Irish punt return went dormant for a season, before Jones revived it. Jones already has more return yards this year 
(71) than Notre Dame had all of last year (46) and had a crafty 27-yard return to push the Irish across midfield on Saturday. 
meanwhile, Jones’ special-teams fortune followed him to the last play of the game, when he recovered a 50-50 onside kick despite never being in the origi­nal five-man pile. asked how he recovered the ball to seal the 
shots of the game. Standing ova­tions for veterans replaced yawn-inducing professors of the month. 
and on multiple occasions and choice third downs, a noise meter and some catchy tunes brought to life the dead noise when the band wasn’t cutting it. Sorry, no one wants to hear “every time We touch” every quarter or do the Irish jig after a devastating touchdown. the words “take a Stand” and “all aboard” did more than any “celtic chant” ever could. 
So ultimately, there was a les­son learned. 
Jerry World taught us that a Jumbotron is the future and it should be the present if Notre Dame wants to finally make the “being hip” thing work out and create a real game-day atmo­sphere. Despite a 70-30 ratio of ND to aSU fans, there was a cer­tain energy present that has never victory, Jones chuckled as he tried to find an answer.

 “I’m not really sure,” he said. “I just ran over there and I saw them fighting for it. It just scoot­ed out and I jumped on it the first chance I got.” 
this season alone, Jones leads the Irish with 33 receptions and 481 receiving yards and is tied for the team lead with four touch­down grabs. With only six games and a likely bowl appearance left in his Irish career, Jones can’t help but think about what’s next. 
“It’s a weird feeling playing in an NFL stadium,” Jones said. “everyone has dreams to play in these stadiums one day.” 
If he continues his recent tear, this star may just run into that logo in Dallas — this time on Sunday. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
really been present in the bend. 
Surely, all of the lights and noise will change the athletic department’s mentality into nothing was the same, ever since Jerry World. 
and oh yeah, there was a game going on. the catholics in an­gelic white conquered the Devils in black or something like that. at least, that’s what I could tell from the tube. after all, you felt like royalty from the four-course press box meals to the star-stud­ded vIP cast on the field. 
“It was like a palace,” lineback­er Prince Shembo said. 
Indeed, a palace fit for a prince, y’all. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Irish lose Grace, Smith 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
Junior inside linebacker Jarrett Grace fractured his leg mid­way through the second quarter Saturday night and will probably miss the rest of the season, Irish coach brian Kelly said. 
Grace entered the game as Notre Dame’s leading tackler with 37 tackles. Graduate student inside linebacker Dan Fox saw extended playing time in Grace’s absence. 
Kelly said Grace stayed over­night Saturday in Dallas for evaluation. 
Notre Dame also appears to have lost senior receiver Daniel Smith for the season. Kelly said Smith fractured his ankle and was likely out for the rest of the season. 
Brindza clutch 
Junior kicker Kyle brindza, after a 25-yard field goal in the fourth quarter, is now 11-for-11 on kicks in the final period. 

brindza also converted from 53 and 33 yards out but missed a 38-yarder in the first quarter. brindza’s 53-yard field goal on Notre Dame’s first drive of the sec­ond half to extend the Irish lead to 17-13 was a career-high. It was also the longest at at&t Stadium and tied for the longest in Notre Dame’s history. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  13  0  21  34  
0  14  10  13  37  






ARIZONA STATE 3, NOTRE DAME 0 
Zane Gonzalez 40-yard field goal 

14:03 remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 58 yards, 4:24 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 6, NOTRE DAME 0 
Zane Gonzalez 27-yard field goal 

6:11 remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 79 yards, 5:02 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, ARIZONA STATE 6 
ben Koyack 19-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 

3:35 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 72 yards, 2:30 elapsed 
ARIZONA STATE 13, NOTRE DAME 7 
Jaelen Strong 36-yard pass from Kelly (Gonzalez kick) 

1:30remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 78 yards, 1:58 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, ARIZONA STATE 13 
tJ Jones 8-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 

0:10remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 71 yards, 1:15 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, ARIZONA STATE 13 
Kyle brindza 53-yard field goal 

10:02remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 43 yards, 3:08 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, ARIZONA STATE 13 
troy Niklas 21-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 

3:54remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 21 yards, 0:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, ARIZONA STATE 20 
osahon Irabor 37-yard interception return (Gonzalez kick) 

14:46remaining 

NOTRE DAME 27, ARIZONA STATE 20 
Kyle brindza 33-yard field goal 

10:38remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 69 yards, 4:03 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, ARIZONA STATE 27 
De’marieya Nelson 21-yard pass from Kelly (Gonzalez kick) 

8:18remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 75 yards, 2:20 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 30, ARIZONA STATE 27 
Kyle brindza 25-yard field goal 

3:03 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 56 yards, 5:08 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 37, ARIZONA STATE 27 
Dan Fox 14-yard interception return (brindza kick) 

1:08remaining 

NOTRE DAME 37, ARIZONA STATE 34 
marion Grice 16-yard pass from Kelly (Gonzalez kick) 

0:11remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 75 yards, 0:57 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

65 
145 
PASSING YARDS 

362 
279 


tHe obServer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSmcobServer.com 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
Irish junior safety Matthias Farley returns an interception during Notre Dame’s 37-34 victory over Arizona State on Saturday night at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. Farley’s interception was one of two on the night for the Irish, who improved to 4-2 heading into the bye week. 
Behind a 2012-like defense and a strong offense, Notre Dame de­
feated No. 22 Arizona State, 37-34, on Saturday night in Arling­ton, Texas at AT&T Stadium. The Irish, who improved to 4-2, tal-
TRIUMPH IN 
lied six sacks and forced three turnovers by the Sun Devils, while senior quarterback Tommy Rees threw three touchdown passes. 
TEXAS 
Senior receiver TJ Jones recorded eight catches for 135 yards. 





THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


Matt Niendorf 
Scene Writer 
WARNING: This article contains spoilers. 
When I finished watching “Gravity” Thursday night, the first thing I said to my friend was “I wish Sandra Bullock’s char­acter had died.” I generally loathe Bullock, expressing that her roles are overrated and overwrought with melodramatics. However, it was not my well-seated preju­dice against Ms. Congeniality’s acting style that made me wish for her demise. In fact, Bullock’s performance as Dr. Ryan Stone was essential to director Alfonso Cuarón’s vision, one of existential themes but also of pure suspense. 
Indeed, I think it would be a serious mis­take not to consider Bullock’s stellar role as a mentally wayward — perhaps even un­stable — doctor-engineer-astronaut as the forerunner for Best Actress in this upcom­ing Oscars. Consider me a Bull-iever. No, I wanted Bullock’s character dead for per­sonal reasons — a sometimes pessimistic worldview — that I am now ready to alter (a bit). 
“Gravity” is the most recent work of the Mexico City-born Cuarón, his seventh feature-length film. Cuarón’s films have included 2001’s devastating “Y Tu Mamá También,” 2006’s dystopian “Children of Men,” and perhaps most familiarly, “The Prisoner of Azkaban.” Already heralded as one of the best living directors, “Gravity” will only further his deserved reputation as cinematic master. 
“Gravity” is the story of two astronauts — well, there’s a third one, too, but he is quite literally faceless and features only briefly — who are the victims of Kessler syndrome, a very real and pressing possibility wherein the space debris in Earth’s low orbit — of which there is plenty —  could be set into high velocity by a chain reaction. This cas­cading effect would render new low orbit satellites impossible and could potentially destroy any existing orbiters. Dr. Ryan Stone and Matt Kowalski (George Clooney) find themselves in a Kessler syndrome event while making repairs on their space shuttle; a debris field rips through their shuttle and they are sent flying into space with limited mobility and oxygen. 

Over the next hour and 10 minutes of the film, we watch Stone and Kowalski try to survive, most of the focus being on Bullock’s character. On the surface, what the viewer gets is a gripping story of overcoming insur­mountable difficulties, a life or death film. The cinematics alone make “Gravity” worth going to, as Bullock and Clooney fly over a changing background of earth. 
In stunning realism, especially in the well-done 3D, we see the lights of the Nile Delta, the elegant curvature of Central America and the Aurora Borealis. The ac­tion scenes are equally incredible; the shattering of space stations never looked so beautiful. But if you’re looking to see a film that presents the human problem of self-worth, well, you are in luck, as Cuarón delivers it poetically. Importantly, I don’t think Cuarón answers what the film asks. Namely, the question: what is the value of a human life, of my life? 
My friend and I argued over this question well into the night when we arrived home from the movie. He agreed with me that Bullock being killed at the end would have made for an interesting ending, but added that he didn’t think it to be a necessary one. I argued that Dr. Stone’s survival was too clean to me and moreover that the film’s ending neglected what interested me: what happens after survival? It is well-estab­lished by the middle of the film that Stone has no one on Earth, and for a moment, she considers death a better option than a re­turn to loneliness. But Stone chooses to live. 
I think this ambiguity of fate is Cuarón’s goal. Barring suicide, which Stone almost commits, humans cannot know when their lives will conclude. Humans cannot predict whether their lives will take a positive or negative turn. It is the hope or the chance, delusional though the thought may be, that there are better experiences to be had that makes our survival worth sustaining. The manacle of neutral existence is one that may be worth breaking, even if the person comes crashing down for the worse. “Gravity,” in only 90 minutes, states this profoundly. 
Contact Matt Niendorf at mniendor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

World Series is all in the Cards 

Greg Hadley 
Sports Writer 
Be prepared. They are coming. They will be around for weeks, possibly months. They will be re­lentless, loud, and probably very smug. They won’t stop talking about it, no matter how much it annoys you. They just can’t help themselves. 
Boston fans are never shy about letting the world know how much they love their Sox, and after the regular season, they deserve to brag a little. When nearly everyone and their grandma picks you to finish dead last in the AL East, and you win 97 games, good for tops in the AL, there’s a certain measure of poetic justice. And the Red Sox haven’t missed a beat in the post­season. They’re on the verge of sweeping the Rays, having taken a 2-0 series lead while pouring it on with lopsided 12-2 and 7-4 wins. 
But as good a year as it has been for Boston, I do not see them triumphing in the World Series. They will capture the AL pennant, and Sox fans should be plenty happy with that. They had a great season and are primed to be back as a perennial postsea­son threat in years to come, with an exciting group of talent. 
With all due respect to the Rays, Tigers and Athletics, the Red Sox are the class of the American League. The Rays have the best manager in the league with Joe Maddon, but they’re already on the brink of elimina­tion and don’t have the offensive firepower to keep up with the Red Sox. 
The Tigers certainly have some of the game’s brightest stars in Miguel Cabrera, Justin verlander and Max Scherzer, but verlander and Scherzer can’t pitch every game, and reliever Al Alburquerque and starter Doug Fister aren’t exactly top-notch replacements. 
Billy Beane’s Athletics are a surprising bunch of overachiev­ers, as always, but Beane hasn’t changed his approach over the years and they haven’t won a World Series yet, so I don’t feel bad picking against a team that has 40-year-old Barolo Colon as its ace. 
The Red Sox have the talent and the momentum to carry them to a pennant, but the NL has the stronger group of teams in the postseason, and which­ever team can survive that cage match will be well prepared to take on the streaking Sox. 
As for the NL, as much as I want to see the feel-good story of the Pirates have the perfect ending, I don’t see things ending well for them. The Bucs will push the Cardinals to the limit, but the Game Five matchup between the Cards’ Adam Wainwright and Pittsburgh’s A.J. Burnett doesn’t bode well for the Buccos. Besides, in a toss-up like this, go with the team that’s been there and done it before. 
Atlanta and Los Angeles are locked in another riveting se­ries that will probably go all the way to five games. While the Braves are certainly an impres­sive squad that dominated the NL East all year long, they’re throwing pitchers like Freddy Garcia and Julio Teheran against an offense that features Carl Crawford, Hanley Ramirez and superhuman Yasiel Puig. Without B.J. Upton’s bat, the Braves can’t compare. 
So for the NL pennant, it will come down to the Dodgers and the Cardinals. On paper, the Dodgers have the offense you want and the pitchers you need to succeed. But the Cardinals have spent all year squaring off against the Reds and the Pirates and still emerged with the league’s best record. I believe they have the experience and all the tools they need to squeak by. 
The last time the Cardinals and the Red Sox faced each other in the World Series, Boston swept St. Louis to break the Curse of the Bambino. The Curse is ancient history now, and the Cardinals have gone on to win two World Series, most recently in 2011. Boston has had a good year but the Cardinals have proved over the past decade that they are among the premier franchises in the country. Throughout the season, St. Louis won the most games in one of the toughest divisions in baseball. They have the tools and the experience. Give me the St. Louis Cardinals for the 2013 World Champions. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


PRESIDENT’S CUP 

Americans wrap up fifth straight President’s Cup 
Associated Press 
Fred Couples, the coolest guy in golf, never really looked that way until he stood on the edge of the 18th fairway Sunday and saw everything going his way. 
The Americans needed only one more point to win the Presidents Cup. 
And there was Tiger Woods, who has a history of delivering the winning point, in the mid­dle of the fairway at Muirfield village, where he has won a re­cord five times. 
The Presidents Cup ended just the way it always does. 
Woods found the green and two-putted for par and a 1-up victory over Richard Sterne, the third straight time he has won the clinching point in the Presidents Cup. The Americans won for the fifth straight time 
— 
and eighth time in 10 tries 

—
 against an International side that showed some fight when it was too late to matter. 


The Americans, who finished strong Sunday morning in the rain-delayed foursomes for a 14-8 lead, only needed to win four singles matches. 
It took longer than anyone expected. 
“I must have asked 500 times, ‘How are we getting this fourth point? Where is the fourth point coming from?’” said Couples, a three-time winner as U.S. cap­tain. “You’re nervous. Not for the players — the players know what they’re doing. But we knew we needed 18 points, and we got them. It was a very, very good match today. And the matches were all close. At no given time was I a nervous wreck. But it was nice when Tiger two-putted that last green to get the 18th point.” 
The final score — United States 18½, International 15½ — and whether the matches would beat the rain was really the only suspense on Sunday. 
“People say it was close. Jack (Nicklaus) said it was close,” International captain Nick Price said. “You tell me. We were be­hind the 8-ball all day. If we pulled it off, it would have been miraculous.” 
Not that his team of seven rookies didn’t give it a shot. 
Zach Johnson closed out Branden Grace, 4 and 2, to give the Americans 17 points and as­sure them a tie. But it took more than an hour to get that last point. 
Graham DeLaet holed out for birdie for the second time Sunday on the 18th hole, this time from a bunker to beat 20-year-old Jordan Spieth. Ernie Els found his putting touch and beat Steve Stricker. Marc Leishman rolled in a 15-foot par putt from the back fringe of the 18th green to beat Matt Kuchar. Adam Scott and Charl Schwartzel won their matches 


The International team’s fleeting hopes ended when Woods, despite suffering back spasms again in the final hour of his match, didn’t make a birdie on the back nine and still won. Sterne helped him by hitting his tee shot off the corporate tents behind the 16th green and mak­ing bogey. 
“It was a team effort this whole week,” said Woods, who went 4-1 for the best record of any player. “We really played well to trophy and pose for the pictures before quietly filing out of the room. 
Since that famous tie in South Africa in 2003, the Americans have won by at least three points every time. Only one of them, in 2005, was close. International players talked about the impor­tance of making a contest out of this exhibition, and only a 7½­4½win in singles made it feel that way at the end. 
“We kept it very interesting today,” Scott said. “We gave it a good shake.” 
Mickelson and Angel Cabrera were the last match on the course, and it was comical at times. Mickelson hit one shot 
“I thought it was going to be closed out early. On 12 or 13, they said, ‘Your match is going to count.’ What? We ended up winning. That’s all that matters.” 
Phil Mickelson 
U.S. team member 
give ourselves a nice lead.” 

Rain interrupted the matches all week and made Muirfield village so soft that it was mere target practice for the best play­ers from every continent but Europe. It was a long, tiring week of leaving the course at darkness and completing matches the next morning when it was just as dark. 
The Americans might have won this Presidents Cup on Sunday morning. 
Returning to finish off the foursomes session, the Americans picked up a win and a halve in matches they had trailed by three holes. 
Phil Mickelson hit one of many exquisite shots this week 
— a 7-iron he had to hook with the ball slightly below his feet, around a tree to about 10 feet. Keegan Bradley had to make the birdie putt for a half-point after DeLaet chipped in for birdie. Louis Oosthuizen and Charl Schwartzel played the last six holes in 5-over par — three bo­geys and a ball out-of-bounds for double bogey in losing to Webb Simpson and Brandt Snedeker. 
“It was a tall order, but they gave it their best shot. These guys played their tails off,” Price said. “We’re a real hodge-podge of a team that came together from four corners of the plan­et. And they gave the might of America a run for their money.” 
The closing ceremony was moved indoors because of ap­proaching rain, and it led to an awkward moment as the International team watched the Americans pass around the gold that ricocheted off a tree to the left, skipped out of the water and into the rough, and he pitched that to 5 feet — and then missed the putt to lose the hole. On the final hole, Cabrera had 3 feet for par to win the match. Instead of conceding, Mickelson first knocked in his 5-foot bogey putt, and then conceded. All in good fun, which is how the day felt. 
“There was no intensity. We played and enjoyed the day and the people here in Columbus,” Mickelson said after four bogeys in the last five holes. “I thought it was going to be closed out ear­ly. On 12 or 13, they said, ‘Your match is going to count.’ What? We ended up winning. That’s all that matters.” 
Even with the captains able to control the pairings, the singles lineup was dull. Woods has played Els in South Africa, Greg Norman in Australia, Mike Weir in Canada and Y.E. Yang the same year the South Korean beat him in the PGA Championship. This time, he was up against Sterne. 
“I did my pairings to try to win the cup,” Price said. 
It might not have mattered against a U.S. team so strong that every player was among the top 30 in the world. 
“They played golf that was incredible to watch,” Price said. “But for this team, I would be honored if they ever asked me to be captain of this team again. I don’t care where it is.” 
The next Presidents Cup is in South Korea in 2015 on another Jack Nicklaus design. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


MLB | PITTSBURGH 5, ST. LOUIS 3 
Pirates defeat Cardinals, claim 2-1 series lead 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Pedro Alvarez and the Pirates kept that Jolly Roger flapping high above Pittsburgh. 
Alvarez hit a tiebreaking single in the eighth inning and the Pirates beat the St. Louis Cardinals 5-3 on Sunday to take a 2-1 lead in best-of-five NL divi­sion series. 
Alvarez pulled a grounder into right field that scored pinch-run­ner Josh Harrison from second base. Russell Martin followed with a sharp RBI single against reliever Kevin Siegrist, who took over after Carlos Martinez (0-1) faltered. 
The go-ahead single was the latest big hit by Alvarez. He hom­ered in the first two games of the series and is 4 for 10 with four RBIs. 
Alvarez also kept the Pirates’ famous flag flying high in October. “Raise the Jolly Roger!” is the rallying cry for this wild­card team, now one victory from its first postseason series win since the 1979 World Series. 
Mark Melancon (1-0) picked up the win despite allowing Carlos Beltran’s tying home run in the top of the eighth. Jason Grilli worked the ninth for a save. 
Charlie Morton is set to start for the Pirates in Game 4 on Monday against rookie Michael Wacha. 
Beltran finished 2 for 3 with three RBIs. His 16th postseason home run moved him past Babe Ruth for eighth place in postsea­son history. 
Beltran’s shot temporarily si­lenced a rocking crowd at PNC Park. It also set the stage for another dramatic win by the Pirates. 
Andrew McCutchen led off the eighth with his second hit, a dou­ble to left. But the NL MvP can­didate unwisely tried to advance on Justin Morneau’s grounder to shortstop and was an easy out at third. 
Harrison ran for Morneau and moved up when Marlon Byrd walked. St. Louis manager Mike Matheny turned to the lefty Siegrist to face the left-handed Alvarez. The Pittsburgh slugger tied for the NL lead with 36 hom­ers in the regular season, but hit just .180 against lefties. 
Alvarez responded with his single between first and second. Martin then tried to drop down a squeeze bunt to score Byrd from third — he fouled it off, then lined a hit to left that gave Grilli more than enough cushion. 
Martin’s sacrifice fly off reliev­er Seth Maness in the sixth gave the Pirates a 3-2 lead and turned the game over to Pittsburgh’s “Shark Tank” bullpen, one of the keys to the franchise’s first win­ning season and playoff berth in 21 years. 
Tony Watson worked around a one-out single in the seventh be­fore giving way to Melancon in the eighth. 
Melancon stepped in capa­bly for a while when Grilli, the All-Star closer, went down with a strained right forearm in July. But Melancon struggled down the stretch and his fourth blown save in the last three weeks came courtesy of Beltran, who knows a thing or two about delivering this time of year. 
Pirates starter Francisco Liriano dominated the Cardinals during the regular season, going 3-0 with an 0.75 ERA in his three starts against the NL’s highest-scoring team. He was electric in Pittsburgh’s wild-card win over Cincinnati last Tuesday, shak­ing off a sinus infection and 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
baffling the Reds with a series of changeups and sliders that end­ed Cincinnati’s season and man­ager Dusty Baker’s tenure. 
The sharpness that fueled Liriano’s career-reviving year abandoned him after his first trip through the St. Louis lineup. He narrowly escaped the third inning when Matt Holliday lined to right with the bases loaded. 
Liriano wasn’t quite as fortu­nate in the fifth. Jon Jay led off with a single and Pete Kozma followed with a walk. After Joe Kelly struck out trying to bunt, a double steal set up Beltran’s two-run single. 
At 2-all, the Cardinals had matched their entire output against Liriano in their previous 28 innings. 
Liriano was matched nearly pitch for pitch by the unflappa­ble Kelly. The 25-year-old right-hander has been rock steady all season, even as he moved from middle reliever to starter in July. 
Kelly welcomed the hostile environment, calling the sea of black-clad fans that awaited him one of the things a kid dreams about. 
The reality proved a little more unnerving, at least early. 

Nibbling at the corners, Kelly walked McCutchen with two outs in the first and Morneau followed with a line drive that smacked off the pitcher’s leg and rolled weakly behind the mound. Kozma’s rushed throw from shortstop skipped into the stands, putting runners in scor­ing position for Byrd. 
The well-traveled outfielder — who played in 1,250 regular- sea­son games before reaching the playoffs for the first time — has been a welcome jolt both in the lineup and in the clubhouse for the Pirates. He delivered again, hitting a two-run single that put the Pirates ahead. 



THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

SMC GOLF | 329 (+41); SECOND PLACE 
Belles fire a season-low score, finish second 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s closed out the last of its four MIAA one-day jamborees with a second-place finish Saturday at Zollner Golf Course in Angola, Ind. 
The Belles shot a season-low 329 for the round to finish close behind Olivet’s 320. The Tigers and the Belles took first and second place, respectively, in all four fall jamborees. 
Saint Mary’s coach Kim Moore said her team was hap­py to finish out the jamboree schedule but will hold off on any celebration until after the season is over. 
“It feels pretty good,” Moore said. “We have two more [con­ference rounds] coming up, the last of the fall season, so I’m looking forward to those last two events. Hopefully, we can keep the momentum of how we did [Saturday] going for this coming weekend.” 
Freshman Ali Mahoney led the way for Saint Mary’s with a 76, her tournament-low score as a Belle, and took third place individually. Senior captain Paige Pollak shot a 77 to finish fourth. 
Moore said her two leading scorers impressed her with their play Saturday. 
“I think we played pretty good,” she said. “I was pretty impressed with the two scores in the 70s, so that always helps.” 
Mahoney tied the tourna­ment lead with three birdies, including one on a par three, to lower her score. Pollak also had a birdie and tied three other golfers in par-four scoring. 
“Ali [Mahoney] made a lot of one-putts and had her best putting performance of the Belles’ team score with a 90 for 21st place, and junior Janice Heffernan turned in a 92 for 26th place individually. 
Moore said the team took Sunday as a day of rest after a long two weeks of conference action, but the Belles will hit the links again Monday to pre­pare for the two-day End of Season Weekend Jamboree. 
“[Sunday] was a day off, so hopefully they utilized it to kind of rest up and get caught up on some studies,” she said. “But next week, we’ll continue 

“Hopefully, we can keep the momentum of how we did [Saturday] going for this 
coming weekend.” 
Kim Moore Belles coach 
year so far,” Moore said. “Paige was hitting the ball pretty de­cent [Saturday]. It seems to be clicking a little bit better, so hopefully that momen­tum will continue this next week in practice and into next weekend.” 
Sophomore Sammie Averill shot an 86 for Saint Mary’s to take 18th place. Senior captain Alexi Bown rounded out the practice just like we used to and get that same routine going.” 
The Belles have one last week of practice before they tee off in their final tournament of the fall season Saturday at the End of Season Weekend Jamboree at Bedford valley Golf Course in Augusta, Mich. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


ND CROSS COUNTRY | WOMEN: SIXTH (OUT OF 24); MEN: SEvENTH (OUT OF 27) 
Irish finish “disappointed” after ND Invitational 
the 8k blue race, finishing fifth in Alexa Aragon also recorded a top-the 209-runner field with a time 20 finish, placing 16th with a time of 24:33.9. Senior Martin Grady of 17:29.5. Junior Emily Frydrych finished 32nd (25:02.3), while also turned in a strong perfor­graduate student J.P. Malette mance, finishing 47th (17:56.0) in rounded out the top three for the 166-runner field. the Irish with a 59th-place fin-While Aragon agreed with ish (25:24.9). Kildoo finished 81st Kildoo that the meet was cer­with a time of 25:38.0. tainly a disappointment, she said 
No. 30 Columbia ran away the Irish will use it as a learning 
with the team title for the men experience. 
with a score of 113, while No. 7 “We didn’t do as well as we 
Tulsa and No. 9 Princeton fin-hoped for,” Aragon said. “With 
ished behind them with scores the bigger field we have to learn 
of 124 and 147, respectively. The to do a better job of getting out 
Irish finished with 236 points in the beginning of the race and 
in their seventh-place finish. running together. We’ll definitely 
Unranked Minnesota provided be working on that for our next 
the surprise for the meet, finish-meet.” 
ing fourth and beating out five No. 2 Florida State took the 
ranked teams, including No. 16 women’s title with a final tally of 
Colorado State and No. 21 New 77 points. No. 15 New Mexico fin-
Mexico, as well as the Irish. Only ished just behind the Seminoles 
two ranked teams finished be-with 82 points, while No. 24 San 
hind the Irish, No. 24 virginia Francisco took third with 96 
and No. 26 Florida State. points. The No. 19 Irish women 
“It’s fortunate that we were tallied 205 points in their sixth-
able to beat two good teams in place effort. 
virginia and Florida State, but “Despite the result, I was proud 
that doesn’t mean nearly as much of everyone,” Aragon said. “It’s 
considering we lost to teams important to see things we did 
we know we can keep up with,” well this weekend. The humid-
Kildoo said. “We’re going to use ity and heat made for some tough 
this as motivation, keep train-conditions. But there are a lot of 
on the Notre Dame Golf Course. couple runners had pretty decent ing hard, and we will look to tack things we need to improve on as 
By A.J. GODEAUX 

Sports Writer Although each side finished in performances, guys like [gradu-up a much better performance at well.” the top third of large fields, the ate student] Jeremy Rae, but all Wisconsin in two weeks.” The Irish race next at the The No. 19 Irish women’s squad Irish said they were not satisfied around, I think we gave a really For the women, senior Kelly Wisconsin adidas Invitational on 
and No. 22 men’s team grabbed with the results. poor indication of our actual fit-Curran led the way for the Irish, Oct. 19 in Madison, Wisc. 
sixth- and seventh-place finish-“Generally, we’re pretty disap-ness and potential as a team.” notching a ninth-place finish 
es, respectively, Friday in the 58th pointed with how the meet went,” On the men’s side, Rae had the with a time of 17:18.3 in the 5k Contact A.J. Godeaux at 
annual Notre Dame Invitational Irish junior Jake Kildoo said. “A only top-30 finish for the Irish in blue race, while fellow senior agodeaux@nd.edu 



WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Season continues with four weekday contests 

34-0 by forcing five turnovers “We’re definitely looking for 
Farley vs. Lewis 

before losing to the Purple another win … Tuesday against Weasels, and the Chicks (0-Lewis,” Ladowski said.  “We’ve 
By MANNY DE JESUS 

Sports Writer 3) kept their last game close, had great practices Monday, and only allowing 18 points against we’re looking to have another Coming off a 26-6 loss to Pasquerilla East. good practice today.” 
Pasquerilla West, Farley is look-Farley senior captain and re-The Finest are looking to fine­
ing for a win Tuesday against ceiver Lauren Ladowski scored tune their high-octane offense 
Lewis. three touchdowns in Farley’s and tough defense, Ladowski Both teams have been known win over the Bulldogs. She said said. 
for their strong defenses. The the Finest are looking to have “We’ve been working on get-
Finest (1-2) had beaten Badin another big game against Lewis. ting everything focused,” she said. “We’ve been working on PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
our run game, and we’ve been working on our flag pulling, since some of us really haven’t had much experience.” 
Lewis senior captain and re­ceiver Colleen Haller said the Chicks still are ready to play at a top level, regardless of their record. 
“We’re still really excited to play,” Haller said. “The girls un­derstand what the game is all about, but we still know it’s all about having fun while com­peting. We’ve been focusing on learning more about our new defensive strategies, and we’ve been working on the details of our [offensive] plays.” 
The Chicks and the Finest will take the field at LaBar fields at 7 
p.m. Tuesday. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla East vs. Lyons 
By JOSE FERNANDEZ 
Sports Writer 
After a great start to the season, Lyons looks to re­bound from its weekend loss to Cavanaugh when it takes on Pasquerilla East  on Tuesday. 


Lyons (2-2) is coming off a disappointing defensive show­ing against Lewis, where they fell, 32-7, to the Chaos. Senior captain and receiver Christina Bramanti said it is important to consistently play good defense, but also that she would like the offense to produce more. 
“Every time we step on the field, we’re looking to take care of business,” she said. “When we get a few plays right, even if we don’t score, it definitely makes you feel good. The momentum is on your side.” 
Bramanti also said her team’s success is due in part to taking one game at a time, and that she doesn’t see any changes to that approach. 
Pasquerilla East (2-1) looks to continue to improve on defense after beating Lewis 18-6 on Sunday. Senior captain Caroline Kuse said in previous games, the Pyros’ rush defense was very poor and will have to be better to slow down the Lions. 
“We did a good job on our pass coverage last time, but our rush defense was very porous at times,” said Kuse. “If we want to win, we have to play better all-around defense.” 
Kuse was quick to praise her offense, however, especially the accuracy and field vision of ju­nior quarterback Macy Mulhall. 
Pasquerilla East and Lyons face off Tuesday at 7 p.m. on the Riehle Fields. 
Contact Jose Fernadez at jfernan9@nd.edu 
Howard vs. Ryan 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
Sports Writer 
Ryan and Howard will go head-to-head Monday in a battle of two high-performing teams. 
The Wildcat defense has shut out its opponents in all three of its games so far this season. Senior captain and receiver Maddie Swan said she believes defense will decide if Ryan (3-0) will continue its winning streak. 
“I think Howard is one of the better teams in our league and we’ll definitely have to play our best,” Swan said. “I know that they have a strong offense, so our defense needs to capitalize on its strengths.” 
Howard freshman offensive lineman Jazmyn Weaver said she is confident the Ducks (3­
0) will be able to respond to the Wildcats’ strategy. 
“We’re able to be flexible with our offense and our defense,” Weaver said. “We adjust to the other team, rather than keeping to a few simple plays.” 
Swan said this game is per­sonally important, as well as important to the standings. 
“In my sophomore year, we were first in our division and lost to [the Ducks] in the playoffs in an overtime situation,” Swan said. “We want to show them that we can beat them.” 

Both Swan and Weaver said the players on their respective teams have settled in and are working well together at this point in the season. Freshman quarterback Kathleen Conaty leads the Ryan offense, while senior captain Clare Robinson throws for Howard. 
The Wildcats and the Ducks will clash at 10 p.m. Monday on Stepan Fields. 
Contact Christina Kocanski at ckochans@nd.edu 
Breen-Phillips vs. McGlinn 
By ALEX CARSON 
Sports Writer 

Breen-Phillips enters Monday’s matchup against McGlinn coming off a Sunday thrashing at the hands of Ryan, while the Shamrocks are com­ing off their first win of the season. 
The Babes (0-3) had lost to Pangborn and Howard before falling to the Wildcats, but Babes senior captain and linebacker Monica McNerney said she re­mains upbeat heading towards this weekend’s games. 
“Our second game against Howard was much better,” McNerney said. “Our defense was able to stop Howard’s run game and while we improved, we still have a lot of work to do.” 
On the other side, McGlinn added its first entry in the win column with a 25-0 victory over Walsh. Shamrocks (1-2) se­nior captain and receiver Tara Crown also praised her team’s second-game improvement be­fore notching the first win. 
“The first game we had major issues on both the offensive and defensive side,” Crown said. “But in the second game the defense definitely fixed their issues, but we’re still trying to fix the chem­istry offensively between our quarterback and receivers.” 
Both McNerney and Crown said their teams put in extra work in practice last week to prepare. 
The Babes will be looking for big contributions from two freshmen, defensive lineman Michaela McInerney and quar­terback Kaheke Martinson. 
The Shamrocks will be count­ing on production from the quar­terback position as well, with sophomore Katherine Petrovich calling the shots, while senior defensive back Kaitlyn Keelin leads the McGlinn defensive unit. 
The Shamrocks and Babes will meet Monday night to do battle at 10 p.m. at the Riehle Fields. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

MEN’S TENNIS | BOBBY BAYLISS INvITATIONAL 
Freshmen impress at Bobby Bayliss Invitational 

By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
After a long weekend of com­petition, three Irish players, in­cluding two freshmen, ended the Bobby Bayliss Invitational un­defeated in singles play, a result Irish coach Ryan Sachire said he sees as an important mark in the team’s development. 
“Like any fall tournament, there are so many matches that are played and so many guys competing that there’s always going to be some positives and things you wished you had done better as a team,” Sachire said. “Overall, there were a lot of good things that happened over the weekend.” 
In particular, freshmen Josh Hagar and Eddy Covalschi ex­celled, both winning all four of their singles matches. Covalschi and Hagar separately added a doubles victory each, paired with senior Billy Pecor and ju­nior Dougie Barnard, respec­tively. Sachire said he was very impressed with his young play­ers’ performance. 
“Both of them played very well all weekend,” Sachire said. “It’s always good when your fresh­men play that well.” 
Besides Hagar and Covalschi, sophomore Alex Lawson also went 4-0 in his singles match­es. Throughout the weekend, Lawson did not lose a single set in any of his matches either. 
Sachire also praised junior Wyatt McCoy. McCoy finished with a 3-1 record in singles play, we’re strictly looking at the fall as a developmental period for our players. We’ll be better as a team because our individual players got better over the weekend. 

After two days of full play in warm and humid conditions, Sunday play was dampened by occasional rain. Doubles play had to be cancelled, but singles play finished unhindered. 
The tournament, a staple on 
“Overall, there were a lot of good things that happened over the weekend.” 
Ryan Sachire Irish coach 
with his only loss coming at the hands of Michigan State senior Aaron Pfister. 
“Pfister was their top player last year, and presumably he’ll be the same this year, so there’s no shame in losing to a player like that,” Sachire said. “Those four guys [Hagar, Covalschi, Lawson and McCoy] were probably the highlight of the meet for us.” 
No overall team score was kept for the invitational, which was just what Sachire said he wanted. 
“These are individual tourna­ments and I don’t think that it’s a crucial thing for the team to place well,” Sachire said. “Certainly you want everyone to do as well as possible and get better, but 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

the fall schedule for the Irish, was recently renamed in honor of Notre Dame’s former coach, Bobby Bayliss. Coach Sachire said it was a fitting honor for the man who gave so much to the team 
“Coach Bayliss, words can’t describe what he did for our pro­gram and for the University in general,” Sachire said. “It’s the least we could do to recognize that and recognize him. It’s defi­nitely something we’re going to continue to have every year and hopefully we’ll build on it and make it stronger each year.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 





ND VOLLEYBALL | WAKE FOREST 3, ND 2 
Wake Forest battles back to defeat struggling ND 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Heading into Friday’s match against Wake Forest at Purcell Pavilion, Notre Dame’s transi­tion to the ACC had not gone smoothly. Unfortunately for the Irish, their fortunes did not improve against the Demon Deacons. Despite winning the first two sets, the Irish fell victim to a comeback from Wake Forest, falling in five sets. The loss is the sixth in a row for Notre Dame (6­9, 0-4 ACC). 
“It’s very rough, and you can’t really avoid frustration and disappointment,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “We’re just not in a good rhythm right now.” 
The Irish jumped out to a lead by relying on strong team de­fense in the match’s first two sets, registering 47 digs and 9.5 blocks in the opening two frames. In a defensive struggle, however, the Irish failed to convert efficiently on offense, hitting just .154 on the evening. 
Wake Forest (12-4, 1-3 ACC) re­covered and seized control of the third set early, winning 25-19 be­fore taking the final two by scores of 25-20 and 15-11. For Brown, the outcome was due both to a let­down by her squad and impres­sive play by the Demon Deacons. 
“I think it was a combination of the two,” Brown said. “The first two games really weren’t great volleyball. Statistically, it was high-error on both sides. We knew going into the third set that we had to pay better, and we just didn’t.” 
Junior outside hitter Toni Alugbue led the Irish offensively with 21 kills while senior middle blocker Andie Olsen chipped in 12. Senior setter Maggie Brindock contributed a career-high 21 digs. 
Brown said her team’s troubles came from an inability to con­vert on offense. 
“Our biggest thing is that we’re not generating kills,” Brown said. “We’re getting dug a lot, the frustration of which leads us to taking swings that we probably shouldn’t take which leads to er­rors. It’s a reflection of both the passing and the hitting. It’s been a little bit of everything. We have to be a little smarter.” 
While the offense struggled on Friday against Wake Forest, there has not been one specific aspect of play that has consistently thwarted the Irish during their recent run of poor form, Brown said. 
“There’s not one area from game to game that we feel is hindering us,” Brown said. “We played much better defense to­day but didn’t get the kills to go with it. Sometimes it goes the other way around.” 
Notre Dame’s victory over Auburn on Sept. 14 in similar fashion, with the Irish taking the match’s final three sets to over­come a 2-0 deficit. To be on the other side of the result, however, is trying for both the coaching staff and the players. 
“As a team, things haven’t gone real well recently,” Brown said. 


“We just have to believe that it’s  conference win at Clemson.  
all going to turn around soon.”  
The Irish next hit the court on  Contact Conor Kelly at  
Friday when they seek their first  ckelly17@nd.edu  

SMC CROSS COUNTRY | 12TH OUT OF 18 
Saint Mary’s finishes 12th in ‘competitive field’ 
with team scores of 44 and 73, finished 28th overall with a One member of the Belles finished ahead of Dunn with 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

Sports Writer respectively. time of 23:38.79. Freshman squad who did not have an a time of 24:40.78 to earn 69th Saint Mary’s coach Jackie Brittany Beeler was the second off-day performance was place and 62 points. Junior 
The Belles took 12th place Bauters said it was a very com-Saint Mary’s runner to finish. sophomore Katelyn Dunn. Samee Chittenden ran a at the Pre-National race host-petitive environment for the Beeler took 53rd overall with a Dunn finished the race with a 25:21.03 right behind Dunn to ed by Hanover College on Belles. time of 24:13.65. personal-best time of 25:02.37 finish 107th overall. Saturday in Hanover, Ind. “It was a very competi-Bauters said she thought the and claimed 88th place for 77 Freshman Kathryn Marshall 
After a solid fourth-place tive field this weekend full of team did very well overall de-points. finished after Chittenden finish last week at the MIAA highly-ranked regional and spite a few runners who did Bauters said Dunn’s strong with a time of 25:34.23 to fin-Jamboree, the Belles claimed national teams,” Bauters said. not run their best. performance was a crucial ish 116th and fellow freshman 12th place in a field of 18 “We worked the team hard this “A few ladies had off days contribution to the team’s Kaitlyn Alessi crossed the fin-teams Saturday with a team week and I was happy to see which impacted our overall overall score. ish line a little less than 30 score of 306. Trinity University how well they ran despite it.” performance but nothing that “Katelyn really helped finish seconds later with a time of (Texas) won the race and Lewis Belles senior Jessica Biek led won’t be remedied for our next out our scoring,” Bauters said. 26:00.73 to finish 128th. University took second place the squad this weekend. Biek race,” Bauters said. Sophomore Allie Danhof Junior Emily Getz, senior 

Colette Curtis, and freshman PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
Colleen Ogren finished close to each other in a pack. Getz ran a 26:37.55 for 159th place, Curtis ran a 26:38.20 for 160tth place, and Ogren took 163rd with a time of 26:40.85. 
Freshman Maggie Pacana, senior Sarah Thompson, and sophomore Holly Higdon wrapped up the race for the Belles. Pacana finished 185th with a time of 27:26.39, and Thompson finished 191st with a 27:42.47. Higdon ran a 
28:10.92to claim 199th. 

After performing well and finishing ahead of 14th-place Manchester, Bauters said the team is looking forward to competing next at the Manchester Invitational on Oct. 19. 
“We are excited for Manchester in two weeks,” Bauters said. “We just came off beating Manchester this week­end and will look forward to some fast times.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


Hockey 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
on, too. Special teams have got to be a focal point for us this year. We’ve got the personnel; it’s just a matter of inserting the right people.” 
Even without taking full ad­vantage of their power plays, the Irish still had more than enough offense to secure a win. Freshman center vince Hinostroza, who assisted voran on his first goal, notched Notre Dame’s first goal in the second period, assisted by junior right wing Austin Wuthrich and sophomore cen­ter Steven Fogarty. Senior cen­ter T.J. Tynan put the Irish up 4-0 after putting home an as­sist from a fellow senior, defen­seman Stephen Johns. 
While at one point in the first period the Irish and Gryphons had 10 shots apiece, by the pe­riod’s end, the ratio was 20-11 in favor of the Irish. 
The Gryphons offense came alive in the third period, how­ever, as they outscored the Irish 2-1. Their first goal came on a power play when junior forward Jordan Mock knocked a rebound out of the air and past Irish freshman goalie Chad Katunar, who replaced Summerhays midway through the second period. voran’s sec­ond goal, a point-blank rocket assisted by sophomore left wing Sam Herr and senior center David Gerths, acted as an im­mediate response by the Irish, eliminating the Gryphons’ momentum just 22 seconds after their first goal. Guelph would score again in the final two minutes when junior for­ward Michael Charbonneau knocked it past Katuner from up close, but it was too late to affect the outcome. 
Despite his own two goals, voran said he was most im­pressed with the newcomer Hinostroza. 
“I know [Hinostroza] is just a freshman, but just watching him you can see the poise with the puck he has,” voran said. 
Jackson also said he saw a lot of potential in Hinostroza. 
“I thought he played very well at times,” Jackson said. “He does a lot of neat things with the puck — very skilled, very dynamic player. He’s a guy that’s got a real bright future.” 
Seeing how newcomers like Hinostroza fit in with the re­turnees in game action was just as important for the Irish as actually winning the exhibi­tion, according to Jackson. 


“The chemistry on lines is really what we’re looking for right now,” Jackson said. “I was experimenting with different people on lines. I thought we found some good combinations.” 
Now with a better idea of their rotations, the Irish will host Western Michigan on Friday night at the Compton Family Ice Arena in their sea­son opener. 

Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




M Soccer 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
important Shipp has been this season. 
“He is a special player,” Clark said. “He has been very, very good this season and all four years. But this season as a se­nior, in the leadership role, he has been a great role model for everyone.” 
With the two goals, Shipp kept his career-high seven-game point streak alive. Shipp currently leads the Irish with five goals and five assists for 15 total points. The streak began with Notre Dame’s 1-1 draw with North Carolina back on Sept. 8. 
Against Clemson, the Irish took the early lead in the 21st minute of the first half, on Shipp’s first goal. Shipp drib­bled past the Clemson defense and Tarbell to put away an empty-net goal and put the Irish up 1-0. 
The Tigers outshot Notre Dame 6-4 in the first half and 15-7 for the game. It was the first time an opponent outshot Notre Dame this season. Clark said the Irish seemed to go on the defensive in the second half, trying to hold onto the one-goal lead. Unfortunately the Tigers got the late goal. 
“I don’t know if the shot total was indicative of the first half,” Clark said. “In the second half, they came out hard and pressed us. ... The game was played in our half. ... I’m not sure if that was because we tried to hold the game or what. We sat too far back after the lead, but we didn’t buckle though.” 
The Irish will resume play against another ranked ACC opponent in No. 8 Maryland, as they host the Terrapins at Alumni Stadium on Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


W Soccer 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
They just outworked us.” 
While Notre Dame held the slight advantage in shots, the team struggled to string to­gether passes in the attacking third and put together scor­ing chances. Hurricanes junior goaltender Emily Lillard came off her line numerous times to grab passes and shots before the Irish could put them in the net. Lillard made a number of stops 
After winning their first five games in the ACC, the recent stumble from the Irish has Waldrum worried that his team will lack confidence heading into the remaining six games on the team’s conference schedule, especially Thursday’s date at No. 1 virginia, he said. The Irish are still tied with virginia Tech for the third spot in the ACC stand­ings, but first-place virginia has played one fewer conference games than the Irish, Hokies and second-place Florida State. 
“We know we played poorly and that we have to turn around and play virginia on Thursday,” Waldrum said. “If we dwell on the loss too long, it could affect us. We’ve got to go with the ap­proach that these are the things we did wrong and we need to fix them. We can still come out [of the ACC] in really good shape, there’s just more pressure now.” 

The Irish will resume action when they next play at virginia on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


in the second half to earn the clean sheet. 
“It’s one thing to get a lot of shots, and it’s another thing to create quality chances,” Waldrum said. “We really had 
“We couldn’t seem to do anything right.” 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
only one or two bona fide chanc­es in the game. We had forwards 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
with chances to create and took a bad touch, we never strung passes together. We couldn’t seem to do anything right.” 
Although the Irish did not score a goal in the game for just the second time all year, Waldrum did not lay all the blame at the feet of his offen­sive players. He also cited the uncharacteristically poor play from Notre Dame’s veteran de­fensive corps. 
“We were as bad defensive­ly as we’ve been all season,” Waldrum said. 


PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | HILLARY MANGIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information about people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jeremy Sisto, 39; Amy Jo Johnson, 43; Elisabeth Shue, 50; Britt Ekland, 71. 
Happy Birthday: Happy Birthday: Keep the peace, no matter how difficult it may be to do so. Stepping outside situations that develop will allow you to see the big picture and the passageway to a better future. Put your effort into work and devel­oping what you know and do best. A change in relationships can be expected and should be welcomed. Push for greater equality in your personal and professional life. Your numbers are 1, 6, 13, 24, 26, 35, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Refuse to let a challenge slow you down. Size up your situation and deal with whatever is standing between you and what you want to do. Don’t draw attention, just do what’s necessary. Avoid controversy and you’ll be spared limitations. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Entertain friends, family or your lover. Make pleasant conversation and avoid any sort of discussion that might lead to an unfortunate situation. Stubbornness will not help you get your way or enhance your reputation. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Check what’s required in order to work in an industry that interests you. Asking for a favor will end up costing you more than it’s worth. Be imaginative and you will figure out how to get what you want. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try something different. The people you meet and the skills and information you pick up will be impressive. Love is in the stars and mak­ing plans that are conducive to meeting someone new or nurturing a meaningful relationship should be your intent. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make sure you take care of your domestic responsibilities before you go out looking for entertainment. Not everyone will be easy to please. An argument with someone you care about can damage your relationship or your reputation.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of friends, relatives or someone you feel needs your help. Showing compassion and tolerance will encourage others to follow your lead. A special relationship you have with someone deserves a little tenderness and care. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Check out any opportunities that come up with regard to your profession or that pertain to making the most of whatever you have worked so hard to accomplish. Expansion is apparent, but don’t make a hasty move or go over budget. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Speak up, share what you know and what you are up to, and you will receive worthwhile suggestions. Unique alterations at home will pay high returns. Protect your reputation. Someone with jealous tendencies may try to make you look bad. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take action and make things happen. Talking is fine, but if you don’t follow through, you will be looked upon as a procrastinator. Someone asking for help is likely to exaggerate in order to get you to do more.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your best foot forward and do your own thing. You will attract attention and can make gains if you offer unique solutions. Stick close to home and avoid venturing to places that could put you in an awkward or unsavory position. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Think before you say something that might jeop­ardize your chances to get ahead or pursue an interest. Remain quiet about your plans until you have all the kinks worked out. An emotional situation will hinder a partnership.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make financial moves. Money will come to you from an unusual source. A relationship will develop into a long-term connection that contributes to your well-being emotionally and physically. Expand your interests and socialize with people who share your sentiments. 


Birthday Baby: You are imaginative, insightful and intense. You are a leader. 
JUMBLE | DAvID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 

City State Zip 

THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
MEN’S SOCCER | ND 2, CLEMSON 1 (OT) 
Saved by Shipp 
Senior forward Harry Shipp nets two goals, including the game-winner, to preserve undefeated season 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2 Irish pulled out a 2-1 overtime victory at No. 13 Clemson on Saturday, on the back of senior captain and for­ward Harry Shipp’s two-goal effort. 
“I thought it was a very tough game,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “[The Tigers] are a good team. We played the first half pretty well. They came out ag­gressive in the second half, and obviously Harry Shipp did pretty well.” 
The Tigers (7-2-1, 2-2-1 ACC) took Notre Dame (6-0-3, 3-0­
2) to its fourth overtime of the season by netting a goal with only three minutes left in the game. 
On a corner in the 88th min­ute, Tigers graduate student midfielder Thomas McNamara sent in a low cross to junior mid­fielder Ara Amirkhanian, who one-timed the shot through an array of Irish defenders and past Irish senior goalkeeper Patrick Wall to even the score at 1-1. The past three overtimes for the Irish had ended in ties. 
“The previous overtimes, we fought hard and dominated, but we couldn’t get the goal,” Clark said. “Against Clemson there was this determination and drive for the win. They re­ally wanted this game. And we got a little luck as well. I always tell the guys, ‘The harder you work, the luckier you get,’ so I think we worked very hard for this one.” 
Shipp netted the golden-goal game winner just two min­utes into overtime to clinch the Irish victory. Clark said he was proud of how the Irish dug deep to overcome overtime, the momentum shift and the 3,700 fans clad in Clemson orange. 
“I was so pleased with how they handled that,” Clark said. We talked briefly before over­time. We could either hold for a point away from home or we can go for it. And there was no question, the intention was to Shipp got the ball on a turn-go out and win. And then there over in the attacking third, was another beautiful goal turned around and put the from Shipp.” ball past Clemson redshirt 


freshman goalkeeper Andrew Tarbell. Clark said he could not 
see M SOCCER PAGE 21 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | MIAMI (FLA.) 2, ND 0 
‘Canes upset No. 4 Irish 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After a seven-match unbeat­en streak, the Irish fell 2-0 in disappointing fashion to Miami on Sunday afternoon in Coral Gables, Fla. 
Junior forward Ashley Flinn scored two second-half goals for the Hurricanes (7-4, 2-4 ACC) as Miami pulled off the upset of No. 3 Notre Dame (9-2-1, 5-1-1). 
“The game today was just poor. We were not good from the opening whistle,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “You can blame it on a lot of dif­ferent things, but we just came out very unprepared to go in and battle.” 
The loss comes just three days after the Irish tied No. 11 Wake Forest — the first time Notre Dame left the pitch without a victory in its inaugural con­ference schedule in the ACC. For Waldrum, the defeat to the Hurricanes proved to be much more disappointing. 
“This is a game that we ex­pected to win and we didn’t,” Waldrum said. “Getting a tie against a top team like Wake Forest doesn’t hurt you, but this hurts you. They’re not a better team or better players than us. 
see W SOCCER PAGE 21 


HOCKEY | ND 5, GUELPH 2 

Squad dominates in exhibition 
By CASEY KARNES 
Sports Writer 
The Irish dominated wire-to-wire in their return to Compton Family Ice Arena against visiting Guelph, win­ning 5-2 in the opening exhibi­tion of the 2013-14 season. 
It was the Gryphon’s sec­ond exhibition loss and Notre 
Dame’s  only  preseason  tilt  
before  its  opener  Friday  
against  Western  Michigan.  

The Irish came out aggres­sive from the start, outshoot­ing the Gryphons, with 20 shots on goal against 11 for the opposition. 
Irish senior goaltender Steven Summerhays showed little rust, stopping all 15 shots launched by Guelph and mak­ing quick recoveries to prevent the Gryphons from capitaliz­ing on rebounds. 
Offensively, a pair of return­ees got the Irish on the board in the first period, as junior right wing Mike voran and sophomore left wing Mario Lucia both drove the puck past Gryphons’ senior goalie Andrew Loverock. Even though it was an exhibition, voran, who scored again in the third period, said it felt good to start the season strong on offense. 

“Scoring goals never gets old,” voran said. “It definitely felt good to get on the score sheet. It was nice. Everyone was involved tonight; everyone was contributing. That was great to see.” 
Lucia’s goal came on a power play in the 13th minute, one of the seven the Irish gained an advantage on during the night. The game was very physical, with 16 penalties called and two Guelph players, sopho­more Brett Appio and fresh­man Kyle Neuber, being served with game misconducts and receiving ejections. After his team only capitalized on two of their seven chances, Irish coach Jeff Jackson said special teams was an area Notre Dame must improve in as the season progresses. 
“Special teams are still a work in progress,” Jackson said. “We haven’t spent a ton of time [in] power play yet. We experimented with a few things and a few people, and I think we had some really good chances that we didn’t finish 
see HOCKEY PAGE 20 



