The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 77 | MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students lead national March for Life 
Right to Life Club represents Notre Dame on March 

By MARIA DO 
news writer 
This year’s march for life in washington, d.c., presented a new sense of urgency for the pro-life movement, sophomore mary olivia balmert said. 
balmert was just one of more than 600 students and faculty members representing the notre dame right to life (rTl) club who converged Friday on the national mall. The group joined 650,000 people from across the country who marched in protest of the 1973 supreme court decision on roe v. wade, which legalized abortion. 
balmert, who serves as one of the commissioners for notre dame rTl, said the 2013 march for life was especially significant 
see liFe PAGE 4 




SMC  students energized by D.C. experience 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
The presidential inaugu­ration monday was not the only event that drew crowds to washington d.c. last week. Friday was the march for life, an annual pro-life rally held in the city around the anniversary of the supreme court’s decision in roe vs. wade. 
among the more than half-million in attendance were members of saint mary’s respect for life club, a group dedicated to promoting aware­ness for the sanctity of human life from conception to natural death. 
senior and club president allison rhea said the march is an important part of the club’s 
see smc PAGE 4 



musical group earns award 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
news writer 
art changes lives. 

The success of venezuelan conductor jose antonio abreu and his children’s musical group el sistema in demonstrating this principle has earned him this year’s notre dame prize for distinguished public service in latin america from the kellogg 
institute  for  international  
studies.  
Founded  37  years  ago,  el  

sistema’s nationwide network of orchestras and education centers within venezuela provides chil­dren with the self-esteem and character needed to break out of the cycle of poverty, according to a press release from the kellogg institute. although he emerged from university with an eco­nomics degree, abreu stated in the release his artistic interests and national concerns inspired him to develop the organization, an alternative means for rescuing his community. 
in the release, abreau cited music’s unique capacity for uniting unstable, struggling communities. 
“music is an agent of social de­velopment in the highest sense, because it transmits the highest values — solidarity, harmony, mutual compassion. it has the ability to unite an entire commu­nity,” abreu stated in the press prelease. 
steve reifenberg, executive director of the kellogg institute, said abreu’s unique approach to social stabilization was a signifi­cant reason for recognizing his contributions in venezuela. 

“it’s really a movement that’s making its way across the globe. i teach international develop­ment, so these types of stories, where someone approaches development from a different angle rather than economic or educational development, stand 
see award PAGE 4 



Observer selects future editors 
Observer Staff Report 
meghan Thomassen, matthew deFranks, marisa iati and nicole michels have been chosen to help oversee The observer’s editorial op­erations in 2013-2014, incom­ing editor-in-chief andrew gastelum announced sunday. 
Thomassen will assume the position of managing editor, the no. 2 spot at the paper, while deFranks, iati and michels will serve as assistant managing editors. 
a junior majoring in english with minors in journalism, ethics and democracy and philosophy and literature, Thomassen will assist gastelum in man­aging all departments of The observer’s print and online editions. 
a native of rowley, mass., Thomassen is a resident of pasquerilla east hall, but is 
Meghan Thomassen
2013-2014managing editor 
currently studying abroad in london. she has served as viewpoint editor since march 2011, and has been 

involved in a variety of proj­ects for The observer, includ­ing the paper’s redesign, The observer passport blog and a recurring column in the scene section called “know Thy shelf.” 
“This paper has been a part of my life since my freshman year and i can’t wait to get to work,” Thomassen said. 
deFranks, a resident of Zahm house, is a junior majoring in Finance with a 
see ediTors PAGE 5 


liTerary journalism PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle                              jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: john cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your life motto? 


Gabe Jacobs 
freshman 
o’neill hall 

“eat, sleep, architecture ... minus the sleep.” 

Michelle Wadolowski 
freshman 
pasquerilla west hall 
“you miss 100 percent of the shots you don’t take.” 


Michael Vaclav 
freshman 
o’neill hall 

“second place is the first loser.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Kathy Wadolowski 
freshman ryan hall 
“hakuna matata.” 

Jack Souter 
sophomore Fisher hall 
“Fisher for sure.” 


Lindsay Smith 
senior welsh Family hall 
“be interesting.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

ann marie jakubowski chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: carolyn hutyra brian hartnett nicole mcalee peter steiner 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

“The Thin Justice of Diversity Reception Pink Zone Dodgeball Christian Unity Ski and Snowboard 
suzanna pratt dan brombach 
International Law” Joyce Center Tournament Prayer Service Weekend 1140 Eck Hall of Law 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Rolfs Sports Keenan Hall Rockne Memorial 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. Network with Recreation Center 6:00 p.m.-7:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
Corrections 

Lecture by visiting organizations that 3:00 p.m.-7:00 p.m. Service in honor of Hit the slopes in 
The observer regards itself as speaker Steve Ratner. embrace diversity. Play to fight cancer. Christian Unity Week. Harbor Springs, MI. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
EAP: Listening and Winter Career and Men’s Basketball “5 Broken Cameras” Men’s and Women’s 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Note-taking Internship Fair Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing Track and Field 
however, recognize that we will make 
303 DeBartolo Hall Joyce Center 6:00 p.m. Arts Center Loftus Sports Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6:30p.m.-7:45 p.m. 4:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. Men’s basketball 7:00 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 4:00 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Note-taking strategies Meet more than 140 takes on the Villanova For the ScreenPeace Notre Dame hosts the 
we can correct our error. 

for graduate students. employers. Wildcats. Film Festival. Meyo Invitational. 


Activist to address stalking 
and its impact on our coun-college campuses because it 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 

news writer try, specifically on college is very easy to find out where 
campuses. in addition, she someone lives, who they hang 
saint mary’s college will will discuss the importance out with and their class sched­host debbie riddle, a noted of intervention, coordinated ule,” bueno said. “campuses speaker on stalking aware-community responses and can be small and close-knit ness, as part of stalking prevention initiatives. and that makes it easy to find awareness month activities. “unfortunately, stalking im-someone and follow them The event, sponsored by the pacts men and women in the around.” belles against violence office bueno believes that riddle’s (bavo), will be held in vander 
speech is beneficial for the 
“One in six women 
vennet Theater on jan. 29 at 7 saint mary’s community be-

experiences 

cause it offers a personal ac-
p.m. 
professor forms reading group 
development and story-like fea-
By MARISA IATI 
news writer tures that are prominent.” group members will read 
students and faculty mem-many contemporary pieces bers eager to learn about a rap-of writing, roiland said. The idly growing style of reporting club will look at work by john will find an outlet in the literary jeremiah sullivan, susan orlean 
and joan didion, among others. roiland said he is open to sug­
gestions about works to read and 

stalker, whether they are be-

the writing, to questions about 
Josh Roiland
assistant professor american studies 
riddle, an awareness activ­
stalking in her 

count of just how dangerous topics to discuss. 
ist since 2003, sought change 

lifetime and an accelerated romantic rela­
“we’ll talk about whatever 
in the government’s approach 

tionship in college can be. 
one in 19 men 
anyone wants to talk about, 
to stalking prevention after her 
“people need to be able 
whether it’s formal themes, 
experiences 
sister, peggy klinke, was mur­
dered by an ex-boyfriend and to recognize the signs of a structures, and techniques in 

stalking in his 
stalker of one year. klinke’s lifetime.” ing stalked or someone they 

the reporting, to just whether or death occurred just six days 
know is being stalked,” bueno 
journalism reading group, which not we like it,” he said. “it’s com-
Connie Adams 
before the court case against 

said. “it is important to know 
meets for the first time today. pletely open and laid back. The 
director 
her harasser went to trial. 

the facts, be able to recognize 
josh roiland,  visiting assistant goal is to make people feel com-
Belles Against Violence Office 
connie adams, director of 

the signs and to realize how 
professor of american studies, fortable talking about whatever bavo, said riddle’s speech you can take action to protect 
said he formed the club to facili-they find interesting, confusing was originally set for october u.s. at alarming rates. one in yourself and those you care 
tate discussion about this type or infuriating.” 2012, but was rescheduled due six women experiences stalk-for.” 
of journalism, which takes the pieces of literary journalism to weather — coincidentally ing in her lifetime and one in adams said she hopes the 
form of a short story or novel. are compelling examples of sto­to the 10th anniversary of her 19 men experiences stalking event will be informative for 
The reading group aims to rytelling, roiland said. They sister’s death. in his lifetime,” adams said. students. 
meet every two weeks and will have an untraditional structure riddle intends to share “as with other types of pow-“my hope is that participants 
eventually switch to convening and do not follow the classic re­peggy’s story in her speech, er-based personal violence, gain a better understanding of 
early Friday afternoons, roiland porting style of giving the im­which adams said was “a college-age women are at the stalking as a whole,” adams 
said. it will have no attendance portant facts first. touching and powerful highest risk.” said. “There are many mis-
requirement. “These stories show that you testimony.” senior cristina bueno plans conceptions in our society 
roiland said he developed the can be a journalist and a writer, “i believe understanding the to attend the event. she said about violence. events such 
idea for the group while he was that you can be creative and ac-impact stalking has through a she believes the talk is relevant as debbie’s lecture allow us to 
teaching a course called “literary curate,” roiland said. “and for personal lens magnifies the to college students because re-gain a better understanding of 
journalism in america” at case students who do not want to be power [to prevent it],” adams lationships at this age begin to the issue and empower us to 
western reserve university. journalists but do enjoy studying said. “after all, knowledge is intensify and can spin out of create change.” 
“students really responded the news media, this is an emerg­power.” control. 
well to the readings to the point ing field of study in english and riddle will also share gener-“i think stalking is a preva-Contact Rebecca O’Neil at 
that several told me they were communications departments, al information about stalking lent form of harassment on roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
continuing to read certain au-and it could spark an interest for thors like david Foster wallace further study after notre dame.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
over the summer and have con-senior ben Zelmer said taking versations with each other on roiland’s literary journalism in Facebook about these readings,” america class last fall gave him roiland said. “so i thought i an appreciation for the literary would give that interest some genre of journalism. organization and started the “literary journalism is a group.” unique form of writing that of-
The club began with 10 people fers fascinating perspectives on and grew to more than 40 stu-issues and topics that are often dents, faculty and staff members not available through traditional by the end of the year, roiland journalism,” Zelmer said. “i’m said. looking forward to reading more 
“it was pretty remarkable, and fascinating pieces in the reading i attribute it all to the compel-group and hearing thoughts and ling nature of these stories,” he impressions from students and said. “it’s just such a different faculty in a group setting.” experience to be reading some-roiland said he helped six for-thing that feels like a short story mer students at case western or novel, but know that it’s been create a panel about under-thoroughly reported and is 100 graduate experiences with percent accurate.” literary journalism for the 
The literary journalism read-international association for ing group at notre dame will literary journalism studies. The seek to provide a similar struc-panel participated in a confer­ture for the growing interest ence in Toronto and was given in this new form of reporting, the designation of “president’s roiland said. The club currently panel” by professor alice donat consists of 24 students and fac-Trindade from universidade ulty members. Técnica de lisboa in lisbon, 
sophomore john pratt said portugal. he signed up for the reading “The panel was the highlight group after developing a fascina-of the conference, and really, the tion with literary journalism in highlight of my teaching career,” roiland’s class last fall. he said. “Those students got to 
“it has a stronger story-like feel, meet all of the literary journal-while still remaining true to jour-ism scholars they had been read­nalistic standards of accuracy,” ing in class and citing in their pratt said. “one of the aspects of papers. … and, ultimately, i’d literary journalism that excites like to replicate experiences like me most is the fact that the per-that here at notre dame.” sonality of the author can come through very strongly as a re-Contact Marisa Iati at sult of the symbolism, character miati@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Award 
conTinued From page 1 
out as truly transformative,” reifenberg said. “i think it’s such an absolutely inspiring and com­pelling project.” 
The kellogg institute said el sistema has benefited individual participants in the program and the greater venezuelan society, a fact demonstrated by the ongo­ing support of eight successive governments. currently, 300,000 children across the country cur­rently participate in abreu’s arts education programs, and his 
model has spread to 25 other 
nations. 
while the kellogg institute’s 
annual award has typically 
recognized distinguished indi­
viduals serving latin america 
through political, economic, 
educational or religious actions, 

cash prize and a matching amount donated to a charitable organization recommended by the winner. it is funded by a grant from The coca-cola Foundation. 
rodrigo calderon, kellogg advisory board member and president of the coca-cola Foundation mexico stated in the press release that the award is a great honor. 
“The notre dame prize for distinguished public service in latin america is recognized as the most prestigious prize in its category,” calderon stated. “The 

Life 
conTinued From page 1 
because it marked the 40th an­niversary of the supreme court ruling. 
“This trip [was] especially seri­ous because it encouraged us to look back over the past four de­cades and remember how many lives have been lost in that time frame: over 55 million,” balmert said. “roe v. wade occurred before i was born, meaning that when i was in utero it was considered legal for my mother to terminate her pregnancy and end my life if 
she had wanted. as a poster at the 
the very front of the entire crowd. 
“it was great being with a group of young people leading the march, leading the way and showing people that we are a gen­
“It was great being with a group of young people leading the march, leading the way and showing people that we are a generation that 
really cares about 
group in solidarity.” 
Freshman christiann Tavitas said a group of women represent­ing the silent no more awareness campaign provided an especially moving testimony. The christian affiliated group seeks to share the personal stories of women and men who have experienced abor­tion firsthand. 
“There was this group of wom­en behind us whose stories of conversion from pro-choice and pro-life gave the event an emo­tional quality,” Tavitas said. “even though they had abortions before, they gathered here to show their 
regrets. it was just amazing how 
this issue.” 
march said, i am a survivor.” you feel for them and you realize 
For first-time attendees, the 
that we need people like them to 
Andrew Weiler 
record-breaking number of peo­
make any difference.” 
sophomore 
ple gathered at the march for life hoping to present the celebra­

was unexpected but also brought tion of life, notre dame’s presence 
on a sense of community for the eration that really cares about this at the capitol also captured atten­movement, said freshman ethan issue,” he said. 
tion from other supporting orga­
reifenberg said abreu’s unique approach deserves recognition. 
“we hope that even more people will learn about maestro abreu and his project by giving him the award,” reifenberg said. 
every year, the institute solic­its hundreds of people for nomi­nations, ultimately narrowing the group to 40 or 50 individuals, reifenberg said. 
“i think if you look at the past recipients, it’s a really remark­able group of people,” reifenberg said. 
The award consists of a $15,000 university of notre dame is to be commended for leading this effort which is both a distinction for these outstanding individu­als and an inspiration for the younger generation. 

reifenberg said maestro abreu will officially receive the award this upcoming spring at a ceremony in caracas, venezuela, during which one of the el sistema youth orchestras will perform. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 
muehlstein. 
“i didn’t really know what to expect because i actually never heard of this event until coming here to notre dame,” muehlstein said. “it was really shocking and refreshing to see so many people wanting to save people’s lives and stop abortion, and to be among all those people who are try­ing to change something in the government.” 
sophomore rTl media com­missioner andrew weiler was one of 50 student leaders carrying the official march for life banner at 
paid adverTisemenT 


people from across the nation as well as other countries contrib­uted to the diversity of protesters at the capital this weekend, weiler said. 
“sometimes there can be a ten­dency to think that the pro-life movement is a single group of people, but going there you can see that there is a range of people who are attending an event like this,” weiler said. “There were even people from ireland that we saw and so a whole bunch of people converged here in washington, forming a single nizations of pro-life, weiler said. 
“people were definitely excited to see notre dame here in part because we are a very national and preeminent catholic univer­sity around,” he said. “people have started to notice our presence. also, we sang our alma mater so it just shows that my fellow students were also standing up for the dig­nity of all people and it made me very proud to be a notre dame student.” 
Contact Maria Do at mdol@nd.edu 



Editors an american studies major with a minor in journalism, 
conTinued From page 1 

ethics and democracy. she minor in journalism, ethics led The observer passport and democracy. he serves blog while studying abroad 

Matthew DeFranks 
conTinued From page 1 

and the notre dame Forum. come out to support a cause the banner and represent the 


in Toledo, spain, in Fall 2012 and has experience covering notre dame student govern­ment and relay for life. 
“i’m looking forward to helping The observer more effectively facilitate conversation about issues important to the notre 
2013-2014 

as associate sports editor dame and saint mary’s and is a native of miami communities,” iati said. currently studying abroad michels serves as assistant in Fremantle, australia. news editor and is a native 
deFranks covered notre dame football’s run to the national championship and created the “waking the echoes” series focusing on the legacies of former notre dame athletes. 
“i am thrilled to get to 


work and improve The of glenview, ill. a resident observer for our students,” of cavanaugh hall, michels deFranks said. is an english and political 
iati served as an associate science double major. she news editor over the past has experience covering the was a great experience. it was march this year. it was exciting 
SMC 

2012 presidential debates inspiring to see so many people to have the opportunity to carry 

 native of skillman, 

“i’m so excited to help lead the staff at The observer as we continue to serve the notre dame community,” michels said. 
gastelum will begin his duties as editor-in-chief on march 4, and the rest of the activities. 
“The respect for life club was started at saint mary’s to provide students with the op­portunity to support the pro-life movement,” rhea said. “The march for life is of vital importance. it is a gather-they believe in. The event was prayerful.” 
senior silvia cuevas said the event made her optimistic about the future of life-related issues. 
“it’s a powerful experience that has filled me with hope that the world will know the impor­tance of every life, big or small,” cuevas said. “i am very fortu­nate to have had the opportu­nity to march for such a great cause.” 
rhea said she and her group were proud to formally repre­sent the college this year with a banner. 
“many of the groups bring a banner indicating where they are from to the march for life,” she said. “For the first time, saint mary’s college respect for life club took a banner to the club at the march.” 
rhea said the massive assem­bly of people at the march is a strong reminder of the pro-life movement’s conviction. 
“it demonstrates the value of standing up for what you be­lieve,” she said. 
Marisa Iati 
2013-2014 

n.j. and a resident of ryan editorial board will assume hall, iati is a junior pursuing their roles march 18. 
paid adverTisemenT 

year. a meinerz, who coordinated the investigation at the nightclub, said one band member died after escaping because he re­turned inside the burning building to save his accordion. The other band members es­caped alive because they were the first to notice the fire. 
“it was terrible inside — it was like one of those films of the holocaust, bodies piled atop one another,” said meinerz. “we had to use trucks to remove them. it took about six hours to take the bodies away.” 
Television images from santa maria, a university city of about 260,000 people, showed black ing of people from around the country to stand for life. as a club, the event fits well with our mission and for that reason we have many students attend each year.” 
This year marks rhea’s fifth time attending the rally, which she said was a powerful experience. 
“i feel strongly that every per­son has the right to life,” she said. “i attend each year to sup­port a cause that i am passion­ate about. The march for life 
BRAZIL 

nightclub fire kills 230 
Associated Press 
sanTa maria, brazil — a fast-moving fire roared through a crowded, windowless night­club in southern brazil early sunday, filling the air in sec­onds with flames and a thick, toxic smoke that killed more than 230 panicked partygoers, many of whom were caught in a stampede to escape. 
inspectors believe the blaze began when a band’s small py­rotechnics show ignited foam sound insulating material on the ceiling, releasing a putrid haze that caused scores of uni­versity students to choke to death. most victims died from club. brazilian bars routinely make patrons pay their entire tab at the end of the night be­fore they are allowed to leave. 
but arigony said the guards didn’t appear to block fleeing patrons for long. “it was cha­otic and it doesn’t seem to have been done in bad faith because several security guards also died,” he told The associated press. 
later, firefighters respond­ing to the blaze initially had trouble getting inside the kiss nightclub because “there was a barrier of bodies blocking the entrance,” guido pedroso melo, commander of the city’s fire department, told the o 
now back on campus, rhea said she is looking forward to taking her experiences with the rally and applying the mission of march for life to the club. 
“The march for life is just one way to support the sanctity of human life,” she said. “in con­tinuing to follow our mission, the club plans to continue to work with a variety of local or­ganizations that promote life.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


smoke inhalation rather than globo newspaper. smoke billowing out of the kiss burns in what appeared to be authorities said band mem-nightclub as shirtless young the world’s deadliest nightclub bers who were on the stage men who attended the univer­fire in more than a decade. when the fire broke out later sity party joined firefighters 
survivors and the police in-talked with police and con-using axes and sledgehammers spector marcelo arigony said firmed they used pyrotechnics to pound at the hot-pink exte­security guards briefly tried to during their show. rior walls, trying to reach those block people from exiting the police inspector sandro trapped inside. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The iphone lifestyle 

Sarah Swiderski 
news writer 

This pastchristmas i ditched my samsung slide-phone and joinedthe iphone community. my previous phone, “sammy,” and i had a love-hate relationship. it would turn on and off by itself and would some­times fail to send messages. on the bright side, it was indestructible. 
my phone would often make its way to the bottom of my backpack and hide under notebooks and textbooks resulting in many accidental calls to people who i knew in high school but forgot to delete their numbers. despite the abuse of being crushed under a shakespeare text and a calculus book, my phone would come out untouched. i’m pretty sure the phone would survive the apocalypse. 
i use to leave old sammy in my dorm room. i often would forget to charge my phone and, to the dismay of many,i would forget my voicemail password, resulting in miscommunication and receiving less then pleasant phone calls . 
however, all of that changed on christmas morning. my parents decided to get me a smartphone to help me as i job search and become more organized. The theory was iwould now be able to check my email and not miss important updates if i didn’t have my computer to check my ac­count. The new phone was meant to make my life easier. 
For the most part it accomplished that. i now remember the password to my voice­mail, check my email regularly, and have not had an accident-dial yet. ican now take pictures and send them to far away family and friends. but although life is easier, it is more stressful. 
my first week back at school was spent in fear my phone would go off in class because i hadn’t quite mastered the art of silencing all the notifications, buzzing and jingles.i finally figured out how to turn them off, but nowi haven’t figured out how to get some of them back. 
having a smartphone is a newfound responsibility for me. i feel like i have to constantly check my email to make sure i don’t miss anything. every time i get a push notification i have to see what is. i have to remember to charge my phone and not to let it fall to the bottom of my bag lest it should shatter. i feel like i can’t leave my room without it. it’s as if ihave an invisible set of handcuffs chaining me to my iphone. That being said, i’m not sure i could go back to a “dumb” phone. The apps and functions are just way too convenient for me, which is probably why i can’t go anywhere without my phone now. 
perhaps i just need to learn to be more mature about my cell phone use. maybe i just need to imagine istill have sammy. one thing is for sure: how i look at a phone will never be the same. 
Marching for and talking about life 
Elliott Pearce 
The human interest 

This weekend, hundreds of notre dame students, faculty, and staff demonstrated their opposition to abortion by participating in the march for life in washington. more than 400,000 others joined them on the march. whatever one thinks about the pro-life/pro-choice debate, no one can deny the march for life made a strong statement that a broad coalition of americans wants to end the practice of abortion in this coun­try. Though i support their efforts, i did not join that group of students and faculty in marching for life. i did this partly for selfish reasons: i did not want to sacrifice two nights worth of sleep and many hours of po­tential homework time for the cause. some activist i am. i also stayed home from the march for another, more legitimate reason. i believe there are many other ways those who are pro-life can engage the rest of america in a conversation about this practice. i am going to discuss a few of them in this article in the hope both the students at notre dame who are pro-choice and those who are pro-life can continue the conversa­tion and learn how to better care for human life in all of its stages. 
The conversation about abortion, insofar as it is illuminating and pro­ductive, centers around the question of when the fetus becomes a human person. almost anyone would agree it is not right for a parent to kill their baby because he or she does not want to take care of it or feels he or she cannot. Those who are pro-choice, however, think the fetus is not a baby, but merely a lump of tissue that can be removed with no more con­sequence than an appendix. when does this lump of tissue acquire per­sonhood and all the protections it entails? 
i believe almost anyone who gives the question some thought, even those who are pro-choice in most circumstances, would say a fetus is a person at some time before it is born. The threshold of viability is currently around 23 weeks, or a little less than six months, according to the march of dimes. if a baby were born at six months and survived, is it any less of a person than one born at eight months or nine months? if a six-month-old baby outside the womb is a person, one who lives in­side the womb is a person, too, be­cause personhood does not depend on one’s location or mode of suste­nance, especially when the “non­person” unborn could likely adapt to the born person’s state and survive. even before a fetus becomes viable, though, it begins to display many human characteristics, such as the possession of recognizable limbs and organs and the performance of be­haviors like yawning. it may be hard to argue a blastocyst is a child — though i will do it all day long if you want me to — but it’s much easier to argue one shouldn’t kill something that opens its mouth and yawns. 
what implications does this have for the conversation on abortion? Those who are both pro-choice and pro-life could agree to restrict abor­tion in the second and third trimes­ters, both for the sake of protecting what is more clearly a person and preserving the health of the mother, which can be threatened by invasive late-term abortions. This conversa­tion has already born fruit in the form of the 2003 ban on partial-birth abortions, and could bear more in the future with a ban on dilation and evacuation, another late-term abor­tion method. similar conversations could also lead to better enforce­ment of laws prohibiting minors from getting abortions without parental consent, and enactment of these laws where they are lacking. 
if pro-life activists want to achieve their ultimate goal of making abor­tion not just illegal but acknowledged by all as morally wrong, they must engage their opponents in produc­tive conversations that affirm what people from different sides can agree on before hammering away at points of difference. This approach will not only lead to the enactment of ben­eficial legislation, as it already has. it could also lead people to consider the other side’s position more favor­ably and bring them closer to find­ing and embracing the truth — the whole truth — together. pro-choice activists have taught the pro-life community to care about mothers affected by abortion in addition to the children, about other human persons whose lives are threatened after they are born and about the circumstances that cause people to consider abortion. what else will we learn, and teach, if we continue this conversation? only god knows. 
Elliott Pearce is a senior Program of Liberal Studies and mathematics major from Knott Hall. He can be reached at epearce1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


One issue isn’t enough 
Conor Durkin 
out of right Field 

This past weekend. roughly half a million students, pro-life activists and other individuals flocked to washington for the 40th annual march for life, led by a delegation from our own university of notre dame. as most people probably know, the march for life commemorates the anniversary of the 1973 supreme court decision in roe v. wade that led to the widespread legalization of abortion in the united states. For many, the day serves as a reminder of the importance of the sanctity of life, or, for those on the other side, of the importance of protect­ing fundamental freedoms of choice. To me, however, the day has always served as a reminder of the significance a single issue bears on our politics, and has also made me question whether this really makes sense given the realities of mod­ern politics. 
The dichotomy between pro-life and pro-choice has become one of the most significant splits in politics. if you’re a pro-choice republican or a pro-life democrat, you’ll never be president. 
period. Furthermore, depending on which view you hold, you instantly lose a large bloc of voters on that issue and that issue alone. can i be alone in find­ing this odd? Few other issues provide such a universal litmus test for our poli­ticians. not many people would base their vote solely on whether a candidate supports school vouchers or favors free trade. i don’t imagine many voters would decide their candidate of choice based solely on their views on climate change. To be sure, views on these other issues would influence your overall be­liefs about a candidate, but it is hard to find any issue that allows people to write off candidates as quickly as the pro-life/ pro-choice debate does. 
This is problematic. The world is a complex place, and the problems we face as a nation are significant. by basing our voting on anything short of a compre­hensive overview of a candidate’s views is to do a disservice to our nation and to ourselves. ruling out candidates be­cause they hold one particular view on one particular issue is simply inconsis­tent with the world in which we live and the realities of our current situation. 
The challenges we face are truly daunting. our federal government is currently $16 trillion in debt, and in a few months we stand to once again reach the debt ceiling. more than 12 million people are unemployed na­tionwide. income inequality has been growing over the past few decades, and social mobility has stagnated with it. our education system does not educate students, and our healthcare system is still not fixed. our immigration policies are remarkably broken, our entitlement spending threatens to bankrupt us and our political system itself is riddled with gridlock. with these problems in mind — not to mention the significance of issues like terrorism, civil liberties, energy, the environment, china, tax reform, gun violence, civil liberties or corruption — does it really make sense to base political judgments so heavily on someone’s views on one issue alone? 
back in 2010, then-indiana governor mitch daniels took a lot of flak for advocating what he termed a sort of temporary social truce in our politics, with social issues like abortion taking a backseat as we handle the many is­sues with which we are currently faced. as he put it, “if there were a weapon of mass destruction attack, death would come to straights and gays, pro-life and pro-choice. if the country goes broke, it would ruin the american dream for everyone. we are in this together. whatever our honest disagreements on other questions, might we set them aside long enough to do some very difficult things without which we will be a differ­ent, lesser country?” 
daniels’ idea was right when he sug­gested it, and it holds true today. The challenges we are facing are simply too broad and too important for anything less than our full focus. making deci­sions based off of one issue — or, even worse, making decisions based off of labels distilling one issue down to a phrase like “pro-life” or “pro-choice” — isn’t the kind of approach that will do us any good. The world is a complex place. it’s time the way we think about politics and public policy reflects that. 
Conor Durkin is a sophomore studying economics and political science. He can be reached at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

An accident waiting to happen 
Thursday morning sported one of the most beautiful south bend sunrises i have ever seen, and there were two members of our community who al­most did not live to see it. 
This morning, i watched as two runners traveling toward saint mary’s college on douglas road swerved off their path to avoid an oncoming car. in the pitch-black and fog of a 7:15 a.m. commute, there is so little visibility on that road it is frightening. This morning, as usual, i was leaning over the steering wheel straining to find the perimeters of my lane, grateful for the car in front of me. when i saw the car in front of me had caused runners to swerve from their path, i was terrified because there is nothing i or the driver in front of me could have done if they did not move of their own voli­tion. you cannot see runners on douglas road. even if you do, there is no guarantee you can avoid them if the weather is bad. 
whose fault is it that two people almost died? The driver in front of me? The runners? The snowplow driver who overslept yet again? i know who i blame, but suffice it to say this: it is imbecilic for runners and vehicles to share douglas road on any morning, period. south bend has inclement weather — often. we all know this, so we need to act accordingly. To say douglas road, in particular, is poorly cleared is a euphemism. perhaps run­ners think they are safe on the side of the road, but when it is snowy, there is no “side of the road.” when it is foggy, there is no side of the road. when the sun sends a laser beam through your windshield at daybreak, there is no side of the road. There is no middle line, either, just the distance you as a driver must keep from the oncoming car, making the side of the road even less of your focus and concern. 
i have had a scare like this on the same road once before, and two times is plenty for me to beg you as my classmates to stay away from douglas road for your morning exercise. we have lost too many brothers and sisters to total accidents to take this lightly. please, please spread the word to anyone you know who enjoys morning runs to change their route to somewhere safe. may i recommend either of our stunning campuses? 
Bethany Ledyard 
senior 
opus hall 
jan. 24 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
RETUR N TOWakarusa  CANDYLDime Store  AND:  

 and then the race towards the finish  once you return downstairs you’re  all in all, the place was both an in- 
Courtney Cox  line gets heated.  free to explore three rooms of all the  credible opportunity to have some  
scene editor  The most unfortunate part of the  best candy you can imagine.  good, stupid fun and an excuse to eat all  

 game is that there is no Queen Frostine,  They had old-school candy from the  the candy you can possibly imagine.  
but it’s a quaint funny activity for a lazy  1950s next to homemade candy exclu- The best part is it’s not far from cam- 
This past weekend i went to the  saturday afternoon.  sive to the store. if you remember the  pus at all, just a ten-minute drive away  
wakarusa dime store in wakarusa,  admittedly the playing space is lit- film “13 going on 30” you might re- from notre dame.  
ind., and discovered a magical land  tered with mannequins dressed in  member a candy called “razzles” mak­ i had seen the store before but never  
where all of your favorite 1990s candy  candy themed attire that are a little  ing an appearance. well this place has  really understood what it was. now i  
is always in stock and happiness shines  off-putting if you’re not in a large group,  those … in three different varieties.  can confidently suggest to anyone who  
over the entire place like a beautiful  but it would be a great place to go with a  it had warheads by the dozen for 25  needs to find a fun afternoon activ­ 
rainbow.  huge group of girls.  cents apiece.  ity that they check out the adorable  
i had been alerted to this store last  once you’re finished with the game  it had a ton of different flavors of salt­ wakarusa dime store.  
week because of a unique feature on the  you are handed a nifty little gift bag  water taffy in old-fashioned barrels and  
second floor: a life-size version of the  of free candy that includes everything  it couldn’t have been more charming.  
children’s board game “candyland.”  from candy cigarettes, jolly ranchers  They also had a section full home- The views expressed in this column are  
you purchase a ticket to play the game  and gummy worms to candy necklaces  made fudge and chocolates.  those of the author and not necessarily  
and are then escorted upstairs where  and bazooka gum.  in keeping with the old-fashioned  those of The Observer. 
the real competition begins. each play- The journey doesn’t end there,  theme of the place they had old-school       Contact Courtney Cox at  
er is given a deck of “candyland” cards  though.  coca-cola, root beer and crush bottles.  ccox3@nd.edu  


STEPH WULZ | The Observer COURTESY OF KAT CHEW 

The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 

From a director whose notable works include a nazi zombie horror com­edy and a norwegian parody of “kill bill” comes “hansel and gretel: witch hunters”—exactly the kind of violent, outrageous fun to be expected. but you do have to be expecting it. 
The very title of the movie does well to prepare the audience of the humor and excesses that go far beyond the typical fairy-tale action remake. 
director Tommy wirkola takes the ridiculous violence of a Quentin Tarantino film, the impressive fantasy hair and makeup of a Tim burton movie and holds it all together with some good old-fashioned american action violence. granted, that violence takes the form of some kick-butt heroes with guns, cross­bows, tasers and american accents de­spite their place in the original setting of the fairy tale. 
wirkola’s first big-budget film, despite the overwhelmingly bad response from critics, is good enough for hollywood and shows a lot of promise for niche audience in future projects. 
The violence and humor do not re­place the plot, but motivate these em­powered characters to some purpose and final goal as opposed to mindless bounty hunting. even a romantic inter­est and childhood revelation or two are thrown in to twist the classic fairy tale further from the original. 
however, while the plot and charac­ters were good enough to meet basic movie standards, it doesn’t make the jump from “good enough” over to simply “good.” The unique touch of the crazy violence and comic premise is enter­taining and different, but the plot com­plexity would only challenge a child. 
There is also unreached potential in the characters, especially consider­ing the talent and star power of jeremy renner and gemma arterton. 
a brother-sister mixed gender duo had a lot of emotional promise, especially since we all know the story of trauma and vulnerability from their childhood. renner’s typically tough, blasé char­acter complimented arterton’s softer, feminine influence. credit should be given for not turning her character into a scantily clad, powerful dominatrix that so many heroines seem to be. however, besides the duo’s teamwork, little invest­ment is put into their relationship and shared experiences. 
a bit of depth is given by giving hansel a love interest and gretel gaining an unlikely friend. still, the movie feels too short to develop these relationships enough for the audience to care for these characters’ well being. 
as far as genre, “hansel and gretel” could have been either more dramat­ic and emotional or witty and dryly humorous. 
with an ‘r’ rating, it also could have afforded to be sexier, cruder and more violent and could have taken more risks by creating stronger emotional bonds between the characters and the audience. 
another one of the weaknesses with the violent fun is that the movie doesn’t commit to realistic violence or comical­ly fake violence, but walks the unsteady line between the two. 
many times the situation of the vio­lence is ridiculous (such as someone’s entire body imploding, someone’s limbs being ripped off them or witches being shredded to pieces) but the execution of the special effects is moderately realis­tic. The production value is surprisingly good most of the time, but not realistic enough to make you sick unless you’re very squeamish. 
“hansel and gretel: witch hunters” is great fun, but not a great movie. it is no oscar winner or must-see. however, the film shows promise for future works in the genre. critics may hate it, but a cult following of fans will love it. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
“Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters” 
Paramount Pictures 
Directed by: Tommy Wirkola 
Starring: Jeremy Renner, 
Gemma Arterton 


By COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

The 24th annual student Film Festival, held this weekend in the debartolo performing arts center, offered students an incredible opportunity to check out some of the budding talent in their midst before they become too famous. 
The event was a perfectly timed two-hour show featuring 15 short films. 
Five of the films were documentaries coming out of the Film, Television and Theater department’s documentary video production course. 
one short form documentary in par­ticular hit close to home. seniors bri neblung, collin erker and siobhan martinez followed three muslim stu­dents at notre dame and examined their experience at a catholic school. 
it was touching to see what they thought was valuable about the unique situation they find themselves in at notre dame. 
The moment where one sophomore describes the process of putting on a head scarf in the morning felt in a small way like you were genuinely learning about her life. 
other documentaries covered little-known hobbies. 
seniors grace carini, marty Flavin and andrew cheng hung out with two small-town baseball teams that play by the original rules of america’s pastime, complete with 25-cent fines for cursing, spitting and stealing bases. it was funny, captivating and showed the charm of days past. 
“amie’s image” was a heartwarming piece about a disabled artist in chicago who fell on hard times and worked with a catholic charities organization to be part of a budding group of artists who are economically disadvantaged. 
it wonderfully showcased the work of these charities at creating a comfortable and stimulating environment for people who need help, but it was mostly about the ever-present optimism that amie had throughout all of his work. 
another documentary called “The sculptor” was all about a young artist living in oklahoma and creating ornate sculptures for a nearby monastery. it raised interesting questions about the state of religious art in america and how difficult it is to create beautiful things when the demand for your work has diminished. 
many of the non-documentary films were silent films. 
one particularly powerful silent film was titled “clergy.” in it, a young priest struggles with the temptation brought on by one of his attractive female friends. it was dark and captured the difficulty of making the choice to remain chaste at such a young age. 
The ending left you on the edge of your seat and borderline uncomfortable. 
The short film “Three’s a crowd” was a touching testament to the sud­den loss of a loved one and the ways it sticks with you through the rest of your relationships. 
another well-done piece was called “sinking.” it was the only film with no human characters and zero dia­logue. using a compelling soundtrack, sophomore ashley puffer was able to personify a toothbrush so much so that you laughed at times and sighed in relief at others. 
some films left the audience puzzled, particularly one called “mimesis.” it was about the possession of a young female poet, but through the twistingly lyrical narration and supernatural elements it was difficult to completely compre­hend the meaning. perhaps that was the point. 
some horror films were able to cause waves of unsettling feelings in such short spans of time. 
one called “shadowpainting” did a fantastic job of turning the process of painting a woman into a thrilling and dark story. 
The reception of all films was over­whelmingly positive and the hard work each filmmaker put into their projects clearly showed at the festival this past weekend. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

nothing compares to the super bowl 

Mike Monaco 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the first in a 10-part series discussing the best event in sports. In this installment, Mike Monaco argues for the Super Bowl. 
it’d be a little weird if i asked you what you will be doing next sunday. i could be sacrilegious, weirdly thoughtful or just plain crazy. 
well i still might be crazy, but i know what you, and everybody else, will be doing. That’s right, super bowl sunday. it’s the best event in sports because it has it all. 
it has nation-encompassing popularity. super bowl sunday is essentially a national holiday in the united states. it’s safe to assume there will be at least 100 million fans tuning into the game on their television. That’s not just the casual fan watching the game. it’s not even an oc­casional football fan or an oc­casional sports fan. it’s anyone even slightly interested in foot­ball or entertainment. 
The super bowl is typically the second most-watched sporting event in the world behind the ueFa champions league final. cbs will broadcast the game to more than 200 stations in the 
u.s. dial global radio will have the game on roughly 600 sta­tions. people in more than 185 countries will watch a game being broadcasted in 30 different languages. it’s quite simply the best event in sports. 
The key is it’s an event. it has entertainment value for people spanning a wide spectrum of football knowledge and interest. many tune in because they love football. They want to see how colin kaepernick fares against a ray lewis-led ravens defense that has had two weeks to pre­pare for the multi-talented quar­terback sensation. 
others might watch because they like sports. it’s the last foot­ball game of the year and foot­ball is the most popular sport in the united states. 
still other viewers just want to watch the commercials. They want to see what (hopefully) funny ads have been produced after companies shell out nearly $4 million for a 30-second spot. They want to see the e*Trade baby. They want to see what godaddy.com will tempt you with. 
still some others just want to enjoy the environment. They want to enjoy food, drink and friends at a super bowl gather­ing. and if they get a chance to watch beyoncé perform at half­time, all the better. 
simply put, there is no other sporting event like it. every casual baseball, basketball and hockey fan certainly doesn’t tune in to every game of a lengthy world series, nba Finals or stanley cup Finals. but every football fan will be watching the super bowl. 
march madness is exhilarat­ing, but is that really a sporting event when it begins on march 19 and ends on april 8? by the time the average fan has had his or her bracket busted, chances are he or she won’t zealously watch the title game. 
The olympics, by definition, has worldwide appeal and is a tremendous gathering of elite athletes. but this summer’s fes­tivities in london lasted from july 27 until august 12. That’s not a sporting event. 
so we’ve already ruled out the nba Finals, world series, stanley cup Finals, march madness and the olympics. what else comes close to matching the super bowl’s appeal for a single sports event? well, though jim nantz is right in calling The masters “a tradition unlike any other,” we’ve got four rounds of drives, putts and chips to wade through. so cross The masters off the list. 
wimbledon lasts a fortnight, literally. The world cup is thrill­ing, but it suffers from the same drawback of the olympics. 
The super bowl, meanwhile is the most concentrated day of sporting fervor in the world and, as a result, it’s the best event in sports. 
you could argue that a game seven of the nba Finals or the world series is better than the super bowl. you could argue that a five-set thriller between roger Federer and rafael nadal is the best. you could argue that a world cup Final between spain and brazil is the best event in sports. you could certainly argue for any number of those. 
but what you can’t do is assure me that any of those events will happen. we might get a four-game sweep in the world series or a lackluster matchup in the wimbledon final. 
The super bowl, on the other hand, is encased in a protective armor from letdowns. no mat­ter the matchup, no matter the vegas line, people will tune in, and in record numbers. last year’s instant classic between the patriots and giants became the most-watched television show in u.s. history. oh, and it was the third year in a row the super bowl set that record. 
so i know what you’ll be doing next sunday. you’ll be watching the best event in sports. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
FENCING 

Irish tally eight victories at St. John’s Invitational 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame began the win­ter season in winning fash­ion this weekend, as the irish men and women combined to claim eight dual match victories saturday in the st. john’s invitational and seven victories in sunday’s nyu invitational. 
The no. 2-ranked women were 5-0 in their head-to-head contests saturday, all of those wins coming against top-10 opponents. 
senior captain courtney hurley put on one of the strongest performances of the weekend in saturday’s competition. The veteran epee posted a 13-1 mark at st. john’s. 
Freshman lee kiefer led the way in saturday’s women’s foil, recording a 9-3 record in her ncaa debut. 
The women’s sabre squad helped keep the irish women perfect at st. john’s by re­cording a pair of team bout wins against no. 8 harvard and no. 3 columbia. seniors lian osier and abigail nichols each posted 8-7 individual re­cords on the day. 
in sunday’s action, the women put on another strong showing but couldn’t quite stay undefeated, going 4-1 with their lone loss coming by one point to no. 3 columbia. 
The no. 3 irish men went 3-2 in their saturday duals. one of the victories came against defending national champion and no. 1-ranked ohio state. The pair of irish team losses came against no. 2 penn state and no. 5 st. john’s. 
several of the irish men opened their individual sea­sons on strong notes at st. john’s as well, including se­nior james kaull (13-2 in men’s epee) and junior ariel desmet (13-2 in the foil.) Freshman garrett mcgrath was also solid in the epee, go­ing 12-3 on saturday. 
The men’s sabre squad was 4-1 on saturday, losing only to penn state. junior kevin hassett and freshman john 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Needtobreathe: “The Outsiders” Shortfalls and little sins Close calls where no one wins Stand tall but running thin I’m wearing thin Oh, why are we keeping score? 
’Cause if you’re not laughing Who is laughing now? I’ve been wondering if we start sinking Could we stand our ground? 

hallsten went 9-6 and 8-7 re­spectively for the day. 
in sunday’s competition the men again went 3-2, claiming victories against yale, north 
“The New York trip is always big for us because it’s our first real test to see how we stack up to the other teams.” 
James Kaull 
senior 
carolina and nyu and drop­ping two to no. 7 columbia and no. 5 st. john’s. 
overall it was a successful weekend for the irish, who will use the two-day competi­tion as a building block for the rest of the season. 
“The new york trip is always big for us because it’s our first real test to see how we stack up to the other teams,” kaull said. “There was a lot of nervous energy among the younger ones but i think on the first day everyone per­formed really well. on the second day i think everyone realized how grueling a two-day tournament is and there was a little bit of a drop off. but i think that’s actually a learning experience.” 
now in his fourth season, the veteran kaull said the irish will benefit from play­ing such talented competition early in the season. 
“i like [the competition] because you get to see where you’re at and what you need to work on,” kaull said. “if you see guys later in the season you only have so much time to figure out how to adjust your game, so if you see them early on, you can remember what you have to do and tailor your practice according to that.” 
notre dame returns to ac­tion at the northwestern duals in evanston, ill., on saturday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
And through everything we’ve learned We’ve finally come to terms We are the outsiders We are the outsiders 
I’m not leaving without a fight I’ve got my holster around my side Just ‘cause I’m wrong it don’t make you right No, you ain’t right Oh, why are we keeping score? 



MEN’S SWIMMING | shamrock inviTaTional 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING | shamrock inviTaTional 

squad earns split in 
irish crush Towson 

season’s final home meet 
in dual meet 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
in its last home meet of the season, notre dame split the shamrock invitational with a 279-69 win over Towson and a 264-100 loss to harvard at rolfs aquatic center this weekend. 
despite their first dual-meet loss of the season, the irish (7-1) once again displayed their depth throughout the field against Towson (3-8) and harvard (6-0). irish coach Tim welsh said he believes this versatility has been a strong point for his team this season. 
“one thing that’s been clear all season and that was very clear this weekend is that we have a great deal of depth,” he said. “our depth throughout the program is really strong … and that’s something that’s been characteristic of this team the entire season.” 
during Friday’s opening session, senior chris johnson was the lone first-place finish­er for the irish, taking the 100­yard breaststroke with a time of 54.17. johnson also earned an ncaa b-cut with that time, which placed him in conten­tion to advance to the ncaa championships in late march. 

despite the lack of notre dame victories, the irish swam well enough to accu­mulate points. in the 100­yard butterfly, junior Frank dyer touched the wall third, and his teammates finished in nine of the next 11 places. irish divers also demonstrated their strength in the one-me­ter event, where they nabbed spots two through seven. 
on saturday, notre dame collected two more indi­vidual wins, with victories coming from sophomores Zach stephens in the 200­yard breaststroke and kevin hughes in the 500-yard free­style. stephens earned a ncaa b-cut and almost broke his own pool record in the 200­yard breaststroke with a time of 1:59.65, his second sub-two minute mark this season. 
welsh said he was im­pressed with how his team 
gained  momentum  through­ 
out the weekend.  
“we  were  solid  through­ 

out the meet and, even more importantly, we were better saturday than Friday,” he said. “The fact that we carried well throughout the two sessions is better preparation for the championship meets ahead.” 
For the team’s nine seniors, 
paid adverTisemenT 

the shamrock invitational was their last chance to com­pete in a meet at rolfs aquatic center. welsh said this group’s contribution to the team in the last four years has been incredible. 
“when this year’s senior class arrived their freshman year, we thought, ‘oh my, we’ve got a really strong class here,’” he said. “They’ve been central to the huge, giant steps we’ve taken in last four years as a team. … it’s been a won­derful class, and they’ve been at the core of everything that’s happen in the last four years.” 
welsh said he remains con­fident as a result of his squad’s swims this weekend and is op­timistic about its chances at the northwestern invitational, the team’s next meet. 
“Throughout the depth of the team, we had season and lifetime bests taking place throughout the entire time,” he said. “i’m really encour­aged by what we had taking place.” 
The irish will travel to evanston, ill., this upcoming weekend to compete in the northwestern invitational. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
The irish dominated in the pool this weekend, fall­ing only one point short of school record in a dual meet after they crushed the Towson Tigers 309-60 in the shamrock invitational at rolfs aquatic center. 
notre dame (3-4) claimed victory in every event in the meet and broke several school records. senior kim holden dropped the rolfs aquatic center record in the 200-yard backstroke by a whole second with a time of 
1:57.06. The record was pre­viously set by indiana’s kate Zubkova in 2008. 
holden said the key to the win for the irish was the drive she shared with her teammates. 
“The team committed to racing, despite being tired,” holden said. “we paid atten­tion to our details and really used this meet as a rehearsal for what’s to come.” 
The 400-yard freestyle relay team of sophomore emma reaney, junior kelly ryan, freshman cat galletti and sophomore suzanne bessire broke a 22-year­old record by just under a half second with its time of 1:58:03. 
reaney said she attribut­ed the success of the team to irish coach brian barnes telling the underclassmen to focus on performing for the seniors . 
“we really came togeth­er and clicked as a team,” reaney said. “it was senior weekend, and brian told all of us underclassman to swim for our seniors, and i know that made me want to perform well.” 
on the second day of com­petition, holden snatched another pool record when she took down the record in the 100-yard backstroke by just over two-tenths of a second. 
in addition to the victo­ries in each individual and team event, four members of the notre dame squad swam ncaa b-cut times. holden made the cut in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke. junior lauren stauder claimed her place in the 100- and 200­yard breaststroke. reaney’s times in the 100-yard but­terfly and the 200-yard indi­vidual medley put her within b-cut times, as did sopho­more bridget casey’s in the 200-yard butterfly. 
reaney said the victory indicated good signs for the irish as the team heads into big east competition. 
“i think we all surprised ourselves,” reaney said. “we were so tired and hadn’t rest­ed in the slightest for this meet, but a lot of our girls were posting times faster than we did at the ohio state invite where we were rested. it’s a great indication for how big east is going to go, i think.” 
The irish will be back in action Feb. 9 when they trav­el to Toledo, ohio, for a meet against Toledo. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S TENNIS | harvard 4, nd 3; nd 4, memphis 0 
Irish recover from loss to sweep Memphis 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
notre dame did not let a close 4-3 loss to no. 28 harvard on saturday ruin the weekend, bouncing back the following day to sweep no. 31 memphis 4-0 sunday in norman, okla., at the iTa kick-off weekend. The no. 30 irish entered the week­end coming off another 4-3 loss last Tuesday to no. 37 northwestern. 
“we didn’t come out ag­gressive or confident enough for harvard,” senior blas moros said. “we didn’t play the level we are ca­pable of, but to their credit they took advantage of the opportunity.” 
The crimson captured the first point when they won doubles play, beating the irish duo in each of the three matches. From there, the competition picked up as points bounced back and forth. 
junior ryan bandy took the first irish point, winning the no. 6 set 6-2, 6-2. Freshman Quentin monaghan stretched the lead to 2-1 for notre dame when he won the no. 3 slot 6-4, 6-4 against freshman nicky hu. harvard then came back from behind when junior casey macmaster took down irish junior billy pecor and sophomore alex steinroeder topped moros 6-4, 6-3 in the no. 2 slot. 
with harvard ahead 3-2, the no. 5 and no. 1 courts both went into three sets. no. 80 junior greg andrews took a point for the irish in the no. 1 spot when he beat sophomore shaun chaudhuri 6-3, 7-5, 6-0, but sophomore wyatt mccoy fell 4-6, 7-6, 7-5 to freshman nicolas mahlangu. 
“it was a very disappoint­ing loss, but i was proud of our guys for their per­formance [the next day],” moros said. 
notre dame had no time to dwell on the loss before facing memphis the follow­ing day. The irish instantly started on a better footing, winning the doubles point. Freshman alex lawson and junior billy pecor won the no. 2 doubles match 8-6 and bandy and junior matt dooley took the no. 3 match 8-1 to secure the point. 
From there, the wins lined up one after another. 
“memphis is a very good team and our guys came out fired up and ready to go from the first point, which is difficult after a tough loss,” moros said. “it showed a lot about our character and i believe it is a good indicator of what is to come the rest of the season.” 
pecor added the first sin­gles point to the irish board, beating junior johnny grimal 7-5, 6-1 on the no. 4 court. mccoy followed suit, beating sophomore david o’leary 6-2, 6-3 in the no. 5 spot. monaghan closed out the day, beating freshman lukas vrnak 7-6, 6-2 in the no. 3 spot. 
“we just came out strong from the start and stayed 
WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, georgia Tech 3; nebraska 4, nd 1 
squad wins close opener, struggles in second match 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
after stealing a victory against georgia Tech by one point saturday, the irish fell decisively sunday in the finals of the iTa kick-off weekend to nebraska, losing 4-1. 
notre dame (3-1) came back from a 3-1 deficit saturday to take down the yellow jackets (2-1) 4-3. Though co-captains junior jennifer kellner and senior chrissie mcgaffigan won their doubles matchup 8-3, the no. 2 and no. 3 doubles teams could not compete with georgia Tech and the irish lost the doubles point. 
down 1-0, mcgaffigan put the irish on the board with a 7-6 , 6-4 victory over georgia Tech’s megan kurey at no. 4 singles. 
with the score knotted 1-1, junior britney sanders, ranked no. 58 in iTa rank­ings, fell to no. 39 elizabeth kilborn 6-3, 7-6 at no.1 sin­gles. shortly after, junior julie sabacinski dropped her match 7-5, 6-4, putting the irish down 3-1. 
From there, the irish be­gan their comeback. notre dame’s next two victories were close matches, but the irish managed to pull through. with the match tied 3-3, the final point fell to junior jennifer kellner. 
“she was so tough and pulled it out for our entire team,” mcgaffigan said. 
kellner said her 4-6, 7-6, 7-6 victory that clinched the match was valuable for the joy it gave her teammates. 
“it felt good to see every­one so happy,” kellner said. “personally, however, i have three of her teammates fell before the end of her third set, leaving the irish with a 4-1 loss and breaking their three-match winning streak. 
“it was a tough loss,” kellner said. “everyone is a little bummed. but it only motivates us more and shows us that we still have more we can work on.” 
mcgaffigan said the key to both matches was the loss 

“We have such talented doubles teams that we think we are capable of winning the doubles point in every single match.” 
Chrissie McGaffigan senior 
a few things i really need to work on.” 
The match sunday against nebraska proved to be more than the irish could handle, however, as they entered the championship match. 
again, the irish fell be­hind early with the loss of the doubles point. in singles play, only two members of the notre dame squad man­aged to win a set. Freshman Quinn gleason snatched the only point for the irish with a 6-2, 6-4 victory over nebraska’s stefanie weinstein. mcgaffigan won her second set, but her match remained unfinished when of the doubles point, which puts the team in a huge deficit before singles play begins.  
“we have such talented doubles teams that we think we are capable of winning the doubles point in every single match,” mcgaffigan said. “we are going to work really hard on our doubles play this week to prepare for our matches this weekend.” 
The irish will look for that early lead this weekend when they take on Tennessee at home sunday at 9 a.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


on them the entire time,”  next weekend to host duke  
bandy said. “i think the dif­ and  iupui  in a series of  
ference  was  that  we  came  dual meets Feb. 3 in the eck  
into the memphis game with  Tennis pavilion.  
a greater desire to win and  
compete.”  Contact Megan Finneran at  
The  irish  return  home  mfinnera@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 




MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 7, u.s. naTional Team 10 
Loss to top competition helps squad prepare 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
despite four goals from fresh­man attack matt kavanagh, notre dame fell to the u.s. national team 10-7 in lake buena vista, Fla., on saturday. The irish also scrimmaged jacksonville later in the day. 
senior midfielder Ty kimball said the weekend was more about getting some good prac­tice in and testing their condi­tioning in a game situation. 
“The score might not show it, but it was really just us trying to get better,” kimball said. “we were just finding out who’s go­ing to play when and doing what it takes on the field. we were all really excited to finally play against another color jersey.” 
in his first inter-squad scrim­mage, kavanagh got the oppor­tunity to prove himself to people he has watched play the game for years. 
“it was a good time play­ing against some of the best guys in the country, guys i’ve been watching growing up,” kavanagh said. “it was really cool.” 
The weather in south bend has not been cooperative for practicing on an outdoor sur­face. The trip to Florida allowed the irish to practice outdoors, which is a better test of the team’s conditioning. 
“we got two practices in on Friday and two scrimmages on saturday,” kimball said. “it was basically us preparing. we played well. The usa team was really good and i think we played really well as a team.” 
at this point in the preseason, the irish are in good shape, ac­cording to kimball. 
“we’re in a really good place right now. we can tell,” kimball said. “we played all the games with the new ncaa rules. with those new rules, it’s going to take us being a lot more conditioned, and we did well. even having three practices in the previous 48 hours, we did well in those two scrimmages. The condition­ing held up well.” 
kavanagh said the winter training schedule benefitted the team. 
“we’ve been lifting and prac­ticing twice a day since we’ve been back to school,” kavanagh said. 
in an effort to increase the pace of the game, the ncaa has insti­tuted a shot clock for the 2013 season. in the past, teams were issued a stall warning if they did not make advancements toward the goal on offense. once that warning was issued, the teams had to keep the ball in the pos­session box. 
This season, a 30-second shot clock will start once that warn­ing is issued. The timing is kept by the referees, and schools are not required to install shot clocks in stadiums. after the first 20 seconds, the referees are re­quired to do a 10-second hand count. 
kimball said the new rules will force teams to be in better shape, but that should not be an issue. 


“what really helps us out is the depth on the team,” kimball said. “That’s going to be a big thing. guys can step in when they need to, when guys get tired.” 
notre dame is the preseason favorite to win the big east title after a vote by the conference’s seven head coaches. senior goal­tender john kemp, who made six saves against the u.s. team, was name the conference preseason co-defensive player of the year. junior midfielder jim marlatt, senior defender matt miller, se­nior attack sean rogers and ju­nior attack westy hopkins were all named to the preseason all-conference team in addition to kemp. 
notre dame will next face detroit at home saturday in an exhibition at 7 p.m. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

irish bring home six victories from indiana relays 
By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 
notre dame posted a total of six victories and 35 top-five finishers at this weekend’s indiana relays, held at indiana university in bloomington, 

ind.  a  gladstein Fieldhouse record  
The women’s 4x800-meter re- that had stood since 1988.  
lay team of junior kelly curran  The  main  goals  for  the  
and  alexa  aragon, freshman  irish were to continue to set  
sydni  meunier  and  senior  a standard for  big  east and  
rebecca Tracy led the way for  nationals  competition  and  
the irish, winning its race with a  ensure  more  runners  could  
time of 8:47.94. The mark broke  qualify for these competitions.  

paid adverTisemenT 
“most of the runners who qual-indoor nationals tournament.” 
ified [for the big east] last week  The difficulty of travelling to 
didn’t run this week so they another part of the state can 
could stay on campus and go throw runners off sometimes, 
through strenuous training,” but the irish were successful in 
freshman distance runner josh adjusting to the away meet. 
o’brien said. “our goal is to “a four- or five-hour drive can 
peak at the big east and at the sometimes take the spring out of your legs,” o’brien said. “at the same time, when you trav­el there is a lot of excitement around the meet.” sophomore twin sprinters jade barber and kaila barber also claimed victories at the relays, with jade winning the 60-meter hurdles event and kaila placing first in the 200-meter event. elsewhere, junior sprinter patrick Feeney won the 400-meter event, which marked his fourth con­secutive meet with at least one first-place finish. overall, the meet was a success in preparation for notre dame’s biggest home meet of the season, the meyo invitational, which will be held this upcoming weekend “meyo is a huge meet for us next week,” o’brien said. “it is very well known, and histori­cally individual standouts have come in to participate. The meyo invitational begins 4 p.m. Friday at loftus sports center. 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 




Advantage 
conTinued From page 16 
knight, this one with 45 sec­onds left to play. 
junior guard jerian grant powered the notre dame backcourt with 18 points and eight assists in 39 minutes of action. Fellow junior guard eric atkins added 13 points and sophomore guard/for­ward pat connaughton poured in 12 of his own. brey said get­ting out in transition was cru­cial in cracking a strong south Florida defense. 
“i think our transition [of­fense] really got us confident,” brey said. “we got a bunch of things in transition whether it was at the basket or three-point shots. we were really rebounding and running and i thought our perimeter was fabulous. grant was great con­trolling things at the end of a clock. … but our guards made great decisions with the ball in the second half.” 
notre dame outrebounded the bulls 34-17 behind the bruising work of knight, senior forward jack cooley and se­nior center garrick sherman. cooley, who scored just six points, made his presence felt with 14 rebounds. 
“That’s where given how we were going to play with Tom knight in there and given how they’ve been hurt on the back­board, we made a real con­certed effort that we have got to get up on the board and win that battle,” brey said. “and i thought that was really a key.” 
south Florida junior forward and leading scorer victor rudd was held to just seven points. Freshman forward Zach leday led the bulls with 17 points and sophomore guard anthony collins finished with 12 points 


Similarity 
conTinued From page 16 
up 1-0 at the first intermission. irish junior center david gerths deflected in junior defenseman stephen johns’ shot from the point and, later in the period, ref­erees overturned a Ferris state goal after video review showed the puck hit the post and did not completely cross the goal line. 
The bulldogs went up 2-1 in the second period, following goals from senior center Travis ouellette and junior center cory kane. sandwiched between the two goals was a failed penalty shot attempt by lee, who was denied by the pads of bulldogs freshman goalie charles williams. 
unlike Friday, however, the irish responded with the next goal, as freshman forward Thomas dipauli received a long pass from johns and scored a four-on-four goal from inside the left faceoff circle over williams’ glove at the 12:03 mark. 
less than three minutes later, the irish went ahead for good when nugent scored in a simi­lar fashion to dipauli. Freshman forward mario lucia chipped the puck into the offensive zone, and nugent corralled it before releas­ing a shot from the faceoff circle high and glove-side. 
nugent said he hadn’t thought much about his individual goal­less run, and was happy to pro­vide a lift to a team that had been struggling for victories. 
“To be honest with you, i was just happy to put our team ahead,” nugent said. “we’ve ob­viously been through a tough stretch right now. i know that’s what i’m supposed to be say­ing to [the media], but that’s the honest truth. it was a big goal for us and we needed to come out here and get a big win tonight.” 
less than a minute into the third period, lucia provided breathing room for the irish when he scored to put notre dame up 4-2. junior center 
T.j. Tynan ended any hopes of a bulldog comeback when he scored a five-on-three goal with under three minutes remaining in regulation. 
jackson referenced a second period timeout when the irish were down 2-1 as a potential turning point in the contest. 
“i was getting into their and eight assists. collins was held to just two points in the second half. 
“he puts so much pressure on you,” brey said of the south Florida point guard. “we talk­ed about 20 ways of how we were going to deal with him and the ball screen. First half we didn’t do a very good job at all. second half i thought we did a very good job. 
“but he just keeps putting pressure on you, getting into the lane deeper and deeper. if we didn’t fix that, we would have lost by 15 and we did a better job in the second half.” 
notre dame fixed its de­fense on collins and fixed its overall play in the second half. brey said playing with a newly-minted starter changed the irish strategy and getting out in transition fueled the victory. 
“we didn’t play since monday and we were kind of reinventing our self with more three [perimeter players] around two [post players],” brey said. “when scott plays we stretch you a little more, four around one. but i thought we pounded away. we got on the offensive board with jack and Tom and sherman, rotat­ing them. 
“we were able to run because they’re a very good defensive team. you can’t play against their set ‘d’ for 40 minutes. it’s hard on you. The easy buck­ets made us believe maybe we could get one here today.” 
The irish return to purcell pavilion on wednesday to take on sizzling villanova, who is coming off wins against a pair of top-five teams in louisville and syracuse. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
wheelhouse on the bench, just because we were turning the puck over,” jackson said. “we did a really good job early in the game and then all of a sudden, we started turning the puck over. 
“That’s when the game changed back in their favor, and then after that penalty shot was when the game started to change a little bit back in our fa­vor, because we were starting to move the puck forward instead of turning it over.” 
jackson said the irish still have work to do to improve but hopes the victory changes the team’s trajectory. 
“when things go bad, they tend to go bad,” jackson said. “They continue to go bad until something happens that chang­es it. maybe tonight it was that four-on-four goal by dipauli and then nugent’s goal. That was maybe the turning point for us to get back at least heading in the right direction.”
 The irish next hit the ice when they travel to columbus, ohio, for a series at ohio state this up­coming weekend. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
Lineup 
conTinued From page 16 
half off. 
“i really felt like we just want­ed to play the bench a little bit,” mcgraw said. “give them some time and see how we can play without [diggins], because that’s something that we strug­gled with in the last game.” 
but the bench held its own. senior guard kaila Turner and sophomore guard madison cable both tallied nine points, while freshman guard michaela mabrey scored eight. 
although the irish were the beneficiaries of an emotional home crowd saturday, notre dame will find themselves on the opposite side today when they travel to face no. 9 Tennessee (16-3 7-0 sec). The lady vols will unveil a ban­ner honoring their legendary former coach, pat summitt, who retired last year after be­ing diagnosed with early-onset alzheimer’s disease. 
“i think you’ve got to elimi­nate the crowd right at the be­ginning,” diggins said. “we’ve got to set the tempo right away. so we have to start in control, get three stops in a row.  The first four minutes are the most important, and we have to go on our run first.” 
mcgraw said she was happy for the opportunity to play in knoxville, Tenn., and help hon­or summitt, the winningest college basketball coach in history, 
“it’s a huge game; they’re playing really well,” mcgraw said. “it’s going to be a big monday game [on espn]. i’m sure it’s going to be a sellout and a lot of excitement, so we’re excited to be going down there.” 
if the irish are to spoil the vols’ night, they will have to find a way to stop Tennessee ju­nior guard meighan simmons. 
“i think she can score in a variety of ways,” diggins said. “she’s a very emotional player. she can score in bunches, and i think it’s going to be a team job to know where she is because she has a quick release on her shot.” 
The irish and volunteers will tip-off at 7 p.m. tonight in Thompson-boling arena in knoxville, Tenn. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: patton oswalt, 44; alan cumming, 48; bridget Fonda, 49; cris collinsworth, 54. 
Happy Birthday: look at the bright side of life. negative thoughts will bring negative reactions. you must focus on what you can do. initiate new projects and take a serious look at how you can make personal and professional improve­ments that will raise your standard of living. have confidence in your ability to reach your goals. your numbers are 6, 11, 27, 28, 35, 43, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): someone with something to say will pique your interest. using the information offered to suit a situation you face will help you clear passage to a better future, and will also help foster a new relationship.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): choose your words wisely. you are likely to start a feud if you are too critical or pushy. put more emphasis on your personal life and nurturing the relationships that mean the most to you. arguing will be futile. make love, not war. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll have some great ideas, but before you get started, make sure that your plans are feasible. you may want to rethink the cost involved as well as who will actually be able to contribute to your plan. move forward frugally. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): look at different ways of living, and you will learn a lot about why you do things the way you do. pick and choose what attracts you most and you will come up with the best way to move forward. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): partnerships can be trying if you aren’t willing to com­promise. let others voice an opinion before you make your suggestions. asking rather than demanding will bring you better results. don’t neglect your responsi­bilities. emotions will escalate if you take on too much. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): network and get out with friends or people you feel can contribute information vital to an idea you want to pursue. love is in the stars, and setting up a plan that will impress someone special will also enhance your relationship. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): speak your mind and people will listen. put a little added energy behind your pursuits and you will be respected for your efforts. Travel, communication and delving into unusual pastimes will contribute to your future success. live, love and laugh. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): domestic problems must be dealt with. Take an unusual approach and you may be able to grab someone’s interest who has been unwilling to see things your way in the past. don’t use force when diplomacy and compromise will help you get your way. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): deal with money matters. cash in on an invest­ment if it will help you pay off a debt. cut your losses and regain your financial security. a lifestyle change will ease your stress and improve important relation­ships. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t be too quick to make alterations to please someone you love. you have to make smart moves for the right reasons. ulterior motives and demands will lead to instability. do what you can, but don’t jeopar­dize your security. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t underestimate what you are capable of do­ing. set goals and proceed toward your destination. The journey you take now will make a difference to the way you do things in the future. you have everything to gain and nothing to lose.  

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): proceed with caution. not everyone is on your side. information is likely to be withheld, or a problem with an institution, govern­ment agency or legal settlement will develop. don’t leave anything to chance. do your research. romance is highlighted. 

Birthday Baby: you are aloof and mysterious. you readily attract attention and popularity. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and jeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 89, providence 44 
Sky-high scorer 
Diggins scores 2,000th career point as Notre Dame cruises; road test against Tennessee awaits 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
when it came time for highly-recruited senior skylar diggins to announce her college choice in the fall of 2008, she sat in front of gathered family, friends and media in the washington high school library and opened her letterman jacket to reveal a t-shirt with “irish” printed over her number “4.” 
notre dame head coach muffet mcgraw wore a replica of that t-shirt under her black blaz­er at the press conference fol­lowing notre dame’s 89-44 win over providence saturday, when diggins, now a senior guard for the no. 2 irish (18-1, 7-0 big east), scored her 2,000th point. 
“what she’s brought to notre dame and what she’s done for this community is amaz­ing,” mcgraw said of diggins. “everything she does represents notre dame so well and the pro­gram so well, and wherever she goes from coast to coast, she’s such a good ambassador for our program.” 
diggins, who is now fourth on notre dame’s all-time scor­ing list, entered the game with 1,999 points. she didn’t leave the crowd waiting for long. notre dame won the tip, junior for­ward natalie achonwa served the ball to diggins and diggins finished the lay-up just four sec­onds into the action. 
“i wanted to get it over with as quickly as possible, just not think about it,” diggins said. “but the crowd, they’re always loud and always exciting, but the roar that came when i made the basket is something i’ll never forget.” 
but diggins wasn’t done just yet. a few minutes after her first basket, she went on a 10-0 run of her own, making four consecu­tive field goals to stretch the irish lead to 20-4. she didn’t miss a shot until the second half and finished with 21 points on nine­of-10 shooting. 
providence (6-13, 1-5 big east) struggled to compete all day: diggins alone outscored the Friars until several minutes into the second half, when she was al­ready done playing for the game. 
The starting lineup, includ­ing achonwa (14 points) and freshman guard jewell loyd (10 points) got much of the second 
see lineup PAGE 14 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 73, usF 65 
irish charge past bulls in victory 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
it looked all too familiar for the no. 24 irish. 
notre dame (16-4, 4-3 big east), losers of three of its last four, trailed 35-28 at halftime of saturday’s matchup with south Florida. but the irish were propelled by the unfa­miliar and outscored the bulls (10-9, 1-6) by 15 in the sec­ond half en route to a 73-65 bounce-back win in Tampa, Fla. 
senior forward Tom knight 
— who was making his first start of the season with grad­uate student forward scott martin out indefinitely with a knee injury — gave the irish a jolt with a career-high 17 points and seven rebounds. The irish, who had lost three of their last four games, went on a 20-3 run early in the second half to get back on track. 
“i’m thrilled,” irish coach mike brey said. “That’s a great win for us. we’ve been struggling, losing three out of four and monday night was not real fun in our building with georgetown thumping us [63-47]. and i’m very proud of our group, because at half­time we could have thought, ‘maybe not today down here in Tampa.’” 
The bulls scored quickly out of the intermission to stretch their lead to 37-28 before notre dame went on its thunderous run, highlighted by a dunk from knight, to make it 48-40 notre dame. 
“i would have been shocked if [knight] didn’t play well,” brey said. “he’s been around us for a while, so it’s nice. you lose a sixth-year senior [in martin] and we put in another senior who’s been in our pro­gram, [it] certainly helped us.” 
The bulls cut the irish lead to 60-55 with 6:10 remaining in the second half, but notre dame extended its advantage to 73-61 with another dunk by 
see advanTage PAGE 14 


MIKE KRAMM | The Observer 

Senior guard Skylar Diggins drives into the lane during Notre Dame’s 89-44 win over Providence on Saturday at Purcell Pavilion. The Irish will go on the road tonight to face Tennessee. 
HOCKEY | Ferris sTaTe 3, nd 1; nd 5, Ferris sTaTe 1 
Squad snaps losing streak 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 

The no. 8 irish dropped Friday night’s game, 3-1, against visit­ing Ferris state but rebounded to snap a five-game losing streak saturday with a 5-2 win over the bulldogs behind senior forward kevin nugent’s game-winning goal, the first goal of his career. 
notre dame (16-10-0, 12-6-0­0 ccha) got on the board 6:34 into the first period Friday night when junior center and captain anders lee scored on a rebound off a shot from senior defense-man sam calabrese. 
The bulldogs (13-10-3, 11-8­1-0) responded in the second period, as senior forward and captain kyle bonis scored on the power play 3:18 into the period and sophomore center dom panetta gave Ferris state the lead with 7:41 remaining in the period. bonis added an empty net goal in the third period to seal the game. 
despite outshooting the bulldogs 33-25 Friday night, the irish could not break out of their slump. 
“i thought we were better tonight than we’ve been in the last three weeks,” irish coach jeff jackson said. “we had a number of good scoring chanc­es and couldn’t finish. and they finished on their chances and we didn’t. This time of year, it’s about goaltending and special teams, and theirs was better than ours today in those two areas.” 
The irish generated numer­ous scoring chances — junior forward bryan rust and sopho­more defenseman robbie russo each hit the post with a shot in the first and second period, respectively — but could only muster one shot past bulldog sophomore goalie cj motte. 

“i think we got our chances, we just hit those posts,” calabrese said. “That’s not an excuse, but at the same time, we’re getting the chances, we’re getting open shots, we’re getting looks, but i think those net-front battles re­ally would help, and i think we’ll get a little more consistency here with some guys back.” 
saturday’s game began simi­larly to Friday’s, with the irish 
see similariTy PAGE 14 






