THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSPAPER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 

vOLUME 46, ISSUE 116 | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
LGBTQ activists receive awards for accomplishments 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
The Gay & Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame & St. Mary’s (GALA­ND/SMC) gathered Saturday evening for the presentation of the Thomas A. Dooley Awards, which recognize outstanding work by individuals on behalf of lesbian and gay Americans. 
The awards dinner was the highlight of a weekend of events which included a GALA-ND/ SMC sponsored dance for LGBTQ students and allies, viewing of the film “Love Free or Die” and discussion.  The weekend con­cluded with a morning prayer service at the Grotto yesterday. 
The awards united many community activists who have worked for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBTQ) inclu­sion, student body president Alex Coccia said. 
“A lot of the speakers touched on the roles that so many people in the audience had played in some form or another, fighting for inclusion and equal rights at various levels — whether in South Bend, nationally or inter­nationally,” Coccia said. “It was a blessing to see how many people had been involved … for me it 
see LGBTQ PAGE 4 


‘Fighting for inclusion’ 


Organization screens film on first gay bishop 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
A bishop clothed in traditional, religious vestments strides to the front of the altar, raises his arms in a gesture of welcome to the assembled congregants.  A tradi­tional sight Sundays in churches around the world, but St. Mary’s, Putney in London welcomed a very nontraditional bishop. 
Bishop Gene Robinson began to preach, telling the congregants, “There is a lot of fear around, have you noticed? … It is an astound­ing thing, fear, and it does ter­rible things to us.  Perhaps it is the Church that is acting most fearful right now.” 
As he drew breath to continue, a man in the second row stands up to scream anti-gay obsceni­ties at the bishop until the rest of the congregants rose to their feet and drowned out his tirade with a powerfully-sung hymn, accom­panied by the church’s organist until the man was thrown out of the church. 
This interaction is featured prominently in the film, “Love Free or Die,” which members of GALA-ND/SMC gathered to watch and discuss with Bishop Gene Robinson himself Saturday 
see GALA PAGE 6 



‘Show Some Skin’ hits big 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
“Show Some Skin: It’s Complicated,” a performance of 27 anonymously submitted dialogues by 18 actors, opened Thursday night at the Carey Auditorium of Hesburgh Library with consecutive performances the following two nights. 
While last year’s show “The Race Monologues” centered on race and ethnicity, “Show Some Skin” broadened its focus to include all forms of identity at Notre Dame. 
see SKIN PAGE 6 





SMC club studies immigration 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
La Fuerza, a Saint Mary’s club representing Latina culture on campus, is holding a Week of Action titled “Education Without Barriers” explore the intersec­tion of immigration issues and education. 
This year’s events will “to ex­pose the community to the issue of immigration and its relation­ship with education in the U.S.”, sophomore club president Dara Marquez said. 
The first event, a panel ti­tled “What Does it Mean to be Undocumented?” will be held tonight in the Student Center Lounge from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
“We want to improve how students on campus see im­migration and Latino students in general,” Marquez said. “Discussion panels, lectures and a featured art gallery are some of the events we have planned for the week and these events will work to expose the issue to our 
see ACTION PAGE 6 


LU’AU PAGE 3 vIEWPOINT PAGE 9 SCENE PAGE 11 WOMEN’S BBALL PAGE 20 MEN’S LAx PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew Gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Maddie Daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: Grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 


What is your favorite Disney Channel Original Movie? 

Brendan Melchiorri 
senior Sorin College 
“Brink.” 

Hannah Lin 
junior 
Lewis Hall 
“The Luck of the Irish.” 

Andrea Rabassa 
junior Welsh Family Hall 
“Halloweentown.” 



Tatum Synder 
sophomore Ryan Hall 
“Zenon.” 

Luke Smith 
junior 
Zahm House 
“Zenon: The Zequel.” 

Christine Lewis 
sophomore 
Ryan Hall 
“Smart House.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Mel Flanagan vicky Jacobsen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Meg Handelman Samantha Zuba Nicole McAlee A.J. Godeaux 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Maria Massa Ankur Chawla 

Photo Viewpoint 

ACMS Colloquium Baseball vs. Michigan Wellness Wednesday Zen Meditation Relay for Life 
Grant Tobin Dan Brombach 
Hayes-Healy  Center Eck Baseball Stadium LaFortune Student Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 5:35 p.m. Center Center Arena Lecture by Professor The Irish take on the 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 6 p.m.-9 a.m. 




Corrections 

Ilias Tsiakas. Wolverines. Tips on social anxiety. Practice meditation. Fund cancer research. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Film: Sun Come Up Four:7 Catholic MFA Student Admitted Student Women’s Lacrosse 
strives for the highest standards 

LaFortune Student Fellowship Reading Open House vs. Loyola 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Center Cavanaugh Hall Hesburgh Library Jordan Hall of Science Arlotta Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m.-9 p.m. 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Documentary about Student-led Catholic Poetry and prose Prospective students The Irish face 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
climate change fellowship and readings by MFA and parents meet off against the 
we can correct our error. 

refugees. discussion. students. faculty and students. Greyhounds. 




Club brings Hawaii to ND 
By GRACE McCORMACK 
News Writer 
Stepan Center heated up Saturday night with Hawaii Club’s annual Lu’au celebra­tion of Hawaiian culture. 
The event featured Hawaiian food, music and hula dancing amidst an ex­tensively decorated arena, freshman club member and Hawaiian native Matt Matasci said. 
“Parents back home pick flowers and have them sent [for decorations],” he said. 
Parents of natives also sent Hawaiian shirts and neck­laces for the Lu’au’s mer­chandise table, Matasci said. 
The efforts of the club members and their parents did not go unnoticed at the Lu’au. 
“It’s a great atmosphere,” junior attendee Tony Lefeld said. “Stepan Center is sur­prisingly well decorated.” 
Sophomore Camille Muth, secretary of the club, said the key function of Hawaii Club is to provide a sup­portive community for Hawaiian students making the tough transition from tropical sunshine to blustery permacloud. 
“This is one of those groups that really makes me feel at home here,” Muth said. 
The club forms its close bonds by recruiting 


SMC senior tackles cross country ride 


members early, she said. The club holds meetings for incoming freshman the summer before they begin 
“This is one of those groups that really makes me feel at home here.” 
Camille Muth 
club member 

at Notre Dame to welcome them to the club and the University. 
These extensive efforts have translated into strong 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
membership. 
“Most people from Hawaii tend to join the club,” Matasci said.  “There are some things that you can’t understand unless you’re from Hawaii. It’s nice to have people from Hawaii to relate to.” 
Although the Lu’au is the club’s largest event, Muth said the Hawaii Club will continue to be a fun outlet for Hawaiian students on campus. 
“We all just get along really well, and have fun no matter what we’re doing,” she said. 

Contact Grace McCormack at gmccorma@nd.edu 

By KAITLYN RABACH 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s senior Sarah Eisenberg, along with 24 other in­dividuals, will embark on a cross-country bike tour this summer sponsored by the non-profit orga­nization Illini 4000 for Cancer. 
The 75-day tour will kick off on May 22 in New york City and will end on July 31st in San Francisco. 
“The organization is run out of the University of Illinois,” Eisenberg, a native of Tinley Park, Ill., said. “It started in the fall of 2006 and the first summer bike ride was in the summer of 2007. Its basic mission is to end the fight against cancer.” 
No individual is immune from the effects of cancer, Eisenberg said. 
“Cancer takes the lives of so many far too soon, leaving family, friends and all of those that come in contact with the person heartbro­ken,” she said. 
Eisenberg said she first heard of the annual bike ride last July and instantly thought of her two grand­mothers who both lost their battle with the disease. 
“My Grandma Eisenberg, who I was extremely close with, was diagnosed with melanoma about five years ago,” Eisenberg said. “My sophomore year of college [in 2011] she was diagnosed with leukemia as well. These two cancers were just a lethal combination and she died four weeks after her diagno­sis. My other grandma, Grandma Keller, lost her five year battle with lung cancer in June of that same year. These were two very poignant women in my life and their deaths were earth-shattering to my entire family.” 
The organization requires each biker to raise a minimum of $3,000, Eisenberg said. Overall the Illini 4000 for Cancer would like to raise $100,000. 
“Both my hometown and the larger Saint Mary’s-Notre Dame communities have been very mon­etarily supportive,” Eisenberg said. “So far, I have raised $7,000. I even received a large donation from Stach & Lui, an information tech­nology company in San Francisco. I’ll be wearing their logo across the country.” 
Before she signed up fo r the cross-country tour, Eisenberg said she had never really biked. With the help of Lisa and Greg Mueller, local triathlon athletes, Eisenberg said her training is running very smoothly. 
“The camaraderie and help­fulness I have encountered with my training here in South Bend has been absolutely incredible,” Eisenberg said. “Our cyclist instruc­tor at Saint Mary’s introduced me to the Mueller’s and they have created weekly work out plans for me. Lisa is also a nutritionist and she has been very helpful with my training.” 
Eisenberg said her days will be­gin at 6:30 a.m. every morning and each day will consist of about 5 hours of cycling. 
“We’ll wake up and start cycling for about three hours,” Eisenberg said. “We will then stop for lunch. After lunch we will continue cy­cling for another two hours until we reach our destination for the night. Different colleges, churches and community centers will be hosting us overnight.” 
Along the way, the group will be stopping at different cancer wards and hospitals to gain a better un­derstanding of cancer research, said Eisenberg. 
“I know we are visiting the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota for sure,” Eisenberg said. “We will be docu­menting the entire trip and will be meeting with different hospital personnel and cancer patients. We really want to get to know what it is like to be a cancer patient here in America.” 
Eisenberg said she believes new research in the field looks promising. 
“All I really want to do with this bike ride is raise some funds and awareness,” Eisenberg said. “If I am able to give one cancer patient one more day with his or her family than that is enough for me.” 
Eisenberg realizes this journey will be difficult at times, but said the difficulty will be nothing compared to what cancer patients have to en­counter every day. 
“We literally will be traveling uphill at times, but I am always go­ing to remember cancer patients are riding uphill every day and it is not their choice,” Eisenberg said. “Remembering this will keep me pushing to reach my goal. It will get me across the country.” 


Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabach@saintmarys.edu 



THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

Coccia said Robinson’s ad-vision of a version of Christianity community as a found member concrete outcome of that discus-


LGBTQ 

dress highlighted how much with the potential to incite great and co-chair of GALA-ND/SMC sion.  Coming to Notre Dame, 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

LGBTQ advocates have accom-social change. in the ‘90s, as former chair of it seemed hypocritical that a was a cool experience.” plished, while inspiring them to “Bishop Robinson talked about GALA (’99-’01), and for his life-Catholic institution with such a 
GALA-ND/SMC presented continue fighting for full inclu-a wide range of things … [includ-long commitment to HIv/AIDs rich tradition of civil rights [and four awards Saturday, each for sion in the Episcopalian Church ing his sense of] Christianity as education, treatment and pre-the status as] the place where different types of advocacy. and in Ame rican society. this radical and prophetic move-vention,” according to the week-the Church does its thinking 
The keynote speaker and ment … prophetic in terms of end’s pamphlet. wouldn’t be at the forefront of the Thomas A. Dooley Award re-
foretelling the present and really Blandford currently serves as [LGBTQ inclusion] movement. 
“Coming to Notre 

engaging with people to make chief of the Division of Global “The fact that there are people Robinson, the first openly gay, cipient was retired Bishop Gene 
Dame, it seemed social justice changes,” Coccia HIv/AIDS Health Economics, who don’t feel welcome on cam-partnered bishop to be conse­
hypocritical said. “[Robinson] said the end is Systems and Integration Branch pus, and the fact that there are crated in a major Christian de-
God and God is just.” in the Center for Disease Control people who have such harrowing 

that a Catholic 

GALA-ND/SMC also cel-and Prevention’s Center for stories of experiences on campus nomination. The GALA-ND/ 

institution with 

ebrated the work of Catherine Global Health. made it a lot more personal for specifically “honors individuals SMC website said the award 
such a rich Pittman with the Lawrence Sister Margaret Farley was me.” who, through their faith-based 
tradition of civil Condren Distinguished Service awarded the Award for Academic The dinner helped to unite background, have demonstrated 
Award.  The weekend’s pamphlet Achievement for “her many con-and solidify the relationships be-

rights [and the 

said she was chosen as the award tributions to the academic fields tween the Notre Dame commu­personal courage, compassion 

status as] a place 

recipient in recognition of her of theology and ethics, [most nity’s LGBTQ advocates, Coccia human and civil rights of lesbian and commitment to advance the 
where the Church “service as the faculty advisor for notably] her book, ‘Just Love: A said. and gay Americans.” 
does its thinking SAGA, the Saint Mary’s College Framework for Christian Sexual “you always have to have, in Robinson ministered to the 
Straight and Gay Alliance, and Ethics,’ which offers contempo-any sort of social movement or 

wouldn’t be at the 

her leadership in South Bend rary interpretations on sexual-any sort of push that is driven by Diocese of New Hampshire in 

forefront of the 

Equality’s successful campaign ity and gender,” according to the a lot of emotion and personal ex­vorcing his first wife in 1986 and the Episcopal Church.  After di­
[LGBTQ inclusion] that amended the South Bend weekend’s pamphlet. perience, you really have to have publically coming out as a gay 
movement.” Human Rights Orientation to Each recipient spoke about moments of solidarity,” Coccia man, Robinson began a formal 
include sexual orientation and his or her work to the attendees, said. “For me the dinner was one 
Alex Coccia 

gender identity.” but Coccia said the most moving … it puts a lot of things in per-relationship with his current 
student body president 

This ordinance was amended part of the dinner was the final spective and makes it easier not his controversial election incit-March 27, 2012, after five hours call to action addressed to all going it alone. ed much dissension within the “I think what Bishop Robinson and 42 speakers by the South present. “It ended with a call to action Episcopalian Church, Robinson highlighted is the necessity of re-Bend Common Council, accord-“Regarding [inclusion at] … Bishop Robinson touched on persisted in his efforts advocat-ally making the effort to push,” ing to WNDU. The meeting was Notre Dame specifically, I got how the role of a Christian, in ing LGBTQ inclusion within the Coccia said.  “[He said] that is the third time in six years that involved as a matter of prin-many ways, is agitation for jus-Church, especially by calling what the Christian calling is, this issue was brought before the ciple,” Coccia said. “I had read tice [because] Justice is God. In for the Church to bless same-that is what Jesus did, [Jesus] council, the article said. about the ‘No home under the that push for justice, that’s where sex marriages and to willingly pushed for social justice, social John Blandford, Notre Dame Dome’ march that took place … you find God.” anoint well-suited candidates to change.  That feeling resonated class of 1983 and 1999, received that was prompted by a comic leadership positions within its throughout dinner.” the 2013 Distinguished Alumni and started a lot of discussion Contact Nicole Michels at hierarchy. Coccia said Robinson shared a Award for his “leadership in our but there didn’t seem to be any nmichels@nd.edu 
spouse two years later.  Though 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 


PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




Action 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
community here at Saint Mary’s.” 
La Fuerza’s Week of Action be­gan in 2006. Marquez said its cre­ators wanted it to be an annual event focused on different issues tied in with immigration. 
“This year we chose to look at how immigration affects educa­tion within the Latino communi­ty,” Marquez said. “We wanted to look at it from both a national and local level.” 
To bring the issue closer to home, Marquez said the group de­cided to collaborate with La Casa de Amistad, a non-profit commu­nity center with several programs serving the Latino community in the South Bend area. 
“When we first contacted La Casa de Amistad about collaborat­ing with them this year we wanted to know what the center thought was important to focus in on,” Marquez said. “They said applica­tion fees for the ACT, SAT or even college applications can be very burdensome on families.” 
After learning of this burden, Marquez said the group decided to focus on raising donations to help local Latino students cover these fees and “help take these monetary strains off some of the families.” 
“We will be hosting a table in the student center atrium all week asking for donations to help cover these fees,” Marquez said. 
Growing up in Elkhart, Indiana, Marquez said this week of ac­tion means a great deal to her personally. 
“I grew up listening to stories of undocumented family members and friends,” Marquez said. “If you are undocumented it is diffi­cult to find financial aid and other resources.” 
This week is about changing the face of immigration on campus, she said. 
“I believe there is a misconcep­tion of immigration on our cam­pus,” Marquez said. “Catholic Social Thought says human dig­nity is directly tied in with immi­gration and I think that is often forgotten. I want students to attend this week’s events and next time they hear of a student being de­ported or someone talking about immigration they can put a face to the issue.” 

Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at kra­bach@saintmarys.edu 




Skin 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Sophomore Monica McEvoy, an actor in the show, said she joined after stage manager Sarah yunjung Jung told her she would be a good fit for this year’s changed focus. 
“I’ve always wanted to be in­volved in something like this on campus,” McEvoy said. “Sarah really encouraged me to actu­ally do it.” 
The dialogues McEvoy and her fellow actors performed ranged from topics of depres­sion to race, which she said made the show more compre­hensive and relatable for all au­dience members. 
Those who participate in the show are able to see how brave these anonymous writers re­ally are, McEvoy said. While the writers use their talent to create these dialogues, the actors use their passion to perform on the authors’ behalf. 
“It’s one of the most gratify­ing experiences I’ve ever been involved in,” she said. “These voices, the anonymous writers that have submitted these piec­es, it’s nice that actors are shar­ing their story for them.” 
Besides acting her two dia­logues titled “The Story of Bread” and “Average ND,” McEvoy also participated in sev­eral of the other skits. 
“They had people in the back­ground in some of them so I was a kindergartener coloring with crayons in one of them, I was a person in a lineup in the back in another,” she said. “I also played a pale person in one of the pieces.” 
Once students participate in the show as actors, they are not allowed to act again. McEvoy said the creators of the show want to have different people involved each year. 
“I can’t be an actor again, but I’m definitely considering being part of the production in some form,” she said. 
She said she may join the sto­ryboard team or even submit an anonymous piece. 
McEvoy enjoyed the experi­ence not only because of the content but also because of the friends she made as well. 
“I met a lot of really cool peo­ple that I wouldn’t have known at all otherwise,” she said. “We’re just not from the same circles.” 
Sophomore Katelyn virga at­tended the show after seeing how hard one of her friends was working on her pieces for the show. After hearing her perform her dialogues in the dorm, virga said she became interested in the idea and decided to see the whole production.
 “I really enjoyed it,” she said. “I like how they incorporated not just racial issues but also stories of people dealing with body image issues, self-confi­dence and finding themselves.” 
Stories on students dealing with bulimia and anorexia also were voiced during the show. virga said those stories pro­vided a new perspective on how these issues can affect anyone at Notre Dame. 
“That could be anyone down the hall,” she said. “We just don’t know.” 
virga said students need to be careful not to judge, and they should watch what they say. 
“Even comments we say to our friends that we consider harmless could affect some­one, could hurt them without us even knowing it,” she said. 
The dialogues often con­tained comic relief portions scattered throughout, she said. The stories varied in length, some lasting several minutes while the shortest was one line. virga said the lines were power­ful regardless of the length. 
As a follow-up to the show, McEvoy said the production team and faculty advisors will host a conversation open to any audience members who attend­ed one of the performances. The discussion will take place on April 12 from 6-8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
As stated in the Show Some Skin pamphlet, students are welcomed to share their thoughts on the dialogues or their own stories and learn more about getting involved in the show next year. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 



GALA 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

afternoon.  The movie tells the story of Robinson’s work to pro­mote lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans­gender and questioning (LGBTQ) inclusion within his church, the Episcopalian Church, the Anglican Communion and the United States at large, while liv­ing his life with his partner Mark Andrew and their two daughters. 
Robinson said he has tried to live his life as a witness to the integrity of homosexual rela­tionships and homosexuals ev­erywhere, so that his example might change people’s minds and open their hearts. 
“When we discuss this issue as an issue, you can be all over the map,” Robinson said. “But when you know a real person, or when you know a real relation­ship there is nothing that speaks more powerfully than that. [Gay­rights activist] Harvey Milk said that coming out was the most political thing that you could do. Not standing on a soapbox, but just simply coming out and living your life openly so that people know you and know what values you hold. He predicted it would change the world and that is exactly what he’s doing.” 
His private life has been brought further into the world stage during his time as a bishop of the Episcopalian Church, but this spotlight has only extended the power of the love he and his partner live out in their lives, Robinson said. 
“I had 16 or 17 years of living it more privately before I was thrust onto the world stage, so I wasn’t just a newbie — I didn’t come out the day I was elected bishop,” Robinson said. “What I discovered during that time was that the example of me and my partner and the love that we shared and the way we raised our children changed people’s lives locally, people that we knew, and so when you get on the larger stage it just broadens the number of people [that you touch]. 
“They might not know you that well, but they can see what you’re doing, see what you believe in, by how you conduct your life and all of a sudden they’re unwilling to believe in all those terrible things that have been said about gay and lesbian people.” 
The film evidenced how Robinson directed much of his efforts toward broadening the acceptance within the Episcopal Church for homosexuals, spe­cifically by advocating for the creation of a liturgy to bless same-sex unions and the official willingness to ordain homosex­ual clergy. 
On July, 12, 2012, the Episcopal Church approved an “official liturgy for blessing same-sex unions, enabling priests who have the approval of their bish­ops to bestow the church’s bless­ing on gay couples whether they live in a state where same-sex marriage is legal or not,” accord­ing to a July 10, 2012 article by the New york Times. 
Since Robinson’s ordination, one other openly partnered ho­mosexual bishop has been elect­ed. Mary Glasspool was elected a bishop for the Diocese of Los Angeles on December 4, 2009 as the 17th female bishop and first lesbian bishop chosen within the Episcopal Church. 
Throughout his work, Robinson has faced opposition taking the form of everything from the open hatred displayed by the man in St. Mary’s, Putney, to relatively civil disagreement like that displayed by Bishop Robert Duncan, his colleague in the seminary. Duncan led the departure of his diocese from the Episcopal Church in 2008, which was renamed the Anglican Diocese of Pittsburgh. 
Robinson said this Duncan has voiced opinions to the House of Bishops that he not only dis­agrees with, but knows to be untrue. 
“I think the division in our church, these people who left, that had a lot more to do with control and power than any­thing religious,” Robinson said. “They would claim otherwise, so we would have to disagree about that.  Now they’re fighting over the ordination of women … once you allow schism to be the remedy, there’s no end to it.  … I think leaving the table at this day and time is maybe the worst sin, because if we all stay at the table and are willing to talk about these things we will find a way through them.” 
Though he has faced extreme opposition even in the form of death threats and an assas­sination attempt, Robinson he has felt God’s presence and love throughout his advocacy work and time as a bishop. 
“I know it sounds like a cli­ché, but God has seemed pal­pably close during all of this. Sometimes, so close that prayer seems almost redundant,” Robinson said. “I’ve tried to be in touch with God through my prayer life and to let God be in touch with me. 
“Someone gave me a piece of calligraphy that said sometimes God calms the storm, but some­times God lets the storm rage and calms his child. I feel that’s what God has done, quieted my heart and kept me calm in the middle of this raging storm.” 
Robinson said the success of the movement for LGBTQ inclu­sion and the work of individu­als like himself depends on the strength of their straight allies. 
“I think this is one of the most important things of all,” Robinson said. We will never be more than a very tiny minor­ity and we need desperately our straight allies to advocate for us because it’s the right thing, be­cause they know us and know what our values are. you’ll be in places where we’re not even wel­come.  It’s sort of like in the ‘60s, with racism, people started to  — when someone would tell a racist joke — to say, ‘you’re not going to talk that way around me and if you’re going to talk that way I’m not going to be around you.’” 
Refusing to remain silent when anti-gay sentiment mani­fests itself is how straight allies can speak up for their LGBTQ neighbors and tangibly change how they are incorporated into society and its institutions, Robinsons aid. 
“I think straight allies have to come out too, that is to say to come out as an ally,” Robinson said. “And sometimes, they will experience too some of the nega­tive reaction that has been a part of our lives for a very long time.” 

Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 



FBI eyes extortion at Rutgers 
Associated Press 
NEWARK — The FBI is investi­gating whether a former Rutgers basketball employee tried to ex­tort the university before he made videos that showed ex-coach Mike Rice shoving and kicking players and berating them with gay slurs. 
Meanwhile, Robert Morris University is expected to re­port in coming days what it has learned in its own inquiry on the three years Rice spent as head coach there. 
A person familiar with the FBI’s probe told The Associated Press on Sunday that investigators are interested in Eric Murdock, who left his job as the men’s basket­ball program’s player develop­ment director last year and later provided the video to university officials and ESPN. 
The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the inqui­ry has not been announced. The investigation was first reported last week by ESPN and The New york Times. 
A spokeswoman for the FBI’s Newark office said the agency would not say whether there is an investigation. Murdock’s lawyer did not return a call to the AP on Sunday. A Rutgers spokesman re­ferred questions to the FBI. 
A December letter from Murdock’s lawyer to a lawyer representing Rutgers requested $950,000 to settle employment issues and said that if the uni­versity did not agree by Jan. 4, Murdock was prepared to file a lawsuit. The letter was obtained last week by the AP and other me­dia outlets. 
No settlement has been made. The video became public last week, and Murdock on Friday filed a lawsuit against the uni­versity, contending he was fired because he was a whistleblower trying to bring to light Rice’s behavior. 
The video’s release last week set off a chain reaction that led to Rice’s firing and the resignations of athletic director Tim Pernetti, the university’s top in-house law­yer and an assistant basketball coach. Some critics want the uni­versity’s president, Robert Barchi, to resign. 
Barchi will hold a town hall meeting Monday at the school’s Newark campus, where he is ex­pected to face some students and faculty who say they lost con­fidence in him even before the controversy over Rice’s firing. They have said his plan to reor­ganize the state’s higher educa­tion system shortchanges the Rutgers campuses in Camden and Newark. 
At a news conference last week, Barchi said the firing and resig­nations likely never would have happened unless Murdock pro­vided the video to ESPN. Barchi said he did not see the video him­self until after it had been made public. 
Murdock, a New Jersey native who played for seven NBA teams from 1991 to 2000, was on the ini­tial staff Rice assembled when he became the Rutgers coach in 2010. He left the team last year, 

Male country stars dominate ACM awards 

though there are conflicting sto­ries about the circumstances. 
Murdock has said Rice fired him after he skipped a session of Rice’s summer basketball camp, but has said he was targeted be­cause he had spoken with others about Rice’s conduct at practice. The university found in a report that Murdock was not actually fired and that he could have con­tinued working at the school. 
After Murdock left, he spoke with university officials about his allegations against Rice. He also used an open public records re­quest to obtain hundreds of hours of videos of basketball practice. It’s not clear who shot the origi­nal footage, but it was edited into the half-hour video later given to the university that touched off a scandal last week. 
The university report on Rice, which was completed in December but not made public until Friday, criticized the video provided by Murdock as taken many situations out of context. While the report found fault with Rice’s behavior in several instances, it also said he did not create a hostile work environ­ment, as Murdock had suggested. 
Associated Press 

LAS vEGAS — The focus of Sunday’s Academy of Country Music Awards is on lead nomi­nee Eric Church, who had one win under his belt even be­fore he hit the red carpet. But don’t expect anything differ­ent from country’s new hard-rocking, blue-collar star. 
“It’s still kinda strange to me,” Church said on the red carpet. “It’s been a long jour­ney, a long path. I can’t control what I’m nominated for. I re­ally have nothing to do with win or lose. We could win all seven, lose all seven. I promise you it won’t affect anything. We’re going to make the same kind of music, the same kind of show. Whatever happens happens.” 
That go-with-it attitude may extend to Sunday night’s broadcast as the 48th annual awards show kicks off at 8 p.m. EDT Sunday night live on CBS from the MGM Grand in Las vegas. More than a few people have suggested to the produc­ers that they extend the broad­cast delay — just in case. 
With Blake Shelton and Luke Bryan co-hosting, every­one expects the unexpected 
— and several off-color, un­scripted moments — as coun­try music’s biggest cut-ups collide on stage. A recent in­terview in Nashville with the two, who’ve given themselves the celebrity couple name “Bluke,” veered wildly from a discussion of Bryan’s unwor­thiness to host to crude jokes and Taylor Swift’s fans. 
“I would tell him to be pre­pared for the onslaught of hatred that will come from Taylor Swift’s fan base if you say any sort of a joke or if she’s any part of a punch line in the monologue,” Shelton said when asked what advice he’d give Bryan. “By the way, you’re getting all those jokes this year.” 
Fans began lining up early to catch a glimpse of Swift and a host of country stars. One young fan clutched a bou­quet of roses and waved a sign bearing a picture of Swift un­der the words, “Love is True.” 
Church had an early win for vocal event of the year with Jason Aldean and Bryan for their collaboration on “The Only Way I Know.” And Little Big Town was surprised on the red carpet with the video of the year award for “Pontoon.” 
The night will be a showcase for country’s men of the mo­ment — and for its two domi­nant male stars of the last two decades. 
Many of the top names in country music will per­form or appear, including top nominees Church and Hunter Hayes, but most eyes will be on the marquee meeting of Garth Brooks and George Strait. Brooks and Strait, two of music’s top-selling artists regardless of genre, have nev­er performed together. 
They will help honor the show’s longtime producer Dick Clark, who passed away last year. The academy is naming its artist of the decade award for Clark, whose tenure with the show began in 1979. 
The moment will be special 
— and not just for the mil­lions watching at home. It has country’s biggest stars abuzz as well. 

U.S. General: Taliban remains longterm threat 
Associated Press 
AFGHANISTAN — The United States accepts that a diminished but resilient Taliban is likely to remain a military threat in some parts of Afghanistan long after U.S. troops complete their combat mission next year, the top U.S. military officer said Sunday. 
In an Associated Press in­terview at this air field north of Kabul, Army Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he is cautiously optimistic that the Afghan army will hold its own against the insurgency as Western troops pull back and Afghans assume the lead com­bat role. He said that by May or June, the Afghans will be in the lead throughout the country. 
Asked whether some parts of the country will remain åcon­tested by the Taliban, he re­plied, “yes, of course there will be.” 
“And if we were having this conversation 10 years from now, I suspect there would (still) be contested areas because the history of Afghanistan suggests that there will always be con­tested areas,” he said. 
He and other U.S. command­ers have said that ultimately the Afghans must reach some sort of political accommoda­tion with the insurgents, and that a reconciliation process needs to be led by Afghans, not Americans. Thus the No. 1 priority for the U.S. military in its final months of combat in Afghanistan is to do all that is possible to boost the strength and confidence of Afghan forces. 
Shortly after Dempsey ar­rived in Afghanistan on Saturday, the Taliban demon­strated its ability to strike. 
It claimed responsibility for a suicide car bombing that killed five Americans — three soldiers and two civilians, including Anne Smedinghoff, a foreign service officer and the first American diplomat killed over­seas since the terrorist attack Sept. 11 in Benghazi, Libya. 
A fierce battle between U.S.­backed Afghan forces and Taliban militants in a remote corner of eastern Afghanistan left nearly 20 people dead, in­cluding 11 Afghan children killed in an airstrike, Afghan officials said Sunday. 
There are now about 66,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan. That number is to drop to about 32,000 by February 2014, and the combat mission is to end in December 2014. Whether some number — perhaps 9,000 or 10,000 — remain into 2015 as military trainers and counter-insurgents is yet to be decided. 

Dempsey spent two days talking to senior Afghan of­ficials, including his counter­part, Gen. Sher Mohammad Karimi, as well as top U.S. and allied commanders. 
He also visited a U.S. base in the volatile eastern province of Paktika for an update on how U.S. troops are balancing the twin missions of advising Afghan forces and withdraw­ing tons of U.S. equipment as the war effort winds down. 
Paktika is an example of a sector of Afghanistan that is likely to face Taliban resistance for years to come. 
Bordering areas of Pakistan that provide haven for the Taliban and its affiliated Haqqani network, Paktika has been among the more impor­tant insurgent avenues into the Afghan interior. 
While the province has a functioning government, Taliban influence remains sig­nificant in less populated ar­eas, as it has since U.S. forces first invaded the country more than 11 years ago. 
“There will be contested ar­eas, and it will be the Afghans’ choice whether to allow those contested areas to persist, or, when necessary, take action to exert themselves into those contested area,” he said. 

THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Value-based governance 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Summer snowballs 

Catherine Owers 
News Writer 

For most of America, summer seems to go hand-in-hand with beaches, base­ball and barbecues. I like sandcastles, home runs and barbecued chicken as much as the next girl, but for me  — and much of New Orleans  — summer means snowballs. 
When I was younger, it was always a fun surprise to see my dad come home from work with snowballs for all of us. Postgame snowballs were the highlight my short-lived cabbage ball career. Now, when I go to my brothers’ swim meets and baseball games, a snowball makes the New Orleans heat and humidity bearable. Snowballs are the perfect after-school treat and a quick dessert to get on the way home from dinner. Most snowball stands are open from mid-afternoon until 11 p.m. 
Snowballs are the infinitely better second cousin of snow cones. In my ex­perience, snow cones are chunks of ice in flimsy paper cups, with maybe seven fla­vors to choose from. Snowballs, however, are finely shaved flecks of ice, and most of the snowball stands back home have at least 30 flavors. Of course being New Orleans, we have to be a little over the top, even in our desserts. It’s not uncommon to see snowballs with condensed milk top­pings or soft-serve ice cream. 
Like beignets and bananas foster, there’s not much healthy about snowballs. The only redeeming quality is the inherent portion control. The syrup is so sweet it’s nearly impossible to eat multiple snow­balls at a time —  although my little broth­ers have tried. High-fructose corn syrup and red dye number five are the perfect complement to whatever dinner you may have had, whether filet mignon or a pea­nut butter and jelly sandwich. 
New Orleanians are particular about the snowball stands we frequent and the flavors we like. For some, loyalty to a snowball stand is only behind loyalty to your church parish and the place you watch Mardi Gras parades. I always feel vaguely guilty if I go to a different snow­ball stand with friends. My family is in­credibly consistent in what flavors we get. I can easily rattle off my family’s typical snowball order. My go-to flavor is straw­berry, although sometimes I branch out and try pink lemonade or grape. 
Snowballs are a great equalizer. They can be as inexpensive as a dollar, and there’s absolutely nothing dignified about eating a snowball. you sit outside and alternate slurping and slapping at mos­quitos. your tongue will inevitably end up an outlandish red, purple, blue or green. Whenever I eat a snowball, I feel like a little kid again, excited for vacations and no school. 
In case you all couldn’t tell, I can’t wait for summer in New Orleans. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Wandor 
Guest Columnist 
“When statesmen forsake their own private conscience for the sake of their public duties, they lead their country by a short route to chaos.” 
So states Sir Thomas More in Robert Bolt’s play “A Man for All Seasons.” I should think it hard to find many people who would disagree with this sage ad­vice from one of the greatest lawyers and statesmen of all time, yet this is exactly what Jack Rooney suggests in a recent column (“Defining Love,” Mar. 22). Mr. Rooney believes that “more often than not… conservatives place their own ‘val­ues’ (often deriving from the Christian right) above [personal liberty]. Such imposition of values applies not only to same-sex marriage, but also to abortion, capital punishment and the role of reli­gion in government as a whole.” yet is not a certain imposition of values just what More is calling us to do? 
Indeed, if you take a closer look at law, you will find government truly is a collection of values that it imposes on society. Take, for example, the principle and commandment “Thou shall not steal.”  Not only does this show up in the 10 Commandments —  clearly something ‘valued’ by the Christian right — but it is also enshrined in law. There are very few who would argue this value should not be law despite its religious connections, so then the question must be asked: From where should we derive the values we enshrine in our law and our government? 
Clearly religion cannot be the answer in 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

such a diverse country with many differ­ent faiths. It would be best to find a basis for our law in something that can cross faiths, generations and cultures. To me, the answer to this question seems to be something innate within each and every human being: our telos. The understand­ing of what it means to be a human being, or telos in philosophical terms, is this common theme from which values and laws can be derived in a rational way for all people. Telos is something deeper than what we generally think of when talking about the purpose of our current lives, but it is at the very core of many of our actions. 
This common goal all humans have is a desire within themselves to be the best version of themselves that they can. Christians would rephrase humanity’s telos to say our purpose is to know, love and serve God, but this is exactly how Christians would define becoming the best people we can.  Without this purpose or an understanding of humanity driving our values, we will be left in a world where what I ‘feel’ is right defines my values, and what you ‘feel’ is right composes your val­ues. There is no common basis for law or governance in this kind of world, and thus the strongest will prevail while others give up their private conscience on behalf of public duties for personal gain. 
To summarize, government must be an entity that imposes values on its people, but these values should come from something common within man. This common theme is our telos, which can be defined as becoming the best version of ourselves we can. From this understand­ing of humanity, we can now develop a government through an examination of what values can be rationally derived from our purpose. As for what these val­ues are, I will leave that to further debates and discussion, but this provides a basis on which government should function. 
Perhaps it is then not religion that fuels many conservative values, but rather an understanding of humanity’s telos and the dignity of each individual which can be derived from that. Saying “it is in the Bible” or “because God says so” certainly does not constitute a valid reason to sup­port a law, but religion can be a very help­ful aid in furthering our understanding of our purpose in this life and how we can obtain a more perfect government. Criticizing a person’s position because of their faith is an ad hominem attack, not a justification for the other side, and certainly does not help us obtain a greater knowledge of our purpose and our gov­ernment’s role in it. 
For reasons of brevity, it is impossible for me to give a full justification of or reasoning for all that is written here, so I invite anyone who wishes to further the discussion to investigate further and read (I highly recommend Sir Thomas More in the area of conscience and law). Finally, I am always open to respectful dialogue on just about any political issue, for it helps us all to become the best persons we can be. 
Stephen Wandor is a senior studying aerospace engineering. He can be contacted at swandor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“you can’t wait for inspiration. you have to go after it with a club.” 
Jack London American author and adventurer 



THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Revive the Viewpoint war 
Alex Caton 
Modest Proposals 

Here is a story of two geniuses. The first is Abraham Lincoln. According to historian Doris Kearns Goodwin, “When he was upset with some­body, he would write what he called a ‘hot letter,’ where he would write everything down. He would put it aside until his emotions cooled off and then write ‘never sent, never signed.’” 
The second genius is my father. During my childhood, he would read through the opinion section of our sub-par suburban newspaper on a daily basis. If a letter in there made him angry, he would say, “I feel a letter to the editor brewing.” Mom would say “Oh no” and I would get pretty excited, because through “Meet the Press,” my dad had taught me since age four to love arguing for its own sake. Unaffected by any of this, dad would go to our desktop and start hammering out the first of several drafts, which would then be published for all of the tri-city area to see. It was a beautiful thing. 
Over spring break, I found an issue of The Observer from last year, published just after Alliance N.D. looked like it would be denied club status again. There were two full columns and four letters to the editor across the two pages of the viewpoint section, all in miniscule font just to make the different perspectives fit within the page boundaries. In contrast, there have been a minute fraction of the submissions the past few weeks in the wake of Supreme Court oral arguments on DOMA and Prop 8. 
In short, our beloved viewpoint section seems to have lost its luster lately. Space usually occu­pied by the 350-word rants of Notre Dame’s own is instead being filled by columns from other college newspapers, or from the previously-only­reserved-for-special-occasions Observer Editorial Board. This isn’t happening because The Observer thinks columnists from Michigan, Brown, or Ohio State have more valuable opinions, or because there aren’t plenty of worthy shenanigans hap­pening now at Our Lady’s University deserving of the student voice. My guess, rather, is too many people here are doing what Lincoln did — typing their thoughts out and then leaving them “never sent, never signed”. 
Or maybe they’re not writing at all, which would be pretty sad. 
Notre Dame students, I implore you in this case not to do what Lincoln did. At some point you have seen a viewpoint letter that made you disappoint­ed to share the same air with whomever wrote it. When that happens, you owe it to them and to yourself to articulately and more-or-less politely make that known. 
It would be one thing if my lunchtime entertain­ment were the only thing on the line here. But I think the viewpoint section is more than that. We prize viewpoint wars not just because we enjoy watching students take verbal shots at each other, but because we like to engage in the issues we see as important here at Notre Dame. Opening up the paper to a set of columns not especially relevant to our day-to-day experience or not strongly-word­ed or strongly-argued enough to spur reaction is just disappointing. If the only people taking time to write opinion letters are hacks like me with bi­weekly columns, we limit the voices heard and we all lose something. 
One might argue we students are more likely to write or respond to material on University issues than national ones. Fair enough. But right now nobody is writing about anything at all. And it’s not for shortage of material. Mendoza just got the number one “Businessweek” ranking again. Part of you is happy, but is the other part of you wish­ing to cut them down to size — Arts & Letters stu­dents? The women’s basketball team is in the Final Four — you care, of course, but if they lowered the rim so the players could dunk, would you be more likely to actually watch? Arts & Letters is trying to bring down its mean G.P.A. but hasn’t consulted you. Does that make you angry? The Student Activities Office is discontinuing hall storage this summer. Should we in turn discontinue SAO? The Hesburgh Library is going to be renovated. Do you have a genius idea to make “Club Hes” bump like never before? One look at “ND Confessions” re­veals a profound lack of mental health awareness here. Shouldn’t we do something about it? And for the love of God, why are we paying $1.10 at The Huddle for a can of Arnold Palmer that is clearly labeled, “99 cents”? 
If you find yourself nodding your head to any of those questions, or if another piece of the campus-wide shenanigans is really grinding your gears, consider putting it in writing. The viewpoint sec­tion is an invaluable tool for challenging the sta­tus quo head-on with your own common sense, and for bringing your views to a relatively large readership (including Main Building administra­tors who might just take you up on your idea). Whether the viewpoint section remains a center for inciting discussion, debate and change here is on you, reader. Go to it. 
Alex Caton is a sophomore studying political science.  He can be contacted at acanton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

An invitation to Notre Dame men 
Did you know many women experience some form of a gynecological health for some can be a very trying and troubling experience. I encourage all Notre issue? Although these are labeled under the category of “women’s health,” we Dame men to attend the lecture “Unveiling the Mystery of Women’s Health” men shouldn’t stay ignorant of the reality of these issues as well as possible tonight from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in Geddes Hall, Room B036, in order to learn ways to address them. We have an obligation as brothers and boyfriends, fu-more about the women in their lives, present and future, who may find them­ture husbands and fathers, to understand and care for those whom we love, selves experiencing some kind of gynecological issue. both body and soul. Many women’s health issues, including ovarian cysts, painful periods and premenstrual syndrome, can be addressed and cured through the use of NaPro Technology. Besides the fact women you know will Zach Harris appreciate you being informed about their health, being informed also al-senior lows you to provide the support they may need to address these issues, which Siegfried Hall 
Step outside your cultural comfort zone 
I want to revive the topic of race and diversity on campus. yes, lots of heads are shaking, and I understand this topic has been exhaustively dis­cussed. I understand if you want to switch the page and not read this piece. However, please stick with me. I bring something new to the table. 
The University has done a lot of work in trying to make this campus feel more inclusive. One recent action is the change of various diversity events in the hopes more of the student body will attend. I went to what is now called Coffee House, the now called Talent Show, the Black Cultural Arts Council Fashion Show and other cultural events. Unfortunately, I did not see the intended out­come. I searched for answers, and at the town hall meeting two weeks ago I found a plausible answer. That answer is, “I don’t attend because I would feel uncomfortable being the only white guy/girl at the event.” 
While this answer may have its merit, I don’t think it is good enough. I am the only black student in the 2014 class of electrical engineering. What does that entail, exactly? It means for every single class of my major, I am the only African-American. Every single hour, I go to a class where no one is from my ethnic and cultural background. I do this day in and day out, and many other minorities 
— ethnic, cultural or sexual — on campus have a similar experience. It took time to get used to this, and I can’t say it was an easy thing to do. For that reason, I can’t accept discomfort as an excuse to miss out on these cultural events. The excuse is not good enough. 
A friend told me, “The Notre Dame education is not about being in your comfort zone.” I agree. I hope you do too. So, I’d like to challenge you to step out your comfort zone and go to one of these events. you might be surprised by how much you enjoy it. 
Irere Romeo  Kwihangana junior Morrissey Manor 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

By AUSTIN HAGWOOD 
Scene Writer 

From prescription drugs to cultural fascination with sex, death tends to be something we avoid – you will pardon the phrase – like the plague. Tragedies or the demise of a loved one shock and unsettle routine self-assurance, but we quickly objectify such incidents as un­pleasant abstractions. Death is always something that happens to other people, something that occurs in foreign des­erts or newspaper headlines, something to be kept out of sight where the kids won’t find it. Like the process of cleaning campground toilets or the popularity of Kardashian mammals on national tele­vision, death is uncomfortable to think about. And yet, as mausoleums from vases to the pyramids remind us, death remains a distinctly human fixation. 
In his Academy Award-winning French-language film Amour (“Best Foreign Film” – 2012), Austrian director Michael Haneke depicts the heartbreak­ing deterioration of a couple preserving their love despite the decay of old age. Georges (Jean-Louis Trintignant) and Anne (Emmanuelle Riva) are former music instructors enjoying the tranquil­ity of retirement in their 80s — attending 
Emilie Terhaar 
Scene Writer 

The majority of the SyR struggle seems to be: whether or not you’re going, if your friends are going, who they are go­ing with, who you are going with, how should you ask them, if it would be weird to ask them over text or through an ND Confession, etc. And by the time you ac­tually get a date locked down, a group of friends going together and somewhere to socialize before and after the actual dance, there are only a few days before the actual night. 
It feels like a huge weight the size of a chemistry exam has been lifted off your shoulders. And then you remember, “Ahhh I can’t go naked again, no one liked that, I gotta wear clothes this time concerts, hosting former students and maintaining a distant relationship with their daughter Eva (Isabelle Huppert) — until Anne begins suffering blank spells and losing motor cognition. 
Following a failed surgery, Anne ex­periences partial paralysis and becomes confined to a wheelchair, completely de­pendent on Georges for every hygienic need. yet her worsening condition only accentuates Georges’ everlasting love for his wife, a love that transcends compan­ionship and challenges our convention­al understanding of the necessity of life and release of death. 
Rather than romanticized, tech­nicolor visions of old age typified by Hollywood films such as “Father of the Bride,” “Amour” illustrates the distinctly modern problem that accompanies con­temporary medicine’s ability to delay death — wasting away interminably as a living corpse. Haneke’s film is difficult to watch precisely because it avoids rosy, elegant death in favor of the brutal de­cline we will all suffer if we avoid a pre­mature demise. Through extensive long takes, infrequent cuts and slow track­ing shots, Haneke reflects the agonizing pace and sense of stasis that begins to define the couple’s lifestyle. 
Moreover, simple scene composition 
dang it.” And one of those excessively large hourglasses with sand falling, ooz­ing down is placed smack, right in front of you, and there is less and less sand, and you’re still showing up to your dance naked. 
Relax. I have formulated an ordered plan of attack for all my fellow outfit stragglers out there. 
Formal 
1.  
Do you already own an acceptable formal dress that Facebook has yet to see? STUPID QUESTION, who has that just waiting around? No one. 

2.  
Do your roommates/dorm friends who are the same size as you have some­thing you could wear? 

3. 
Do you have any way of getting to a mall in the next few days, hours, right now? 



informs most shots and creates an aura of dusty normalcy. But rather than cre­ate an idyllic French apartment recog­nizable as filmic, “Amour” suspends our disbelief perfectly. This is not the old age of Christmas dinners and cards, but instead one of loneliness, hospice and complete dependency on others for everything from cold showers to plastic sippy-cups. Instead of dismissing the film as a piece of fictionalized cinema with no tangible bridge to our perspec­tive as detached viewers, Haneke’s un­derstated realism transforms the piece into a dark, immersive documentary ex­ploring the tortured psychodrama that could (and will) cripple any couple real­izing the inescapability of mortality. 
And yet the film’s title remains more fitting than ever. “Amour” is in essence a beautiful love story and an examination of the depths to which individuals can redefine what love actually means. One of the film’s most touching moments oc­curs following Anne’s final and debilita­tive stroke, when she becomes mute and reduced to an infantile state. After over fifty years of love, Georges continues to sing songs and tell her stories he knows she cannot hear and write passionate letters he knows she cannot read. 
When Anne refuses to drink fluids in 
4.  
Call your mom, is there anything at home she can ship? 

5.  
Go to forever21.com, asos.com, fab. com, any cheap dress site with free re­turns and order a slew of dresses in multi­ple sizes and have them express shipped. 

6.  
But don’t stop looking. What if they’re all terrible? Go on Facebook, look at friends who go here, friends of friends even, as long as they go to ND and live on campus. See anything you like?  Pull some strings, send some creepy inbox messages, who knows, maybe there will be some really kind-hearted Facebook friend with great taste and the same dress size as you. 


Themed 

1. you’re on your own...(only words of wisdom, less is more, less time and thought spent, less money wasted, less an attempt to kill herself, Georges slaps her not out of anger, but instead as a desperate lover unwilling to let her go. As Anne lingers for weeks in an unrec­ognizable mask of a body, Georges relies on their mutual ethics of love to force his hand to the film’s climax of euthanasia. And yet Georges’ decision unsettles us not because it is heinous, but because it is in itself the most unselfish expression of his love. And in a college culture de­fined by hedonism, ring-by-spring and sticky hookups on beer-soaked floors, this kind of love is truly worth seeing. 
“Amour” 
Director: Michael Haneke 
Starring: Jean-Louis Trintignant, Emmanuelle Riva, Isabelle Huppert 
If you like: “Moonrise Kingdom,” romantic foreign films 

Contact Austin Hagwood at ahagwood@nd.edu 
clothing worn is always better, less is more!) 
When you discover you are the panicky, deranged person running around Friday afternoon still looking for something to wear Friday night, don’t worry, we’ve all been there. I once found myself at a friend of a friend’s dorm room leafing through her roommate (who I’d never met)’s closet alone while neither roommate was even there. Ultimately, if you have to repeat an outfit, it will be okay. Take a lot of pictures of your shoulders and up pictures, and hey if the night goes well, you might not remember it anyway. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emilie Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 

THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

DANCING QUEEN 
NOT MY SCENE 
understood that if you’re in a 
Allie Tollaksen 
tightly packed room of aggres-
Scene Writer 
sive dancers, you can get away 
with not knowing what you’re I hate to dance. doing. But this was not the case I’m convinced it’s in my that fateful Saturday night. I 
blood. My parents are some was stuck to face my dancing of the worst dancers I’ve ever fears in an open room. I be-met (sorry, mom and dad). came painfully aware that my Wedding receptions aren’t fun “moves” were going to be on for me, they’re just painful display for all of my friends and reminders of my genetically fellow dancers to see. inherited inability to move Though Maggie may try to my body to music. Similarly, I convince you that having so rarely attend SyRs or formals few people at the Silent Disco and when I do you can gener-is a great opportunity to tear ally find me chatting in the up the dance floor and utilize a corner rather than “breaking it lot of space to really get down, down” with my date. Though I I must disagree. As much as I appreciate the art of dance and wanted to take up space and enjoy dance music, simply put, perform some kind of “Romy I cannot dance. and Michele’s High School 
Of course as an outspoken Reunion”-style dance number, 
non-dancer, to say I was hesi-I found myself dancing in place 
tant to go to the Silent Disco at for a majority of the night. 
Legends would be an under-Fewer people, unfortunately, 
statement. Though Maggie en-does not mean more or better 
sured me that it would be a fun dancing, at least in my case. 
time of dancing like fools, I was Instead, I spent most of my 
close to positive it would be me, time loitering around the wa­
and only me, looking like a fool. ter fountain or doubled over 
While Maggie would bust out laughing. I will say, however, 
vs her P-Fresh moves, I thought, that as an audiophile I did en-I would stand helplessly in the joy the dueling DJs playing two middle of the dance floor. This different types of music. It was would be a disaster, I was sure. refreshing to be able to switch 
Maggie Waickman 
Scene Writer 
I love to dance. 

Whether I’m at a planned, themed SyR I have been look­ing forward to all week or a spontaneous study break dance party, I am always willing to bust a move. While my moves are not graceful, smooth or cool , the one redeeming quality of my dancing is copious enthusi­asm. Whether or not the world wants to see it, I love to move my body. 
So, obviously, when Allie and I decided to go to Silent Disco at Legend’s this past Saturday night, I was excited. The prem­ise of Silent Disco forces the dancers to accept that they will look ridiculous. Silent Disco-ers don headphones and choose between two channels broadcasting the stylings of two different DJs. If any danc­ers takes their headphones off, they can watch a roomful of silent people dancing to dif­ferent beats. Participants must accept that they will be part of this ridiculous set-up. Basically, Silent Disco forces everyone to approach dancing as I always in the glory that is Silent Disco, however, do me a favor and do not sing along to the music. We had the honor of hearing the vocal stylings of a very drunken group of boys. While I understand that most Notre Dame students belt out “Livin’ on a Prayer” every chance they get, the glory of Silent Disco was ruined by the attempted harmonizing of these inebri­ated fellows. I was busy shakin’ it to the electronic beats of the other channel and hearing their dulcet tones over my own chan­nel threw me out of my dancing zone. 
If you do choose to partici­pate in the spectacle of Silent Disco, there are some key steps to maximizing your fun. First, choose to go with a group of people who will enjoy it. These friends must either be unafraid of looking ridiculous or be eas­ily coaxed into looking ridicu­lous. Secondly, if you are of age, go with a bit of a buzz. Don’t go so smashed that you will be­come those kids who sing aloud to every song, but a slight social lubricant can only help over­come the initial barrier of awk­ward. Finally, come prepared to show off a wide variety of dance 

The beauty of any ill-attend-boogey uncomfortably in place were two live DJs playing at dancing in a silent room with a ed Legend’s night is the huge for a third of the night and each one. I was impressed by group of strangers. If you’re like amounts of space you have to loiter by the water for the rest this fact, originally expecting my confident friend Maggie, break it down. Unlike a crowd-of the time, don’t listen to her nothing but top-40 hits being you may find yourself having a ed dorm party or an SyR where curmudgeonly ways. Take your streamed into our headphones, great time. Just make sure you all attendees feel the need to destiny and your moves into not live mixes or multiple bring some moves (you can ask dance as close together as pos-your own hands. Dispel your Maggie for those, not me) and 
Allie and I, along with the it. Need inspiration? Watch Saturday night, it immediately tunity to lip-synch obnoxiously friends we coerced into going Robyn’s “Call your Girlfriend” became a learning experience. to Icona Pop and then switch to with us, arrived at Legend’s music video. Realize that Robyn I turned in my student ID, a remix of an obscure electron-at about 12:30 am. The scene is in her 40s. Aspire to her give-hands shaking with anxiety, in ic song. If you have an interest when we got there was a little no-cares style of aggressive exchange for a pair of brightly in dance music at all, I do sug­pathetic — about 11 people dancing. colored headphones. A man gest you give Silent Disco a try. silently (and awkwardly) danc-Although Allie may try to showed me how to switch Though I could probably ing. This sight did not deter my convince you that Silent Disco between the two available sum up my experience with the enthusiasm. I grabbed a pair of was a terrifyingly awkward stations, and I turned around word “awkward,” I don’t want headphones and tuned in. experience that forced her to and quickly realized that there to entirely discourage you from 
approach dancing: abandon moves. The white guy head bob 
between a station of poppy hits any semblance of caring about and more electronic, under-what onlookers think. ground music. I had the oppor-
sible, Legend’s provides copious amounts of dancefloor when there are only 15 people in at­tendance. With my headphones on and the dance floor clear, I danced it out to song after song. I looked completely foolish, and I loved every second of it. 
If you choose to participate 
cares about what the measly 10 others in Legend’s think of you. And just dance. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maggie Waickman at mwaickma@nd.edu 

Upon turning around and spotting the DJs, however, I also spotted the crowd that had turned out for the Silent Disco, and by “crowd,” I mean 12 peo­ple. Suddenly, my biggest fears flashed before my eyes. As a bad dancer, I have taken solace in large crowds. It’s generally a lot of friends. Many, many friends. Just bring all of your friends. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Student athletes “paid” enough 

Vicky Jacobsen 
Sports Writer 
Do you know what I’m being paid to write this col­umn? Go ahead, guess. 
It’s nothing. Nada. The pro­duction assistant who made sure the correct jumble and crossword were placed in today’s Observer is probably pretty close to that too. 
Students don’t get paid to perform in university-sponsored plays or operas. Marching band members get food money when they travel to away games, but otherwise they wake up campus at 8 
a.m. on football Saturdays for the fun of it. 
So you’ll excuse me if I don’t buy into the notion that college athletes are victims of exploitation just because they aren’t getting a salary. 
For one thing, it’s patently ridiculous to say student athletes aren’t getting any sort of financial compensa­tion for their time and talent. Ladies and gentlemen, that’s what a college scholarship is. (Interestingly, I’ve never heard anyone complain about the exploitation of athletes in Division III or Ivy League competition, where athlete scholarships are not allowed.) 
An athletic scholarship is worth up to $200,000 plus the lifetime of increased earning potential that comes with a college degree. If that doesn’t constitute fair payment, what exactly would? 
Perhaps “fair” would be a payment based on ath­letic department revenue. If that were the case, a lot of athletes would end up ow­ing money to their ADs: in 2009, only 14 of the 120 FBS schools made a profit from their athletic programs. If college athletics is the big business that a lot of people claim it is, it isn’t a very lu­crative one. 
Now I’m not claiming that everything is just as it should be in college sports. I would be the last one crying if we were to throw out the NCAA rulebook and start all over again. Until someone can explain why football play­ers get goodie bags at bowl games but cross country run­ners lose their eligibility if they accept a prize offered for winning a summertime road race, I have no use for that organization. And I don’t know if there are any other countries on earth where a football or basket­ball coach can be the best-paid public servant in a state or province. 
The solution, however, is not to pay football players so that their income is closer to that of their coaches, but to stop paying coaches millions of dollars. Perhaps Maryland would’ve been able to save several of the seven varsity programs terminated in 2012 if the Terps hadn’t paid for­mer football coach Ralph Friedgen $1.75 million a year even after he was fired. It’s a thought. 
There are dozens of other reasons why paying college athletes is unneeded and unreasonable. Where is the money for these salaries coming from, especially for the 106 FBS programs al­ready hemorrhaging money? It’s unfair if a volleyball player gets paid the same as A.J. McCarron, since he brings in more money to his school. But pay them differ­ent amounts, and you’ve got a Title Ix nightmare. A lot of non-athletes already com­plain about the perks that athletes get — do we really need to deepen that divide? And don’t think a star run­ning back will turn down a free car just because he’s getting, say, 10 grand a year for football. 
But most importantly, student athletes shouldn’t be paid because they’re not professionals. They do not have to play in college. If they have the talent and de­sire, they could get paid to play basketball in Greece. They could be in Q-school or minor league baseball or the D-league. They could train for the Olympics or play pro tennis in Europe. I’m sure a football agent would bank­roll a football player if he just wanted to train for a year before he was eligible for the draft. 
If they felt like they were not getting what they wanted out of their college experi­ence, they could transfer or quit, just like I could stop writing for The Observer if I wanted to. 
But they continue to play for the same reasons the rest of us drop so much time on our activities: because we’re learning things that might help us in our chosen profes­sions. Because we’re giving back to our school. Because we value the friends we’ve made along the way. 
And, most of all, because we genuinely enjoy it. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

youth lead Irish to weekend sweep 
By ALEX WILCOX 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame kicked off the weekend with a thrilling win in double overtime over Louisville on Friday and beat Cincinnati on Sunday to match the team’s best start in program history. With two more wins under their belts, the Irish kept their perfect season alive at 10-0, and 4-0 in the Big East. 
In 2012 Notre Dame opened the season with eight straight wins before falling to Loyola, and it appeared the Irish might suffer their first loss in game No. 9, as well. 
In a back-and-forth offensive battle, Notre Dame trailed at halftime, and were down 12-9 in the middle of the second half. At this point Irish coach Christine Halfpenny pulled senior goalie Ellie Hilling in fa­vor of seldom-used sophomore Allie Murray, and Murray ap­peared to provide the spark Notre Dame desperately need­ed. The Irish rallied and took a 15-14 lead when senior attack Jenny Granger scored with just under four minutes left.  That lead didn’t last long, however, as Louisville senior attack Katie Oliverio tied the game at 15 with 
2:20 remaining. After a score­less first overtime, the game was headed to a second over­time, where freshman defender Stephanie Peragallo won a cru­cial draw control that set up se­nior attack Betsy Mastropieri’s game winning goal with 2:42 left to win it for the Irish. 
Notre Dame head coach Christine Halfpenny said she was proud of her team for the win and the experience it provided. 
“We seem to be getting every­body’s best at this point,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “We’re seeing some really good teams come out at us. We need to give our best no matter what our opponent is. After all is said and done, I’m happy we actually got an overtime game at this point because were going to go through a tough stretch, so it’s good to get that experience in.” 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 

In Sunday’s contest against Cincinnati, Hilling returned in goal and made four saves in Notre Dame’s 13-6 victory. Junior attack Lindsay Powell played all 60 minutes and tal­lied two goals and an assist, while Mastropieri continued her strong weekend by adding two more goals. The Irish con­trolled this game from the be­ginning, taking over less than two minutes into the game. The Irish never trailed after gaining the lead three minutes into the game. Notre Dame also won in nearly every statistical catego­ry, tallying more shots, ground balls, and draw controls than Cincinnati. 
Coming off Friday’s drain­ing game against Louisville, Halfpenny said she was pleased to see her team come out strong­ly Sunday. 
“I’m happy with the way we came out, we looked really good, I was happy with our energy and I felt our legs were fresh,” Halfpenny said. “We could’ve done a better job finishing, and our shooting percentage wasn’t where it should be, but I honest­ly wasn’t worried at all.” 
While she may not have been satisfied with the way her squad shot the ball, she said she was very pleased with the youth that stepped up in Sunday’s game. 
“Our young kids and the abil­ity for our youth to really step up was great to see,” Halfpenny said. “We played a lot of younger kids today especially on defense and we only gave up 3 goals in each half. Allie [Murray] was able to come in and make some massive saves [on Friday], and today we got to see all three goalies.” 
Halfpenny’s teams have been known for their strong starts, and the Irish continued this trend when they started 8-0 last year in her first year at the helm. As impressive as last year’s was, this year has been even better 
— this squad’s 10-0 start has matched that of the 2004 team as the best in program history. . 
“All the credit goes to the girls,” Halfpenny said. “They work really hard, they’re con­stantly striving to be better. There’s always a process of get­ting better and we want to hit our peak at the right time. The back half of our schedule is bet­ter ranked, so learning what it takes to win in the beginning of the season has been huge. I’m very proud and excited about this team.” 
The Irish return home for a crucial series against Loyola on Friday at 7 p.m. and Georgetown on Sunday at 1 p.m. Both games will be played at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“I’d bet you, if I were a betting man, Oscars Best Pictures (2003-2012) that I’ve never bet on baseball.”     2012: Argo
 - Pete Rose     2011: The Artist     2010: The King’s Speech 
“I can dribble with my right hand     2009: The Hurt Locker and I can dribble with my left hand. I’m     2008: Slumdog Millionaire amphibious.”  -Charles Shackleford     2007: No Country for Old Men
     2006: The Departed 

“In the NBA, they don’t promote     2005: Crash guys like me. They like guys who like     2004: Million Dollar Baby Cheerios, good guys.”     2003: The Lord of the Rings: Return  
- Metta World Peace                 of the King 


MEN’S GOLF | IRISH CREEK COLLEGIATE TOURNAMENT 
Notre Dame finishes 15th in North Carolina 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished 15th out of 17 teams with a total score of 895 this weekend at the Irish Creek Collegiate Tournament in Kannapolis, N.C. after tallying 297, 299 and 299 in three rounds. 
North Carolina and North Caroline State topped the team leaderboard with scores of 859 (282-285-292) and 861 (292-280-289). Irish coach Jim Kubinski said he thought this week would be the one where Irish would put things togeth­er, but that was not the case. 
“We’re not satisfied with our play,” Kubinski said. “We’re disappointed we didn’t post any rounds at par or below. The golf course was a good test but had enough birdie opportunities to yield a few good scores.” 
Junior Andrew Lane came in first for the Irish and 35th overall,  shooting a three-round score of 222 (+9). He remained consistent throughout the tournament, shooting 74 (+3) in each of the three rounds. 
“Andrew hit enough greens,” said Kubinski. “He just had a tough putting week, which is a rarity for him.” 
Senior Paul McNamara and junior Niall Platt tied for 47th with a score of 224 (+11). McNamara shot 73 (+2) in his first round, 76 (+5) in his sec­ond round, and 75 (+4) in his third round. Platt shot 75 (+5) in his first round, 76 (+5) in his second round, and 73 (+2) in his third round. 
Kubinski said he believed Platt played better than his scores indicated. 
Freshman Cory Sciupider tied for 64th with a score of 227 (+14) and sophomore Patrick Grahek tied for 81st with a score of 233 (+20). 
Kubinski said southern teams like North Carolina and North Carolina State have an edge over the Irish be­cause they have been able to practice outdoors for several weeks and have competed in more tournaments. Kubinski said the Irish will soon reach their desired level of play be­cause the Notre Dame golf course opened last weekend. 
“We’re still a week or two away from feeling comfort­able, Kubinski said . “We’ll be fine by Big East.” 
Kubinski said each golf­er has an area or two that needs improvement but that his team functions well as a whole both on and off the green. 
“They’re not afraid to work at it and their confidence re­mains high,” Kubinski said. “They posted nearly 3.5 team GPA in the fall. They know how to prioritize and make improvements.” 
The Irish will travel to Iowa City, Iowa to play in the Hawkeye Invitational, their last regular season tourna­ment before the Big East Championships in Orlando Fla. The Irish will tee off Saturday and continue on Sunday at the Finkbine Golf Course. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS | SAINT MARy’S 9, JUDSON 0 
Belles dominate Judson 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Sports Writer 
First sophomore Jackie Kjolhede and junior Margaret Boden won at No. 3 doubles. Then freshman Margaret Faller and sopho­more Shannon Elliot took No. 2 doubles. And then, Saint Mary’s won at every singles and doubles flight in a home meet against Judson on Friday. 
Belles coach Dale Campbell said he was pleased with the focus his 
team  displayed  in  each  
match.  
“Everyone  just  had  to  

focus on playing the best they could for themselves and let the results happen,” Campbell said. 
Kjolhede and Boden won handily with an 8-1 final score. Faller and Elliot won by the same margin. 
Not everyone had it easy, however. Junior Mary Catherine Faller and soph­omore Kayle Sexton won 9-8 (8-6) to complete the doubles sweep. 
The singles matches were even more suspenseful, with two flights going to tiebreakers to determine a victor. 
Mary Catherine Faller won her first set 6-2, but won only one game in the second set to force a tie­breaker. Faller took the tiebreaker to win 6-2, 1-6 (10-6) at No. 1 singles. 

Margaret Faller’s match also went to the tiebreaker. Faller won the first set 6-3 before dropping the sec­ond set 5-7. Faller won the tiebreaker for a 6-3, 5-7, 1-0 (11-9) victory at No. 4 singles. 
Campbell said he saw an intense level of determina­tion under pressure from both Fallers. 
“They both fight to the end, and I think have a heightened focus when they need it to pull out the match and hit the shots that are required,” Campbell said. 
The other singles flights cruised to victory. Sexton dropped only two games en route to a 6-0, 6-2 victory over freshman Marcilynn Rowan at No. 2 singles. Elliot defeated senior Kristen Kress 6-1, 6-2 at No. 3 singles, and Kjolhede and sophomore Katie Nickol added victories at No. 5 and No. 6 singles to round out the Belles’ nine match wins. 
Everyone contributed to the victory and Saint Mary’s (6-4, 2-0 MIAA) improved to 6-4. After a rough 0-2 start, Saint Mary’s has improved, largely behind the efforts of Mary Catherine Faller. 
Faller was a co-captain in 2012 as a sophomore and has continued her role as a leader this season at No. 1 doubles and singles. She and Boden are the Belles’ most experienced players as the only returning ju­niors on a team comprised of mostly sophomores. 
The Belles have the same record through 10 games as they had last season, although they have per­formed better in conference matches so far this year. Saint Mary’s is currently on a four meet winning streak, including back-to-back 9-0 triumphs over Olivet on Thursday and Judson (3-7, 1-1 CCAC) on Friday. The Eagles were also com­ing off a 9-0 thumping of Roosevelt University on Wednesday, but the Belles halted that momentum for another impressive victo­ry of their own. According to Campbell, the victory should benefit team morale. 
“It builds everyone’s con­fidence to get these wins,” Campbell said. 
Saint Mary’s will try to extend its winning streak Wednesday in a home meet against Albion at 4 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF | SPRING INvITATIONAL 
Saint Mary’s finishes seventh 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
Sports Writer 
In a crowded 20-team field which featured eight top-25 teams from both the NAIA and NCAA Division III, Saint Mary’s golfers finished the weekend’s Washington University in St. Louis Spring Invitational in ninth place. After end­ing Saturday in seventh place, the Belles improved their second-day score by 17 strokes, but it still wasn’t enough to keep up with the steep competition. 
At the end of the weekend, William Woods won its sec­ond consecutive title with a two-day score of 623, and DePauw finished close be­hind, losing eight strokes. Starring for DePauw was the tournament’s individ­ual champion, junior Paige Gooch, who turned in a two-day score of 153. On Sunday, Gooch turned in a three-over-par. 
For the Belles, sophomore Janice Heffernan produced the Belles’ best performance after shooting a score of 164 over the weekend. With an 81 on Sunday, Heffernan finished in 24th place indi­vidually in a field of 112. 
On Sunday, fresh­man Claire Boyle outdid Heffernan with a score of 80, a nine-stroke improve­ment from her Saturday school. Combined with her Saturday score, Boyle en­joyed a 169, which was good for 41st individually. 
Also coming in 41st was junior Paige Pollack, who built on her outstanding performance at the George Fox Phoenix Invitational by scoring an 87 and an 82 on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. Pollack main­tained her team-best aver­age round score of 82.25, or roughly 10-over par. 
Junior Alexi Brown had the Belle’s highest score this weekend after shooting 175. 
Absent this weekend was Saint Mary’s captain, senior Jessica Kinnick. After a 181 on her first outing of the season, Kinnick has strug­gled to hit her stride in her final season for the Belles. 
Up next, Saint Mary’s will head to Saugatuck, Mich. for next Saturday’s Dutch Spring Invitational at the Ravine Golf Club. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu. 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

ND WOMEN’S SOFTBALL | ND 4, vILLANOvA 1; 0-1; 9-3 
Irish lose first conference game 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish won their series against villanova this week­end, but suffered their first conference loss of this sea­son Saturday. 
After junior Laura Winter, senior Brittany O’Donnell freshman Allie Rhodes com­bined pitching efforts for a 4-1 win in the weekend opener, Winter took the cir­cle once again in the second game but found herself on the wrong end of a pitcher’s duel as Notre Dame (26-9, 7-1 Big East) fell to the Wildcats (13-19, 1-8 Big East) by a score of 1-0. 
“The biggest takeaway from this weekend is that we need to continue to get better each and every day,” senior catcher and captain Amy Buntin said. “Every game we need to take one inning, one out, and one pitch at a time. Just showing up at this point in the season won’t be good enough to take us where we want to go.” 
Winter took the circle once again on Sunday aided by run production by sophomore catcher Cassidy Whidden, who broke a scoreless tie in the bottom of the second in­ning with a home run to put the Irish up 1-0. Whidden scored three runs on the day en route to a 9-3 Notre Dame victory. 
“On Sunday we did a great job of fighting, and we played with a spark,” Buntin said. “Whidden’s home run to­day gave us the momentum we needed for the rest of the game. She did a great job coming in and leading us that inning.” 

Buntin said the team was disappointed to drop the second game Saturday and attributed the loss to poor of­fensive production. 
“villanova kept us off bal­ance at the plate and forced us into easy outs,” she said. “Simply put, our offense did not produce or execute when needed.” 
In spite of losing a confer­ence game for the first time this season, the squad re­mains undeterred as they move forward. Buntin said the team takes every game 
— win or loss — as a learn­ing experience and expects to improve each time. 
“Going into each week­end, we expect that if we play Notre Dame softball we should dominate any Big East opponent we face,” Buntin said. “Unfortunately we let one slip this weekend to villanova, not a strong team, but we learned from the loss and won’t let another slip.” 
The Irish will travel to Evanston, Ill. next Tuesday to take on Northwestern at 4 
p.m. Tuesday. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF | SMU DALLAS ATHLETIC CLUB INvITATIONAL 
Golfers end regular season 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
In their final regular-season tournament, the Irish placed eighth at the three-day SMU Dallas Athletic Club Invitational. 
The No. 23 Irish finished with a team total of 935 (319-309-307), 71 strokes over par. The Irish improved with each round, and their final round of 307 — which tied them with No. 35 Denver . was the fourth-best in the field. 
“We got better each day we played,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “I was pleased that the third day was our best round.” 
The weather and course con­ditions had significant effects on the Irish throughout the entire tournament, Holt said. 
“The weather conditions were very tough, and it was windy the whole tournament,” Holt said. “The course conditions and pin placements were difficult as well.” 

On top of inclement weather and harsh course conditions, freshman Lindsey Weaver was unable to play in the tournament due to illness. The Irish had to play with only four players. The pressure was on, Holt said. 
“There is pressure playing with only four players because every score counts and the girls have to fight through it,” Holt said. 
After the first day of play, the Irish found themselves in 11th place, just one stroke behind tenth place Louisville. No. 74 Ashley Armstrong, a sophomore, led the way for the Irish with a 6-over-par score of 78, which placed her 31st overall. 
The Irish finished the sec­ond round of the tournament in eighth place. They passed Big East rival Louisville by eight strokes on Saturday. Armstrong played another solid round with a 1-over-par score of 73 to climb into ninth place. Freshman Talia Campbell concluded the day with a 4-over-effort of 76 and moved up from 41st place to 28th place overall. 
On the last day of play, the Irish finished strong with a score of 307, but it was No. 19 Oklahoma State that took home the gold. Campbell tied for 10th place over­all, he fourth top-10 finish of this season. She had four birdies and 10 pars during the final round to gain her fifth even or better score of the season. 
Armstrong achieved her fourth consecutive top-25 finish and eleventh of her career with a 14-over-par score of 230 (78-73­
79) to tie for 16th place. 
“Ashley and Talia finishing so well in this tournament was cer­tainly a highlight,” Holt said. 
After completing this last regu­lar-season tournament, the Irish now turn their focus to the Big East tournament. 
“It was tough getting through the weather conditions and only having four players, but with all things considered, we got through it and are now looking forward to the Big East tourna­ment,” Holt said. 
With a couple weeks to get ready, the Irish are in preparation mode, Holt said. 
“We need to get Lindsey healthy, and preparations will de­pend on the weather,” Holt said. “We will prepare either way.” 
The Irish commence their postseason at the Big East cham­pionship in Orlando, Fla., at the Reunion Resort and Golf Club. The tournament will begin April 21 and conclude April 23. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

TRACK & FIELD | MICHIGAN STATE INvITATIONAL 
Notre Dame delivers at Michigan State 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
Sports Writer 
Another weekend, another great performance for the Irish as the team traveled to East Lansing for the Michigan State Invitational. 
Coming off a strong showing at the Stanford Invitational and the Oliver Nikilof Open last weekend, the Irish had high expectations for this meet. 
The Irish had 36 athletes fin­ish in the top 10 in their respec­tive events, with half of those placing in the top five. Among the standouts for the men were sophomore and junior middle dis­tance runners Kevin Byrne and Eddy Gibbons and senior thrower Anthony Thomas, who each cap­tured two top-10 finishes. 
In the men’s 800-meter race, Gibbons, Byrne and sophomore Steve Blazer managed to finish seventh, eighth and ninth, re­spectively, in a field of 56. Gibbons and Byrne joined junior Jack Favorite and freshman Spencer Rheinhardt in the 4x400-meter re­lay. The fifth-place, 3:25 finish was the best of Rheinhardt’s young career. 
In addition to great track perfor­mances, the Irish men turned in a strong showing on the field. With fourth- and 10th-place finishes in the hammer throw and discus, Thomas led the group of veter­ans, but senior Ted Glasnow and junior Jordan Stumph were not to be outdone. They turned  in top-10 performances of their own in the long jump and hammer throw, respectively. 
“All the jumps were inside and I debuted a longer approach, so ended up matching my PR in long jump,” Glasnow said. 
On the women’s side, the Irish celebrated five second-place finishes, led by senior sprinter Nevada Sorensen. Sorensen’s time of 13.72 seconds in the 100-meter hurdles was the second-best time in the Big East this year. The senior star also finished eighth in the 100-meter race. 
In the hurdles, Sorensen was joined by junior Meghan Moore, who came in sixth, and sopho­more Carly Loeffel, who finished 10th. 
The women fared well in the 800-meter race just as the men did, with fifth, sixth and seventh-place finishes by sophomores Emily Frydrych and Kaileen Healy and senior Angela Ryck. 
“Its too bad [all of the] events were not outside, since the main reason for competing at MSU was to get some practice in the ele­ments before the Decathlons lat­ter in the season,” Glasnow said. 
Next weekend the Irish will head to Louisville, Kentucky for the Louisville Border Battle. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 




MEN’S TENNIS | ND 6, SMU 1; ND 6, SOUTH FLORIDA 1; ND 7, BUTLER 0 
Irish sweep weekend 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend the Irish completed a three-game sweep in their last series of the season in the familiar confines of the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
No. 31 Notre Dame (15-7) took down SMU 6-1, South Florida 6-1 and Butler 7-0 to push their winning streak to five, the longest of the sea­son so far. 
“I’d say our biggest strength was maintain­ing our focus and inten­sity throughout all three matches,” sophomore Mike Fredericka said. “It was a lot of tennis for two days.” 
Seniors Blas Moros, Michael Moore and Spencer Talmadge were honored for their achievements over the last four years, and each contributed to the three wins this weekend. 


The Irish won the doubles point in all three matches, providing a strong start in an area where they have struggled throughout the season. Of the nine doubles matches played over the weekend, the squad only lost one. 
“We mixed up our doubles lineup a little this week and I think it will take a little time for some of the teams to mesh,” Fredericka said. “We used this weekend as a chance to build some mo­mentum heading into the Big East tournament.” 
On Friday night, Moros took the first win in singles play against SMU, beating senior Gaston Cuadranti 6-1, 6-3. At the No. 2 spot, fresh­man Quentin Monaghan posted an impressive 6-0, 6-2 victory over redshirt ju­nior Pablo Perez-Esnaola. Junior Ryan Bandy pushed the lead to 4-0 to seal the win by taking down redshirt freshman Nate Lammons 6-3, 6-3 at No. 6. 
On Saturday afternoon No. 109 junior Greg Andrews led the way in singles play against USF, taking down sophomore Oliver Pramming 6-4, 6-2 . Junior 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
Billy Pecor stretched the lead to 3-0 when he defeat­ed junior Federico Sabogal 6-2, 6-4. Moore closed out the win, beating senior J. C. Acuna Gerard 7-6, 6-3. 
With the victory se­cured, play continued as Monaghan and Moros each captured another win. The win pushed Moros’ singles play to 12-5. 
Notre Dame carried the momentum from the two wins into Saturday after­noon, smoothly taking down Butler 7-0. Andrews took the 2-0 lead for the second time, defeating sophomore Pulock Bhattacharya 6-2, 6-0. Moore added another win to singles play, taking down sophomore Ruben Geeraert 6-1, 6-3. Pecor clinched the team victory, beating soph­omore Tommy Marx 6-3, 6-2. 
Fredericka, Monaghan and freshman Alex Lawson also contributed wins in singles play to stretch the lead to 7-0. 
The Irish next face No. 50 Louisville in Louisville, Ken. at 2 p.m. Saturday for their last dual meet before the Big East championships. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | ND 4, MEMPHIS 3 
Notre Dame topples Memphis 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
It wasn’t the finish anyone wanted. 
No. 36 Memphis (16-4) and No. 21 Notre Dame (12-8) were tied at three points apiece Sunday afternoon, with the deciding point resting on the outcome of the No. 5 court match between Irish sophomore Molly O’Koniewski and Memphis sophomore Alyssa Hibberd. Both had won a set in the tiebreak, and Hibberd narrowly led the third set, five games to four. As O’Koniewski went to return a volley in Hibberd’s match point, the Notre Dame soph­omore turned her ankle slightly. 
Hibberd won the point to claim an individual victory 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, but it was clear t he Tigers would’ve preferred that their 4-3 victory had ended differently. 
“It was too bad because she was in the point, I think,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
O’Koniewski’s loss put an end to a furious Irish comeback attempt af­ter the Tigers claimed the first three match points of the contest. 
Senior Chrissie McGaffigan and her doubles partner, ju­nior Jennifer Kellner, beat se­niors Courtney Collins and Kelly Gray, 8-3, but Notre Dame juniors Julie Sabacinski and Britney Sanders fell to sopho­more Alyssa Hibberd and grad­uate student Tiffany Welcher, 8-5. Meanwhile, Memphis ju­nior Stefanie Mikesz and fresh­man Caroline Wegner outlasted Irish freshmen Quinn Gleason and Julie vrabel, 9-7. 
“They’re not ranked in the top-25 but they are top-25,” Louderback said. “We knew it was probably go­ing to be important to win the dou­bles. We didn’t do it. We did a good job fighting back, because we’ve had to do that a lot all year, but we need to get where we’re not playing from behind all the time.” 
The first singles matches to finish didn’t help Notre Dame’s chances. Wegner beat sophomore Katherine White, 6-1, 6-4, and Welcher took down Gleason in two sets, winning 6-3, 6-1. 
But the tides began to change when McGaffigan, who was hon­ored in a senior day ceremony be­fore the match, won the first match point of the day for the Irish by beat­ing freshman Skylar Kuykendal 7-6 (7-2), 6-3. 
“She played so well in singles and doubles, and a lot of times se­nior day is hard to play, but that’s how Chrissie’s played all year,” Louderback said. “She’s done a great job and played well consis­tently all year.” 
Kellner and No. 48 Sanders kept Notre Dame’s hopes alive with wins on the No. 3 and No. 1 courts, setting up the winner-take-all match-up between Hibberd and O’Koniewski. 
In many ways, the end of the match belied the atmosphere of the competition. The “Racketeers,” a rambunctious student section dressed in a variety of costumes, provided entertainment for fans and athletes alike as they encour­aged the Irish to “Protect the Eck.” 
“They are the most enthusias­tic fans that we have,” McGaffigan said. “They’re just awesome, and I think some of our opponents that come in are a little confused as to what is going in, because no other tennis team has them.” 
But for McGaffigan, the best part of the match was the opportunity to reflect on four years as a member of the tennis team. 
“It’s was just so amazing, see­ing how well my teammates knew me,” McGaffigan said. “Everything was pink, and they had my favorite quotes out and it just meant a lot to me, how much they put into it. And even though we lost today, I love this team so much and there’s no team I’d rather play for.” 
McGaffigan’s not done just yet. 
The Irish have just one weekend of regular season play remaining before the Big East tournament. They are set to face Central Florida in Orlando at 2 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 4, MExICO U-20 3 
Irish triumph over Mexico U-20 squad 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Under Irish coach Randy Waldrum, Notre Dame has al­ways played a challenging na­tional schedule of top college teams. But the Irish went a step further Friday night, defeating the Mexico under-20 national team 4-3 at Alumni Stadium. 
Notre Dame freshman de­fender Cari Roccaro scored the game-winning goal for the Irish three minutes into stoppage time at the end of the second half, breaking free on the right side and driving home a shot past the outstretched arms of Mexico goalkeeper Alejandra Gutierrez. 
Roccaro’s game-winner came just minutes after she assisted on a game-tying goal. In the 85th minute, she attempted a hard shot from just outside the box that deflected off Gutierrez, and freshman forward Crystal Thomas knocked in the rebound for the equalizing goal. 
“To get two goals to come back in the last 10 minutes against a national team of Mexico’s cali­ber is great,” Waldrum said. “It should be a big confidence boost for us because we struggled of­fensively late last fall.” 
The Irish provided the first offensive spark Friday night, as sophomore forward Karin Simonian drilled in a shot from 25 yards out in the 18th minute, tying her goal total from last sea­son. Waldrum said Simonian, who led the team with four shots Friday, should factor more prom­inently in Notre Dame’s offense in the fall. 
“If [Simonian] can continue to play like she’s played the last two games, then clearly she’ll fit into the equation,” Waldrum said. “We’ve tried to find what her best position is in the last year or so, but, in these last two games, she’s done a good job playing the float­er position up front.” 
Mexico tied the game up in the 30th minute when forward Tanya Samarzich blasted a shot past Irish freshman goalkeeper 
ROWING 

Rowers edge Ohio State, Michigan 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished with two victories in their return to the water, defeating No. 8 Michigan at the Ohio State Rowing Invitational on the Griggs Reservoir on Saturday. 
“The team had a success­ful regatta with the varsity boats racing strong against Michigan in the morning, fol­lowed by solid times against Ohio State in the afternoon,” freshman Carson Canonie said. 
No. 13 Notre Dame’s first varsity eight captured an ex­citing victory over Michigan in the opening race, edg­ing the Wolverines’ time of 
6:54.03 by 0.13 of a second. The Irish second varsity eight launch secured another win over Michigan with a win­ning time of 7:07.97, more than 10 seconds faster than Michigan’s 7:18.05. 
The Irish weren’t as suc­cessful in their other morning races, finishing runner-up in the first varsity four (8:15.61), second varsity four (8:34.90), first novice eight (7:42.42) and second novice eight (7:57.70). 
Though the Irish opened the day with two solid vic­tories, they found them­selves coming up just short during the afternoon races. The Irish launches claimed five second-place finishes against both Michigan and Ohio State. Despite not win­ning the races, the Irish post­ed competitive race times against the No. 4 Ohio State. 
Canonie said the oppor­tunity to race against both Michigan and Ohio State was beneficial for the Irish, espe­cially the novice boats. 
Canonie said the team saw great improvement from the last regatta. 
“Since the last regatta, we improved on maintaining fortitude throughout the race and integrating a successful race sprint for the last part of the race,” Canonie said. 
As the spring season quick­ly approaches its end, the Irish aim to secure an NCAA bid with successful perfor­mances in their upcoming competitions. The team has aspects of its racing that it will continue to work on as the end of the season ap­proaches, Canonie said. 
“Looking forward, we are going to continue working on our fitness and power in order to achieve stronger connection in the water and a higher ration of power per stroke,” Canonie said. 
The Irish now turn their focus to the Lake Natoma Invitational, which will be held on April 20-21 in Sacramento, Calif. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
Naomi Willett. 
Notre Dame regained the lead in the 54th minute when fresh­man defender Katie Naughton headed in a shot off Thomas’ cor­ner kick. 
Mexico took back the lead after Samarzich scored twice to com­plete the hat trick. Samarzich, who has committed to USC, broke away for the tying goal in the 57th minute and then struck a shot into the lower right cor­ner of the goal in the 77th to give Mexico the lead. 
“[Mexico] finds a way to pun­ish you for every little mistake you make,” Waldrum said. “[Samarzich] scored three great goals on us, she could find those little gaps to get into and you don’t find many college teams that are that smart tactically in the way they play.” 
With freshman goalkeeper Elyse Hight out with a shoulder injury and sophomore goalkeep­er Sarah voigt nursing a groin injury, Willett, who only saw ac­tion in two games last season, got the start in goal, her second of the spring season. She played the full game in goal, making two saves. 

“[Willett] needed the spring because she needed to get games,” Waldrum said. “She’s done okay, certainly there’s some things she’s gotten exposed on a bit, but you really want the spring to give her a learning curve and help her be more prepared for the fall.” 

Notre Dame will close out its spring schedule with a friendly against the Haitian national team at Alumni Stadium on April 26. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL | SMC 9, ALBION 4; SMC 21, ALBION 4 
Belles take two, drop two 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s swept both games of a double-header against Albion 
— its first MIAA conference op­ponent of the year — on Saturday before losing both games against North Park on Sunday. 
The Belles defeated Albion 9-4 in the first game and 21-4 (five in­nings) in the second game. They lost their scoring touch the next day, however, losing 1-0 in the first and 6-3 in the second. 
“The conference seems a little stacked this year with a lot of dis­parity between the top and bottom teams, so these Albion games were must win games,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
Saint Mary’s started off strong in the first game with four runs and six hits in the bottom of the first. Senior Emily Sherwood, senior Morgan Bedan, freshman Jillian Busfield and junior Callie Selner all crossed home plate to make the score 4-0 going into the second inning. 
Saint Mary’s pushed its lead to 8-2 in the fourth. Selner hit a sin­gle to left center, bringing home both Watkins, who reached base from a single up the middle, and Sherwood, who got on base follow­ing a fielding error. 
Saint Mary’s solidified its 9-4 lead in the top of the sixth with a home run from Sherwood. 
The second game saw an offen­sive outburst from Saint Mary’s. They sent 43 batters to the plate and hit through the lineup in both the first and the fifth inning. The Belles tallied six runs in the first inning, three in the second, two in the third, and 10 in the fifth. Busfield, Bedan, Selner, Sherwood and sophomore victoria Connelly all scored for the Belles. 
Selner, who pitched in the first game, and freshman pitcher Sarah Burke both recorded wins in the circle. Selner only allowed two earned runs off three hits with eight strikeouts and two walks in seven innings of play. Burke, who pitched the shortened second game, only allowed three earned runs on five hits and two strikeouts in five innings of play. Despite their victories, Sullivan said the stron­gest point of both games was the hitting. 
“We really hit the ball hard and attacked the opposing pitchers rather than getting deep in counts and watching good pitches go by without swinging,” Sullivan said. 
Sullivan said Emily Sherwood was a standout player for the Belles. 
“She hit .600 on the week and (hit) her first collegiate home run with an incredible line drive over the left center fence,” Sullivan said. 
Sullivan also said Busfield and freshman Kayla Chapman, both graduates of Riley High School in South Bend, had great games. They collectively accounted for five home runs in one day. 
Sullivan said she is happy with the team’s overall performance, although there are always areas for improvement. 
“The team did a great job of capitalizing on errors, hitting the ball hard, and coming back offen­sively when we had some defensive miscues,” Sullivan said. “I think we need to do a better job of get­ting the third out in the inning on defense.” 
Saint Marys’ will take on Hope, another MIAA conference oppo­nent Wednesday at home at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 



BASEBALL | ND 4, vILLANOvA 3 (11); ND 11, vILLANOvA 8; vILLANOvA 10, ND 6 
Irish take two of three from Villanova 
villanova batters went 3-for-19. two-inning save with runners
By ISAAC LORTON 

Sports Writer In the 11th, freshman catcher on second and third. Slania Ricky Sanchez hit a walk-off struck out the first batter, but 
The Irish had a rough three single up the middle to give the Wildcats junior catcher John days but still managed to take Irish the 4-3 victory. Cialone smacked a double to two out of three in the weekend The middle of the lineup right-center to bring the run-series against villanova. The jumpstarted the scoring drive ners in and tie the game at 3-3. Irish went 4-3 on Friday night by Notre Dame in the bot-It was Slania’s first blown and 11-8 on Saturday before tom of the fourth. Junior third save of the season and only the losing 10-6 Sunday afternoon. baseman Eric Jagielo led off third blown save of his college 
“We were really fortunate with a double, then junior career. to take two out of three this first baseman Trey Mancini Notre Dame’s pitching was weekend,” Irish coach Mik hit a sacrifice fly to right field uncharacteristically wild over Aoki said. “I thought we played to move Jagielo over to third. the course of the weekend. as bad as a three game stretch Sophomore left fielder Ryan “It’s understandable to a cer­as we have played all year and Bull then grounded out to the tain extent with [sophomore we still managed to get two... right side to bring in Jagielo. pitcher Pat Connaughton] get-McCarty. Going into the game said. “We were, from the sec-so that’s good. Hopefully it is a The Irish got another run in ting his legs under him a bit,” Notre Dame led the Big East in ond inning on, put on our funky three game stretch and the bottom of the fifth when Aoki said. “But for the rest of fewest walks per game, but the heels. We never got back into. we get better.” Wildcats starting pitcher the staff was just inexcusable Irish gave up nine walks and When we opened the door 
In Friday’s game, No. 20 Pat young, a junior, plunked to do that, especially some one hit-by-pitch. Slania (3-1) for them, they kicked it wide Notre Dame (19-10) edged out Jagielo with the bases loaded. of the guys that it came from, eventually picked up the win open.” the Wildcats (9-21) in a contest villanova and the Irish both guys that shouldn’t be [giving and villanova junior reliever On Sunday, the Irish couldn’t where both teams struggled to tallied a run in the sixth to up walks]. We created a ton of Chris Haggarty received the keep up with the Wildcats. The score runners on base. Going make the score 3-1. offense for them.” loss after the Irish scored in Wildcats took advantage of into the 11th inning, the No. In the top of the eighth the Connaughton recorded his the bottom of the 11th inning. the numerous walks issued by 20 Irish were 2-for-15 with run-Irish ran into trouble. Junior third start of the year and was On Saturday the Irish and Notre Dame’s pitchers. Six of ners in scoring position, while closer Dan Slania came in for a relieved by freshman Nick Wildcats battled back and the 10 runs scored by villanova 
forth before Mancini hit a two-were players who were walked
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

out grand slam in the bottom or hit by a pitch. of the sixth to make the score This was villanova’s first win 9-6 and put the Irish ahead for at Notre Dame. Previously the good. Mancini had a career Wildcats were 0-18-1 when vis-high six RBIs in one game and iting Eck Stadium. was one RBI away from tying villanova broke the score-the school record of seven in less tie in the top of the one game. second inning when Irish 
Irish junior pitcher Adam sophomore starting pitch-Norton kept his perfect 7-0 er Matt Ternowchek load-season record intact largely ed the bases with no outs. because of Mancini’s grand Ternowchek walked in two, slam. Norton was on the verge and a bad hop and a sacrfice fly of earning a loss or no decision gave the Wildcats at a 4-0 lead in the middle of the sixth, as before freshman Zak Kutsulis villanova led 6-4. Norton al-was called on from the bullpen lowed six runs in six innings, to end the inning. Ternowchek three of them earned, as well was charged with the loss, as 10 hits, seven strikeouts and while Wildcats starter sopho­two walks. more Josh Harris threw 134 
The Irish got the lead early, pitches and earned a win. scoring one run in the bottom Bull, however, batted in five of the first and two in the bot-runs in Sunday’s game, a ca-tom of the second. In the fourth reer best. and fifth the Wildcats struck “It’s important that [Bull] back. villanova freshman first provides protection to [Jagielo baseman Max Beermann hit and Mancini],” Aoki said. “For a hanging curveball out of Bull to have the day he did, I the park with Norton on the thought that was good.” mound in the fourth and an in-Two of Bull’s RBI came in ning later the Wildcats scored the bottom of the third with a three more runs on an error two-out single while the bases and a few miscues to take the were loaded. Notre Dame cut 4-3 lead. Notre Dame tied the the Wildcats lead to one in the game at 4-4 on a sacrifice fly third, but villanova scored by Mancini in the bottom of again in the fifth to make the the inning, but the Wildcats game 5-3. In the top of the sev­again came back and tal-enth, the Wildcats scored five lied two more runs in the top runs off of Irish reliever Sean of the sixth. Mancini hit the Fitzgerald to make the game grand slam in the bottom of 10-3. All five of those runs the sixth, icing villanova. The came with two outs. teams weren’t done scoring The Irish picked up a run in runs: Notre Dame scored two the seventh on an RBI single more and the Wildcats earned from Bull and added two more three more before the end of on another Bull single in the the game, but the Irish held on bottom of the ninth, but it was for a 11-8 victory. not enough to catch up to the 
Aoki said the Irish pitching Wildcats. was not up to typical Notre The Irish next take on Dame standards on Sunday, Michigan on Tuesday at 5:35 which led to opportunities for p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. the Wildcats. 
“[The problems we had] all Contact Isaac Lorton at stem from the pitching,” Aoki ilorton@nd.edu 



Final Four 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
anything,” McGraw said of the Irish offense. “We weren’t run­ning our stuff. So we couldn’t even feel good about that. We couldn’t feel good about, ‘Oh, we got a great shot,’ we just didn’t make it.” 
Irish junior forward Natalie Achonwa said Notre Dame didn’t play well, but she also 
credited  the  Connecticut  
defense.  
“[Connecticut]  played  a  

great game and we did not play our best game,” she said. “It’s a tragic time to not play your best basketball. We couldn’t hit shots and we tried to attack a little more. They played some great defense tonight.” 
Notre Dame also struggled to stop the Huskies’ offense. 
Career 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
know anything but the Final Four — our class. We were very fortunate to be here again.” 
Freshman guard Jewell Loyd said Diggins’ career ended on a sad note but still provided a glimmer of hope. 
“I told her I love her [after the game]. you know I want­ed to win it for her, obvious­ly,” Loyd said. “Everything she’s done for me I kind of just want to give it back to her but she told me to get better and come back here next year.” 
According to Loyd, Diggins’ leadership will continue to affect the Irish, Connecticut (34-4) shot 46.8 percent from the field, includ­ing 42.9 percent from beyond the 3-point arc. 

“We just didn’t play good de­fense,” Diggins said. “And they got out in transition and they scored in half court offense too. We didn’t lock down on defense like we normally do. We just weren’t playing like ourselves.” 
Despite shooting 9-for-38 in the first half, Notre Dame held a 26-25 lead with 3:22 left in the first half. But a 3-pointer from Huskies junior guard Bria Hartley sparked a 14-3 Connecticut run to end the half as Notre Dame entered the locker room trailing 39-29. 
“I just don’t think we ever got into that rhythm where we could get comfortable, and so I think we were just a little on edge the whole time,” McGraw 
especially Loyd herself. 
“I use this as motivation for next year,” Loyd said “I know one thing, I’m not go­ing to lose her as a [sister]. She already told me that she would keep in contact with me and everything. A friendship like that doesn’t go away.” 
Auriemma also praised Diggins’ legacy, telling her after the game her inability to win a national champi­onship does not diminish her iconic status. 
“[Auriemma] just said don’t let this game define my legacy,” Diggins said. “He told me that he feels like I’ve done more for the sport than some people who won four national said of the first half. “And then all of a sudden we’re down 10. And we just got in a giant hole at halftime, and that really I thought was the difference in the game.” 
The Huskies never trailed in the second half but did see their lead cut to 61-55 after a jumper from Irish junior for­ward Ariel Braker with 6:26 left in the game. Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma imme­diately called a timeout and the Huskies pushed their lead back to 13 with 4:08 left. 
With the loss, Notre Dame’s season comes to a close. Connecticut will play for the national championship in a matchup with fellow Big East member Louisville on Tuesday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


championships. And he just told me that I’ve done a lot for the game of basketball and I had a great career.” 
Though it didn’t end per­fectly, Diggins’ night did end in a fitting way, with the South Bend native thanking her hometown as she left the podium at New Orleans Arena. 
“I just want to say thank you to all the fans and the city of South Bend for the support. Thank you, thank you,” she said. 
But if friends and com­petitors alike are any in­dication, it’s Diggins who should be thanked. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

MEN’S LACROSSE | ND 13, PROvIDENCE 8 
Rogers leads road rally 
By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
Down two goals early on the road against Providence, the Irish rallied behind senior attack Sean Rogers and scored four answered goals to take a lead en route to a 13-8 victory over the Friars. 
“Sean had an excellent game,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “They were forcing us to beat them individually, and he did a great job of picking his spots and getting to the cage when he could. He also did well moving without the ball to set himself up.” 
Rogers tallied four goals and one assist, tying a career high in points, to lead the No. 4 Irish (8-2) in scoring. However, the Friars (7­
5) kept the game close throughout the first half, trailing just 5-4 after the first two quarters. Corrigan credited the close game to Providence’s methodical offense and stingy defense. 
“In the first half, we struggled,” Corrigan said. “We missed on some opportunities and they re­ally milked their possessions and held us down.” 

Early in the third quarter the Friars tied the game twice, but each time Notre Dame countered with a goal to preserve their lead. The Irish finally gained some sep­aration late in the third and early in the fourth, taking advantage of two separate man-up opportuni­ties to build a 10-6 lead. 
“In the second half, we man­aged to get ahead,” Corrigan said. “That forced them to come at us and try to score instead of holding onto the ball.” 
Senior goalie John Kemp ended the day with nine saves, while the Irish defense was able to limit Providence’s main offen­sive weapon, junior attack Sean Wright, to just two goals and three points, both below his season av­erages of 2.7 and 3.5). However, Corrigan felt that his defense did not play up to their potential. 
“Eight goals is more than we would like to give up,” Corrigan said. “We need to do a much bet­ter job of clearing the ball, because that gave them second chances and allowed them to have very long possessions.” 
The Irish cleared the ball 13 times on 17 chances, but also held Providence scoreless on three man-up opportunities. 
On offense, the Irish put heavy pressure on the Friar de­fense and freshman goalie Jack Connelly, unleashing 46 shots to Providence’s 29. Sophomore at­tack Conor Doyle and junior mid­fielder Jim Marlatt each had four points. As a team, the Irish also had ten more groundballs than the Friars (37-27) and won 20 of 24 face-offs, despite missing junior face-off specialist Liam O’Connor due to injury. 
“All the credit goes to [sopho­more midfielder] Nick Ossello and [freshman midfielder] Trevor Brosco,” Corrigan said. “They did a terrific job of stepping up and filling in for Liam and providing us with lots of chances.” 
Looking ahead, the Irish return home to play Georgetown on April 14 at Arlotta Stadium. The Hoyas (5-6), recently upset No. 14/10 St. John’s, who gave Notre Dame its first Big East loss earlier this year. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
Diggins 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 

But the fact that Skylar came home “empty-handed” in her three straight Final Four trips should do nothing to diminish her legacy. 
The objective statistics speak for themselves. She’s a four-time All-American. She’s Notre Dame’s all-time lead­ing scorer. She’s won Big East Player of the year in back-to­back seasons. She and team­mate Kaila Turner have won more games than any other class in program history. The laundry list of accolades and records goes on and on. 
But beyond that, her intan­gible impact on Notre Dame, on South Bend and on the game should be what peo­ple remember about Skylar Diggins. 
She wins with class. She los­es with grace. She’s done ev­erything with integrity, heart and undying effort. 
After the game, Diggins ex­pressed her gratitude to the fans and city of South Bend for their support. But there is a tremendous amount of grati­tude for what’s done as well. 
For everything she’s done, no one could possibly have asked more of Skylar Diggins. 
She may have not won the ultimate prize, but she will forever have a winning legacy at Notre Dame in more ways than one. The fact that the Irish never cut down a net and brought home a national title during Diggins’ time is sad. 
But to remember her for any­thing other than the tremen­dous, positive impact she has had would be a real tragedy. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 



CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 



LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNy RAGO &                                      PATRICK CROSS 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Russell Crowe, 49; Jackie Chan, 59; Francis Cop­pola, 74; James Garner, 85 
Happy Birthday: you will rise to the occasion and come through with solutions. your insightful vision will put you one step ahead. your speed and agility will come in handy when you face deadlines, and your ability to share your feelings will give you the approachability required to gain whatever support you require. your numbers are 2, 14, 21, 25, 32, 44, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The people you encounter will try to mirror you. Make sure you fully understand what you are dealing with before you make decisions that will affect your personal life and future. Ulterior motives are present and caution must be implemented.. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Use your built-in radar to figure out what’s going on. If someone pushes you, use words and not physical action to win. your intelligence and common sense coupled with your determination and discipline is what will count in the end. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20):Someone will try to undermine you if you aren’t careful. Be precise and you’ll avoid being questioned. Keep your personal life secretive and only reveal what’s necessary in order to reach your goals. Protect your money and your assets. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Use your experience, excellent memory and intuition to help size up what’s going on around you. Someone will try to take advantage of you if you aren’t careful. Prepare to follow through with your plans regardless of what others do. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Embrace change and any chance you get to try something new or to engage in challenges that will open doors to new friendships. Love is on the rise and making special plans that are conducive to romance will bring excellent results. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put more into your relationships. Spending time discussing plans that will satisfy you and the ones you love will bring you closer together. Good fortune will be yours if you make a couple of alterations to the way you handle your investments.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don’t let professional worries come between you and family or social fun. Taking a much-needed break will help you reconfigure the past and present in order to come up with a workable solution. Put love at the top of your list. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ve got a handle on what needs to be done. Use your originality to impress someone you care about. A plan to fix up your surroundings or make your life more entertaining  will improve your relationship with someone special. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Trouble may be brewing in your personal life if you haven’t discussed underlying issues that have the potential to damage a good relation­ship. Find a way to entertain the person you love and patch up any misunderstand­ings you have.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t let past mistakes bring you down. Address whatever issues you’ve left undone and you will gain the freedom you need to move forward. A new look at an old idea or friend will help you consider what’s best for you. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look at your past and you will recognize the changes required to resurrect a goal you have yet to complete. Added finesse and discipline will help you attract new friends and opportunities. Experimental encounters will motivate you. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Push for what you want. Don’t let a big talker overshadow your plans. Pursue your own interests and refuse to get caught up in someone else’s dilemmas. Sincerity, hope and fair play will take you where you want to go.  


Birthday Baby: you are motivated, original and sentimental. you see and you follow through. 
JUMBLE | DAvID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 



Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  

 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information   Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an  Name  
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  Address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
City  State  Zip  


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, APRIL 8, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame falls to Connecticut in Final Four 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
NEW ORLEANS — Before their game Sunday, the Irish had faced Connecticut three times this season. But they had not faced this version of the Huskies, the one led by a fresh­man phenom. 
Connecticut rookie forward Breanna Stewart proved too much for the Irish (35-2) to han­dle and finished with 29 points, five rebounds and four blocks to lead the Huskies to an 83-65 victory over Notre Dame in the Final Four on Sunday in New Orleans. 
Stewart was named the Most Outstanding Player of the Bridgeport Regional and entered the Final Four play­ing her best basketball. Going into Sunday’s game, the fresh­man was averaging 13.1 points per game, but she had steadily upped her scoring since the start of the Big East tournament. Stewart further outpaced her regular season output Sunday as she helped end Notre Dame’s season. 
“It is really impressive to have a freshman have that kind of game, to be Most Outstanding Player in the regional and then to come into the Final Four and just play with such confi­dence to be the best player on the floor — well, on the team for Connecticut,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “you don’t expect a freshman to rise to the occasion like that. So I thought a phenomenal performance by her.” 
Notre Dame and Connecticut also met in each of the last two Final Fours, with the Irish downing the Huskies on both previous occasions to advance to the national championship. This season Notre Dame beat Connecticut twice in the regular season and once in the Big East tournament before Sunday’s na­tional semifinal. 
Junior guard Kayla McBride led the Irish with 16 points and added six rebounds. Senior guard Skylar Diggins finished with 10 points, eight assists and six turnovers in her final game in an Irish uniform. McBride and Diggins finished a com­bined 8-for-35 from the field. As a team, the Irish converted 29.7 percent of their field goals. 
“I didn’t feel good about it because we weren’t executing 
see FINAL FOUR PAGE 18 

Huskies bite back 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish junior forward Kayla McBride heads to the bench during Notre Dame’s 83-65 loss in the Final Four to Connecticut at the New Orleans Arena on Sunday. 
Diggins ends legendary collegiate career 
Diggins is the best Notre that if you check Skylar’s
By CORY BERNARD 

Sports Writer Dame player ever. She shooting percentage and finished her Irish career all that stuff against us, NEW ORLEANS — “Best Sunday with 2,357 points, it’s not that great, includ­player ever.” the program’s new all-time ing tonight,” he said. “But 
Those were the words record. In the process, what makes her who she is, Irish coach Muffet McGraw Diggins did more than im-is that invariably whenev­used to describe senior press her own coach. er there’s a time where she guard Skylar Diggins af-“I would say there has to get a three, she gets ter Notre Dame’s loss to hasn’t been an opponent one. Whenever she needs Connecticut on Sunday. that we played against to get in the lane and get The same player McGraw that’s had more success an assist, she gets one.” was describing had just fin-against us than she’s had,” Since Diggins first suited ished a game in which she Connecticut coach Geno up at Notre Dame in 2009, shot 20 percent from the Auriemma said. the Irish have lost a total field, turned the ball over Although Diggins’ poor of 20 games. She and fel­six times and for the third shooting night fell well be-low senior Kaila Turner straight year fell short of a low her career standards, are the only players on the national championship. she has struggled offen-Notre Dame roster to know 
“I think she’s a champi-sively against Connecticut the feeling of losing before on. I do,” McGraw said of this season. In four games reaching the Final Four. Diggins. “I know we didn’t against the Huskies, she “We definitely owe a win it, but what she has shot 30 percent from the lot to Skylar for what she done for us has been amaz-field and turned the ball brought to us the last three ing and she’s leaves Notre over 26 times. According years,” junior forward Dame as the most celebrat-to Auriemma, however, Natalie Achonwa said. “It’s ed and decorated and best Diggins’ statistics alone do been a great run. We don’t player ever, and I’m happy not indicate her greatness. for that.” “Well, you know the 
In terms of scoring, ironic thing about it is see CAREER PAGE 18 
Loss marks the end of an era for Irish basketball 


Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 
Watching Skylar Diggins exit the game Sunday night know­ing it would be the final time she did so for Notre Dame was almost tragic. After four his­toric years in an Irish uniform, Diggins’ last chance to win the ultimate price had once again ended on a sour note. 
But the greatest trage­dy of Sunday night’s loss to Connecticut did not happen on the basketball court. Rather, the greatest potential tragedy lies within the hearts and minds of fans. Diggins should be remem­bered for what she’s done for Notre Dame, and for women’s basketball in general. 
As one of the most heavily re­cruited high school players in the class of 2009, Diggins had her pick of nation’s elite pro­grams. But she decided to stay at home and play for Notre Dame. Since then, she’s relaunched the program onto the national stage. She’s become the rally­ing point around which Notre Dame and South Bend congre­gate to cheer on the Irish. 
In women’s basketball, sell­outs of major college arenas are nearly unheard of. But in the last four years, they’ve become commonplace. At many col­leges, students are given extra credit in class or free t-shirts just for showing up to big games. At Notre Dame, because of the ex­citement surrounding Diggins and the Irish, students have to show up early just to get a seat. 
If we can use her 341,000 Twitter followers as an appro­priate measure, she’s the most popular college athlete in the country. She’s become a hero to thousands of young girls aspir­ing to reach the heights Diggins has by joining her “Headband Nation,” a tribute to Skylar’s trademark style. 
What’s Diggins has done for Notre Dame, for South Bend and for women’s basketball in general cannot be overstated. 
But there are those who will try to dampen her legacy by say­ing she never won it all. They’ll categorize her with other great and professional greats who could never win a champion­ship. And that would be a trag­edy. yes, in today’s world of sports, championships are the ultimate measure of greatness. 
see DIGGINS PAGE 18 






