ThE INdEPENdENT NEWSPAPER SERVINg NOTRE dAME ANd SAINT MARy’S 




Pope Francis issues apostolic exhortation 
“Evangelii Gaudium” emphasizes responsibilities to the poor, presents practical solutions 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Editor 
Pope Francis’s recent apos­tolic exhortation, “Evangelii gaudium,” highlighted many of the economic and social jus­tice issues of today’s world and prompted reactions from critics worldwide. 
William Purcell, associ­ate director for Catholic Social Tradition and Practice at the Center for Social Concerns, said the pope “is not being an idealist, but a realist with ideals.” 
Purcell said the apostolic ex­hortation’s contents are both prescriptive and intellectual, focusing largely on pastoral the­ology and how the Church can engage and shepherd people. 
“Francis addresses [“Evangelii gaudium”] to the whole people of god, so not just to the laity, but also to the bishops, clergy and religious,” Purcell said. “he’s talking to the leaders at all levels, including lay leaders … and he’s challenging us to find creative ways to share the key emphasis of god, which is love.” 
Many of the critiques of and negative reaction to the text are “short-sighted,” Purcell said, misunderstanding the context of the pope’s statements and its background in Catholic Social Tradition. One notable criticism came from talk-show host Rush Limbaugh, who said Francis’s ideas were “pure Marxism” in a Nov. 27 show about the docu­ment, titled “It’s Sad how Wrong Pope Francis Is.” 
Purcell said people should re­member that the pope is writing about theology, not ideology. 
“What he’s really talking about is joy — that’s what ‘gaudium’ means,” Purcell said. “he’s talk­ing about how we’re called to evangelize and that nobody likes a grim do-gooder. 
“What he’s saying is that we’ve got to be joyful about it, we’ve got to be embracing it. We should attract people by our actions, and so we should be joyful and life-giving.” 
The apostolic exhortation is 
see FRANCIS PAGE 4 

searchers have been studying a group of 27 enzymes called Matrix metalloproteinases (MPPs) for more than a decade. She said the team has found a promising use for one of these enzymes, Matrix metallopepti­dase nine (MPP-9), in treating essentially can be divided into two injuries, each with differ­ent effects. 
“you have the primary injury, the blow to the head,” Chang said. “There is absolutely noth­ing you can do for the brain cells that die in the primary in-

Photo courtesy of Nikki Charter 
Pope Francis greets the crowd in Saint Peter’s Square for his inagua­ration mass in March. Since, the pontiff has received much criticism. 



Prof. studies brain trauma 
treatment for traumatic brain much was known, so we start-
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 

News Writer injury (TBI). ed making inhibitors,” Chang Chang, director of the said. “It turns out MPP-9 plays 
Research professor Mayland Chemistry-Biochemistry-a critical role in the pathology Chang is taking to heart the Biology Interface (CBBI) of TBI.” maxim “a mind is a terrible Program, said she and other re-Chang said every case of TBI 



Alumna named Mitchell Scholar 
and Arabic, was one of 12 peo-

By EMILY McCONVILLE 

News Writer ple selected from a pool of 300 


TBI. jury. This is followed by a cas­thing to waste” in two ways, as “We thought that this group cade of events, starting with she uses her mind to the full-of enzymes would be impor­est by working to develop a tant for many diseases. Not see TBI PAGE 3 
On Nov. 25, The u.S.-Ireland Alliance announced a 2008 Notre dame alumnus is one of this year’s Mitchell Scholars and will receive a full scholarship to a one-year Master’s program in Ireland. 


Molly hayes, a Kenya desk of-applicants. ficer at the u.S. department of According to her biography on State who graduated from Notre dame with degrees in English see MITChELL PAGE 4 

Students showcase international research 

By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News Writer 
Eight students who did re­search in underdeveloped coun­tries, through various university programs, displayed their re­search projects in the geddes Coffee house on Tuesday. Students investigated various topics such as cultural identity, 
rehabilitation  of  marginalized  
populations,  education  and  
globalization.  
Professor  Vania  Smith- 

Oka, assistant professor of 
Anthropology, was responsible for mentoring the group of stu­dents and teaches the course cultural difference and social change, a three credit course designed for students who have completed study or research abroad that helps students un­derstand their experience in an academic context. 
“[The course] is an experience for them to make academic sense of what they’ve witnessed. This public presentation is a way for people to get interested in their experiences,” Smith-Oka said. 
The projects ranged from ex­amining the relationships be­tween language and cultural identity to health care imple­mentation to investigating the role of masculinity in sex traf­ficking, among other topics. The locations included guatemala, Tanzania, uganda, Mexico and Thailand, among other sites. 
Smith said students who en­gage in this type of research typically take the initiative  af­terward to undertake in-depth 
see ShOWCASE PAGE 3 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What are you looking forward to? 

Louann Lopez 
senior 
off campus 

“My 21st birthday at the end of finals.” 
Jae Lee 
sophomore 
Knott hall 
“Winter break.” 
Joyce Choe 
junior 
Ryan hall 
“Food back home in Korea.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Katie Gallagher 
freshman 
Pangborn hall 
“Christmas.” 
Jessica Creager 
sophomore 
Lewis hall 
“going home after finals.” 
Amber Watson 
freshman 
Ryan hall 
“New year’s Eve.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Christian Myers Brian hartnett Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Rebecca O’Neil greg hadley Abi hoverman henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Sara Shoemake Allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Wellness Insights from Talk: Pentecostalism in The Met Opera Live Basilica Sunday Mass 
Karla Moreno Tabitha Ricketts 
Wednesday: Yoga Foresight Prison in Rio de Janeiro 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Rockne Memorial Mendoza College O’Shaughnessy Hall DeBartolo Performing Heart 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 11:45 a.m.-1:15 p.m. Arts Center 10 a.m.-11 a.m. 
Corrections 

Free relaxing class in A showcase of student By USC’s Andrew Verdi’s Fallstaff in HD. Music by the Liturgical 
The Observer regards itself as room 205. projects. Johnson. Choir. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball Fall Concert: Mass in Memory of Christmas Concert: Concert: Burning 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Joyce Center Collegium Musicum Nelson Mandela Notre Dame Glee Club River Brass 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on North Arts Center Heart Arts Center Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Dakota State. 7 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 2:30, 6  & 8:30 p.m. 2 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Family friendly. Call for peace and justice. Tickets $3 for students. Jazz Christmas carols. 


University celebrates Advent with Las Posadas 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
News Writer 
Among the Advent tradi­tions celebrated on campus this season is Las Posadas, a procession that celebrates the journey of Mary and Joseph to the birthplace of Christ. 
Three residence halls are hosting the event this week, the final part of which will start at the grotto at 9 p.m. to­night and end at Farley hall. 
Las Posadas, which means “lodgings” in Spanish, is a Christmastime tradition that originated in Spain and is now celebrated annually in Mexico, the southwestern united States and Latino com­munities in Central and South 
TBI 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
to the blood-brain barrier, that result in the secondary injury. The secondary injury is linked to long term problems, includ­ing coma and death.” 
MPP-9 contributes to the secondary injury by cleav­ing tau proteins, so inhibiting MPP-9 can prevent the cascade of events leading to the second­ary injury, Chang said. 
Chang said she has personal 
“It’s very challenging for drugs to cross the barrier and reach therapeutic concentration.” 
Mayland Chang 
research professor 
reasons for seeking an effec­tive TBI treatment. her mother passed away as a result of a se­vere TBI in 1997 at the age of 70, having slipped and hit her head on her patio. Chang said she is also motivated by the threat of TBI her son faced as a competi­tive snowboarder. 
Chang said no therapeutics for TBI currently exist because of the nature of the condition and reluctance on the part of pharmaceutical companies. 
“There are no existing America. 
Elaine deBassige, rector of Farley hall, said she grew up with the tradition of Las Posadas in New Mexico and wanted to ensure that the tra­dition became a part of Notre dame’s Advent season. 
“Notre dame has held Las Posadas celebrations in years past, but usually it was just one night out of the year, and I don’t think it has been this or­ganized,” deBassige said. 
In traditional Las Posadas observances, two individu­als dressed as the holy couple lead a candle-lit procession to the home of a local fam­ily, who hosts a meal and prayer. A priest will normally bless the home and lead the 

therapeutics for TBI because of the difficulty of getting com­pounds through the brain-blood barrier and because TBI is an acute condition and ‘big pharma’ is more interested in chronic conditions. … Big pharma is not really working on diseases like this,” she said. 
Chang said her research group has been fortunate that the compounds they use ef­fectively cross the blood-brain barrier, something more than 98 percent of drugs are inca­pable of doing. 
“It’s very challenging for drugs to cross the barrier and reach therapeutic concentra­tion,” she said. “We are lucky with the compounds we have, which are able to cross the bar­rier on their own.” 
Chang said one of the big­gest challenges has been main­taining this quality while also making the compounds more water-soluble. Water solubility enables the compounds to be injected, which is important, given that many patients with TBI are unconscious or other­wise unable to swallow. 
The most recent version of the treatment compound is working in animal models, specifically, mice, in terms of both water solubility and pene­trating the blood-brain barrier, Chang said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
prayer service, which of­ten takes place on nine suc­cessive nights leading up to Christmas Eve Mass, with Mary and Joseph walking down the church aisle to meet the Christ child at the crèche. 
“The celebration is usually a novena,” deBassige said. “Nine families will host the event in community, but we decided it would be easier to have only three dorms host this week.” 
Keenan hall hosted the event Monday night, followed by howard hall on Tuesday night. Farley hall will host the final procession tonight. 
The Keenan hall proces­sion began with prayer at the grotto, followed by a procession featuring tradi­tional music in Spanish, sung by the student group Coro Primavera. 
Afterward, Ofelia Juarez, a Keenan hall housekeeper, and several of her family members prepared traditional Mexican tacos for the attendees. 
Keenan hall rector Noel Terranova said Juarez has of­fered her cooking expertise for such events in the past. 
“Ofelia is part of our family,” Terranova said. “She cooked for our Las Posadas celebra­tion last year. She brings her family, her sons and grandchildren.” 
As part of the procession, freshman halie Berrigan from Farley hall dressed up as Mary and freshman Luke Joseph from Siegfried hall dressed up as Joseph. The two said they agreed to don the costumes for Las Posadas at the request of deBassige. 
“We have a Monday night tradition where we have Mass and she feeds us, so she asked if we wanted to be Mary and Joseph,” Joseph said. 
Las Posadas was new for many students who took part in the event, including Berrigan. 
“I hadn’t heard of Las Posadas,” Berrigan said. “It’s a new tradition for me, and it’s cool to be a part of it.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 
SMC SENATE 

group reviews OrgSync 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s student senate met Tuesday night and discussed all the possibilities available on OrgSync, the website used to facilitate club registration at Saint Mary’s. 
The student involvement and multicultural services office (SIMS) conducted the presentation on OrgSync. 
Stephanie Bridges, direc­tor of SIMS, said the purpose of the SIMS office is to help and support Saint Mary’s students. 
“We provide support for 70 plus student organizations on campus, which is a huge, huge job,” Bridges said. 
The SIMS office is in charge of OrgSync, which was created at Saint Mary’s last year to give electronic support for student organizations. Bridges said SIMS wanted to make things as paperless as possible and make it easier to man­age all the different things for which the SIMS office is responsible. 
“It has been tremendous­ly helpful for our offices to navigate the processes that we have,” she said. 
Assistant director of SIMS, Bianca Tirado, explained what OrgSync is and how to operate it. 
“OrgSync is a way to help students connect with your organization. It’s also a way to create online communication so that it hits a broader audience,” she said. “The belle tower is the home page of OrgSync which is accessible to everyone in the SMC community. 
“It’s a great way for you to access your organization portals. If you’re a part of more than one club you can access those additional por­tals as well.” 
Not only is there an internal website, but there is also an external website of OrgSync, which allows students to control what the external world can see. Student or­ganizations can create their own external websites by creating a portal, and every new club can have a new portal on Belle tower. 
Students can also register events for their organization on OrgSync, Tirado said. In order to create an event, a student would need to fill out the event request form under the SIMS portal. This event registration spurs the merchandise request process as well. 
“It’s best you make sure you do have a table [for your merchandise] and do it in a timely fashion,” she said. “If you want to sell something next week, it’s better you get it in as soon as possible.” 
Tirado said, when selling merchandise, anything with a French cross symbol has to be approved by the SIMS office as well. The French cross is a religious symbol, so it cannot be obstructed by anything. 
SIMS assistant direc­tor graci Martsching said OrgSync is new but has already had a lot of success. She said SIMS hopes to raise awareness about the opportunities OrgSync and their office offer for students. 
“The most important thing to remember is we are your advocates, we are here for you guys,” Martsching said. “you can always come and knock on our doors.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 
Showcase 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
field work, write senior theses, present at National conferences or go on to do graduate work. 
“They’ve usually been life changing experiences, going from a more sheltered life at Notre dame to being able to wit­ness disparity and marginality” Smith said. 
Senior Rachael Krishnan re­searched the rehabilitation of sex workers in Kampala, uganda, and said that the experience enabled her to understand the dynamics between politics and resolve struggles faced by people in rural areas. 
“I’ve gained a shift in my world view from the experience. I real­ized that people who live in rural areas face struggles that are dif­ficult to overcome without larger changes in social structure” said hamel. 
The student projects were funded by the CSC, the glynn Family honors Program, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and other funding entities. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
vulnerable populations. 
“I’ve gained a lot of skills in qualitative research, but I feel as if what I’ve gained is being able to view the world in a more cultur­ally appropriate lens,” Krishnan said. 
Senior Katy gorentz, who re­searched disability and identity in Sierra Leone, said her research brought both a new medical and new cultural perspective to her studies. 
Junior Katie hamel, who re­searched language and identity in Amatlan, Mexico, said the ex­perience helped her visualize the extent of social change needed to 



Francis 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
the first thing Francis has written completely on his own during his papacy, and Purcell said it pres­
“His insight comes from talking about these things in a new style, in an uplifting way, so people see the power of what we’re called to do.” 
William Purcell 
associate director 
Center for Social Concerns 
ents his vision of what the Church is about, speaking from his posi­tion as the head of the institution. 
“I think it’s exciting because people have been taking notice,” Purcell said. “Some people react to it out of their ideology and not their theology, and people strug­gle with some of the things he’s talking about.” 
Purcell said throughout the document, Francis quotes bish­ops from across the world, as well as past popes and saints. Because of this, the content “isn’t new, but part of our tradition.” 
“his insight comes from talk­ing about these things in a new style, in an uplifting way, so people see the power of what we’re called to do,” Purcell said. “he becomes so welcoming, so charismatic, and he speaks to the common person. 
“It doesn’t become esoteric or dense, because he’s speaking to the person in the pew. People can read this and understand it … and I think they get excited by it.” 
The four main themes of the text are joy, poverty, peace and justice, Purcell said. Beyond the thematic theological elements, Francis “becomes prescriptive and deals with real, concrete ways of addressing problems,” he said. 
“The beauty of the exhortation is that he writes so well, and he writes so positively and so open­ly,” Purcell said. “This is a pope who is a Jesuit, so he’s a thinker. There are ideals of things like solidarity and the common good, but he’s being a realist about how we try to address those things. 
“he gives concrete examples; he names saints or people or par­ticular things so it doesn’t just be­come words like ‘solidarity,’ but you get the stories and symbols and scripture behind that makes it come alive.” 
To best utilize the document’s wisdom, Purcell said parishes need to find a way to break it into parts and find pastoral applica­tions for it. 
“It’s too much to swallow all at one time, because it’s so rich and there’s so much good within it,” he said. “But it’s fun to look at since [Pope Francis is] just so positive, and he speaks so di­rectly. he’s prophetic, but not obnoxious.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Mitchell 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
the Mitchell Scholars website, hayes has worked as desk of­ficer for multiple North African nations, and she was a deputy coordinator for the Egypt Task Force during the Arab Spring. 
during hayes’s time at Notre dame, the biography said, she founded Nd-Abroad, which worked to help students study­ing abroad and “developed a university Counseling Center support group for students who experienced trauma abroad.” 
hayes plans to study postco­lonial and world literature at National university of Ireland, Maynooth, according to the biography. 
dr. Jeffrey Thibert, assistant director of National Fellowships at the Center for undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CuSE), said the award, which is on par with the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships, will bring prestige to the university. 

“These are the kinds of things that raise the academic profile of an institution and really en­hance Notre dame’s reputation as a world-class research insti­tution, and really is providing a world-class undergraduate edu­cation,” Thibert said. “I think, especially in Molly’s case, it’s a testament to the kind of … edu­cation she received here that helped her to achieve such great things in the past four to five years since she left.” 
Thibert said the award also raises the profile of CuSE, 
through  which  hayes  did  
research  when  she  was  an  
undergraduate.  

“There are a lot of opportuni­ties here, in part through CuSE, but also through other groups on campus to receive fund­ing for undergraduate projects, undergraduate research of all different kinds,” he said. “I’ve been at a few other institutions, and I’m amazed at how much support there is for that here, so I would really encourage people to take advantage of that. 
“[doing research through CuSE] contributed, in a sense, to her winning this award, but it also contributed to her be­ing able to get into the kinds of positions she got into with the State department. And I think that made a really big difference in her application to have these kinds of experiences, which she might not have been able to have if she had not had the op­portunities she had here.” 
Thibert said while some scholarship applications re­quire university endorsements, the Mitchell Scholars Program does not. he said his office worked with her on other as­pects of the application. 
“We mostly worked on inter­viewing advice,” Thibert said. “We have sort of a database of information from past years because we’ve had people in­terviewing for these things and there’s also a fellowship adviser organization that collects infor­mation on these things. We were giving her some advice on what to expect from the semifinalist interview and then from the fi­nalist interview.” 
Thibert said he also hopes the fact that hayes won the schol­arship will raise awareness of the opportunities Notre dame alumni have, even after they graduate. 
“We’re trying to do more to reach out to these alumni to get the word out about some of these awards, because some­times people think when they graduate, that’s kind of it,” he said. “Even if they know they’re eligible for certain things, they don’t realize they can still work with us, but they can. As long as someone graduated from here, we are happy to work with him [or her].” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 



CENTRAl AFRICAN REPUBlIC 
Violence increases in CAR civil strife 
Associated Press 
BANguI — More than 500 people have been killed over the past week in sectarian fighting in Central African Republic, aid officials said Tuesday, as France reported that gunmen killed two of its soldiers who were part of the intervention to disarm thousands of rebels accused of attacking civilians. 
Aid workers have collected 461 bodies across Bangui, the capital, since Thursday, said Antoine Mbao Bogo of the local Red Cross. But that latest figure does not include the scores of Muslim victims whose bodies were brought to mosques for burial. 
The government of the pre­dominantly Christian country was overthrown in March by Muslim rebels from the coun­try’s north. While the rebels claimed no religious motive for seizing power, months of re­sentment and hostility erupted last week in a wave of violence. 
The French deaths came as French President Francois hollande arrived for a visit to France’s former colony, heading into the tumultuous capital after attending a memorial in South Africa for Nelson Mandela. 
“The mission is dangerous. We know it,” hollande told troops in a huge airport hangar after paying respects at the cof­fins of the two young soldiers. “But it is necessary in order to avoid carnage.” 
President Michel djotodia condemned the attack on the French forces and blamed for­mer leader Francois Bozize, whom he ousted from power in March, for creating the turmoil now being unleashed on the streets of Bangui. Some 100,000 people have been forced from their homes, aid officials say. 
The early French casualties underscore the volatility of the mission to disarm combatants and bring stability to a largely anarchic capital. A mob on Monday stoned to death a sus­pected enemy in the street, and armed fighters have abducted and killed hospital patients. 
Tensions flared again Tuesday as a mob of young men set fire to a mosque in the Fou neigh­borhood of Bangui. Smoke bil­lowed from smoldering vehicles nearby, and young men used pick axes and whatever tools they found to try to tear down the walls of the mosque. 
Elsewhere, citizens killed three suspected ex-rebels in the Miskine neighborhood of Bangui after the men appar­ently fired weapons at civilians, residents said. 
President djotodia said Tuesday that former leader 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

Bozize and his supporters had set the stage for the crisis months ago. 
“The current situation is the logical result of what former President Bozize set in mo­tion by freeing prisoners and bandits, distributing weap­ons of war and machetes in the neighborhoods of Bangui, and inciting tribalism and re­ligious hatred,” djotodia said. 
Bozize was overthrown af­ter a decade in power and his current whereabouts are un­known. The former president maintains it was the arrival of thousands of rebels who de­scended upon the capital with arms who created the chaos. 
The government of Central African Republic, a predomi­nantly Christian country, was overthrown in March by Muslim rebels from the coun­try’s north. While the rebels claimed no religious motive for seizing power, months of resentment and hostility erupted last week in a wave of violence that left more than 500 people dead. The local Red Cross said Tuesday its toll alone had grown from 394 to 461. 
France now has some 1,600 troops on the ground in Central African Republic, pa­trolling neighborhoods and trying to disarm militants from the Seleka rebel move­ment that forced the president into exile and installed their own leader Michel djotodia as head of state. 
The two French troops were part of a team inspecting a neighborhood just over a kilo­meter (less than a mile) east of Bangui’s airport at about mid­night Monday, in preparation for a disarmament operation, French military spokesman Col. gilles Jaron said in Paris. 

Five to 10 gunmen opened fire on the French patrol, which returned fire, he said. Two Frenchmen were wound­ed but died in the hospital. It was unclear whether anyone else died in the clash. 
Jaron described “sporadic fire” around Bangui and oc­casional clashes since the French disarmament efforts got under way Monday. France has described the program as a key part of its bid to stabilize Bangui, a city awash in weap­ons after years of rebellions and coups. 
And France’s defense minis­ter has warned militia groups to disarm peacefully — or French troops will do it by force. 
“The launching of the disar­mament operation of ex-Sele­ka in the city is an encouraging first stage in the effort to se­cure Bangui,” said Thibaud Lesueur of the International Crisis group. “From now on they should move to disarm the Seleka combatants who are in the neighborhoods and find the caches of weapons that are still numerous in the city.” 
Two deaths within days of the operation beginning marks a significant toll com­pared to France’s mission in Mali earlier this year. A total of seven French soldiers have been killed there since January as a French-led African force routed al-Qaida-linked ex­tremists controlling the north. 
French officials have warned of the dangers of the enhanced military mission alongside African union troops in Central African Republic, au­thorized under a muscular mandate approved last week by the united Nations Security Council. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
URUGUAY 
uruguay legalizes retail pot 
Associated Press 
MONTEVIdEO — uruguay’s Senate gave final congressional approval Tuesday to create the world’s first national marketplace for legal marijuana, an audacious experiment that will have the government oversee production, sales and consumption of a drug illegal almost everywhere else. 
The vote was 16 to 13, with the governing Broad Front major­ity united in favor. The plan now awaits the signature of President Jose Mujica, who wants the mar­ket to begin operating next year. 
Two-thirds of uruguayans op­pose a government-run marijua­na industry, according to opinion polls. But Mujica said he’s con­vinced the global drug war is a failure and feels bureaucrats can do a better job of containing ad­dictions and beating organized crime than police, soldiers and prison guards. 
“Today is an historic day. Many countries of Latin America, and many governments, will take this law as an example,” cheered Sen. Constanza Moreira, voting with the Broad Front majority. 
uruguay’s drug control agency will have 120 days, until mid-April, to draft regulations impos­ing state control over the entire market for marijuana, from seed to smoke. 
Everyone involved must be licensed and registered, with government monitors enforc­ing limits such as the 40 grams a month any adult will be able to buy at pharmacies for any reason or the six marijuana plants that license-holders will be allowed to grow at home. 
Congress’ lower house ap­proved the bill in late July, and senators rejected all proposed amendments, enforcing party discipline before Tuesday’s de­bate to assure the outcome. 
Former health Minister Alfredo Solari, a Colorado Party senator, warned Tuesday that children and adolescents will more easily get their hands on pot and that “the effects of this policy on public health will be terrible.” 
But Sen. Roberto Conde, a former deputy foreign minister with the Broad Front, said mari­juana “is already established in uruguay. It’s a drug that is already seen as very low risk and enor­mously easy to get.” 
“This is not liberalization of marijuana. It can be consumed within certain parameters estab­lished by law. I think it will reduce consumption,” Sen. Luis gallo, a retired doctor who favored the bill, told The Associated Press. 


INSIDE ColUMN 

Finding my voice 
Zachary Llorens 
Photographer 

I am not a writer, but I love to share stories and capture moments that take your breath away. Working at The Observer has allowed me to do just that. 
Early in the semester, I heard through the grapevine about the photo depart­ment and was compelled to join. I have always been interested in photography but really never had the extra time to go out and shoot as much as I would have liked. Picking up the camera as a part-time job for this newspaper has been a completely liberating experience for me. 
While others at the paper share infor­mation, messages and opinions through words, our photo staff complements reporters’ stories with ideas of our own, in images. We do our best each and every day to freeze a moment, to make a last­ing impression on the viewer. 
There is no clean-cut definition for what makes the perfect picture, but there are a few things we look to get out of every shoot. First, we check exposure: Is it too dark, too bright, or just right? If it passes that first test, we go on to verify its focus: Is it sharp, and are the faces clear? 
Next, we check content. Quite a few pictures that pass the first steps fail to make an impact on the viewer. Really, we look for pictures that elicit reactions from viewers. A diving catch and spec­tacular dunk can have their deserved place alongside a compelling picture of interesting campus architecture or the chubby little squirrels of god Quad. 
Next time you page through The Observer, remember the thoughts in the writing, but also ask yourself just how a picture could be worth a thousand words, as well. 
Contact Zachary Llorens  at zllorens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bianca Almada 
This is Real Life 
For some reason, men and wom­en alike often look at me strangely when I tell them I am a feminist. They assume I hate men and the concept of marriage, burn bras, reject future motherhood or ad­vocate for loose morals when it comes to sexuality. They assume I am physically unattractive, bit­ter about “not finding a man,” or a soon-to-be spinster or workaholic. 
None of these statements is true about me, nor do they define the majority of feminists. These are common and unfortunate miscon­ceptions about what feminism re­ally is. Feminism, at its core, is the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportuni­ties. The movement’s aim is to advocate for women’s rights on the grounds of political, economic and social equality to men. These prin­ciples should not be controversial, and it saddens me to know that so many uninformed individuals hold a false image of such an important movement. 
According to a recent, national yougov poll, only 20 percent of Americans consider themselves “feminists.” however, 82 percent say “men and women should be social, political, and economic equals.” This is preposterous, con­sidering that the two phrases are synonymous. “Feminist” has come to be regarded as an extremist, outlandish view, as people associ­ate it with things that do not, in any way, define the feminist move­ment. If you believe in equality between the sexes, then you are a feminist. Period. And you should not be afraid to publicize it. 
Many people make the terrible mistake of assuming, “So much progress has already been made for women that there is no need for feminism anymore.” I do not deny that American women have made tremendous progress and that they are some of the most privileged women in the world. They are free to vote, own property and sign contracts, enter the workforce in virtually any field, choose their marriage partners and make de­cisions regarding their personal health. 

despite these advances, the av­erage working woman still makes only 77 cents for every dollar made by the average working man. One in seven women will receive nega­tive repercussions — such as de­motion, pay cuts, even termination 
— for asking for maternity leave. Women make up 50 percent of the population of the united States, but only have an 18 percent rep­resentation in Congress. Twenty percent of women are sexually as­saulted before they graduate col­lege, 60 percent of those women are too ashamed to report it, and only 1 percent of them see their perpetrator legally convicted. The Equal Rights Amendment never passed. Popular media commu­nicates to young women that they should wait for a charming prince to rescue them, or that marriage and motherhood are the only path­ways to happiness and satisfaction. 
These statements do not even take into account the extreme anti-female sentiments present world­wide. Forced prostitution, female genital mutilation, honor killings, child brides, legalized physical abuse and restriction from educa­tion are only some examples of the institutionalized travesties nega­tively affecting women around the globe. Worldwide, women account for 66 percent of the world’s labor, receive 10 percent of the world’s income and own less than 1 per­cent of the world’s property. There is no sane way to argue that femi­nism, in the truest sense of the word, is not necessary in the mod­ern world. 
I received numerous responses from readers after the publication of my article, “Lines are not ‘blurred,’” (Oct. 31) one month ago. In the column, I dissected Robin Thicke’s “Blurred Lines” and dis­cussed how it contributes to rape culture in popular society. Rape culture is created when prevalent attitudes, practices and cultural keystones — such as songs — nor­malize, excuse and tolerate behav­iors related to sexual assault, thus degrading women and referring to them as objects. I would describe my piece as a feminist article, and my goal was to advocate a society in which the social and sexual equality of men and women is pro­moted, rather than mocked.
 I received substantive feedback, both positive and negative. Every negative email or comment I re­ceived on the article, besides the anonymous website comments, was from a male. The standout was an anonymous computer-user stat­ing, “This is one bitter woman… get a life, or at least get a date.” 
My dating life is irrelevant to the substance of my writing or to the basis of my beliefs. This comment, among others, reflects the com­mon, sexist, societal problem of directly linking a woman’s happi­ness or identity with her personal relationships with men. And, not that it matters, I have been in a committed relationship with a man for years — one that is based on respect, equality and the revere of feminism by both parties. 
The world needs feminism now more than ever. Feminism is not a bad word, and it is not an extrem­ist position. Feminism is about logic, justice and respect, and that is always the right choice. 
Bianca Almada is a sophomore residing in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDIToRIAl CARTooN lETTER To ThE EDIToR 

The chocolate games, day 3 
Today is not much but here is your clue. Miley Cyrus sang the ex­act answer you need too. he wasn’t the best they ever seen laney — whoops I mean lately, man. The crazy thing about it was he got cut because he couldn’t jam. 
his practice paid and he was heeled; he shot and couldn’t miss. It wasn’t his shoes that made him like this. This clue is odd but does mean something, like the cool grey skins that Nd has monthly. 
Louis Nix 
senior In your hearts dec. 11 


Notre Dame students from professors’ eyes 
Sean Long, Nora O’Sullivan and Emily de Araujo 
guest Columnists 

What do our professors think of us? 
We all have experiences where a professor remarks, “Notre dame stu­dents are…” or “Notre dame students always…” We often dispel these re­marks as off-the-cuff, but one story last spring stood out. 
I used to ask freshmen how they liked Notre Dame, but what I stopped asking was “Why?” When I asked them how they liked ND, they’d respond, 
“I love it here, it’s great!” 

When I asked them “Why?,” they’d say, 
“I’ve never been at a place with so many people just like me.” 
For three months, we interviewed professors to understand the heart of this question. We wanted to write a profile of Notre dame students, espe­cially those in liberal arts, from their professors’ eyes. To accomplish this, we interviewed 14 faculty members within the College of Arts and Letters 
— from tenured deans to first-year professors, from multiple disciplines and backgrounds — with the aspira­tion to create a forum where profes­sors serve as constructive critics of Notre dame liberal arts students. While we limited the profile’s scope to the College of Arts and Letters, we believe the results offer informative lessons for the entire student body. 
After more than 10 hours of faculty discussions — anonymous, to allow candid feedback — we offer three conclusions. In our research, we did not ask professors to agree or disagree with statements. Rather, we asked broader questions, such as “If you could change anything about Notre dame students, what would it be?” and noted overarching trends. 
First, students are overcommitted, often at the expense of their ability to engage intellectually. More than three in five faculty members used “overcommitted” or a similar word to describe students, sometimes charac­terized as a tool to distract them from “thinking.” 
“I also think it’s a distraction. Busy is a distraction. We do that to dis­tract ourselves from things we don’t want to think about,” one professor concluded. 
Second, unprompted, 46 percent of professors mentioned students’ de­sires for structure inside and outside the classroom. This relates to more than half (54 percent) of faculty that used “dutiful” or “diligent” to describe students — the notion students “want to know what they need to do well and then they do that.” Another professor recalled, “At my previous university, all anyone ever wanted was for you to raise an interesting question. At Notre dame, we want things to be clear, pre­cise and manageable.” 

Finally, nearly 70 percent of profes­sors noted students are reluctant to challenge peers and professors for fear of standing out in the tight-knit “Notre dame community.” Roughly four in five students identify as Catholic, three in four are white and most ar­rive at Notre dame from a middle or upper-middle-class upbringing. Mia Lillis’s column, (“hard Mode,” dec. 5) touches on this when she states, “The Frosh-O T-shirts disappeared after a few days, but the uniform of cam­pus did not.” We champion the Notre dame community, but many argue the shadow of this is that campus solidarity makes students reluctant to stand out. 
We conclude with a vignette to show that these results, while criti­cal, are also hopeful. When teaching a seminar during his first two years at Notre dame, one professor described a “switch” that turns off with students. The first year, the seminar with first-semester freshmen evoked emotional debate on divisive issues, ranging from the death penalty to abortion. however, when teaching the same seminar the next fall to sophomores, something changed. The students did not engage. “Something happened that made them listen but not talk,” the professor stated. “That’s terrible. ... It was my first two years here. I think that’s not an atypical experience.” 
This anecdote demonstrates our assumption that these tendencies are cultivated, not inherent, in Notre dame students. We discovered prac­tices to counter these trends, like having an undergraduate ask the first question at visitor lectures, assigning students to yes/No roles on a divi­sive question to begin a semester and promoting creative thinking through a brief “imagination activity” to end each class. We conclude this is largely not a “people problem,” but a situ­ational problem that warrants small and doable changes. 
Now, why should students care? Professors have an outside vantage point into students’ intellectual lives replicated by few others. We compare ourselves to one another, but profes­sors — who have taught at peer insti­tutions from georgetown to harvard 
— provide context. We, students and professors, should cultivate aware­ness that this perception exists and provoke dialogue about how our Notre dame community can grow together. 
Sean Long is a junior living in St. Edward’s Hall. He can be contacted at slong4@nd.edu 
Nora O’Sullivan is a junior living in Lyons Hall. She can be contacted at nosulli3@nd.edu 
Emily de Araujo is a senior living off campus. She can be reached at edear­au1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
My final Viewpoint column 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 

Over the past few years, I have had the incredible opportunity to express my political views in The Observer. Rather than write about politics, my last op-ed will share the main lessons I learned from Notre dame. 
Looking back, the best thing to happen to me at Notre dame was not getting accepted into the Politics, Philosophy and Economics (PPE) minor, an elite minor for very smart students. The sense of rejection was magnified by the acceptance of four mock-trial teammates. As a result, my confidence was bruised and I doubted my intelligence. To compensate, I started reading random books and articles like never before. during this time, I found some pieces on health care that made me extremely interest­ed in a very important and complex issue. years later, I think I have found the cause of my life — to promote a better American health care system. I probably never would have realized it if I did not get denied from PPE. So, if you ever have a door slammed in your face, try to find an open window. you may be amazed where it leads you. 
I have learned better than most that unexpected failures and losses hap­pen in life. however, as david gergen, former advisor to President Clinton, says, spending time in the “wilder­ness,” or experiencing times when we find ourselves incredibly lost or con­fused, enables us to grow into who we are ultimately meant to be. 
My favorite story is about a man who, over the course of his life, lost his mother in his boyhood, failed in business twice, had a nervous break­down, lost one race for state legisla­ture, two races for Congress and two races for the Senate, spent much of his life in debt, and lost his fiancé and two children to early deaths. This man underwent tremendous suffer­ing and torment, but he ultimately became stronger and smarter as a result. It is perhaps a good thing he did, because his name was Abraham Lincoln, and his ability to endure fail­ure and loss helped saved the union amidst a civil war. Enduring pain and suffering does not necessarily mean we will get what we want in life. Rather, it is the resulting hope, opti­mism and learning that transforms us into the people we are meant to be­come. As the great Senator Bob dole said of his war injuries, he was not Bob dole despite his suffering, but because of it. 

While there are events that are out of our control, it is important to con­trol what we can in order to ensure we make the best decisions possible with our lives. We should work to pursue our passions, even if that is not what others may want. having the courage to be ourselves is an incredibly im­portant trait. 
I should know. I started as a fi­nance major, even though I knew I loved politics. With all due respect to Mendoza, it was not the right place for me. But I continued on because I thought I could not escape (or find a job after college). Telling my par­ents during Junior Parents Weekend that I did not belong in business and the subsequent process of switching to political science was one of the toughest things I have ever done. But I am incredibly glad I did it, because the past year and a half have been the most creative and growth-filled years of my college career. having the courage to exit a bad job, relation­ship, situation or mentality is one of the most important characteristics we can ever have. 
This was one of many times when I had the courage to embrace my differences from my peers. I have found embracing one’s differences is a prerequisite to happiness, and it has been the determining factor of my experience at Notre dame. 
As I write my final piece for Notre dame, I come full circle as I re­flect upon the first piece I wrote for Notre dame — my college applica­tion. Specifically, I remember writ­ing about Fr. Jenkins’s quote, “We at Notre dame must have the courage to be who we are. If we are afraid to be different from the world, how can we make a difference in the world?” 
I have found being different at Notre dame is not as easy as Notre dame’s application suggests. differences lead to awkwardness, failure and insecu­rity. Conforming to society is always easier, but it does not provide much fulfillment in one’s life. Thus, the greatest lesson Notre dame provided me: work to understand your differ­ences, come to peace with them and use them to change the world. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By DANIEL BARABASI 
Scene Writer 

Christmas carols are something of the far past, a time when our primitive ancestors still plugged away at type­writers. Mariah Carey, you’re no longer all I want for Christmas. Really, it’s time for Christmas to move over. We’re in a new age now: the age of ChRAgEmas (patent pending). 
We can thank American dJ diplo, as well as his Mad decent label for “A Very decent Christmas,” for this amaz­ing development. The mix highlights previously released tracks from artists on the label, only now in a more fes­tive spirit. True to the label’s name, the songs blend trap, bounce, moombahton and every other “underrated” dance genre on the table right now. 
yet, diplo’s release of “A Very decent Christmas” isn’t the first time an electronic artist worked self-produced music into the festive spirit. Just a few weeks ago, fellow dJ Kaskade released a “Family. Friends. Freaks.” playlist for the holiday season. 
So then why does diplo get to be the founder of ChRAgEmas? Kaskade released calmer mixes of Frank Sinatra and Bing Crosby in order to fit into the soft, festive mood. While Kaskade played the family-friendly card, diplo understood the true meaning of festive. Festive means party, festive means music, festive means beats that melt your brain. Turn down for presents? Sounds like the stupidest thing, but it took diplo to show us we can rage on Christmas. 
The defining mix takes traditional Christmas beats, such as “Jingle Bells” and “deck the halls,” ups the bass, adds a few jolly “ho, ho, ho’s,” then drops the bass like it’s no one’s business. It’s actually uncanny how readily Christmas music adapts to drops, only further showing that Saint Nicholas actually loves the naughty children of the world. 
The first song off the record, “Turn up ye Merry gentlemen,” sets the mood for Christmas 2.0. The song uses sleigh bells heavily to set the holiday spirit and under­lays it with vocals of “Turn up” and “ho! ho! ho!” when the bass is about to drop. The next defining song “RudE 
— OFF 2013” takes a daft Punk spin on Santa’s reindeer by listing the iconic names, focusing on Rudolph, to the style of “Technologic.” 
The rest of the mixes continue with this musical ab­surdity, except for Mitch Murder’s “don’t Let Me Spend Christmas Alone.” I actually don’t understand how this song made it on the album, as it sounds like a traditional Christmas melody propagating love and closeness, only with electronic background music. I’m assuming that Murder will soon be leaving the label for this transgression. 
With his “Very decent Christmas” mix, diplo continues his crusade to break the EdM brand he often gets lumped under. This is the guy who has Baauer, the artist behind “harlem Shake,” Riff Raff, allegedly paid in cocaine for per­forming at a uSC party, and Major Lazer, the guy behind “Bubble Butt” on his label. 
Nevertheless, in an interview this year with The huffington Post, diplo ripped heavily on EdM. “dance music is so interchangeable,” he said. “There’s not a lot of face to it. It’s a bunch of dutch dJs with the same haircut. That’s not going to last very much longer, because kids see that it’s the same s*** every single time.” 
ChRAgEmas follows this same theme. With “A Very decent Christmas,” diplo blasts preconceptions about what Christmas music sounds like. he argues with his music that we need the basic sounds of Christmas, but this doesn’t mean we need to have a boring Christmas. 
Essentially, why wait until New year’s if you can rave at ChRAgEmas? 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 


least half of these will be on my Christmas list (lookin’ at you, Mom). I chose these based 
Meghan Thomassen 

on bestseller lists from The New york Times, Publisher’s Weekly and favorites from my 
Managing Editor 
own bookshelf. 

By now, you all should have at least drafted your letters to Santa, and I have a few lit-Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu erary essentials that you definitely want stuffed in your stocking this year. here’s a col-    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 
lection of the top books of 2013 that are bound to please that special someone.  I know at The Observer. 


literary fiction 
“The Goldfinch” 
by Donna Tartt 

“The Hunger Games: Mockingjay” 
by Suzanne Collins 

“The Luminaries” 
by Eleanor Catton 

“Death of the Black-Haired Girl” 
by Robert Stone 

“The Isle of Youth” 
by Laura van den Berg 

“The Crimson Fog” 
by Paul Halter 
“The Silent Wife” 
by A.S.A. Harrison 
“The Other Child” 
by Charlotte Link 
“Gods and Beasts” 
by Denise Mina 
“Murder as a Fine Art” 
by David Morrell 


Non-fiction 
“Killing Jesus” 
by Bill O’Reilly 
“Humans of New York” 
by Brandon Stanton 
“Orange is the New Black” 
by Piper Kerman 
“Lean In” 
by Sheryl Sandberg 
“David and Goliath” 
by Malcolm Gladwell 
“The People in the Trees” 

“Enigma of China: An Inspector 

“Let Me Off At The Top!” 
by Hanya Yanagihara 

by Ron Burgundy 
Chen Novel” 
by Qiu Xiaolong 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


By JOHN DARR & MATT McMAHON 
Scene Writers 

Every year, I hope for a bright and shining album to fill the No. 1 spot on my end-of-year list. Every year, one manages to turn up. As our best-album-of-the-year list series comes to a close, I guess I’d like to leave you with one message. If you really care about art in any form — books, movies, video games, visual or performance arts, music, etc. — go out there and find that No. 1 spot for yourself. If you look hard enough, you’ll find it out there. The search is worth its every step, should you keep step­ping until you reach your destination. 

5.) “Shaking the habitual” – The Knife 
By MATT McMAhON 

Very few groups employ the tropes of the synth-pop genre in the way The Knife does.  The Swedish electro-pop duo first bore their experimental teeth with 2010’s hugely ambitious, but uneven, opera ode to darwin, “Tomorrow, In A year.” Combining their past successes in art pop with the avant-garde experimentalism of that score, The Knife returned with the epic “Shaking the habitual.” The double album spans 98 minutes of intriguing long-form, linear song structuring. The duo merge Eastern- and Western- influenced sound, layering complex synth and percussion patterns that play off each other in captivating, wholly original ways. “Shaking the habitual” offers a unique experience, setting a sprawling atmosphere to get completely lost within. 
Choice Cuts: “A Tooth for an Eye,” “Full of Fire,” “Without you My Life Would Be Boring” 

4.) “Settle” – Disclosure 
By JOhN dARR 

“One thing I know — change is inevitable.” 
“People love watching a fire burn.” 
“how do you stay motivated with everything that’s going on?” 
In the first minute of the album, disclosure unleashes the spirit of “Settle” — innovative, explosive and yet in­credibly focused. Managing both a cohesive sound and incredible variety, “Settle” manages to be a rare thing: an album of brilliant standalone tracks, as well as a bril­liant album as a whole. genres like deep house, dub-step, chillwave, European garage and IdM are mixed and mashed throughout the album, allowing for unique sounds using consistent sonic elements. A wide variety of guest singers allows for further variation between tracks; voices range from powerful to soft to sensual to comforting as the album progresses. If you’re into dance music and want an alternative to flashy radio EdM, this is the album for you. 
Choice Cuts: “White Noise,” “Latch,” “help Me Lose My Mind” 

3.) “Sunbather” – Deafheaven 
By MATT McMAhON 

uplifting” and “beautiful” might not be the first adjec­tives you expect someone to use to describe a black met­al album. Furthermore, many black-metal purists may be very reluctant to even ascribe the label “black metal” to deafheaven — the album features much cleaner pro­duction and far more shoegaze and post-rock influence than traditional black metal. debates on their genre aside (and really, does it even matter?), deafheaven has composed one of the prettiest, while instrumentally harsh and powerful, albums of the year. The band’s me­ticulous construction and attention to detail manages to create equally impressive moments in the tense, quieter instants as it does in the bruising, climactic releases. Finding a perfect formula between buildup and down­time, “Sunbather” still surprises, even after it’s been listened to enough times to anticipate what’s about to come. 
Choice Cuts: “dream house,” “Sunbather,” “Irresistible” 

2.) “Field of Reeds” – These New Puritans 
By JOhN dARR 

“Field of Reeds” is a truly challenging work. Best de­scribed as a quiet orchestral post-rock record, the sound of the album is warm and welcoming, and yet its form is ambitious and experimental. Acoustic instrumenta­tion, calm tempos and clean production are paired with complex time signatures, unfamiliar chord progressions and unconventional song structures. Sounds that would normally offer straightforward relaxation to a listener in­stead disorient and even confuse. hooks are sparse, and major chords few and far between. The arrangements are minimal, allowing for large amounts of space in the ar­rangement. At first, “Field of Reeds” offers very little for a listener to hold onto. 
And yet upon repeated listens, the hidden beauty on each track becomes more and more evident. Transient melodies become rewards that justify and transcend their respective journeys. Seemingly repetitive phases reveal subtle, yet intriguing, evolutions in sound. Each minute holds a thousand secrets waiting to be discovered. 
“Field of Reeds” is an album that requires patience and true curiosity in order to be worth listening to, making it both the highest-risk and highest-reward album of the year. Look for this to become a classic. 
Choice Cuts: “Fragment Two,” “V (Island Song),” “Field of Reeds” 

1.) “Modern Vampires of the City” – Vampire Weekend 
By MATT McMAhON 

Everyone knew Vampire Weekend could write an in­sanely catchy pop song. The evidence is all over their first two albums. But with their third LP, “Modern Vampires of the City,” the band matured into crafting meaningful, thought-provoking music, while not giving up any of the stickiness. 
Putting aside the possibly pretentious, definitely slight, cryptic Ivy League lyricism — as well as their afro-pop inclinations — for views on spirituality, familial respon­sibilities and the general concepts that accompany grow­ing up, Vampire Weekend assembled the most cohesive album of the year, thematically and instrumentally. The tracks are just as catchy and more technically sound, and they feature tighter production. “Modern Vampires of the City” showcases the next logical step in Vampire Weekend’s career: adulthood. 
Choice Cuts: “Step,” “ya hey,” “hannah hunt,” “diane young” 
Addendum: We know, especially in the making of this list, that opinions vary. We love to talk music, and if any­one wants to contact us about the top-20 list, we highly encourage it. In fact, if anyone has a burning stance in support of or against inclusions or exclusions on this list, we might be tempted to write a future article about it. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu and Matt McMahon at mcmaho7@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPoRTS AUThoRITY 

More than just managers 

Samantha Zuba 
Sports Writer 
Let’s talk about baseball coaches for a moment. 
you know, those guys who stand in the dugout and wave their hands around, alleg­edly signally something to their players. 
On Monday, three of the greatest Major League Baseball managers of all time were inducted into the National Baseball hall of Fame. Tony LaRussa, Joe Torre and Bobby Cox were selected unanimously by the hall of Fame’s Expansion Era Committee and will be for­mally inducted in a ceremony next July. Although a committee voted them into the hall, public opinion could have just as easily done the job. 
It’s easy to see why these three managers are famously great. They are among the winningest managers in MLB history, and they’ve won nine Manager of the year awards combined. LaRussa coached his teams to three World Series titles. Torre won four championships with the New york yankees, and Cox won one World Series with the Atlanta Braves. 
Sometimes, though, it can be hard to understand the scope of what baseball managers actu­ally do — besides making wacky hand signals from the dugout steps. They don’t call plays the way a football coach does, but baseball managers are a differ­ent type of coach. 
We can start with the fact that they’re called “manag­ers” and not “head coaches.” Baseball has base coaches, hitting coaches and pitching coaches, but the manager does more than organize a hierarchy of more specialized coaches. Managers control every aspect of the game. 
LaRussa was famous for tot­ing around giant binders filled with statistics on opposing teams. he revolutionized the use of the bullpen because he worked statistical matchups in an exceedingly exact manner. LaRussa’s relief pitchers might face only one batter each, but that was their task for the game, and if they did their jobs right, the team won. 
At the end of the day, play­ers have to execute what their managers ask them to do for the team to succeed, but managers play a uniquely powerful role in positioning their players like chess pieces. Few sports afford coaches the opportunity to so closely oversee the minutia of a game. 
Some commentators argue that Torre only succeeded be­cause he had the right players, courtesy of former yankees owner george Steinbrenner and his deep pockets. In baseball, however, it’s not enough just to have the right pieces — a man­ager has to know how to use them, and Torre did. he drew on his own playing experience to relate well with his players, and he managed with class. 
Baseball is all about the details, and a talented but mismanaged team won’t win. Teams with a revolving mana­gerial door understand this. 
The Chicago Cubs will intro­duce yet another new manager next season, and although the organization has featured po­tent combinations of young tal­ent in recent years, it hasn’t won much because it can’t secure consistent management for its inexperienced players. There’s hope for the Cubs if they can find the right, lasting formula. 
Cox provided security for the Braves for 20 straight years upon his return to Atlanta from a short stint with the Toronto Blue Jays, and the Braves flour­ished with his steady hand at the helm. 
Cox broke John Mcgraw’s infamous record for most all-time ejections, as his temper could be unpredictable, but his baseball intellect never flagged. Cox led the Braves to five National League Pennants and 14 straight National League East division titles. 
LaRussa, Torre and Cox con­sistently achieved success by coaching a sport in which a person who succeeds one-third of the time is one of the game’s best players. Managers have extraordinary control over the layout of the field because of baseball’s stop-and-go nature, but there are countless bad ways for a ball to bounce. 
Each of these great managers took bad breaks in stride and found ways to win at an extraor­dinary pace. 
Cheers to the greats. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


CollEGE BASKETBAll 

Arizona jumps Michigan State at top of polls 
Associated Press 

TuCSON, Ariz. (AP) — Some coaches shy away from a No. 1 ranking early in the season, worried about the im­pact it will have on their play­ers’ psyche. 
Count Arizona’s Sean Miller as one who embraces it. 
Arizona moved up to No. 1 in The Associated Press’ college basketball poll for the first time since 2003 on Monday, an honor Miller views as not only recognition for what the Wildcats have done this season, but vali­dation for the direction the program has taken in his five years in the desert. 
“There’s tremendous satis­faction, no question,” Miller said. “Embracing the fact that we’re No. 1 is something I’m doing, our staff is doing and really our team is doing. It’s an honor a lot of teams would love to have. It’s something where no matter what hap­pens the rest of the season, at some point we were ranked No. 1 in the country.” 
Coming off a hard-fought home win over uNLV, Arizona (9-0) received 63 first-place votes from the 65-member national media panel to earn the No. 1 spot in a season for the sixth time. The Wildcats are the Pac-12’s first No. 1 team since uCLA in January 2006. 
Syracuse, which received the other first-place votes, and Ohio State moved up two places to second and third, while Wisconsin jumped four spots to fourth. Michigan State, which had been No. 1 for three weeks, dropped to fifth after losing 79-65 at home to North Carolina. 
Louisville was No. 6, fol­
lowed  by  Oklahoma  State,  
duke,  Connecticut  and  
Villanova.  

The North Carolina Tarheels moved their way back into the poll at No. 18 after a one-week absence. Colorado and Missouri are in the Top 25 for the first time this season. uCLA, Michigan and dayton fell out of the rankings. 
Arizona was sixth in the preseason Top 25 after Miller, known for his recuiting, added another stellar class to a team that reached the Sweet 16 of last year’s NCAA Tournament. 
Long, athletic and versatile, the Wildcats already have an impressive list of victories, in­cluding Texas Tech, San diego State on the road and duke in the championship game of the NIT Season Tip-off at Madison Square garden. 
“It’s no secret that this year our goal is to be playing in dallas (at the Final Four). This just starts it off,” Arizona junior guard Nick Johnson said. “We’ve done some good things to start our season and we just need to keep it going.” 
Arizona’s rise to No. 1 is a culmination of what Miller has done to return a storied program back to glory. 
NFl 

Rookie Te’o still seeking NFL breakout moment 
Associated Press

 ENgLEWOOd, Colo. (AP) — Manti Te’o says his rough rook­ie season has nothing to do with the flack he’s faced over getting fooled by a hoax in­volving a fake girlfriend while at Notre dame. 
The San diego Chargers rookie linebacker said in his first conference call of the sea­son Tuesday that he has yet to play a complete game in the NFL but that’s because of his adjustment to the pros and not because he’s distracted in any way by the catcalls from op­posing teams or their fans. 
Te’o said he does a good job blocking out the chatter from the stands. 
“I’ve definitely heard things, but my job is to go out there do my best and hopefully come out with a win. So, all the other outside stuff, if I’m paying attention to that, then I’m in trouble,” Te’o said. “But that’s what fans do. They love their team. They’re passionate about their team, so it’s noth­ing that I didn’t expect.” 
Te’o said he hasn’t re­ally caught much grief from opposing players. 

“I haven’t really run into any of that. I think as players we understand that we’re all in the same situation. We’re all here to play ball and we’re here as football players, we’re trying to provide a life for our families and that’s about it,” Te’o said. 
“When we step on the foot­ball field, it’s all about football and competing. So, I haven’t really run into any of that stuff.” 
yet, when asked a follow-up question about opponents try­ing to get under his skin, he did acknowledge that they some­times bring up the issue. 
“But to be honest, I’m so locked into the game that ba­sically I don’t really catch it,” he said. “And at this point, it doesn’t really bother me. So, it’s no big deal, really.” 
Te’o was an All-American linebacker whose draft stock fell after his poor showing in the BCS championship game against Alabama and once the hoax was revealed as front of­fice personnel wondered if he’d be mentally tough enough to handle the grief he’d face over the girlfriend hoax. 
The Chargers selected him in the second round of the draft, but his development was slowed by a sprained right foot in training camp and he was inactive for the Chargers’ first three games. 
Since then, he’s been steady, collecting 69 tackles and breaking up four passes while playing inside linebacker next to donald Butler. 
Chargers coach Mike McCoy said Te’o is facing the usual growing pains a rookie experi­ences but “each week he’s got­ten a little bit better.” 
Te’o, however, has yet to re­cord an interception or a sack or really have a big impact on a game for the Chargers (6-7), who visit the Broncos (11-2) Thursday night. 
“I still haven’t had a com­plete game yet,” Te’o said. “I’ve felt the most growth I would have to say the Kansas City game (on Nov. 24). There was a different feel to that game, I was comfortable to a level where I could just move. ... I’m looking forward to a time when I can have that complete game and I’m constantly working to do that.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


NBA | PACERS 90, hEAT 84 

Pacers defeat Heat in first meeting of season 
Associated Press 
Roy hibbert threw all the in­side body jabs Tuesday night. Paul george finished it off with the knockout blow. 
Together, the Pacers’ devastat­ing one-two scoring punch did it again to the champs. 
hibbert finished with 24 points, george made two big 3-point­ers during a 15-point second half scoring spree and Indiana rallied from a seven-point halftime defi­cit to take Round 1 against Miami 90-84. 
“It was fun, a real intense game,” george said. “Both teams were playing at a high level. you could see an urgency to win this game tonight.” 
While Indiana extended its franchise-record home start to a perfect 10-0 and took a three-game advantage over Miami in the early chase for home-court advantage, this was no ordinary regular season game. 
during pregame media availability, Indiana’s Lance Stephenson said this game felt like a championship matchup. Two of Miami’s big three, Chris Bosh and dwyane Wade, tried to downplay that sort of talk by explaining this was not a win or go home night. 
The hometown fans didn’t care what the heat thought. They were already in postseason form, boo­ing loudly at the officials, chanting “he’s a flopper” on some contest­able foul calls and eventually ser­enading Miami players with those familiar chants of “Beat the heat.” 

But the Pacers (19-3) also un­derstood this was only be the start of a season-long quest that could pit the two best teams in the East in the conference finals for a sec­ond straight year. 
First, there’s the rematch in Miami on dec. 18. They won’t meet again until March 26 in Indy, then head back to Miami on April 11 before what most expect to be a third straight meeting in the play­offs. If those games have as much intrigue and pizazz as Tuesday night’s showdown, they may be the most compelling all season. 
And the Pacers can’t wait to show how much they can im­prove — even on a win over the two-time champs and four-time MVP LeBron James. 
“It’s just one game,” hibbert said. “We’re going to learn from it. It’s a learning experience. It’s still early in the season. We have a lot more work to do.” 
To the average fan, it looked a lot like last season’s playoff se­ries, which Miami won in seven games. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
hibbert dominated the middle, scoring nine of Indiana’s first 11 points and making a season-high 10 baskets — most from point­blank range — despite playing in the second half with cotton in his nose. david West added 17 points, nine rebounds and four assists including a left-handed 4-foot runner that gave Indiana an 88-81 lead with 38.9 seconds to go. 
James’ defense and Miami’s physical double-teams frustrated george most of the night, but when george finally got free late, he made three big 3-pointers s to help the Pacers pull away. george, the NBA’s No. 4 scorer, finished with 17 points, three rebounds and four assists. 
“I knew it was going to be a night when I was going to explode offensively,” george said. “I knew I had to move the ball and share it.” 
Chasing george all night appar­ently took a toll on James and the heat (16-6). 
While James, the league’s No. 2 scorer did get 17 points, 14 re­bounds and six assists, he was just 3 of 11 from the field with nine points over the final 36 minutes — three quarters when Miami failed to top the 20-point mark and had five turnovers. Wade also finished with 17 points, while Bosh added 12. 
ClUB SPoRTS 

Men’s hockey splits weekend 
Special to The Observer 
Men’s Ice hockey 
Irish sophomore forward Juan Carlos Tellez fired a shot through traffic that squeaked under the pads of the Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne goaltender with 0.8 seconds remaining in overtime to give Notre dame a 3-2 vic­tory over the Mastodons on Saturday night in Fort Wayne, Ind. The goal gave the Irish a split in the week­end series, as IPFW bested the Irish 5-4 in overtime the night before. 
Before Tellez’s game-win­ner on Saturday, junior for­ward Mike Marino staked the Irish to a 1-0 lead early in the second period after blocking a shot and racing in alone fon a breakaway. Marino faked left and slipped a wrist shot around the prone IPFW goal­tender. After the Mastodons tied the game early in the third, senior forward Conor Kelly put the Irish up again, corralling the rebound of a shot bm junior forward danny Lempres. For the sec­ond night in a row, however, IPFW rallied with a goal in the third period to send the game to overtime. 
Irish sophomore goalten­der Nick Stasack made a number of acrobatic saves to keep the game tied before Tellez’s last-second heroics. 
On Friday, the Irish fell 5-4 in overtime after dig­ging out of a 3-0 first-period hole. Senior defenseman Tomas Abrate found the net three times for the Irish, while senior forward Victor LeVasseur contributed a goal. 
Women’s Ice hockey 
Notre dame hosted the Kalamazoo Wicked at the Compton Family Ice Arena on Sunday, earning a 4-1 victory. Sophomore Lauren garatoni opened the scor­ing for the Irish, receiving a pass from fellow sopho­more Alex Stern behind the net and firing the puck over the Wicked goalkeeper’s left pad. The Wicked retaliated with a goal just 42 seconds later.  For the rest of the pe­riod, the teams spent much of the time in the neutral zone, but with only 56.8 sec­onds remaining in the period and 54.8 seconds left on the power play, senior Meaghan Ayers put the Irish back on top. With a little give-and­go from sophomore Madison Ratycz, Ayers wristed the puck over the goalie’s glove. halfway through the second period, Stern found herself in the slot after receiving a tape-to-tape pass from ju­nior Suzanne Fitzpatrick and fired the puck over the goalie’s glove. With 8:51 left in the game, the garatoni­Stern-Fitzpatrick line com­bined again for l passing play that ended in a goal from Stern to seal the 4-1 Irish win. The gams markes the first career start ane first ca­reer win for St. Mary’s fresh­man goalkeeper Madeline Kramer. The Irish will next compete on the weekend of Feby 7-9, wheh Michigan State and uW-Madison trav­eling to the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Women’s Club Volleyball 
Notre dame attended the Wolverine Winter Classic in Ann Arbor, Mich., last week­end. Ranked third in their pool, the Irish concluded the tournament with a third-place finish in the 12-team field 
Tournament Results 
Pool Play 
Michigan A – Split – 14­25, 25-22 
Eastern Michigan – W – 25-16, 25-12 
Saginaw Valley – W – 25­15, 25-12 
Gold Bracket 
Bowling Greee B – W – 25­15, 25-20 
Grand Valley State A – l – 13-25, 25-23, 12-15 
Women’s Figure Skating 
Notre dame tied for sec­ond place last weekend at its first competition of the sea­son, the dr. Richard Porter Synchronized Classid in Ann Arbor, Mich. The Irish com­peted against nine other col­lege teams, finishing behind Lindenwood and tying with Minnesota-duluth. The Irish displayed their new pro­gram, a fun compilation of songs by The Temptations, for the first time this week-ens. The team had two falls in the opening warm-up block before its program be­gan. Once the music started, however, the Irish were able to shake off the nerves and skate clean with lots of en­ergy. The team will continue working very hard to prepare for its next competition, the Mid-America Synchronized Skating Championships in Fraser, Mich. on Jan. 11. 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

TRACK AND FIElD 

Renwick leaps into new season 
By GREG HADLEY 
Sports Writer 
As Notre dame transitions to the ACC, Irish senior jump­er and captain Logan Renwick does not think his team will be behind the learning curve heading into its first indoor season in the conference. 
“I think we have really high expectations going into this year,” Renwick said. “We’ve always known we have a strong team, and now we get to go into a top-to-bottom stronger conference. We ex­pect to come in and make an impact, and I think we have the athletes to do that.” 
For Renwick himself, this season’s expectations will be just as high. Renwick had a breakout year as a junior, setting a personal record in the long jump, earning all-Big East honors in the long jump at the conference’s out­door championships, and advancing to the NCAA East Preliminary meet in both the long jump and triple jump for the first time in his career. Although he failed to qual­ify for the NCAA Outdoor Championships, finishing 38th in the long jump and 45th in the triple jump, Renwick said the season was still a suc­cess, and he hopes to use it as momentum heading into this winter. 
In addition to his success in the sandpit, Renwick was also named a captain in the fall by his coaches. 
“The coaches come together and nominate upperclass­men on the team who they’ve thought have come into that role,” Renwick said. 
As a senior, Renwick said he hopes to lead and give advice to athletes from all events, as well as his fellow jumpers. “I’ve taken on that role of leader early in my career here at Notre dame, and I’ve had great leaders here to grow under,” Renwick said. “I feel honored and humbled to step into that role.” 
Renwick began his track career as a sprinter before picking up jumping. In col­lege, Renwick has returned to the track for a few races, in­cluding this past weekend at the Blue & gold Invitational, when he finished the 60-me­ter event in a personal-best 
7.16 seconds. Nevertheless, he said his first love remains the jumping events. 
“I’m the youngest of four, and we all did track, but ev­eryone else was sprinters,” Renwick said. “I happened to find my niche in jump­ing from an early age, and I’ve loved it ever since. It’s definitely different from the conventional sense of track, but it’s a very interesting as­pect of the sport.” 
Just as he branched out from family tradition on the track, Renwick also bucked the trend when it came to choosing a college. “I visited Penn State, Virginia, North Carolina, and Cornell, and my whole family went to Penn State, but as soon as I took my visit here, as cli­ché as it sounds, I knew this was where I needed to be,” Renwick said. “The commu­nity that you become a part of and all of the values give you such a well-rounded college experience. I couldn’t have picked a better place to spend four years.” 
As good as Renwick has been athletically, he has had even more success in the class­room, making dean’s List every semester of his college career. After last season, he was named to the uSTFCCCA All-Academic team and the Capital One Academic All-American division I Track & Field/Cross Country second team. 
“Both of those were a huge honor for me” Renwick said. “I take pride in being both a student and an athlete here at Notre dame, and I think the school puts a great priority on that.” 
The Irish are off until Jan. 18, when they travel to Ann Arbor, Mich., for the Michigan Invitational. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


M Bball 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 

edge with 2:37 to go in Monday’s game. 
“I think these have been hard games for us, and I think that’s been great for our development,” Brey said. “I think we’ve played good teams. I give them credit, and I tip my hat to them because they are pretty experienced. So I’m not going to lose sleep on that.” 
Irish senior guard Jerian grant has done his best to ice the past two games, hit­ting a pair of key jumpers in the final two minutes against delaware as part of a 25-point performance and pouring in a quick sev­en points in the last three minutes Monday, en route to a 23-point outing. 
“We are not going to blow out teams all the time,” grant said. “So to be in close games, to learn how to execute down the stretch, is good.” 
Senior center garrick Sherman and junior for­ward Pat Connaughton helped propel the Irish against Bryant, as Sherman logged 14 points, a career-high 13 rebounds and three blocks and Connaughton added 17 points and 11 boards. Brey pointed to the importance of those re­bounding totals, in partic­ular, especially considering the lack of size in Notre dame’s new starting lineup 
— consisting of Sherman, Connaughton, grant, se­nior guard Eric Atkins and freshman guard demetrius Jackson — that has opened each of the past four games. 
Sherman leads the Irish with 7.4 rebounds per game, followed closely by Connaughton’s 7.2 boards per game average. 
“I’m encouraged by [Sherman’s] rebound­ing because that’s an area where he can keep getting better, and we’ve got to keep riding the double-digit re­bounding from him,” Brey said. “you can’t play small unless [Connaughton’s] do­ing that. Because he does that, we can play the small lineup long periods of time. he’s just so dependable, reliable.” 
Notre dame will play its third game in five days when it closes out the regional round of the BlackRock gotham Classic tonight against the Bison. Tipoff is set for 7 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 




MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish travel to Puerto Rico for training trip 
said of the trip’s purpose. many to take part in the exhi-
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 

Sports Writer “We train twice a day; we bition Copa Coqui meet. train outdoors. We’ll train in “In good tourism fashion, 
In its final meet of the se-a 50-meter pool, and along it’s a bit of a spectacle com­mester last weekend, Notre with that, we’ll continue to pared to American meets,” dame powered its way to a win do our strength training and Welsh said of the meet. “They in the hawkeye Invitational conditioning and our dry have a buffet, they play music in Iowa City, Iowa, beating land program. It is a training during events and in the ex-three other teams by earning trip, period. … It’s also a very citing years, they have a ma-a total score of 1228.5 points. nice place.” riachi band that will come to 
The Irish (4-4) relied on despite coming off a string your team’s tent, and they’ll several standout individual of three consecutive meet play a little bit. All this is just performances, including se-victories, the Irish have no to celebrate the excitement of nior Frank dyer’s time of reason to let up now, Welsh being together and having a 
46.92 seconds in the 100-yard said. swim meet.” butterfly to break the school “We can always polish despite the festive atmo­record in the event. head up our fitness,” Welsh said. sphere, the team will be very coach Tim Welsh said he 
focused on its main goals, couldn’t be happier with the 
“The guys are very Welsh said. team’s performance in Iowa. 
focused about  “We have been here be­“Finishing first is icing on 
fore,” he said. “We have been 
wanting to do a 
the cake,” Welsh said. “The 
to this pool before. The guys 
good job training.” 
cake was swimming our best. 

are very focused about want-We went there with the idea 
Tim Welsh ing to do a good job training.” of everybody swimming as 
Irish coach But Welsh also acknowl­fast as they ever had in their 
edged the Irish would have lives, and we wanted to see “We also want to look very fun on their training trip. how fast we could go this specifically at what our pri-“But they also enjoy it when time of year, and the results mary events are going to be. you come back from a hard were just excellent.” We try not to base our suc-practice and you walk out the 
The Irish don’t swim again cess on what someone else door and sit on the beach,” he competitively until Jan. 11, does. If we improve based said. …that’s a good life.” when they face off against on the clock, we’ll be happy The Irish will return to Northwestern. But that with the outcome. We also competitive racing when they doesn’t mean the team will want to do as well as we can travel to the Northwestern be resting on its accomplish-in our first ACC meet, and Aquatic Center in Evanston, ments. From dec. 30 to Jan. we want to advance as many Ill., to face Northwestern on 9, the Irish will be practicing people as we can to the NCAA Jan. 11 south of the border in Puerto Championship.” Rico. While they’re in Puerto Contact Mike Ginocchio at 
“hard training,” Welsh Rico, the team will be one of mginocch@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
College, the most successful 
hockey 
college hockey team in the 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
last 10 years, not just as a fel­

low Catholic institution and and six of the last 15, with elite opponent, but also as a seven appearances in the conference foe. From there, title game over the same the Irish will travel to away stretch. It is arguably the series at New hampshire best and most storied league and Providence, while host-in college hockey. As a dis-ing Northeastern, Maine and placed New Englander who Boston university. The regu­grew up attending games at lar season concludes with the university of Maine and another trip to visit Boston watching future NhL greats College, this time on campus like Paul Kariya out on the in Chestnut hill, Mass. ice, I was ecstatic to learn in These are the games that 2011 that Notre dame would got Irish fans excited about be joining the conference. the move east. Jackson has 
But it wasn’t for November said repeatedly that he games against Merrimack. hopes to establish rivalries 
The Irish will jump into with hockey East teams to their second half, New replace the old foes Notre England and hockey East dame left behind in the de­with both feet Jan. 4 of the funct CChA, and the second new year, as the team plays half is when the Irish will its second outdoor game make that happen. in two seasons, this time Much like an outsider at-against Boston College at tending an intimate family Boston’s Fenway Park. Notre gathering, the Irish have dame will play in a series joined a league that is fierce­
— “Frozen Fenway” — that ly regional, historic and tal­will feature six hockey East ented. They will have to fight teams competing on perhaps for a seat at the table. the most hallowed ground in It should be a bucket of New England, a ballpark that fun. recently witnessed a World Series championship for the Contact Conor Kelly at beloved Boston Red Sox. ckelly17@nd.edu. 
The game isn’t short on    The views expressed in symbolism. this column are those of the For the first time, Notre author and not necessarily dame will face Boston those of The Observer. 



ThE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2013 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

to create good scoring oppor-the ACC Championship opponents tunities,” Irish senior forward with a 4-3 win in penalty CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 harry Shipp said. kicks after a 3-3 draw in the 
If the Irish can create those tournament’e semifinals Nov. the team to be in the College opportunities to score and 15. Notre dame’s 2-0 loss to Cup, but we aren’t satisfied move past the Lobos, they the Cavaliers on Oct. 26 marks yet,” he said. will face a familiar opponent the only loss on the season for 
“It’s great we have this op-in the College Cup Final.“The the Irish. portunity, but in the talk going nice thing, regardless if “If we do win Friday, then we around the locker room, it’s Virginia or Maryland wins, is know how we match up against been made clear that we want we’ve played them both be-both teams,” Cicciarelli said. more.” fore,” Clark said. “We are in a “We know their weaknesses 
Before the Irish get ahead of position that we don’t have to and strengths, and they know themselves, their first priority worry about them at the mo-ours. is Friday’s semifinal matchup. ment, but we hope to have that “But, we are as confident as 
“Our focus is fully on New problem of focusing on them ever right now. We have the Mexico right now,” Irish coach on Saturday.” best coaching staff, and we Bobby Clark said. “We’ve Assuming Notre dame wins are confident in them to come watched film, spoke to those its semifinal game, it will face up with a game plan and strat­who have played them, and an opponent who gave the egy that will propel us to the are putting the final touches Irish trouble during he regular National Championship.” on our scouting. season Notre dame is unbeaten in 
“They are a very solid all-“It’s hard to say who we its eight games since the reg-around team. Without having would rather get another ular-season loss to Virginik. huge superstars, they are real-game against,” Shipp said. The Irish are 7-0-1 within that ly good in all departments and “Virginia is the one team we stretch and have outscored op-are a well-coached and well-lost to all season, so obvi-ponents 21-7. The Irish have also disciplined team. One person ously it would be nice to get played from behind for only I spoke to said New Mexico is redemption against them, 1:52 in their last eight games, as probably the best team they but we also shared the ACC-they only trailed against Wake played all year.” title with Maryland, and Forest in the third round of the 
I think every team grows. 

The Lobos (14-5-2, 7-1-1 [the Terrapinsy won the ACC NCAA Championshit. 
Clark 

Conference uSA) entered the [Championshipt.” “We are going to keep doing “I think we always talk 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 

Final Four after a 1-0 Elite Maryland (16-3-5, 7-1-3) what we are doing and play that’s the best way to respect about teams growing. I think 
Eight win over Washington enteres the College Cup af-any of these games like its any loss,” Clark said. “We came the team that went before 
on Saturday. This is the sec-ter a 2-1 victory over No. 4 other game,” Cicciarelli said. in as the No. 1 seed and lost you, if you can add a little 
ond College Cup appearance California in the quarterfi-“We are focusing on what we in the third round. It was more shine to the jersey. I 
for New Mexico, who lost in nals Saturday. Notre dame do best against any of the op-disappointing, so this was a think this year’s team can 
the national championship and Maryland finished in a 1-1 ponents we face.” very determined group. We put a little more gloss on it.” 
game in 2005. The Lobos have draw Oct. 8, and the Terrapins The Irish make their de­were also entering the ACC 2013 could be the year 
not given up a single goal in went on to earn a 1-0 win over but College Cup appearance for the first time in school when the Irish reach the 
the first three rounds of the Virginia (13-5-5, 4-3-4) 1-0 in against New Mexico on Friday history. We knew that was heights of their potential. 
tournament and have allowed the ACC Championship gamn at 5 p.m. at PPL Park in Chester, going to be a challenge, so “As a coach, you want ev­
only 0.86 goals per contest Nov. 17. Pa. there was a lot of motivation ery team to fulfill its poten­
this season. “New Mexico’s Before falling to Maryland, to work during the summer.” tial,” Clark said. “I think this 
defense is pretty stout, so the the Cavaliers knocked the Contact Kit Loughran at Although last season’s ear-team is capable of going the 
biggest challenge for us will be Irish out of contention for kloughr1@nd.edu ly tournament exit motivates whole way. I think there’s PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
this year’s team, the cur-no question about that. That rent Notre dame squad has would be their potential, but to make its own mark in the all four teams in the semifi­tournament, Clark said. “you nals will be feeling the same graduate players every year, way, so I don’t think anyone and that means every team will be taking anything for is going to be slightly differ-granted.” ent from the team before,” Clark said Notre dame has Clark said. “It happens natu-built up its expectations as rally through graduation, so a program over his 12 sea­you’ve got to make your own sons as coach. Now that the history. how are you going to Irish have built up a success-be remembered?” ful tournament résumé, they 
Still, the 2013 Irish aren’t can set their sights on bigger the first talented team to goals, including winning the play for Clark in his tenure at national championship. Notre dame. “I think the big thing is the 
In 2006, the Irish beat de-expectations,” Clark said. “I fending champion Maryland think when I arrived here, and made their first ap-we had had maybe two losing pearance in the NCAA seasons, back-to-back. We Championship quarterfinals hadn’t been to the [NCAA] before a loss to Virginia kept tourney in about six years. them out of the College Cup. The expectation is first to 
A win against Santa Clara get to the tournament. If you the following season sent make the tournament, I al-Notre dame to the tourna-ways say that’s a good year. ment quarterfinals again, That’s the first challenge. but the Irish lost to eventual then you can make the Final tournament champion Wake Four. you take it one round Forest. at a time. When you’re in the 
Clark said each team Final Four, the next goal, ob-builds on Notre dame’s past viously, is winning it.” successes. Notre dame has the right 
“I think there have been mindset for the upcoming a lot of good teams,” Clark task, Clark said. said. “It’s not like this is the “This is a hard-nosed, driv­first good team. There’s a en, focused group of guys,” pile of good teams and some Clark said. “That’s some-great victories. … We’ve had thing this team has.” good teams very close to be­ing in this position, but it Contact Samantha Zuba at didn’t fall our way. As I said, szuba@nd.edu 



CRoSSWoRD | WILL ShORTZ 


hIGhlY PUNlIKElY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 
SUDoKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 


CoNTRollED ChAoS | hILLARy MANgIAFORTE hoRoSCoPE | EugENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Simon helberg, 33; Felicity huffman, 51; donny Osmond, 56; dame Judi dench, 79. 
Happy Birthday: Take your time getting the facts. you will be faced with confusion based on poor information this year if you don’t do your research. Change will be necessary with regard to home, family and partnerships. Set reasonable goals and stick to your plan. Letting outsiders interfere will be your downfall. Know what you want and finish what you start. your numbers are 7, 10, 13, 21, 29, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t feel pressured to make a decision regarding your position, status or advancement. Recap what you’ve done in the past and consider how you can utilize your skills to bring better outcomes. An impulsive decision will not bring good results. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you call the shots. your wisdom and charm will attract people who can offer favors and information that will help you reach your goals. A partnership will turn into a long and profitable connection. Romance is highlighted. Share your feelings. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll need discipline to finish projects that need to be wrapped up before the end of the year. Offer suggestions, but do not part with your cash. A service you can offer others will be well-received and bring in additional funds. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Concentrate on getting odd jobs finished. Preparation will make your job easier, allowing you more time to spend doing something enjoy­able. Make assessments and changes to your life and overall personal look. Plan a little romance to end your day. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A unique approach or new surroundings will feed your cre­ative imagination. Knowledge and honing your skills will spark an idea that can lead to extra cash. don’t let anyone limit what you can do. Be diplomatic but firm when faced with opposition. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Rethink your financial strategy. If you’ve been impulsive or emotional when it comes to spending, pull back and cut corners. help an older relative or friend, but don’t take over. Suggestions or physical assistance is one thing; meddling is another. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): A change at work or with a partnership will come about quickly. don’t act surprised when you should be prepared to move without skip­ping a beat. discipline and hard work will pay off. Reconnecting with an old friend should be done cautiously. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get up, get focused and accomplish everything on your to-do list. using friendly pressure to get what you want will work wonders. Social networking will pay off by introducing you to new people, places and possibilities. Love is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Enjoy doing the things that ease your stress and add comfort to your life. Stick close to home and protect what you cherish. don’t let emotional uncertainty ruin your day. Recognize an unstable situation and act accordingly. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take on whatever comes your way and you will send an impressive vibe that will help you control what’s going on around you. Visiting an inspirational place will have benefits. Make plans with someone you love. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): What you do for others will be beneficial. Personalize a job you’ve been given. Someone will recognize your talent and offer you greater stability and hope for the future. A little daydreaming will help you recognize new possibilities. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your ingenuity, coupled with insight and reliability, will be your ticket to success. It’s what you do, not what you say, that will help you get ahead. don’t let a change throw you off course. Accept the inevitable and keep moving. 


Birthday Baby: you are a humanitarian. you have vision and a persistent drive to succeed. 
JUMBlE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 



Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

MEN’S SoCCER 
Irish 


Team set 
build on 
to face 
history 
Lobos 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA By KIT LOUGHGRAN 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Notre dame coach Bobby 

Every player, coach and fan Clark has worked with some 
eagerly anticipates upcoming talented teams since he 
matchups in tournament play, started coaching the Irish in 
and the case is no different for 2001, but this season marks 
the No, 3 Irish in their race to the program’s first appear-
win the College Cup. ance in the NCAA College 
The Irish (15-1-6, 7-1-3 ACC) Cup. 
are set to take on No. 7 New The Irish (15-1-6, 7-1-3 ACC) 
Mexico in the semifinals of the entered this season’s NCAA 
NCAA Championship on Friday Championship as the No. 3 
in Chester, Pa. Notre dame’s seed and won three consecu­
fellow ACC rivals, No. 8 Virginia tive games to reach the Final 
and No. 5 Maryland, will meet Four. In a way, Notre dame’s 
in the other semifinal game. postseason run is a continu-
Notre dame’s remaining ation of last season’s unfin­
path to a national title lacks lit­ished business, when the No. 
tle in terms of opponent talent. 1 Irish lost 2-1 in double-
As Friday’s match marks Notre overtime to No. 16 Indiana in 
dame’s first ever College Cup the third round of the NCAA 
appearance, the Irish are ea-Championship. 
gerly accepting the challenges “They were very disap­
of strong opponents and tough pointed last year, and there 
potential matchups, junior for-are a lot of returning players 
ward Vince Cicciarelli said.“It’s who remember the [Indiana] ZACH LLORENS | The Observer a pretty incredible feeling for 
Irish sophomore midfielder Connor Klekota battles with Michigan State forward Tim Kreutz for a header see CLARK PAGE 14 during Notre Dame’s 2-1 victory over the Spartans in the quarterfinals of the NCAA tournament on Saturday. see OPPONENTS PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBAll 

Notre dame looks to establish streak 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Editor 
After winning its first two games of the BlackRock gotham Classic by an aver­age of eight points, Notre dame welcomes a team Irish coach Mike Brey calls “the best” of the three regional-round tournament oppo­nents when North dakota State visits Purcell Pavilion tonight. 
The Irish (7-2) snuck past delaware, 80-75, on Saturday and had trouble closing out Bryant on Monday before claiming a 70-59 victory. 
“We are playing three teams very similar that can win their league,” Brey said after Monday’s win. “I think [North dakota State] is bet­ter than the two we just played. I think they are the best.” 
The veteran Bison (6­
3) were picked to win the Summit League, receiving 25 of 28 first-place votes in the preseason poll. Four se­niors average double-figure points, including guard Taylor Braun, who leads the squad with 16.6 points per game. 
After a 1-2 start to its sea­son, North dakota State has won five of its last six games, most recently defeating Bryant, 66-62, on Saturday. Braun and senior for­wards TrayVonn Wright and Marshall Bjorklund com­bined for 47 of the Bison’s points in the victory, and the defense limited Bryant to 
41.1 percent shooting from the field. 
“They jam it in defensively and, like these previous two teams, they are older and they’ve won together,” Brey said of the Bison. “So they are coming in loose.” 
A similarly veteran Notre dame squad enters the matchup after struggling to pull away in its past two games. The Irish led by only one point with 2:09 remain­ing in regulation Saturday and held a slim four-point 
see M BBALL PAGE 12 
hoCKEY 

Second half to test ND 

Conor Kelly 
Sports Writer 

When Notre dame lined up against Merrimack on Nov. 15 in the first hockey East matchup at the Compton Family Ice Arena, it felt like an odd debut in the storied conference for the Irish. 
Coming from the re­cently disbanded CChA, No. 13 Notre dame lacks the regional ties that unite the rest of the members of hockey East, though not the conference’s rich hockey pedigree. In a league whose member schools are all in New England, the Irish must travel 886 miles to reach Providence, their nearest conference rival, without a single player from the region on their roster 
Still, early season matchups with the likes of Merrimack, Vermont, Massachusetts-Lowell, Northeastern and Massachusetts are hardly what Irish coach Jeff Jackson and athletic direc­tor Jack Swarbrick had in 


ALLISON D’AMBROSIA | The Observer 

Irish freshman left wing Ali Thomas battles past the goalkeeper during Notre Dame’s 5-3 victory over Massachusetts on Saturday. 
mind when they made the  the conference, they lack  
move to hockey East. In  the cachet of Notre dame’s  
all fairness to the afore- second-half opponents.  
mentioned teams, who  hockey East teams have  
collectively have held the  combined to win 12 total  
Irish to a 3-4-1 record in  national championships  
the first half of the season,  
good for a solid eighth in  see hOCKEy PAGE 13  





