
ThE IndEPEndEnT 


TO uncOVEr nEWsPAPEr sErVIng ThE TruTh nOTrE dAME And And rEPOrT sAInT MAry’s IT AccurATELy 
VOLuME 47, IssuE 17 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 
Jenkins’ address invokes Catholic mission 
University President shares plans to enrich community while maintaining religious identity 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news Writer 
drawing upon notre dame’s catholic mission, university President Fr. John Jenkins de­livered his annual address to a theater full of faculty at the deBartolo Performing Arts center on Tuesday afternoon. 
Jenkins celebrated the dili­gence of notre dame’s pro­fessors, deans, advisors and officials, while also calling atten­tion to the university’s progres­sive aspirations. 
Jenkins said the contribu­tions of faculty members are of substantial importance for the university’s mission. he commended faculty for creating real, tangible value through aca­demics, while reflecting upon an excerpt from the late seamus heaney, an Irish poet and hold­er of an honorary degree from notre dame. 
“Like heaney’s poetry-writing, your work as faculty is generally not strenuous physical labor, but the work of the mind and imagi­nation,” Jenkins said. “yet it is as demanding and productive as [the work of] those engaged in physical labor.” 
The university is seeking more funding to pursue its greatest aspirations, while being fiscally responsible and respecting the university’s catholic mission, Jenkins said. Among these aspi­rations are newly proposed ad­ditions to notre dame stadium, which Jenkins said are designed to enrich academics and student life. 
Jenkins said the central campus Planning Project has made great strides in planning potential stadium renovations. 
“The group has made great progress and considered the possibility of a student center ad­jacent to the stadium, buildings to house one or more academic departments and space for a dig­ital media center,” he said. 
In response to a question about 
see AddrEss PAGE 5 

NATALIE VOS | The Observer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins revealed the results of student satisfaction surveys with University faculty Tuesday. 



Lecture series honors late professor 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news Writer                                                            
Following the death of classics professor sabine Maccormack, the classics department estab-

lished a series of lectures in her honor to take place during the 2013-14 year. The lectures will 

capture subjects that interested Maccormack. Maccormack authored five books, won the Andrew 
W. Mellon Foundation’s distinguished Achievement Award, belonged to the American Academy of Arts and sciences as a member, while contributing to the study of religion and culture in colo­nial Latin America and ancient rome. 
The first lecture, titled “Learning Virtue: Aeneas, Ascanius, and Augustus,” was delivered by Keith Bradley in room 210 of McKenna hall Tuesday. 
Bradley is an ancient histori­an who specializes in the social and cultural history of rome. he said his lecture was meant to ex­plain the political and cultural context in which Virgil’s Aeneid was written. 
Bradley began his lecture by addressing the relationship be­tween the two main characters, Aeneas and his son, Ascanius, and how it pertained to the roman ideals for father-son relationships. 
Bradley said this relation­ship was characterized by a fa­ther’s duty to prepare his son for adulthood. 
“At all levels of roman society it was the father’s responsibil­ity to prepare his sons for adult life. Artisans taught their sons their skills or apprenticed them to master craftsmen to learn trades by which they might in due course earn their daily bread,” Bradley said. 
Bradley said there is a strong connection between the “leg­end” of The Aeneid and the his­tory of the roman Empire, 
“The division between legend and history was porous in roman 
see BrAdLEy PAGE 5 


Professor ties Potter series to Christ 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news Writer 
According to a philosophy professor, the harry Potter se­ries is more than just wizards, owls and house elves. 
John O’callaghan, associate professor of philosophy, de­livered a lecture titled “harry Potter and the King’s cross” on Tuesday in deBartolo hall. The lecture was the second installment of the notre dame center for Ethics and culture’s children’s Literature series. 

O’callaghan said his thesis was that the harry Potter se­ries is a carefully constructed allegory of the search for wis­dom through christ. 
he said J.K. rowling’s best­selling fantasy series reflects the conflict between the mod­ern philosophy of Friedrich nietzsche, Immanuel Kant, and rene descartes, who ar­gued that wisdom lies in the search for power, and the 
see POTTEr PAGE 3 


EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 

John O’Callaghan connected Harry Potter to Christianity in his lecture, “Harry Potter and the King’s Cross” on Tuesday. 
cusE sponsors student pursuits 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news Writer 
not to be confused with a cer­tain school in upstate new york, the center for undergraduate scholarly Engagement (cusE) offers a three-pronged approach to scholarly engagement for notre dame students. 
Programming advisor christen Klute said cusE pro­motes academic lectures on campus, funds student research and helps students apply for fellowships. 
“We use the umbrella term ‘scholarly engagement,’ and we define scholarly engagement as being engaged academically out­side the classroom,” Klute said. 
Klute said cusE has sponsored events such as “show some skin” and “nd Thinks Big.” 
“We just really try be involved in the big events on campus that are academically-minded,” she said. 
see cusE PAGE 3 


nEWs PAGE 4 VIEWPOInT PAGE 6 scEnE PAGE 8 MEn’s sOccEr PAGE 16 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: William heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du Lac and saint Mary’s college.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices POsTMAsTEr send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite scent of fall? 

Jess Freeman 
senior Off campus 
“The smell of boxing season.” 
Laura Anderson 
sophomore Welsh Family hall 
“crisp autumn air.” 
Emily Wlidat 
freshman Mcglinn hall 
“cinnamon, hands down.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Lauren Jones 
freshman 
Lewis hall 
“Pumpkin spice.” 
Katie Weiss 
sophomore 
Lewis hall 
“Apple cider.” 
Holly Bilka 
post-doctoral student 
Off campus 
“Apple pie — quite possibly the best thing ever.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

christian Myers Katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: rebecca O’neil samantha Zuba Abi hoverman Meri Kelly 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
sara shoemake Allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Ethics Cafe on Gallery Talk by Terry Cross Country Hesburgh Library Family Film: “Whisper 
Ashley dacy Tabitha ricketts 
Copyright Evans National Catholic 50th Anniversary of the Heart” O’Shaughnessy Hall Snite Museum of Art Championships Game-Day Booth DeBartolo Performing 
2:30p.m.-3:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Notre Dame Golf Course Hesburgh Library Arts Center 
Corrections 

Panel discussion Artist presents an 3:30 p.m.-6 p.m. 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 3 p.m.-5 p.m. 
The Observer regards itself as about rights and exhibition of her Multiple Catholic Pick up giveaways and English version of the a professional publication and 
obligations. photography. universities compete. keepsakes. animated film. 
strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, 
Reading: Daniel Tobin Women’s Soccer Hesburgh Library Saturday Vigil Mass Concert: Audra McDonald 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hammes Bookstore Alumni Stadium 50th Anniversary Basilica of the Sacred Heart DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Hesburgh Library 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Hear the author read Game against 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Featuring the Women’s 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

his latest work. Syracuse. Celebration kick-off. Liturgical Choir. Tony winner performs. 


CUSE 
cOnTInuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
Perhaps cusE’s most commonly known mission is providing stu­dents with grants to perform re­search, Klute said. 
“We are a campus-wide funding entity,” Klute said. “We will fund anybody and everybody.” 
cusE focuses on funding stu­dents who may not be able receive complete funding from other sources — typically, students from the college of Architecture, the Mendoza college of Business or the First year of studies Program. 
“Even though their colleges have some methods of funding available to the students, they are not quite as widely funded as the college of Arts and Letters and the college of science,” Klute said. “We really do try to make sure that everybody that wants to do some kind of research has the opportu­nity to get funding to do so.” 
cusE also helps students who will pursue some level of gradu­ate education apply for national fellowships. Klute said a few fel­lowships are available for under­graduate education. 
“Especially this year, we are trying to make a push to connect cusE with fellowships,” she said. 
“I think most people, when they think of cusE, they think of re­search, so we’d like to make much better connections there.” 
students who wish to apply for funding must have a faculty men­tor and submit a detailed project proposal. 
“We require students to submit a form that includes, first and fore­most, their research question, re­search methods, and also a detailed budget — what they want to use the funding for, specifically,” Klute said. 
Klute said she encourages stu­dents who wish to apply for fund­ing to carefully read the guidelines available at cuse.nd.edu. 
“It’s very important to us that you have all the little tiny pieces,” she said. “Tell us exactly how it is going affect your time here at notre dame academically. Tell us what you are planning on doing with the things you learn from your project, if you’re going to present at a conference or if it is go­ing to lead to a senior thesis.” 
senior Jenna Ahn, who received funding to go to Kolkata, India, this past summer said she went to a cusE grant proposal workshop when she decided to apply for cusE funding. 
“The workshop explained all of the background and necessary information needed in a proposal. The most helpful part of the pro­cess was working one-on-one with a graduate research fellow while drafting my proposal,” Ahn said. “she looked over multiple drafts and offered constructive com­ments to improve my proposal.” 
Ahn said she will incorporate the research she performed in India into her senior thesis. 
“It was a very valuable and transformative experience that continues to shape who I am to­day,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Potter 
cOnTInuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
christian and pre-christian phi­losophy of socrates, st. Augustine and st. Thomas Aquinas, who argued that “faith makes reason possible.” 
O’callaghan said the series focuses on conflict between the love of power and divine love. 
“The novels are not a tale of ordinary magic,” callaghan said, “They are a tale of extraordinary magic, exploring the tale of two loves: the love of power, which is a philosophy of domination and wealth, versus a power of wis­dom, which puts one in the pres­ence of divine love.” 
callaghan said rowling uses Latin and French terms to name characters, objects, and spells, evoking imagery of the nature of those elements. For example, when naming harry Potter’s archrival, draco Malfoy, rowling uses the Latin word for serpent (draco) and the French term for bad faith (Mal foi). Voldemort, the antagonist of the series, is a reimagining of a French phrase meaning,”will to death,” he said 
O’callaghan said many of these names and the stories that come with them are also direct­ly representative of medieval christian symbols.  For example, gryffindor, the hogwarts house harry joins at the beginning of the series, is a “golden griffin,” a mixture of a lion and an eagle, both symbols of christ, he said. On the other hand, slytherin, the house of many of the series’ antagonists, evokes the image of a snake, which he said is the en­emy of christ. 
This symbolism, callaghan said, extends to the plots of the books themselves. he said the relationship between the Philosopher’s stone of the series’ first book and the tears of the phoenix in the second are im­portant symbols because both give life to those who are about to lose it. 
The Philosopher’s stone, how­ever, gives a “technological” kind of life, one in pursuit of wealth, O’callaghan said. The phoenix gives a different message. he 
PAId AdVErTIsEMEnT 
said the phoenix, a bird that will burst into flame and be reborn from its ashes in the same way that Jesus was resurrected, heals harry’s mortal wound with its tears, giving him a more fulfill­ing kind of life. 
“genuine life, that is, genuine love, is often found more in the tears of life … than in untold riches and power,” O’callaghan said. 
O‘callaghan said harry wins in the struggle for wisdom at the end of the series when he walks to his death without hesitation and upon coming back to life, leaves behind his own dark side. 
J.K. rowling has herself con­firmed the religious parallels in her series, he said. In a news conference shortly after the re­lease of the final novel in 2007, she revealed that there had always been religious under­tones in her work, but that she had refrained from confirming them because she was afraid she would give away the ending of the story. 
“harry Potter and the King’s cross” was the second lec­ture of the four-part children’s Literature series. The third lec­ture, “young Adult Literature,” will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 15, and the fourth, “The hunger games,” will take place on Tuesday, nov. 12. 
Contact Emily McConville emcconv1@nd.edu 


ThE OBsErVEr | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 

Attorney analyzes application of constitution 
By LUCIE GORDON 
news Writer 
To celebrate constitution day on Tuesday, saint Mary’s welcomed attorney William Wilson to cam­pus to discuss the notion of constitutionality. 
The lecture, titled “The Modern Woman’s guide to the u.s. constitution,” com­memorated the united states constitution on its 226th an­niversary and interpreted it in a modern-day legal context. 
Wilson, who works at the firm Anderson, Agostino and Keller, said he specializes in constitutional issues regard­ing the First Amendment, the commerce clause and the due Process clause. Many people are unsure what it means for a law to be consti­tutional or unconstitutional, and others call any legislation they don’t agree with uncon­stitutional, Wilson said. 
“Frequently, what happens is you’ll see a news story that says ‘the supreme court or some other court has decided that a law or a policy of the government is unconstitu­tional,” Wilson said. “And great, but what does that mean? … sometimes we use ‘that’s unconstitutional’ as kind of a derogatory jab at something that we don’t like, and that has nothing to do with law.” 
Before discussing mod­ern application of the constitution, Wilson said it is important to recognize the importance of the docu­ment’s first three articles. These articles establish the three branches of the united states government and lie at the core of governmental structure. 
Wilson used the Affordable care Act to exemplify how to apply the constitution to modern times. he said the Act is constitutional despite con­cerns about its effects. 
Wilson said the Affordable care Act “seems to fly in the face of what we’ve been brought up to believe,” and appears to “challenge our nation’s democratic val­ues and freedoms.” But the constitution gives congress the power to impose taxes, which is what the Affordable care Act essentially does. 
“It says, if you don’t have health insurance, then you will pay a tax,” Wilson said. 
Wilson cited chief Justice John roberts on the topic of the supreme court’s decision to uphold the Affordable care Act. 
“‘Our task is not to decide whether the Affordable care Act represents wise policy. Our job is to decide whether it’s constitutional. … history will tell us whether it was wise,” Wilson said, quoting roberts. 
Wilson said it is impor­tant that citizens recognize the proper role of the courts and the real meaning of constitutionality. 
“We, as citizens, need to remember that the federal courts and even the state courts are not places where we can just go and say ‘that’s such a lousy idea, you ought to strike it down, it’s unconstitu­tional,’” Wilson said. “There 
“There is no part of our Constitution that says ‘thou shall not pass stupid legislation.’” 
William Wilson 
attorney 
is no part of our constitution that says ‘thou shall not pass stupid legislation.’” 
Wilson also said a continual adherence to the constitution has enabled our nation and government to remain stable. he said syria, Egypt, northern Ireland and other conflict-ridden regions exemplify the problems and instability the united states has avoided. 
Even in times of controver­sy, such as the 2000 presiden­tial election, the united states government has come out virtually unscathed, Wilson said. The supreme court’s de­ciding the election after bal­lot issues occurred in Florida could have spurred constitu­tional crisis. 
“We could have had a real constitutional crisis if [then­presidential candidate] Al gore had said ‘I don’t accept the supreme court ruling,’” Wilson said. “Al gore said, ‘I disagree with the court’s de­cision, but it’s the court, and they’re the last word.’” 
Wilson said judges and the courts are vital because someone needs to have the final say on these matters, no matter how minor the partic­ular case appears to be. 
“somebody needs to be the head referee on the field,” he said. “Our constitution means something because we as a society have decided and accepted that sometimes we have to tolerate decisions that we don’t like.” 
Contact Lucie Gordon at lgordo01@saintmarys.edu 

Wall Street Club to host internship forum 
By CRISTINA SANCHEZ 
news Writer 

Many notre dame students go from campus to Wall street each year, but this week, Wall street is coming to campus. 
The notre dame Wall street club is hosting a forum Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza college of Business to introduce students to the variety of careers available on Wall street. 
The event is open to all students, but sophomores and juniors who are looking for internships on Wall street are especially encour­aged to attend, club co-president nicole gantz said. 
seniors nicole gantz, Jenny Walsh and denver Lobo are co-presidents of the club and worked to organize the Wall street Forum. 
The event will feature pan­elists from large investment banks, including goldman sachs, Morgan stanley, deutsche Bank, citiBank, credit suisse, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and JP Morgan. 
Lobo said through this forum, the club hopes to expose students to a range of careers available on Wall street. 
“A lot of people have a miscon­ception that Wall street is only for investment banking, but there are actually a variety of other ca­reers on the street” Lobo said. 
“Our focus is to inform students about these different careers, whether they be in investment banking, sales and trading, asset management, hedge funds or pri­vate equity.” 
The Wall street Forum is one in a series of events the club will sponsor this year. 
Working closely with the Investment Office and the career center, the Wall street club will host mentoring sessions, in­terview workshops, business lectures and other networking op­portunities for students through­out the year, gantz said. 
Lobo said such events are de­signed to prepare club members for the job search process. 
“The point of these events is for students to learn how to network and get the exposure and practice of talking to potential employers,” Lobo said. “The club hopes to get students internships and full-time positions on Wall street.” 
The Wall street club, founded in 2010, also pairs underclassmen with senior student-mentors who have completed internships on Wall street, gantz said. 
“We have 30 senior mentors that are paired with freshmen and sophomores so that they have someone as a frame of con­tact who has actually done a suc­cessful internship on Wall street,” Lobo said. 
The club also connects students 
PAId AdVErTIsEMEnT 
with young notre dame alumni working on Wall street, gantz said. 
“Our database is a good re­source for students to use to reach out to alumni working on Wall street and get their questions an­swered,” said gantz. “It’s a great way to engage alumni who are currently in Wall street positions.” 
The Wall street club hopes to involve more students in its activi­ties this school year, gantz said. 
“Our primary initiative this year is to bring in as many under­classmen as possible,” gantz said. “The business school is bringing in a lot of undergraduate students and we want them to be aware of the club early on in their college careers.” 
The club’s officers are also interested in having more non­business majors join the club. “Increasingly, economics, engi­neering and science students are in demand on Wall street,” Lobo said. “We see that it’s a big trend.” 
gantz said the club is not only for those who are certain about a career on Wall street. 
“For those looking to get in­volved, you don’t have to be ab­solutely sure you want to work on Wall street,” she said. “come learn about the club and make your decision from there.” 
Contact Cristina Sanchez at csanche7@nd.edu 



sMc elects, appoints new members of senate 
it but we’re still improving and adjusting.” 
stephanie Bridges, the direc­tor of student Involvement and Multicultural services (sIMs), ad­vised the boards of the classes lack­ing senators to appoint someone from within their board, Martin said. Bridges’ familiarity with the administration’s guidelines makes her a perfect guide during the up­coming year’s ‘trial run,’ sullivan said. 
Martin said she and sullivan rely on Bridges when it comes to ques­tions of the college’s policies. 
“stephanie acts as an advisor,” Martin said. “Kat and I will go to her for anything and with everything because she is aware of policies and procedures of the college.” 
sullivan said the appointment of senators to fill the empty positions will hopefully be carried out at the first senate meeting. 
“since no one ran in the senator elections for the classes of 2015 and 2016, Maddy and I have reached out to the 2015 and 2016 class Boards. They will appoint senators within their class Board,” sullivan said. “We will have a motion to include the appointed senators at the first senate meeting. If this is approved by all voting members, then we will move forward.” 
sullivan said once the leader­ship roles are filled, senators should continue to reach out to the stu­dent body to engage their peers in the senate’s work. The meetings themselves are organized in a town hall-like fashion to encourage in­clusiveness, she said. 
“We want the senate to be more approachable so they can contrib­ute to issues more closely related to the concerns of the students,” sullivan said. “We want to commu­nicate with everyone very openly, we want to be as transparent on campus as possible.” 
she said, overall, communication between the student government and the body it represents should extend both ways. 
“We want students to be more aware of what each board does,” sullivan said. “Even the all school formal — rhA [residence hall Association] is responsible for its production but people think sgA hosts that.” 
Echoing this sentiment, Martin said sgA leaders want students to recognize the purpose of student government. 
“collectively we want people to understand the role of sgA,” Martin said. 
sullivan said her executive, non-voting role involves ensuring people carry out their designated responsibilities. she said this aspect of her job as sgA president essential during the current time of transi­tion and shifting responsibilities. 
she also said the responsibilities of all members of student govern­ment are greater relative to their counterparts at other schools due to the size of saint Mary’s. 
“Because our school is so small, we have a lot more responsibility compared to other students,” sullivan said. 
Martin said senate members have opportunities to work with high-level administrators at the college. 
“Administrators trust us,” Martin said. “I find it so cool that mem­bers of our senate are on boards that hear the intimate details of the highest level of the college’s administration.” 
sullivan said the senate has many responsibilities around campus be­yond simply allocating funds. 
“There are so many different aspects that the [senate] focuses on throughout campus, like the sophia program which specializes in academics,” sullivan said. “The new constitution even addresses changes within a senate, so if this happens again how we will handle it.” 
sullivan said that for those inter­ested in pursuing a senate position in the future, the role requires a minimum of two hours a week be­tween the senate meeting and class board meetings. 
“We added more non-voting members in addition to the execu­tive members already sitting on the senate. The purpose of the senate is to have an outside body [to] voice student needs.” 
To read the student constitu­tion online, visit the sgA Portal on Orgsync. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news Writer 
While the united states cel­ebrated the 226th anniversary of its constitution on sept. 17, saint Mary’s students worked on amend­ing theirs. 
Kat sullivan, saint Mary’s student body president, said the student government Association (sgA) is set to modify the student senate this year in the interest of transparency. 
sullivan said the senate will in­clude nine senators, who will rep­resent each student class, and the Belles connect scholars, which is a group of students otherwise un­derrepresented for socioeconomic reasons. 
“There are two members from each class either elected or appoint­ed and one Belles connect repre­sentative that will sit on the senate and vote,” sullivan said. 
The saint Mary’s senate, which has been in existence for only one year, is responsible for making sure sgA spending reflects students’ needs. Maddy Martin, vice presi­dent of sgA, said the senate decides how best to allot the budget. 
“The goal of the senate is to be cost-effective and beneficial to sMc as a whole,” said Martin. “The senate is the single voting body in student government. They act as sort of a checks and balances for the rest of the interest groups on campus.” 
On Tuesday, sgA announced the newly elected freshman and se­nior senators. Mary clair Burchett will represent the first years, while chelsea Fordon and hannah Mudd will vote on behalf of the seniors. 
The second freshman seat cur­rently remains vacant, and no one ran for the sophomore and junior class positions this year. 
sullivan said the freshman seat will be filled by appointment after a formal application process that is open to interested first years. 
Junior class president nicole O’Toole said she attributes the ab­sence of senators from these classes to a lack of understanding of the relatively new student government body. 
“I don’t think it’s a lack of interest, it’s just the second year of this pro­gram,” O’Toole said. “no one knew what it meant to be a senator.” 
sullivan said she believes uncer­tainty about the restructuring of the senate is discouraging students from participating in it. 
“People are still unsure about how the structure works. A lot of girls expect it to be like last year,” sullivan said. “We’ve reformatted 


Address 
cOnTInuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
the potential addition of sexual orientation to the university’s anti-discrimination clause, Jenkins said law mandates everything that is al­ready detailed in the clause and he saw no need to tamper with it. he also said all specific matters of dis­crimination, no matter the cause, should be brought to his attention. 
Jenkins’ address also touched upon key changes in the digital world. he said the university plans to create a modifiable website for tracking developments. he also dis­cussed the reallocation of funds to­ward engineering and the sciences to prepare notre dame students for this changing world. 
however, in an age of online courses and virtual degrees, Jenkins said notre dame must continue to offer something more. 
“I do not believe it will ever be possible to deliver the richness of a notre dame education wholly on-line,” he said. “An essential part of a notre dame education is the com­munity that comes from physical proximity, the relationships that are developed among students and be­tween students and professors, and the serendipity of critical insights through unplanned interactions.” 
Jenkins said an example of notre dame offering more than an online experience is the university’s stu­dent satisfaction statistics. 
“The percentage of notre dame seniors who report being ‘very sat­isfied’ with the ‘overall quality of instruction’ at notre dame stands at 57 percent, more than 20 points above the national average among other highly selective private uni­versities,” he said. 
similarly, 98 percent of notre dame undergraduates consistently report satisfaction. Even with this level of student approval, notre dame’s true standard of education is not easily quantified, Jenkins said. 
“Although a notre dame educa­tion makes sense in financial terms, its value cannot and should not be reduced to an analysis of our gradu­ates’ future earning potential,” he said. 
Jenkins said the moral forma­tion and social efficacy instilled in students by the notre dame experience is what ought to be emphasized. 
“As we undertake the curriculum review, we must do so with those educational ideals at the center of our concerns,” he said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey01@nd.edu 


Bradley 
cOnTInuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
antiquity, and in the Aeneid, Virgil, in some sense, was creating, or rec­reating, history for his contempo­raries,” he said. 
Bradley said the reigns of both the famous roman triumvirates and Augustus caesar form the political context in which Virgil’s epic was written. 
he said knowledge of this con­text allows the determination of the particular dates of the Aeneid’s composition. 
“An answer must contend with the poem’s relationship to Augustus, the new founder of rome with whom Aeneas is inevitably to be identified. It must at the same time restrict itself to the time of the poem’s composition. Exactly when this is unknowable,” said Bradley. 
Bradley also covered the topic of war and its influence on roman culture in classical times and on the Aeneid itself. 
Bradley said Virgil lived during a time of civil war, and this fact is prevalent in his graphic war scenes throughout the poem. he said this demonstrates how the sociopolitical aspects of roman society greatly influenced Virgil’s writing, mak­ing it possible to learn much about roman history from his works. 
In closing, Bradley said Maccormack was right to put Virgil above all other roman poets. 
“The influence of the ‘greatest roman poet,’ as sabine called him, was inescapable. That is a conse­quential fact for anyone who seeks to understand the traditions, and value the ethos, of notre dame,” he said. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 

ThE OBsErVEr | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 
What it means to be a woman 

INSIDE COLUMN 

catholicism or ‘careerism’ 

Michael Kramm 
Photographer 

recently, I picked up the sept. 12, 2013, edition of the Irish rover and spotted an editorial by Michael Bradley called, “What is notre dame really like?” Bradley argues that notre dame, from the administra­tion to the student body, has fallen into “careerism,” and is striving to compete with secular institutions like the Ivies, duke, stanford and northwestern, which is hurting its catholic community. 
According to the editorial, “notre dame won’t be able to be tops at both endeavors; it will have to commit to one at the expense of fully realizing the other.” This misses the mark completely. The first line of notre dame’s mission statement labels this uni­versity as a “catholic academic community of higher learning.” nowhere in this is the academic community downplayed to favor the catholic community. notre dame is primarily a place of higher learning that was founded upon catholic principles. 
If we are willing “to ‘lag behind’ in those metrics of success that are only fully real­ized through the establishment of an aca­demic environment inimical to authentic discernment and spiritual formation,” like the author hopes, then we are essentially going to church. hoping notre dame “lags behind” academically misses the purpose of this fine university. 
I disagree with the author’s opinion that there is something wrong with people that seek solid careers. he uses the term “careerism” to describe the apparent problem at notre dame that hurts the university’s catholic foundation. I think Bradley is off the mark once again as he assumes there is something wrong with seeking a career for money. This is not be­ing “ignorant or indifferent to the concept of personal vocation.” The author fails to realize it is okay to be here for the degree, for the catholic community and educa­tion, or for both. Many students come here to escape economic hardship by obtaining a degree and a career in which they have a high earning potential. 
Many of the countless notre dame alumni that obtained extremely high-pay­ing careers created opportunities for future generations and for the less fortunate. did they detract from notre dame’s catholic foundation, or did they use notre dame’s resources to better society? 
There is nothing wrong with coming to this school with the goal of obtaining a high-paying career. People need to provide for future families, donate to charitable causes and provide opportunities for future generations. There are more ways to ‘do good’ than by solely focusing on catholicism at notre dame. Focusing on a high-paying career while still maintaining catholic values is a terrific way to better the world around us and should not be looked down upon as hurting notre dame. 
Contact Michael Kramm  at mkramm@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Amanda Peña 
The Bubble 

Most people have seen the movie “Anchorman.” For those who haven’t, here’s a quick synopsis: ron Burgundy is a famed anchorman in san diego forced to work with a female co-anchor. Through comedic but heated competition, the plot chronicles ron’s inability to deal with a woman as his counterpart. This is one of my favorite movies, but I realized how it satirizes women’s misplacement in a male-dominated society and promotes sexual objectification. 
For hundreds of years, there has been an array of social, economic and professional barriers for women all over the world. Women in con­temporary society have made great advances beyond those barriers — like dilma rousseff, Brazil’s first woman president, and, more generally, the increasing presence of women in the workforce. I believe extending conver­sations about women’s equality and their struggles is critical to making important societal improvements for women; however, the objectification of women is, and continues to be, one of the most pressing issues facing our society, though it is not discussed as often. 
Before this gets cast aside as another feminist article, it is important to know that on every level, women are subject to discrimination and sexual harassment because they are typically seen as sexual objects, inferior and emotional. While there is some truth to the emotional argument, it does not justify the economic, social and pro­fessional inequalities posed upon us. you may get tired of hearing feminist rants for equality, but if things were truly equal, we wouldn’t need to mo­bilize movements for it. In any case, the lack of respect for women contin­ues to hinder many younger genera­tions of girls’ self-worth, confidence and ambition. 
Take the recent controversy over robin Thicke’s hit single, “Blurred Lines.” I love this song — it’s fun and catchy to listen to. however, the video and lyrics are degrading and distaste­ful. With a few naked girls strutting around in front of men in suits and ties … bring in the feminist groups. 
My argument here is, surprisingly, not the obvious one. To be honest, it is women that allow themselves to be sexually exploited. By spreading out for Playboy and disrespecting their human dignity, they make it difficult for other women to be taken seriously in the real world, about real-world issues like human trafficking and domestic abuse. We’re not all porn stars or dumb blondes or great cooks, and we shouldn’t have to look the same physically. My point is that women, like men, are unique and can offer a lot if given the opportunity to maximize their potential and not their bodies. 
gender stereotypes hinder and de­feat large-scale societal progress. It all begins, though, with the small and seemingly harmless interactions we have on the micro level. here are some personal examples. 
When I was 13, I struggled with an eating disorder after a crush made a fat joke about me to our class. For years, I felt subjected to the opinions of men regarding my sexual value. After recovering and immersing my­self in sports and fitness, I saw a shift in male attitudes toward me; I became more attractive because I was ath­letic and many guys were interested in how that translated into sexual performance. Over the last six years, I have encountered men who have shared their lust and sexual fantasies about me, my friends or other girls. Eventually (though certainly not al­ways), they got around to valuing our intellect, our passions and motives, but in general, the lot of them were more interested in sex. 
Last week, a guy I had just met in class asked me on a date to the mov­ies. Flattered, I agreed to it. Later that day, he asked me to visit him in his room, and when I respect­fully declined, he made it clear I had disappointed him and I have not heard from him since. To be honest, I couldn’t care less. But for many other girls, the attitude that women are un­worthy to date unless they are willing to put out can be damaging. 
Let’s face it: on the whole, notre dame gender relations stink. you have a lot of socially awkward kids who struggle to interact with the opposite sex without being extremely sexual or sexually repressed. The hook-up culture drives hormonal levels up and communication and values down. These kids are going to go out into the world and either add to or change how women are treated in society. 
I am not in any way implying that women’s intentions with men are not driven sexually, either. As humans, we are sexual beings who often want to explore what that means, but mass sexual exploitation and degradation make it difficult for people to under­stand or formulate a stance on what it means to be a woman. There are end­less answers, but they certainly do not include a sex object or a kitchen. 
Amanda Peña is a junior sustainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



ThE OBsErVEr | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 
Defending the CPS closings 
Adam Newman 
scientia Potentia Est 

A massive uproar and subsequent controversy resulted from the closing of 50 schools by the administration of chicago Mayor rahm Emanuel. With the chicago Public schools (cPs) running a massive $1 billion budget deficit, Emanuel has made unpopular but necessary changes for the city of chicago.
 The chicago Public schools has lost much of its student population over past decades. This has led the cPs, with a capacity of 500,000 stu­dents, to only have enrollment of 400,000. What is even more shocking is that currently 140 of its 681 schools have more than 50 percent of their seats empty. With every extra seat costing money, there is a high amount of waste in the education system that could go to pay down the deficit and be reinvested in cPs students. 
Many people believe the cPs school closings will lead to worse student performance. however, research on the impact of earlier waves of chicago school closings conducted by the Federal reserve Bank of chicago and the university of chicago produced contrary findings. researchers found that when students left a school, whether due to a school closing or a voluntary leave, their performance was depressed for a year but then continued on the expected trajectory. students in schools that received a high number of displaced students did not show any harm, either. 
It is probable, but not certain, that the changes led to better student per­formance. The same researchers sug­gest that students who relocate to a high-performing school will improve their performance. however, the “consolidated” schools that will take in displaced students are only mar­ginally better than the closed schools. The hope is that smart investments made by the city, in addition to other reforms made by the Emanuel ad­ministration, will improve student performance. 
Many accusations have been made against Emanuel for racism, as most of the closed schools are in African-American neighborhoods. In a coun­try whose past is filled with atrocious practices of racism, such as slavery, segregation and lynching, the charges of racism against Emanuel are inap­propriate. The massive drop in the African-American population is the driving reason behind the school closings. Examining census data, the African-American population in chicago declined by 17 percent over the past decade. It is important to remember that 91 percent of the cPs students come from minority families, so any school closings would likely affect minorities. If the north­ern (and more white) areas of chicago had seen decreased enrollment to the extent that the south and west sides have seen, there would have been school closings there as well.
 While many parents and teachers have passionately opposed Emanuel’s reforms, most do not offer a plan to close the $1 billion deficit faced by cPs schools, or if they have one, they do not highlight it (as it is much eas­ier to tear down someone else’s plan than advocate for your own). 
To its credit, the chicago Teacher’s union has offered a way to cover some of the deficit by raising $700 billion in taxes over 10 years. unfortunately, this plan ignores the current fiscal situation faced by chicago taxpayers. chicago has one of the highest tax burdens of any city and Illinois has one of the highest tax burdens of any state. This burden will only rise as chicago and Illinois begin to pay for unfunded pension and health care liabilities. (The city of chicago’s pension payments this year skyrocketed from $196 million to $612 million, and Illinois currently has the nation’s most unfunded li­abilities at $133 billion.) While tax increases will have to be a part of the solution, taxes should only be raised after a conscious effort to streamline government. This is neither a liberal nor a conservative idea — it is com­mon sense. 
There is no doubt that everyone wants good schools in chicago, but people still tend to oppose solu­tions because of a natural aversion to change. It is understandable why teachers and staff would oppose cuts that could lead to job losses and why parents oppose closing schools close to their homes. however, in oppos­ing these changes, they support a chicago Public school system that is broken, wasteful and badly in need of reform. some chicagoans’ lack of willingness to accept Emanuel’s re­forms reflects the saying in politics that “everyone wants to go to heaven, but no one wants to die to go there.” 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
In search of a working economy 
Robert Alvarez 
Man on a nag 

The American economy no longer works for the benefit of the nation and never will, so long as capitalism is the heart of our economic system. In theory, the stock market should be indicative of the health of the economy, but for a while now I have trained myself to tune out the news of economic recovery that focuses on the rising points of the stock market. It’s meaningless. Or at least, it is mean­ingless for the bottom 93 percent of this nation; between 2009 and 2011 (the latest available data), the bot­tom 93 percent saw its wealth drop 4 percent. In that same period, the top 7 percent — people more likely to own large amounts of stock assets — saw its wealth increase 28 percent (ac­cording to the Pew research center). For those people, a rising stock market is very good. But taking the perspec­tive of the majority here, you’ll forgive me if I disagree with the idea that the stock market is indicative of the eco­nomic health of our nation. 
This dichotomous economy has been perpetuated by the myth that what is good for the upper class is good for all classes. (And let me also end the myth that we live in a classless society. I think people know this, but whenever class is brought up, people tend to get defensive. rich people, I’m not attacking you. your wealth is not a sin. your wealth does, however, have implications for the well-being of the wider economy. I’m trying to discuss how we can remedy that.) Anyway, the idea that what is good for the wealthy is good for all is wrong. It assumes the capital accumulated by the wealthy will be reinvested in the lower classes. The investor class will invest in things in which they can foresee a return; this is true. however, wage or benefits investment is rarely seen as having a return on investment. rather, wages and benefits are usually seen as tak­ing away from profits, resulting in their perpetual minimization. 
One might respond by claiming the market pays what it can bear and this justifies vastly unequal wages. Or, worse yet, that the investors deserve to be sole beneficiaries of the profit of a company; after all, the lower work­ers have already received their wages. 
however, these viewpoints assume the market can bear only one specific wage, when in reality, the market can bear a variety of wages. Wages are largely an ethical decision. cEOs make absurd amounts of money be­cause our current economic culture finds it ethically permissible. They took the risk of investment; they get the returns. If someone is upset with his or her current pay grade, he or she should work harder to get the higher wage. however, this mindset assumes the 99 percent can become the 1 per­cent. This is impossible. The 99 per­cent exists because there is a 1 percent and the 1 percent exists because there is a 99 percent. Or, the 64 percent exists because there is a 36 percent. same idea. All players in an economy are mutually dependent upon each other. It is just that people receive wages proportional to their responsi­bility in the company; it is unjust that lower-wage employees never see the fruits of their labor (i.e., their cuts of the profit). 
This is the great immorality and malaise of our modern capitalist sys­tem: that it is permissible for one class to pursue wealth at all costs. This is not an economy that works for the 100 percent; it is an economy that works for the 1 percent and only the 1 per­cent. The current system is system­atized greed. gordon gekko might say greed is good, but I have 3000 years of ethical thought that says otherwise. 
At this point, there is a historical attack on my argument that says, “yes, this capitalism is based on greed, but this greed has also brought more peo­ple out of poverty than anything in the history of the world. Therefore, it is the best we’ve got.” True, the growth in global wealth in the past 200 years has been outstanding; this was not due to greed, though. I claim mankind benefited from capitalism insofar as it deviated from the central tenet of greed. unfortunately, due to the size and scope of our modern world, we have created a kind of structural anonymity that makes it more con­scionable to be greedy, which has lead to the exacerbation of this problem. Furthermore, this kind of historical criticism assumes on a historical basis that capitalism is the best of all pos­sible systems. This, however, is impos­sible to prove historically because that claim deals in a superlative that goes beyond the realm of history into the realm of ideals. 
Private wealth is not wrong. The pursuit of wealth is not wrong. greed is wrong. And so long as our eco­nomic system espouses greed as its greatest virtue, we will continue to live between economic bubbles with growing inequality. If we wish to have a more just and prosperous society, we must turn our eye to the common good — the good that benefits all — rich, poor and middle class. Perhaps then the American economy will be­gin working. 
Robert Alvarez is a senior political science major living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ThE OBsErVEr | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene Writer 

Five years ago, Tim Bergling was just beginning his foray into sound mixology in his basement in stockholm. Today, the now 24-year-old, better known by his stage name, Avicii, has successfully combined elements from a wide variety of genres to produce his first full-length album, called “True,” and has already topped the charts in more than 65 countries with his lead single from the album, “Wake Me up.” 
Avicii first gained international attention in 2011 with his hit grammy-nominated single, “Levels.” Featuring a vocal sample from the 1962 gospel-inspired classic “something’s gotta hold On Me” by Etta James, “Levels” influenced Flo rida’s chart topper “good Feeling” and was remixed by notable dubstep artists skrillex and cazzette. 
since then, Avicii has released a number of singles, collaborating with the likes of Madonna and Lenny Kravitz, but no project has been as expansive or 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene Writer 

Even at their most accessible, namely, 2007’s stand­out debut album “Oracular spectacular,” MgMT have always been pretty weird guys — just take another look at that title or the title of any of their other releases. On “Oracular,” the duo of lead singer and guitarist Andrew VanWyngarden and sampler and synth player Ben goldwasser pushed the envelope of modern electronic pop, and mainstream musicians have been striving to emulate this sound since. Meanwhile, MgMT have not stuck around to reap the now easy success of rehashing the music captured on that LP but instead continue to test the boundaries of their art. check 2010’s “Oracular” fol­low up, “congratulations,” for the band delving into more guitar-based progressive psych and creating a blend of psychedelic pop and crisp surf rock while experimenting with unique song structures. 
By the lead of promotional singles “Alien days” and “your Life is a Lie,” MgMT expressed they would be headed for more weirdness on their third, self-titled, LP. uncomfortable with the widespread success of their de­but, especially a handful of songs from that album, the band members have said they wanted to move away from that sound and explore more complicated music. It’s an honorable direction in which to lead. yet, with their atti­tude going into this album, the band seems like the cool kid in high school who found out everyone only liked him for his car. he decides to alienate all the people he knows, hoping to figure out who likes him for him and not just his stuff. 
The result is an uneven attempt at an art album that could have been grandiose. While select looped rhythm sections — like the bouncing beat on “Mystery disease,” the driving consistency of “your Life is a Lie” and the exciting as “True.” In a move similar to daft Punk’s with “random Access Memories,” Avicii attempts to push the borders of EdM and finds a decent amount of success. 
“True” is radically different from other EdM albums, featuring acoustic guitars, country banjos and yes, even the kazoo. It opens up with the countrified hit “Wake Me up,” which sets the tone for a rather fun album. “you Make Me,” by far one of the better songs on this album, follows this pattern. Filled with catchy piano riffs, funky synth beats and an awesome swedish vocal sample, this song has the potential to climb to the top of the charts. 
“Lay Me down” is also a notable track on this album. Featuring former daft Punk collaborator and all around excellent guitarist nile rodgers, as well as “American Idol’s” pop heartthrob Adam Lambert, the song’s star power does it justice and produces a successful sound. Another song featuring some serious star power is “heart upon My sleeve,” in which Avicii collaborated with everybody’s favorite alternative band, Imagine dragons, to create an intense, upbeat mood that wraps up the album. 
subtlety of “Astro-Mancy” — provide sparks, the album has little pacing or poise. The guitar and synth instrumen­tations pass in and out of the ear, floating like an even cur­rent: never disrupting, elevating or crashing.  Innocuous beeps and warped chords heard throughout the album rarely come together to form anything more than the notes that they are. In the same vein, the writing lacks depth — what’s being said is merely said, without feeling or emotion in either its presentation or performance. 

There are some interesting grooves and melodies, but, like the muddled vocals featured throughout, not much rises above the middle ground that the album lies in for the majority of its 10 tracks. Instead of coming off like a drug-induced kaleidoscopic lightshow, “MgMT” plays like a bothersome, tepid trip, with its standouts rooted in 
some songs, on the other hand, fail to please, includ­ing “hey Brother” and “shame on Me,” which feel rather generic and uninspired. Overall, however, this album is definitely worth a listen if you are into the EdM craze, and even more so if you are not — this seems to be the target audience Avicii is trying to find with this album, and for the most part, he reaches it. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“True” 
Avicii 

Label: PRMD Music Tracks: “Lay Me Down,” “You Make Me” If you like: David Guetta, Calvin Harris 

familiarities. The most pop-oriented songs, which MgMT claim to be working hard to get away from — namely, single “your Life is a Lie,” Faine Jade cover “Introspection” and cheeky “Plenty of girls in the sea” — contain the en­ergy, playfulness and inspiration missing from the rest of the release. Perhaps the cool kid’s car really was his most likable quality after all. 
In terms of its psychedelic approach, “MgMT” lacks the thrilling innovation of Animal collective, the instru­mentation and atmosphere of spiritualized and the clever expansion upon tradition that Tame Impala or Foxygen do so well. Though MgMT’s intentions are clearly pre­sented, they do not back them up with their music. Instead of alienating fans of their pop successes, “Electric Feel,” “Kids” and “Time to Pretend,” by making more sonically complex and difficult prog or even space rock, MgMT alienates themselves with this middling album. That’s not to say that their intentions are not worthy of applause — wanting to challenge not only themselves, but also listen­ers, with something new is noteworthy, especially when doing so on a major label. It’s just a shame that they were not as inspired or intriguing as they set out to be. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“MGMT” 
MGMT 

Label: Columbia Tracks: “Your Life is a Lie,” “Plenty of Girls in the Sea” If you like: Animal Collective, Spirtualized 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



Kevin Noonan 
scene Editor 


“The Wheels on the Bus” 
Sesame Street 
“Little Lion Man” 
Mumford and Sons 
“Girls & Boys” 
Good Charlotte 
“Rocky Mountain High” 




John Denver 
“Crash Into Me” 
Dave Matthews Band 
“Higher” 
Creed 
By VICTORIA VELASQUEZ 
scene Writer 

“My bloody thoughts with violent pace shall ne’er look back, ne’er ebb to humble love till that a capable and wide revenge swallow them up,” actor Jude Akuwudike growled, emphasizing with power each vengeance-soaked word given to him by William shakespeare in “Othello.” 
If you have ever seen shakespeare performed on a live stage, you know that its language becomes infinitely more powerful than when read from dried ink on the pages of a book (or, in this case, a newspaper). Even more experi­enced theater-goers can look forward to an inventive and poignant approach to the world’s most well-known play­wright showing at deBartolo Performing Arts center to­night, tomorrow and Friday. 
notre dame functions as the American base and first destination for the program Actors From the London stage (AFTLs), which sends a cast of five professional actors to perform and teach at colleges across the country. This week, actors Jude Akuwudike, richard neale, Jan shepher, Jack Whitam and Alinka Wright will teach shakespeare to classes ranging from psychology to public speaking and from literature to law. 
This touring season delivers to notre dame “Othello,” a tragedy which provides a riveting tale of deceit, love, trust and jealousy. “Othello” already stands prominently in shakespeare’s works as the source of his perhaps most cunning villain, Iago, and most vulnerable hero, Othello. yet there is something about AFTLs which suggests that this particular performance will stand out on stage. 

Jack Whitam, who portrays Michael cassio, said working with a cast of five with minimal props and set pieces engaged the actors’ treatment of the text.
 “What it does is it forces you to be creative in a way that you wouldn’t be if you had a full-sized cast and a big set,” he said. “What it does is that it makes it so that you have to tell the story that much clearer with the language itself, which is actually what would have hap­pened in shakespeare’s time anyway. The language it­self tells the story, and that’s what we have.” 
This dynamic quint promises to keep audience mem­bers on their toes by swapping characters in seconds with shifts in physicality and in costume. 
“For example, there’s a bit where desdemona is standing on stage, but she also plays Montano, who’s been hurt. he’s sitting there with a stab wound in his stomach, and she happens to walk into the scene while Montano is there,” Whitam said, allowing the secret to this theatrical feat to remain a mystery. 
Actors From the London stage brings another uncon­ventional aspect of theater production to “Othello.” The cast is entirely self-directed, which challenged the ac­tors and enhanced the dynamic of the show. 
“In the process of rehearsing, we were each sort of all taking the role of leadership, and it seemed to work very 
“Two Princes” 
Spin Doctors 

“I Got You Babe” 
Sonny and Cher 
“My Way” 
Limp Bizkit 
“MMMBop” 
Hanson 

“I’m All Out of Love” 
Air Supply 

“F*** the Police” 
NWA 

harmonically in our company,” said Akuwudike, who plays the title character in “Othello.” Whitam said each actor had to approach his or her character differently. 
“For the first time ever, I’ve looked at the whole, broad perspective of the show, the whole beast of it, rather than just my character and the scenes I’m in,” he said. 
The compelling cast ensures a captivating show. yet, as a tragedy, “Othello” is no bedtime story. Manipulation and jealousy drive Othello to violence, which results (spoiler alert!) in desdemona’s violent death. 
“When desdemona is killed, we wanted it to be real, … wanted people to be uncomfortable,” Whitam said. “It’s not a genteel world we live in.” 
Akuwudike said he believes the shakespearean use of language in “Othello” holds great power. “It’s got the rumble of a Beethoven symphony,” he said. 
so, prepare to be shocked. If you are susceptible to producing “water works” under circumstances of in­tense emotion, bring your handkerchief. But please, for the love of Queen Elizabeth, don’t lose it in the theater. 
“Othello” is showing this Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at the Debartolo Performing Arts Cente at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $12 for students and $20 general admission. 
Contact Victoria Velasquez at vvelasq2@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Rallying in the face of tradgedy 

Samantha Zuba 
sports Writer 
In the wake of tragedy, some­times it’s the little gestures that count. 
The Washington nationals made one of those gestures Tuesday after the shooting at Washington d.c.’s navy yard, a few blocks away from nationals Park. 
The nationals postponed Monday’s game against the Braves after the shooting, and an area near one of the parking lots at nationals Park became the central meeting place for families and friends seeking loved ones who worked at the navy yard. 
And you can bet there was an emotional moment Tuesday before the nationals and Braves played the first game of what had turned into a doubleheader. 
Vice chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff, Admiral James 
A. Winnefeld Jr., visited with players before the game and handed out blue and gold navy hats that players wore during pregame warmups. Players kept the hats on for a moment of silence honoring the victims before the first pitch. 
With a simple gesture, the nationals showed re­spect and support for their neighborhood. 
Every once in a while, we see one of these moments in sports, when everyone on the field, in the stands and watch­ing on TV stops to remember that there are a lot of things in this world bigger than sports. 
We saw it after the bomb­ings at the Boston Marathon. The red sox showed a moving video honoring the victims and the heroes from the day, and the crowd displayed “Boston strong” posters. 
Then david Ortiz gave a short but powerful speech. Whether or not you took of­fense at his use of the f-bomb, he spoke from his heart, and it was a rousing cry of support for his adopted city. 
That’s what it’s all about 
— support. sports are about coming together to support a team, and it’s pretty darn neat when teams and fans extend that support to people who are hurting. 
We saw it after september 
11th. Major League Baseball cancelled every game that Tuesday. The yankees played their next game on the road against the White sox, and fans displayed a sign in right field that read simply: “chicago loves new york. god Bless America.” 
At the first yankee home game after the tragedy, the yankees remembered the vic­tims and honored new york police officers and firefighters during an emotional pregame ceremony. It was a most heart­felt expression of remembrance and a powerful “thank you.” 
Fans unfurled banners that read “united We stand” and “god Bless America” as they waved countless American flags. It reminded everyone that sports are just one part of our culture, and there are many other things that con­nect us. 
When sammy sosa hit his 59th home run two weeks later, he circled the bases with an American flag, and every player in the league wore an American flag patch for the rest of the season. Players and fans, who had already come together for sports, united for something even more important — to say “we are a community and we stand together.” 
A year later, ball clubs con­tinued to show their respect and support by emblazoning “We shall not Forget” on their fields for games on sept. 11, 2002. 
After a tragedy, sports are hardly the most important thing. But sports teams and fans have made some beauti­fully sincere gestures over the years. 
It reminds us how people in a community can support each other. It reminds us why we go to stadiums for games in the first place — to be with our friends, our family. The people we care about. The people who care about us. sports can make that circle a little bigger, if only for a moment. 
It’s the little things that count. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


PGA 

Zach Johnson wins BMW championship 
Associated Press 

LAKE FOrEsT, Ill. ­Zach Johnson is having a september to remember, and there’s still one very big week to go. 
In one tournament, he made a 25-foot birdie putt on his final hole to earn the last spot on the Presidents cup team. In the next one, Johnson made a  bunch of big putts in the final round of the rain-delayed BMW championship for a 6-un­der 65 for a two-shot victory over nick Watney. 
next up? 

his win Monday at conway Farms gave Johnson the no. 4 seed going into Tour championship, giving him a clear shot at the FedEx cup and its $10 million prize. 
“It’s hard to grasp the last two weeks of golf,” Johnson said. “It’s not like you have to win every week to win that FedEx cup. you’ve just got to win at the right times, or play well at the right times. And I like the momentum I have for next week.” 
Johnson’s 10th career win came at the expense of Jim Furyk, who endured another dose of final-round disap­pointment. Furyk, who had a one-shot lead, has failed to win the last six times he had at least a share of the lead going into the last round. he holed a 12-foot birdie putt at no. 10 to build a two-shot lead, but played the last eight holes in 2-over and wound up with a 71 to finish alone in third. 
Furyk had to settle for slice of history Friday as the sixth player in PgA Tour history with a 59. Only three players in that exclusive club went on to win — Al geiberger is the only player to win when the 59 was not in the final round. 
“I don’t know if I used them all up on Friday and knocked them all in or what, but I just wasn’t able to get the putts to go,” Furyk said. 
Johnson wasn’t the only player who felt like a winner 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for ¿14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/ text John 281-635-2019;email john. dimpel@raymondjames.com 
FOOTBALL RENTAL: Availability for all home games. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
Monday. 

Luke donald, a member at conway Farms, was no. 54 in the FedEx cup and was on the verge of being left out of the top 30 players who advanced to the Tour championship. he ran off four straight birdies on the back nine, atoned for a bo­gey on no. 16 with a birdie on the 17th, and then saved par from a bunker on the 18th hole for a 66 to tie for fourth. That moved him up to no. 29 to get him into East Lake. 
Watney was at no. 34, and he went from playing his way into the top 30 to nearly winning the tournament. Watney closed with a 64 and was tied for the lead until Johnson made an 18-foot birdie putt out of the first cut on the 16th hole, and a 12-footer for birdie on the next hole. 
“The guys ahead of me were ahead of me for a rea­son — they’ve been playing well all year,” Watney said. “Luckily for me, I kind of pulled everything together.” 
The FedEx cup points will be reset, meaning the top five only have to win the Tour championship to cap­ture the cup. 
Tiger Woods will be the no. 1 seed, though he doesn’t go there with much momentum. Woods start­ed the final round in cool, breezy conditions just four shots behind and was nev­er a factor after missing a short par putt on the open­ing hole. he closed with a 71 and tied for 11th, seven shots behind. 
“It was not a very good putting week,” Woods said, who was coming off a tie for 65th on the TPc Boston. “It’s just one of those weeks where I just didn’t have it.” 
henrik stenson, a winner in Boston and angry enough in chicago that he snapped off the head of his driver during the final round, will be the no. 2 seed at East Lake, followed by Masters champion Adam scott, Johnson and Matt Kuchar. 
steve stricker, who played in the final group with Johnson, was one shot off the lead when he started the back nine bogey-double bo­gey. he closed with a 72, a round that cost him one of the top five seeds. 
Furyk had company in his misery. 
Matt Jones of Australia had a chance to get to the Tour championship — which, in effect, would have put him in the four majors next year — but his 8-foot birdie putt on the last hole hit the lip. That cost him a spot in the top 30. 
harris English was at no. 28 and might have caught the worst break of them all. In a driving rain sunday, he lost the grip on his tee shot and pulled it into grass so thick the ball was nev­er found. The horn to stop play sounded a minute later, and English went back out Monday morning to no. 8 to play his third shot on the par 5. he wound up with a double bogey, never found momentum and fell out of the top 30 by two shots. 
Lee Westwood also fell out of the Tour cham pionship with a poor week. 
Johnson put his postsea­son in jeopardy by skip­ping the opening FedEx cup playoff event to attend his brother’s wedding. he was at no. 27 before he arrived for the BMW championship and started the week just wanting to make sure he was in Atlanta. 
he did that and more, giv­ing him 10 wins in his 10 years on the PgA Tour. 
“I’m going to have to for­get about this week, take Atlanta for Atlanta and just play,” Johnson said. “East Lake is not conway Farms. It’s a beast. I’m just going to keep doing what I’m doing and just be thankful.” 
Johnson finished at 16-under 268 and earned $1.44 million, pushing his career earnings just past $30 million. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL  RANDOM FACTS  
Privatefor  Voice Children  and  Lessons  Adults.  Squirrels can run really quickly, as fast as 20 mph. A squirrel can survive even if it jumps from a height of 100 feet, as it has padded feet.  

574-256-9836 A squirrel can survive even if it jumps from a height of 100 feet. 


SMC VOLLEYBALL | sMc 2, TrInE 3 
Thunder rolls over Irish in five-set Belles loss 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports Writer 
The Belles powered through five intense sets of play Tuesday, before ending with a heartbreaking 3-2 loss to Trine. 
saint Mary’s (5-6, 3-2 MIAA) started slow against the Thunder (6-8, 1-3 MIAA), which Belles coach Toni Elyea said will be something she works with her team to adjust. 
“We did not take advantage of the first two sets,” Elyea said. “Trine came out on fire and we dug ourselves a huge hole. We need to play effi­ciently from beginning, mid­dle and end of the match.” 
The match began as Trine notched six straight points, before the Belles clawed back to a 25-20 set victory. The Belles coasted to a 25-19 vic­tory in the second set, but it was the third set where Trine took control. The Thunder raced to a 5-1 lead in the third set to win 25-18, and then traded points for the rest of the match to win in five. 
coach Elyea noted several standout individual perfor­mances throughout the night, including the 16 digs record­ed by sophomore outside hit­ter Kathryn hecklinski.0 
“Kathryn hecklinski hit very well this evening,” Elyea said. “she was very efficient on the outside in finding holes in the defense. We had five hitters in double-digit digs, which was fantastic. Our team did a great job reading our hitters.” 
Elyea was also pleased with the team’s defense, in partic­ular the blocking. 
“Our team did a fantastic job blocking this evening,” Elyea said. “This is the best we have done as a team.” 
The Belles will have little time to recover from this loss before they enter a veritable gauntlet with two straight games against two teams ranked no. 1 and 2 both in conference play and the country. First the Belles go against hope, whose only loss was to calvin, the next team the Belles face. 
Elyea said she welcomes the upcoming challenges. 
“We are looking forward to facing the number one and two teams in the country,” Elyea said. “We know if we can speed up our offense and play well defensively it will be a great match. We know that it will be tough but we are up for the challenge.” 
The Belles return to action on Friday, when they travel to holland, MI., to take on hope at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginnoch@nd.edu 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Website unearths recording of profane Pelini rant 
Associated Press 
If you’re a college football coach and you want to vent, there’s a short list of places where you can do it safely. 
screw it up, Big Ten coaches said Tuesday, and the com­ments can come back to haunt you. 
If coaches and players needed any reminder, look no farther than nebraska. deadspin.com this week posted a two-year-old record­ing of cornhuskers’ coach Bo Pelini profanely complaining about fans and news media. Pelini apologized and said he thought his complaints were being made during a private conversation. 
his colleagues said little, if anything, is private in their world. 
“It’s kind of like I tell our players: unless you’re in a closet, you better assume somebody’s recording you, filming you or both,” Iowa coach Kirk Ferentz said. “I guess the moral of the story is you better wait till you get home, and hope your wife’s on your side — and that’s prob­ably a 50-50.” 
some of the 12 Big Ten coaches said they were un­comfortable discussing the subject, and Michigan state’s Mark dantonio jokingly drove the point home, pointing out the very public place where big-time college football coaches live their lives. 
“Probably now would not be the time to discuss that, since I have about 150 people listen­ing to me,” he said. 
Pelini told reporters his comments were the product of high emotion, the kind that makes him human. 
“If everybody’s personal thoughts in a frustrating mo­ment or an emotional moment got out there, we’d all be in trouble,” he said. 
dantonio said that voic­ing frustrations is a necessity, even if it’s not a high-pressure, high-scrutiny profession like coaching. 
“Everybody, in anything that they do, they meet a point of frustration,” the spartans coach said. “you’ve got to be able to let that go and vent, and everybody does that differently.” 
Illinois coach Tim Beckman is the son of a former coach, dave Beckman, who worked in high school, college and pro football. dave Beckman was fired from one coaching job after a particularly tough stretch. 
That whole season, Beckman said, was hard on his family. But he learned, primarily from his mom, Pat, about how and when to voice frustrations, if at all. 
“The way we experienced it as a family was the proper way to do it,” he said. “That was a tough situation as a child, as a son. My mother was around us a lot and she helped us through it as a family.” 
Like Ferentz, Beckman said a coach’s wife is the most likely person to hear about the frus­trations of the job. 
“you don’t want to take your job home, (but) I guess your wife’s the one that hears a lot about it,” he said. 
urban Meyer has held two of the more closely scrutinized head coaching jobs in college football, at Florida and now at Ohio state. In 2010, he ripped a reporter during a Florida practice, drawing national headlines. The incident was videotaped, photographed and witnessed by a group of reporters and others. 
For he and other coaches in such high-profile jobs, there is little if any real safe, private space, Meyer said. “I don’t be­lieve there is any more, not in the positions we’re in. That’s just the way it is.” 



ThE OBsErVEr | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 

SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s seeks first conference win 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports Writer 
After a hard 4-0 loss to Alma on saturday, the Belles hope to bounce back and take on calvin at home today at 4 p.m. 
Last saturday, the Belles (2-4, 0-2 MIAA) lost 4-0 to Alma (3-3, 3-0 MIAA), which is ranked no. 1 in the MIAA. 
Belles head coach Michael Joyce said since the loss to Alma, the team has been working on controlling the pace of the game and keep­ing possession, both ele­ments the team was lacking saturday. 
“From Alma, we learned that if we don’t play our game, we are in trouble,” Joyce said. “We’ll look for a fast start.” 
Joyce said although calvin (4-1, 1-1 MIAA) has been ranked as high as no. 19 in the country this year, he believes the Belles are pre­pared to win but must do everything right in order to succeed. 
Joyce said he is looking to­ward his midfielders, soph­omore Kathryn Lueking, senior captain Mollie Valencia and sophomore Maggie McLaughlin to step up and have a great perfor­mance Wednesday. 
“We had trouble control­ling the midfield last year in our second meeting with calvin,  so these three will have to play well for us to be effective,” Joyce said. 
The Belles will host calvin for their second home game of the season. 
“Playing at home is a huge advantage,” Joyce said. 
“We’ve had five of our first six games on the road and we love our field and always are at our best on it.” 
For saint Mary’s, the pres­sure is on. currently, the Belles are placed seventh in the MIAA while calvin is placed fifth. The Belles will need to finish their confer­ence season in the top four in order to qualify for the post­season tournament. 
“Being 0-2 and looking for out first conference win is certainly motivation, but more than that, I think the team is motivated to perform our best, which we haven’t done yet,” Joyce said. 
The Belles will kick off at 4 
p.m. today at home against calvin. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 


MLB 

White sox break out of slump to trounce Twins 
Associated Press 
chIcAgO — The White sox gave Erik Johnson plenty of offensive support in the first inning to coast to his first major league victory. 
Johnson pitched six score­less innings, and chicago scored seven runs in the opening frame en route to a 12-1 win over the Minnesota Twins on Monday night. 
The White sox, who had lost six straight and 15 of 17, broke out of their hitting funk against Liam hendriks and the Twins. chicago scored a season high in runs and posted its biggest margin of victory this year. 
It was a needed boost for the White sox after they lost four straight to cleveland. chicago manager robin Ventura even gave credit to the announced 960 dogs who were in the park for the team’s dog day promotion. 
“you could say that. It’s good, I think, for the line­up to have a night like this with a lot of guys swinging the bats,” Ventura said. “If we need dogs to show up ev­ery night, we’ll go ahead and make that happen.” 
Johnson (1-2), whose con­tract was purchased from Triple-A charlotte on sept. 3, was the beneficiary of the offense. he had allowed 11 runs — but only five earned 
— in his two losses. Johnson blanked the Twins and gave up only four hits. he struck out eight and walked two. 
“It’s definitely one to re­member,” Johnson said. “It’s one under your belt, so now you can take a deep breath and go back to work. It’s nice to have that run support in the first inning.” 
After not having led since beating the Tigers 5-1 a week earlier, the White sox had six hits in the first. Alejandro de Aza and Alexei ramirez both reached base twice and scored in the inning. 
ramirez went 4 for 4 with his fifth home run and three runs batted in, and was a tri­ple short of the cycle. Adam dunn, dayan Viciedo and Jordan danks also homered. 
during their skid, the White sox scored a total of seven runs. They matched that in the first inning and equaled their eighth-inning performance against detroit on July 9 for most runs scored in a frame this year. 
It was the White sox’s high­est-scoring first inning since they had eight runs against detroit on April 21, 2002. 
“It’s always nice to get run support like that,” Johnson said. “I think for me it was getting that zero in the top of the first. That kind of set the rhythm for me.” 
hendriks (1-3) didn’t come close to a clean first inning. The rout cut off the momen­tum the Twins generated with a come-from-behind victory over playoff-contend­ing Tampa Bay on sunday. 
After rallying from a three-run deficit one day earli­er, the Twins were routed. hendriks struggled badly, extending his winless streak to three starts. 
he got only two outs against chicago and gave up seven runs, five hits, and three walks in his 10-batter outing. “I felt good in the windup. 

It marked the first time I missed a couple of pitch-the Twins allowed that many es, got some weak contact, runs in the first inning since but after that I couldn’t get the opening game of a dou-into a rhythm, I couldn’t get bleheader against Kansas into a flow. That was em-city on July 28, 1997. barrassing,” hendriks said. 
PAId AdVErTIsEMEnT 


“That’s the only way to put it. Embarrassing, disappoint­ing. I don’t know what else to say about that one.” 
Twins manager ron gardenhire was certainly ready to move on, too. 



M Tennis 
cOnTInuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
experience, especially in [former Irish] coach [Bobby] Bayliss’ last year,” Andrews said. “To win that for him was just amazing.” 
Bayliss may have retired af­ter last season, but Andrews said the team hasn’t skipped a beat under new head coach ryan sachire, a former Irish assistant. 
“It was definitely an easy change because coach sachire has been with the program for so long,” Andrews said. “he’s brought in some great assistant coaches that have made the transition easy as well.” 
The richfield, Mich., na­tive said he’s even talked with sachire about the idea of playing professionally af­ter graduation. sachire has some expertise in the field, as he played on the professional circuit for five years after his own career with the Irish. 
“[sachire] told me not to worry about [deciding to play professionally] yet,” Andrews said. “I have a lot of time to make that decision, and I need to focus on my academ­ics and my college tennis.” 
Indeed, Andrews has done a noteworthy job of bal­ancing academics with his athletic pursuits. An ac­counting major who’s been a dean’s List regular at notre dame, Andrews was named to last season’s capital One Academic All-American division I At-Large team and currently has an accounting internship lined up for next summer. 
“I’ve always really tried to focus on my academics and definitely not put them second to my athletics,” Andrews said. “I’ve always liked being a student-athlete because I felt it helped me manage my time, and it made me more efficient. honestly, I don’t think I would have done as well as I have in tennis if I weren’t a student-athlete.” 
regardless of whether his future holds a pro tennis ca­reer or an accounting job, Andrews said he would make the most of his final colle­giate season in the sport he’s been playing since he was six traveled, tennis was the one return to action at the ITA All-years old. sport that stuck with me, so American championships, 


“I lived all over the world when I got back to the states which begin sept. 28. when I was younger, in for good, I only played tennis. Mexico, Texas, England and I just stuck with it.” Contact Brian Hartnett at china,” he said. “When I Andrews and the Irish bhartnet@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS | sMc 6, sT. FrAncIs 3 
Juniors lead Belles to victory over St. Francis 
singles flights and two of home. 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

sports Writer three doubles flights to de-saint Mary’s (1-0, 0-0 feat st. Francis 6-3 in their MIAA) won four single flights The Belles won four of six first fall contest saturday at by comfortable margins, 
PAId AdVErTIsEMEnT 
including a win by forfeit at no. 6 singles for sopho­more Andrea Fetters. The Belles singles winners dropped only seven games against the cougars (2-7, 1-4 crossroads). 
Freshman hannah nichols played no. 2 singles in the first match of her col­legiate career and turned in a 6-1, 6-1 victory. nichols proved she could handle the high level of play expect­ed at no. 2 singles, Belles coach dale campbell said. 
“I think it will help her to know that she can han­dle this level, for starters,” campbell said. “she got comfortable in her singles match the further it went.” 
Junior Jackie Kjolhede also lost only two games on her way to a 6-2, 6-0 win at no. 4 singles. Kjolhede won several long points, which spurred her to the domi­nant victory and contin­ued her success from last season. 
“she knows how to bat­tle and win long points,” campbell said. “she had the best singles record last year and does a good job of adapting to the situation.” 
Juniors Audrey Kiefer and shannon Elliott joined Kjolhede in a strong show­ing for Belles upperclass­men. Kiefer won 6-1, 6-2 at no. 5 singles and partnered with Elliott for an 8-5 vic­tory at no. 2 doubles. 
Although it is early in the season, campbell said he already sees encouraging improvement from his upperclassmen. 
“It is early, but I can see maturity in the juniors,” campbell said. “having two years of experience, I believe, will show in their games, and they will know how to better prepare for competition.” 
sophomore Margaret Faller and freshman sam setterblad rounded out the victory tally for saint Mary’s with a win by forfeit at no. 3 doubles. 
nichols and junior Kayle sexton lost at no. 1 doubles, but campbell said the com­munication from his dou­bles pairs encouraged him, especially this early in the season. 
“Audrey [Kiefer] and shannon Elliott did a nice job at no. 2,” campbell said. “hannah [nichols] and Kayle [sexton] at no. 1 had no previous practice together, as our no. 1 play­er [senior Mary catherine Faller] was not able to play on saturday. They played well together for a first match with little practice. The communication has been great so far with our team.” 
saint Mary’s will host an Alumnae Match on saturday at 9 a.m. before its last competition of the fall at the MIAA Flighted Tournament on sept. 27-28 at hope college. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


ThE OBsErVEr | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 

Football 
cOnTInuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
cierre Wood to carry the ball while Atkinson was the third option. riddick and Wood combined for 1,659 yards. 
Irish prepare for Cook 
Michigan state (3-0) will come into notre dame stadium with a settled quar­terback in sophomore connor cook after initially tabbing fifth-year senior Andrew Maxwell the starter in the preseason. 
cook will provide another test for the Irish defense with his legs. In three games (and two starts), cook has rushed for 70 yards on 15 attempts. 
The Irish have struggled with mobile quarterbacks this season, allowing 65 yards to Temple’s connor reilly and 82 yards to Michigan’s devin gardner. Both quarterbacks led their teams in rushing against the Irish. 
Kelly said a dual-threat quarterback adds an extra di­mension to the offense. 
“There’s a lot more to the dual quarterback, obviously; his ability to make something happen obviously on the run is a lot more difficult, and it changes some of your calls considerably,” Kelly said. “you know, with his ability to run the football, you have to pro­tect your defensive linemen, too. you can’t let them just be by themselves.” 
In the 2012 regular season, the Irish allowed quarter­backs to rush for an average of 
3.6 yards per game. 
“Look, when it gets down to playing quarterbacks that can make plays, it also comes down to the ability to stay in coverage, too,” Kelly said. “Because if they are elusive, they are going to make some of these big guys miss. We’ve got to do a great job with sec­ondary contain, which we have and we will, and we’ve got to do a good job of staying on body and coverage.” 
Kelly said freshman quarter­back Malik Zaire could move to scout team to help simulate mobile quarterbacks. 
Day, Zaire updates 
sophomore defensive line­man sheldon day will practice tomorrow, according to Kelly. day had a sprained ankle and Kelly said he was in a walking boot Tuesday. 
Zaire has been cleared by team doctors, he tweeted on sunday evening. he was out with mononucleosis the first “he learned his lesson rela-the stove and we’ve managed three games of the season. tive to what is information that, gotten through it.” 


Kelly said Zaire was in good that needs to stay within standing with the doctors but the program,” he said. “he Contact Matthew DeFranks not necessarily with him. learned his lesson. he touched at mdefrank@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
cOnTInuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
situation,” clark said. “he is a tremendous goal keeper, ... and he proved that with his first save.” 
On the ensuing Irish at­tack, the ball was sent for­ward in front of the 18-yard box, went off a Michigan de­fender and came to shipp, who then made a cut and buried the ball in the lower left corner past Michigan junior keeper Adam grinwis to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. shipp said with the Irish not playing as well as they have been, he needed to come through and to capitalize on opportunities. 
“I think tonight we weren’t exactly firing on all cylin­ders, at least compared to how we have been playing,” shipp said. “I just wanted to step up and make a couple of big plays when we were hav­ing an off night. It is a sign of a good [notre dame] team to not play their best, and come away with a 3-0 win over a good team in Michigan.” 
sophomore midfielder Evan Panken added an insur­ance goal in the 25th minute of the first half for his second career goal and second on the season. senior defender Luke Mishu carried the ball up the right flank on the at­tack to the end line. Mishu waited and then chipped the ball into the six-yard box. The cross went off of grinwis’ hands to the head of Panken, who hit the ball into the open net. With the goal, Panken has now scored in back to back games. he net­ted his first career goal in the 3-0 victory over syracuse on Friday. 


“Panken is a hard-working guy that gets in and does a terrific job,” clark said. 
In the 42nd minute of the second half, senior forward Leon Brown came off of the bench to put away any hope of a Michigan comeback. shipp, with the ball at mid­field, placed a through-ball to Brown, who split two de­fenders and placed it calmly in the lower right corner to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. It was Brown’s fourth goal on the season, all of which have come off of the bench. clark said that is what Brown does for the Irish. 
“Brown has been coming on in the second half and scoring goals for us,” clark said. “Long may it continue.” 
With the win, Wall earned his third shutout to match his total shutouts from last season. 
Wall made eight saves on 12 Wolverine shots, while grinwis made five saves on 19 total shots. Overall, the Irish defense has given up only two goals on the year. 
The Irish next play at Boston college on saturday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | WILL shOrTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrIsTOPhEr BrucKEr 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hILLAry MAngIAFOrTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM grOuP 

HOROSCOPE | EugEnIA LAsT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: nick Jonas, 21; Alexis Bledel, 32; Amy Poehler, 
42; Mickey Happy Birthday: Take action to ensure you are in the loop where you can influence the outcome. don’t look back or give in when you have a goal to reach and a timeline set. Attitude will lead to success, so don’t dawdle when you should be sprinting. unleash intensity and passion, and your confidence will lead you to your destination. your numbers are 5, 8, 13, 23, 13, 31, 9. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A personal overhaul will boost your confidence. Take the initiative to be current and aware of new technology or skills that can help improve your status or position. Efficiency, moderation and consistency will help you win support and favors and avoid complaints.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Weigh the pros and cons. don’t believe everything you hear. An overrated point of view will take you off course. get the facts and make an accurate assessment. rely on your ability and talent, not someone else’s. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Time spent doing a good job will convince others to give you more responsibility. sharing ideas will motivate you to move faster so you can begin projects that excite you. re-evaluate your situation, and you’ll find a way to fulfill your dreams. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): uncertainty is prevalent. Try not to get into a discussion with someone looking for a commitment. you are best to keep looking at your pros­pects and researching the pros and cons of what’s being offered and what’s expected of you.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let a disagreement explode into a serious emotional encounter. use your ability to negotiate and find a solution. changes due to added responsibilities will help you repair damage done to your reputation if you step up and do what’s required. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Enjoy life, friends and whatever is happening in your com­munity. Taking a diverse approach to whatever you do will lead to good fortune and help you get past any obstacles you meet along the way. Work at improving important relationships.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep life simple and avoid situations that have the poten­tial to backfire. stick to the truth and show emotional and physical support to those you care about. how you are treated now will depend on what you have done in the past. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): distractions must be avoided. Protect your interests and your lifestyle. An innovative approach to improving your personal life emotionally, physically and financially will bring excellent results. don’t allow anger or resentment to stand between you and your goals. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do what you can for others without expecting anything in return. Paying it forward will result in life-altering changes that will help you improve your attitude and bring about positive options that can improve your financial and domestic situation. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put partnerships first. Be precise regarding what you want. don’t leave anyone guessing, or an unexpected occurrence will leave you in an awkward position. Focus on accomplishing the next to impossible and leave a good impression.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotional issues will arise if you let jealousy or pos­sessiveness take over. size up your situation based on what others do and say, and make an unexpected change based on past experience to rectify any negativity you encounter.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): secrecy or meddling will stand between you and your goals. There are profits to be made and friendships that will develop if you are open, honest and willing to make the first move. A promise could lead to love. 


Birthday Baby: you are dependable and take control. you are informative and strong-willed. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT And JEFF KnurEK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 notre dame, In 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

Address 

city      state Zip 

ThE OBsErVEr | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 | ndsMcOBsErVEr.cOM 
FOOTBALL 

Five’s a crowd 
Irish experiment in backfield as five talented running backs vie for playing time 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
no. 22 notre dame’s depth chart lists four running backs for two spots and according to Irish coach Brian Kelly, get used to it. 
during Tuesday’s weekly press conference, Kelly said the Irish (2-1) will continue to rely on a multitude of run­ning backs on offense. In its win over Purdue on saturday, notre dame had four different running backs notch a carry, with junior cam Mcdaniel’s 16 carries and 56 yards lead­ing the way. 
On the year, three Irish backs — Mcdaniel and fel­low juniors Amir carlisle and george Atkinson — have at least 18 carries each and have combined for 371 yards. 
Kelly said the Irish have five backs that can contrib­ute to the notre dame of­fense (Mcdaniel, carlisle, Atkinson, and freshmen greg Bryant and Tarean Folston). 
“We haven’t been able to get five on the field,” he said. “I think we’ve gotten three on the field. We’re still I think in the process of trying to evalu­ate our freshmen, as well, and we have not been able to get into the ideal situation to do that, primarily because we have had to deal with so many pressure fronts and so many times where we are calling our backs back in to protect. 
“It has not been the best proving ground for some freshmen running backs. hopefully, as time moves on, we’ll be able to do that.” 
In college football, many teams have shifted toward a running back platoon. Each of the last five national champi­ons have relied on some form of a multi-back system. 
“I think across the country, that singular back, that one guy, has not been able to fit all the things that you want to do offensively,” Kelly said. “I think the position has now required a guy that is multi dimensional, and it’s better to find that maybe in two or three different backs.” 
Kelly mentioned multi-running back systems at sEc powers Alabama and georgia from last year as examples of the trend. Alabama used Eddie Lacy and T.J. yeldon game, while georgia relied Last season, the Irish looked to rack up 248 yards on the on Todd gurley and Keith toward Theo riddick and ground against the Irish in the Marshall to churn out 2,144 Bcs national championship rushing yards. see FOOTBALL PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, MIchIgAn 0 
Irish rebuff Michigan 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports Writer 
Michigan came out strong Tuesday evening, hoping to catch the no. 2 Irish off guard, but senior midfielder and captain harrison shipp netted an early goal in the fourth minute to lead notre dame (3-0-2, 1-0-1) to a 3-0 victory. 
Irish coach Bobby clark said notre dame was able to take advantage of opportu­nities despite not playing its best against the Wolverines (1-2-2, 1-1-1). 
“It was a funny game,” clark said. “We got goals and we got chances, but it was perhaps our poorest playing display on the year so far. you have to give Michigan credit for that; they kept in the game even though they lost goals. I was a little dis­appointed in that, and I think the boys were too. But we dominated on chances and deserved the win.” 
The Wolverines pushed the ball forward aggressive­ly in the first two minutes and had a solid goal-scor­ing opportunity off of a cross from the right flank. The ball was tipped in the box and came to Michigan sophomore forward James Murphy, who put the ball on net, but Irish senior keeper Patrick Wall made a sprawl­ing save to keep the score at zero-all. 


clark said Wall kept the Irish in the game with that save. 
“If that goal goes in, it changes the whole 
see M sOccEr PAGE 14 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Andrews sets big goals as senior 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports Writer 
notre dame senior greg Andrews has seemingly done it all in his college tennis career. 
Achieve a national rank­ing? check. 
reach the ncAA singles championship? Affirmative. 
Win Big East Player of the year? he’s done that, twice. 
But the no. 1 singles player for the Irish admitted he still has a lot more to accomplish. 
“Obviously, I haven’t won any ncAA champion­ships, I haven’t been an All-American,” Andrews said. “There are always things I can keep striving for.” 
Andrews will look to achieve his remaining goals in his final season at notre dame. As one of four seniors on the squad, he will also play the role of leader for the young team, which has seven underclassmen on its roster. 
“I try to lead by example,” Andrews said. “I just try to do the right things and bring my best to practice every day. I hope the young guys see that and realize that’s the key to success.” 
success has been a constant theme throughout Andrews’ career at notre dame. In ad­dition to his two-time con­ference player of the year crown, he reached the round of 32 at last season’s ncAA singles championships, and he’s ascended up the nation­al rankings to reach his cur­rent spot as the no. 31 college singles player in the country. 
yet Andrews said his fa­vorite victory with the Irish came as part of a team tri­
umph  in  April’s Big East  
champion ship.  
“[The  Big  East  

championship] was a great 
see M TEnnIs PAGE 13 






