The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 31 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘My brother’s and sister’s keeper’ 
Students, staff discuss prevention, detection of mental health issues 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor 
Editor’s note: This is the second installment in a three-part series discussing mental health at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in recog­nition of national Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
saint mary’s junior molly smith said she first experienced depres­sive episodes during her sopho­more year of high school. 
since then, she has been fight­ing to get better. 
“i think this summer was a big point where i realized if i wanted to feel like i was living and not just existing, i had to really work on the issues that were keeping me sick,” smith said. 
smith’s struggle with mental health started with depression and anxiety but grew to include an eating disorder in which she restricted food intake, she said. 
“looking back, [the eating dis­order] was kind of a coping mech­anism to the depression,” smith said. “i think in hindsight, i didn’t really see how much the depres­sion and all of that were control­ling my life.” 
smith said she underwent in­patient treatment during win­ter break of her freshman year at saint mary’s. her subsequent fight to stay well had its ups and downs, she said. her eating dis­order resurfaced during october of her sophomore year, and her health spun downhill again. 
“it was a lot harder than the first time,” smith said. “i think [it was] kind of the rock-bottom point of me figuring out that i really need­ed to address this head-on.” 
see healTh PAGE 5 

MARISA IATI | The Observer 
Saint Liam Hall houses the University Counseling Center, a resource for students struggling with mental health issues. This week is Mental Illmess Awareness Week. 


clc talks sexual assault 
Observer Staff Report 
campus life council (clc) met monday afternoon to discuss sex­ual assault prevention. 
dr. bill stackman, Title iX dep­uty coordinator and associate vice president for student services, said the committee on sexual assault prevention (csap) woull refocus its efforts based on an internal review conducted last year. The group plans to work to increase education about the definition of sexual misconduct and what ac­tion should be taken after an inci­dent, he said. 
stackman addressed the federal mandates regarding sexual as­sault that affect notre dame. The university must educate the cam­pus about procedures and respon­sibilities, and respond to reported incidents within 60 days, he said. 
after evaluating the records of his Title iX presentations to the notre dame community since 2010, stackman said five cases in­volving graduate students pointed 
see clc PAGE 5 



Bishop celebrates Red Mass for lawmakers 

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 

yesterday was a red-letter day, as members of the university community, particularly, the law school community, celebrated the traditional red mass in the basilica of the sacred heart. 
bishop Kevin rhoades of the diocese of Fort wayne-south bend presided over this year’s it­eration of the annual red mass. he said the mass is a long-stand­ing church tradition that in­vokes the aid of the holy spirit for people in law-related vocations. 
“The red mass is a tradition that goes back to the middle ages, the 13th century,” rhoades said. “it is called ‘red’ because the priest or bishop wears red vest­ments, red being the color of the holy spirit. The purpose is ask­ing god’s blessing and guidance on those in the legal profession.” 
rhoades said each year, the red mass and his homily are dedicated to a specific topic rel­evant for catholics in the legal profession and civic office. 
“last year i talked about the injustice of the [health and human services] mandate and religious freedom,” he said. “This year, the topic is the meaning of freedom and what a culture of freedom is. True freedom is root­ed in moral truth.” 
The red mass is celebrat­ed worldwide each october, rhoades said. he said he presides over two red masses each year, one in Fort wayne and one in the basilica of the sacred heart. This year’s mass was his fourth at 
see red mass PAGE 3 


professor contests o’reilly’s portrayal 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 
on the oct. 2 show of “The o’reilly Factor” on Fox news, host bill o’reilly butted heads with notre dame theology professor candida moss over her critical review of his bestselling book, “Killing Jesus,” in The daily beast. 
The segment introduced moss as a theology professor who argued that Jesus was a socialist. 
“but here’s the thing: i’ve never ar­gued that Jesus was a socialist,” moss told The observer earlier this week. “Then they pulled this tweet that i had re-tweeted from someone else, and they wanted me to defend it.” 
moss said she regularly writes for The daily beast, using humor to “in­ject humility into the conversation.” she said her review of “Killing Jesus” mostly criticized o’reilly’s historical methodology. 
see moss PAGE 3 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What superhero did you want to be as a child? 


Rocio Suarez 

Itzxul Moreno 
freshman 
freshman 
regina hall 
mccandless hall 
“batman.” 
“pocahontas.” 
Theresa Siver 
junior le mans hall 
“spiderman so i could hang out on the ceiling.” 


Katie Nickol 
junior 
le mans hall 
“wonder woman!” 
Nikki Charter 
junior le mans hall 
“captain america because who needs gender sterotypes?” 


Anna Fanelli 
junior le mans hall 
“batman.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

ann marie Jakubowski sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Katie mccarty aaron saint-miller haleigh ehmsen henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher allie Tollaksen maddie daly 
Photo 

wei lin               Viewpoint Snite Salon Series Reading: Rachel Blau Film: Elena Mindful Meditation Domer Run 
austin Taliaferro               Snite Museum of Art DuPlessis DeBartolo Performing St. Liam Hall Legends 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. McKenna Hall Arts Center 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 9 a.m.- 11 a.m. Collegial art exchange 7:30 p.m. -9 p.m. 7 p.m. -9:30 p.m. Part of Stress Buster Run to raise money 
Corrections viewing with follow-up Award winning poet Winner of the Cannes Fridays: The Art of for local cancer discussion. and feminist critic. Special Jury Prize. Mindful Relaxation. awareness. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for 
Men’s Soccer Jory Vinkour concert The Snite @ Nite Mobile Summit Hot 8 Brass Band 
the highest standards of journalism at 
Alumni Stadium DeBartolo Performing Snite Museum of Art Eck Hall of Law DeBartolo Performing 
all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 7 p.m. - 10 p.m. 9 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Arts Center a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-The Irish take on the 7 p.m. -8:30 p.m. Celebrate fall Notre Dame holds its 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m. 4541 so we can correct our error. Maryland Terrapins. Harpiscord concert. exhibitions. 2013 Mobile Summit. New Orleans music. 


Experts discuss Pope’s impact 
By JACK ROONEY and RACHEL RAHAL 
news writers 
in light of pope Francis’s recent, extensive interview in “america” magazine, groups at notre dame and saint mary’s hosted sepa­rate panel discussions monday to discuss the pope’s comments and their impact on the catholic church and on the faith lives of students. 
The notre dame discussion was hosted by campus ministry and titled “what did he just say?! pope Francis unfiltered”. The panel fea­tured Theology professor Fr. brian daley, s.J., Kathleen cummings, director of the cushwa center for the study of american catholicism and Tim o’malley, director of the notre dame center for liturgy. 
The saint mary’s panel featured sr. veronique wiedower, vice presi­dent for mission, phyllis Kaminski, professor of religious studies, sophomore sofia piecuch and se­nior haley Koth. 
at the notre dame panel, the group offered general thoughts on the impact of pope Francis’s inter­view before opening the discus­sion to audience members, giving particular focus to the role of the media in the church and Francis’s papacy. 
daley, a Jesuit priest, said he thought Francis’ mission as pope would not be centered on doing such interviews. 
“i think giving interviews will not be the way to [accomplish Francis’s goals]. some of these have been good, but it’s time now to kind of quiet down and do some other things,” daley said. 

o’malley said interviews are still important, but they do not play as large a role as the media seems to believe they do. 
“interviews don’t renew the church,” he said. “if interviews changed everything, necessarily, then barack obama would have solved the congressional problem by now.” 
o’malley said pope Francis con­tinually emphasizes that the re­newal of the church must occur in the “existential margins.”      
 “what he’s saying is stop worry­ing about how i’m going to change the curia, and if you want the re­newal of the church, go to the ex­istential margins,” 
o’malley said. “The renewal of the church doesn’t occur, as Francis is very clear in this inter­view, solely through hierarchical structures.” 
cummings said she believed the interview marked the beginning of a reform movement led by pope Francis. 
“i think my biggest takeaway from it, as someone who is inter­ested in what this portends for the future of the church, is that pope Francis has made pretty clear … that he is preparing the faithful for a fairly significant program of re­form, and he’s tipped his hand in the interview toward that in a vari­ety of ways,” cummings said. 
cummings said one of the ways 
paid adverTisemenT 

in which pope Francis suggested this reform in the interview was with regard to the role of women in the church and the need for a “pro­found theology of womanhood” that the church currently lacks. 
at the saint mary’s panel, piecuch said it is valuable to think of the church as a field hospital, taking care of all. 
“This is a call to take time to truly listen to people,” she said. “The church is meant to bring us together rather than divide.” 
“pope Francis’ message is very uplifting, one that calls for healing and seeks love and refuge.” 
wiedower said Francis’ vision of the church emphasizes solidarity with the poor and marginalized. 
“my initial feeling about this in­terview was one of hope, ‘mustard seed’-type hope,” wiedower said. 
daley closed the notre dame panel by saying the interview must be understood in a context of love, and that while pope Francis still believes in the rules and doctrine of the church, these rules and be­liefs must be grounded in a posi­tion of love. 
“The important thing about them is not that they’re rules, but that they embody a love that god has given to us,” daley said. “and so i think getting your priorities straight is really part of the rheto­ric of this and what [pope Francis] wants to communicate.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu and rrahal01@saintmarys.edu 
Moss 
conTinued From page 1 
“he does a really fantastic job of incorporating details from roman history and contemporaneous events into his account, but it’s re­ally a novel,” moss said. “he doesn’t know what herod is thinking when herod is looking through a window. and he doesn’t really take a critical view of the gospels.” 
moss said she also criticized some smaller factual errors, such as misinformation about the ancient palestinian tax structure and Jesus’ position towards caring for the poor. 
The content of the pre-interview in preparation for the segment didn’t relate to the content of the actual in­terview, moss said. 
“They asked me what i thought about bill [o’reilly] and the holy spirit, they asked me some of the details of the review about the book, they asked me about obamacare,” she said. “Then they did mention that they would ask me about the sentence [in my review] about Jesus providing free healthcare. that did make it into the televised interview.” 
This was the sentence: “There’s no mention of the free health care offered by Jesus and his followers or the insistence that the wealthy give away their possessions.” 
This wasn’t moss’ first foray into television, having worked on seg­ments for cbs news and national geographic, but it was the first time she met o’reilly. 
“it was an intimidating situation, and it didn’t help that i had written a critical review. i would say i have seen him be more antagonistic,” she said. “For bill o’reilly audiences, once you put the word ‘socialist’ on 


Red Mass 
conTinued From page 1 
notre dame. 
red masses often attract promi­nent members of the legal profes­sion and politicians, rhoades said. me`mbers of the united states supreme court attended the red mass held in washington, d.c., this past week, and the governor of pennsylvania used to attend the red masses over which rhoades presided when he was bishop of harrisburg, pa., from 2004 to 2009. 
rhoades said various judges, lawyers and civic officials from the area joined professors, law students and undergraduate students in the basilica for yesterday’s red mass. 
his homily focused on current world issues relevant to the topic, as well as the teachings of st. Thomas more, patron saint of lawyers and statesmen, and the “rich teaching of soon-to-be st. John paul ii.” 
more serves as a powerful ex­ample of a faithful lawyer whose dedication to truth serves as an ex­ample for catholics in the legal pro­fession, rhoades said. more died defending the freedom rhoades spoke of in his homily. 
“more’s faithfulness to the truth led to his being beheaded,” rhoades said. “he was really a mar­tyr of freedom and conscience.” 
rhoades said he referenced the writings of blessed John paul ii in his homily because the late pope had a great deal to say about free­dom and truth. 
the screen, i probably didn’t have much of a shot.” 
moss said she has received mixed reviews of her performance on the show. 
“i’ve gotten a lot of strongly-word­ed emails, and i think that’s evi­dence that a lot of people care about this subject,” she said. “i’ve gotten some supportive emails, though, and seeing what people are saying tol[o’reilly], i can’t really complain about the things they are saying about it. 
“it’s not just me; it’s insight into what’s it like if you have a public voice on something as controver­sial as religion“ i try not to google myself.” 
moss, who studied at the university of oxford for her under­graduate years and did her gradu­ate studies at yale university, will fly back to new york today to continue coverage with Fox news. 
“[o’reilly] did give me the last word. and he doesn’t always do that,” she said. “i think that if some­one had written a negative review of my book, i would have been more antagonistic toward them.” 
moss said a lot of her criticism would not have been necessary if o’reilly had categorized his book as a historical fiction novel. 
“it’s really well-written, it’s really an engaging read,” she said. 
“if you wanted someone who has a right-wing political figure to write you a historical imagination of Jesus, this would be the book to read. if you wanted to read about the histori­cal Jesus, i would recommend John meier’s ‘a marginal Jew.’” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
“he wrote on this theme quite a bit, and i have reflected often on his teachings,” rhoades said. “he taught that freedom can lead to a lot of trouble if not rooted in moral truth.” rhoades said he values the mass as a chance to meet, advise and pray for the notre dame law community. 
“[The red mass] gives me an op­portunity to meet law students and law professors, and to encourage them in living their faith in their profession,” he said. “There are ex­cellent scholars here who help the church, so it’s good to come here and pray for them.” 
notre dame’s red mass has al­ways been sponsored by the law school, but last year the political science department joined in, and this year the constitutional studies minor has followed suit, rhoades said. 
it’s been a positive development in the last year,” he said. 
in his homily, rhoades said he believes the current and future leaders of law and civil service in at­tendance can work to ensure moral truth is part of a shared notion of freedom in the united states. 
“you can help to rebuild the mor­al foundations of a genuine culture of freedom,” he said. “i believe the future of our nation depends on a culture that adheres to the moral truths and values without which our democracy is imperiled.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Health 
conTinued From page 1 
‘A common struggle’ 
smith’s battle with mental health issues is far from uncom­mon. between 6 and 12 percent of college students nationwide seek counseling services, according to the 2012 executive summary report of the association of university and college counseling center directors. 
dr. susan steibe-pasalich, director of the university counseling center (ucc), said the top five reasons students sought services at the ucc during the 2012-13 school year were anxi­ety, depression, family concerns, romantic relationships and atten­tion deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
Two factors contribute to the development of a mental health issue, steibe-pasalich said. 
“There’s a predisposition to­ward mental illness — a genetic, biological disposition — and then there are environmental factors,” she said. “both things need to be present for you to develop a men­tal disorder.” 
notre dame psychology pro­fessor gerald haeffel published research about a risk factor for depression, called “cognitive vul­nerability,” in the journal clinical psychological science last spring. he told The observer in may that cognitive vulnerability is a style of thinking about events that can be passed from one person to another. a person’s cognitive vulnerability can predict future depressive episodes. 
haeffel said last week it is dif­ficult for most people to identify their levels of cognitive vulner­ability, but they can notice when their moods are abnormally negative. 
“you may not be able to com­pletely pick up on what dial of thinking you have, but you can pick up on when you’re feeling a little down,” he said. 
‘Engage in self-care’ 
notre dame senior Zoe Jimenez said she struggles with anxiety. when she realized her stress level was constantly high, she sought counseling at the ucc. 
“especially on this campus, it’s hard to figure out when your high levels of stress are not just regular … because all of us are very, very stressed out all the time,” Jimenez said. “[i realized my stress levels were extreme] when the anxi­ety started to seep into other as­pects of my life, rather than just academics, [and] when i couldn’t stop thinking about work and the things i had to do while hanging out with friends on weekends.” 
students can take steps to de­crease their stress levels, Jimenez said. 
“whether or not you think your level of anxiety or stress is normal, if it’s not desired, … you can do things to help yourself out 
— like running, exercise, yoga, meditation, praying, going to daily mass,” she said. “These are all little breaks from life that we all need.” 
steibe-pasalich said students should also take other measures to preserve their mental health. 
“engage in self-care,” she said. “allow yourself to have good social support systems, good friends, people that love you and you love back. … [also helpful are] letting yourself be vulnerable to others, giving up perfectionis­tic ways of thinking and ideas.” 
‘A community that cares for each other’ 
students should work to be active bystanders with regard to their friends’ mental health, steibe-pasalich said. 
“The whole idea is that you would not just stand by and let a crisis happen, but that you would intervene in an active way to help somebody to get involved in pre­venting an emergency situation,” she said. “it’s sort of [the] ‘i am my brother’s and sister’s keeper’ idea, that we are a community that cares for each other.” 
steibe-pasalich said if a friend’s behavior seems radically differ­ent than usual, the student might be facing a mental health issue. 

“your friend who suddenly iso­lates or stays in their room and stops going to class and doesn’t go to the dining hall anymore, that could be some manifestations of depression,” she said. “or some­body who has extremely exces­sive energy and hadn’t been that way, but suddenly they’re up all night painting their room or run­
“I think the best thing you can do is just be patient with them and ... express to that friend that you’re there if they need anything.” 
Molly Smith 
Saint Mary’s 
junior 
ning around the lakes, and they just go … without sleep for more than 24 hours, that could be a bi­polar disorder manifestation. 
“so any real change or very unusual or bizarre behavior, you might suspect that there’s a problem.” 
helping a friend who has a mental health issue is tricky but important to his or her well-be­ing, smith said. 
“i think the best thing you can do is just be patient with them and … express to that friend that you’re there if they need any­thing,” smith said. “obviously, if it gets to a situation where you feel like something bad may hap­pen, … you do need to try to talk to them. and if they’re not will­ing to do it, maybe talk to an ra [resident assistant] or something, because it’s important that they get help.” 
Jimenez said friends should help each other to stay healthy by participating in relaxing activities together. 
“if you have a couple hours, leave campus, because a huge part of this is the environment and how stressful it is,” she said. “a lot of times, people need to exit a situation to stop feeling stressed out about whatever is happening in that situation.” 
steibe-pasalich said if the situ­ation seems serious, however, it is appropriate to ask the friend if he or she feels suicidal. she said it is myth that using the word ‘suicide’ will put the idea in someone’s head. 
if a friend does feel suicidal, steibe-pasalich said to bring him or her to a rector, an ra or the ucc. 
“i think direct and straightfor­ward is the most courageous way to [approach a friend],” she said. “[you can say] ‘i really care about you, and i’m concerned about how you’ve changed, and i think you need to talk to somebody — more than just us, more than just your friends.’ 
“or, ‘let’s call and make an ap­pointment for you right now,’ so you’re doing it right with them. it’s also good if you can use very specific examples about behavior you’re concerned about with your friend.” 
‘Fighting to get better’ 
ryan murphy, a notre dame senior, said he struggled with ob­sessive-compulsive disorder dur­ing his senior year of high school. he became extremely anxious all the time, was hyper-observant about his actions and refused to eat certain foods because he be­lieved they were unclean. 
murphy said receiving coun­seling for his illness taught him to challenge the stigma against therapy. 
“i think one of the biggest problems on campus … is that people tend to think that mental health issues are ‘These are bro­ken people, and these are normal people,’” he said. “and that’s not the case at all. … everyone is sus­ceptible to anxiety, compulsions, depression, … just like everyone’s susceptible to the common cold. 
“you’re not broken, that’s the thing. you’re feeling something that is part of a normal human condition that can be helped and can be controlled.” 
a student who is worried about how he or she feels can call the ucc to share concerns, steibe­pasalich said. students can also attend one of the center’s “let’s Talk” sessions, which are 15-min­ute, walk-in consultations the ucc hosts three times a week in locations around campus. 
smith said people at notre dame and saint mary’s are will­ing to help students in need of support, as long as students make them aware of their needs. 
“if you need a friend to help you do that, find one of your close friends who can help you,” she said. “ras are great for that, too. 
“The easiest thing to do is to not say anything and to just try and pretend like it’s not a prob­lem, but that’s, at the same time, the worst thing you can do for yourself. everybody deserves to feel good about themselves and to be able to enjoy and take what they can from their college ex­perience, and you can’t do that when you’re sick.” 
students should not quit trying to get better when the going gets tough, murphy said. 
“There is someone out there to help you,” he said. “There is al­ways a way to get better, always a way to improve your life.” 
smith said it is important that a student struggling with mental health issues believes he or she deserves to feel better. 
“if you don’t feel good about yourself, you don’t see a need to address these kinds of things,” smith said. “you don’t really think you deserve it. 
“people should know that no matter who you are, what you’ve done, where you’ve been, you de­serve the help. and you deserve to feel good.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
CLC 
conTinued From page 1 
to a need for him to address this population. because three cases involved international students, stackman said he has spoken with international student services (issa). 
clc members questioned stackman about elements of his presentation, including the university’s usual practices, the email reports of sexual assaults and long-term strategy. one of the council members said she wanted to know the number of guilty ver­dicts that arose from the 24 cases considered last academic year. 
stackman said eight of the cases did not go to investigation. of the 16 investigated cases, he said the majority of accused persons were found guilty. Five of last year’s 24 cases involved athletes, stackman said. The cases were reported by coaches and trainers, and he said only one of the five athletes was a male. all of the cases involved two people who knew each other. 


paid adverTisemenT 
cruz’s conservatism 

INSIDE COLUMN 

a “huh” moment 

Haleigh Ehmsen 
news writer 

after reading pulitzer prize winner leonard pitts Jr.’s recent column in The miami herald about pope Francis and the controversy his actions and state­ments have caused, i find this a very relevant topic as a student at a catholic college, but even more, as just a human being. 
pope Francis has recognized the dig­nity in every human life and urges oth­ers to do the same. he has washed and kissed the feet of prisoners, women and non-christians. he also has insisted on carrying his own bags and cooking his own dinner. such relatable human tasks have caused people to awe at his simplicity and to wonder why a figure with so much authority would bother with the seemingly mundane tasks of everyday life. 
certainly, washing people’s feet isn’t an everyday task, but i think the point is to recognize Francis as a normal human being. maybe our perception of “holier than thou” comes not from the fact that he is the head of the catholic church, but rather from the fact that he is humbling himself before others. stating that he is a sinner, too, has sur­prised people. why? aren’t these things all a part of being a christian? These are issues that pitts’ column brings up, and i think it is a very interesting point. 
we are called to serve others, to live simple lives and to love our neighbors. yet while pope Francis is doing these things, he is gaining a lot of media cov­erage. and while a lot of media sources have focused on the pope’s actions, it’s not necessarily his actions that we should consider, but rather, our own reactions. are we surprised that some­one so esteemed can relate to ordinary people? i think that reaction says a lot about our expectations of authority fig­ures, especially in the catholic church. i’m not exactly sure what it says, but it’s what my professor of communica­tion studies, dr. helen ho, would call a “‘huh’ moment.” we sit and think, “huh?” and then wonder why our perception of christianity causes us to hold authority figures within the church to a different standard than we hold other leaders. 
saint mary’s hosted a panel discus­sion monday about pope Francis’ papa­cy and how his actions and views affect what it means to be catholic. The panel included two saint mary’s students and two faculty members. hopefully, this discussion helped members of our community better understand the pope’s vision for the church and why his actions have caused controversy. so, let’s have a “‘huh’ moment” and think about pope Francis as a human being. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 

For someone who so clearly wants to be president, you would think sen. Ted cruz would know a little more about how presidential elections are won and lost. 
you would think the former debate champion would know that winning votes in a republican-dominated state like his Texas is strategically different from winning votes in this bipartisan country of ours. 
you would assume the well-educated lawyer would know presidential elections are won and lost at the mar­gins, with victories and defeats coming at the hands of independent voters who shift between parties from one election to the next. 
you would think the man who cites ronald reagan as his political idol would have a firmer grasp of the ways in which the great communicator appealed to a wide range of americans, not just the extreme wing of his party. 
Talking about the government shutdown on cnn on sunday morning, cruz said democrats’ jabs against republicans in congress are an indicator that republicans are “winning the argument” among the american people that “obamacare isn’t working.” 
what cruz fails to understand is that whenever the shutdown ends, it will never be looked back upon and seen as the argument over obamacare. The task of de­funding and repealing obamacare was never going to be accomplished through a sloppy game plan pieced to­gether by a handful of irrational republicans that tried to sabotage the federal budget. 
repealing the president’s health care law is an objective that requires a well-thought out strategy executed over several months. 
whether or not the cruz-led wing of the republican party is on the side of most americans (who disapprove of the president’s health care law) is irrelevant when those same americans see republicans as more blameworthy for the shutdown than democrats. 
This isn’t to say democrats or president obama are off the hook in the current national embarrassment. polls also make clear americans blame both parties for the shutdown. and why shouldn’t they? The current strategy being pursued by extreme republicans with regard to obamacare may be ill-advised, but the “i won’t negoti­ate” approach favored by the left has never been a mark of sound leadership either. 
if there’s one thing the current government shutdown reaffirms, it is how clueless congress and the president are about what americans expect from their leaders. 
The point here is that the faction of the republican party linking obamacare to the federal budget has picked a fight that should not have been fought. most frustrat­ing of all for republicans, it’s coming at a time when the republican party should be making gains among voters. americans’ overall disapproval of the health care law puts republicans in a prime position to win congressional seats in 2014, if only the extreme wing would show a little patience. 
it’s as if Ted cruz is the rookie quarterback who inserted himself in the game and started throwing hail marys against the team with the worst run defense in the league. The other team doesn’t have to stop your running back when you continue to chuck it down the field and try to win the game in a single play every time you get the ball. 
advocates of cruz and his political allies will point to that faction of the republican party and laud them for being true conservatives, for taking a principled stand against what they see as a bad law. 
The problem is, when principle confronts a political impossibility, principle won’t get very far. 
with two-thirds of the elected branches of the federal government controlled by democrats, obamacare is not going to be eliminated by a republican party faction’s principled stand. it may win republicans some victories in the country’s overwhelmingly conservative districts, but it is certainly not the type of approach that is go­ing to attract the majority of moderate voters and send a republican to the white house in 2016. 
william F. buckey, Jr., the american political writer, once said conservatism “takes into account reality.” 
For someone who so clearly wants to be america’s next great conservative president, you would think Ted cruz would’ve received the message. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Liquid food can’t fill your heart 
Jon Schommer 
viewpoint columnist 

one of my housemates has a sub­scription to new scientist magazine. we’ve been getting it since the sum­mer. old copies have found their way into our couch cushions, desks, book­shelves, coffee tables and the wheeled plant holder in our bathroom. 
since i spend at least some portion of my day in the bathroom, i’ve found myself reading about frogs with thorny moustaches, north Korean volcanoes and many other interesting occur­rences on a daily basis. The other day, however, i came across an article that was most troublesome. 
as i was relaxing on my porcelain throne, i read about a new drink that, allegedly, provides one with all the nu­trients of a normal meal. supposedly, this liquid can completely replace food. 
i then pictured the library full of messy-haired, baggy-eyed students staring blankly at their lcd screens and mumbling into a plastic bottle of liquid-food. after reading over their class notes for the 16th time, they down the last milliliters of fluid and toss the empty bottle in the small plastic moun­tain growing by the recycling bin. i saw a world without food. we were liberated from the oppression of three square meals and flossing — delivered to the promised land of met deadlines and ever increasing productivity. 
although my imagination got a little carried away, i don’t think my worries were completely unfounded. sometimes it seems like amidst the deadlines, events and lectures that saturate our schedules, we forget that we are human. we get bits of food stuck in our teeth. we use toilets. we spend some part of a 24-hour day in a com­pletely vulnerable state — eyes closed, mouth drooling and limbs unfurled. This is important. 
it can be easy for us, especially as students, to be consumed by our end goals. whether it’s a perfect gpa or sim­ply getting a paper turned in on time, it is second nature for us to justify cut­ting back on sleep and turning up our intake of caffeine without any remorse. i’ve found myself, many times, avoiding conversations with friends or ignoring my mom’s phone calls because i need to finish an assignment. Just last week, i tried to eat lunch while doing a problem set and skimming a book before class. This liquid-food is made for people like me, the over-committed student. 
i have heard many friends recite the mantra, “school is most important.” while our actions may reflect this idea, in reality, it is simply not true. we are not primarily students. we are primarily people. we have a differ­ent set of necessities than those that are purely academic. we require more nourishment than the daily recom­mended vitamin and calorie intake. 
simply put, liquid food can’t fill your heart. 
as some of you may know, i live in a house where the members try to live intentionally. To us, this means we try to be loving in our actions to each other as a community and to the other com­munities of which we are a part (school, city, clubs, etc.). This year, one of the ways we do this is by sharing meals. 
eating with others is a really surpris­ing thing. all seated at the table, we are brought to the same level. we get to see the humanness of everyone’s grinding teeth and growling stomachs. whether you are with best friends or worst en­emies, you have something in common: you must eat to live. This commonality fosters more honest conversation. 
during the day, it is easy to only speak in small talk. but at the table, there is space to share something deep­er. For example, when chris cooks, we learn about his love of his hometown new orleans and about his childhood meals. when we use food from our garden, we may talk about hopes for next year’s crop or come up with new ideas for meals. These seedlings of con­versations then grow into blossoming thoughts, worries or joys that we’ve been silently pondering throughout the day. 
These moments make the extra effort of cooking, dishwashing and schedule compromising worth it. The table be­comes the space where friendships are strengthened and people are accepted for who they are. This is something that we all need as people and some­thing that time-saving liquid-food can’t provide. 
i’d like to conclude this column by inviting you all to share a meal. a group of students have reserved space in geddes coffeehouse this Friday for fellowship and food. we’ve invited campus musicians and poets to create a nice coffeehouse setting from 2 to 7 p.m., and then we will eat supper at 
7:30. sorry, we won’t have any bottled liquid-food. but coconut-ginger-but­ternut-squash soup, lemon garlic kale sauté, toasted cashews, apple cinna­mon crumble, vanilla ice cream and honest conversation will be there in abundance. 
Jon Schommer is in his fifth-year studying civil engineering and the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be contacted at jschomme@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Rethinking football 
Lisa Taylor 
viewpoint columnist 

my first college football game ever was a hot, sunny day in early september. i was sitting with my new pasquerilla east friends that i’d met during Frosh-o, all of us wearing The shirt proclaiming, “we are the Fighting irish.” i remember hearing the booming of the giant purdue drum, the roar of the crowd, the bold notes of the notre dame victory march and the good-humored laughter after the fourth quarter pun. i remember seeing a sea of green bodies and fists pump­ing, football players smashing into one another and cheerleaders casually flying through the air. The energy of the student section rose up tangibly, all of us yell­ing “we are nd” and “go irish.” everyone united to celebrate being together as a community to watch an exciting game at the university of our lady. 
while my knowledge of and appreciation for the actual game of football has increased dramatically since that game, my favorite part about football season is this aspect: seeing the way football brings people together. whether we win or lose, we cheer together and we know that there is something special about notre dame football. we often have a mediocre year, but notre dame students come back each year with unfailing enthusiasm and hope. 
however, last weekend during the home game versus oklahoma, i was shocked by my fellow students. please forgive the following use of profanity, but here are some of the comments i was surrounded by during the game: “F**k brian Kelly,” “you f*****g fat piece of s**t,” “Kill him,” “i want to waterboard the s**t out of them,” “F*****g f*****s,” “Tear his acl,” “what a p***y,” and “F*****g c**k-sucking piece of s**t.” i saw drunken and high students stumbling around, dropping people while doing pushups. one classy peer of mine repeatedly made mastur­bating hand motions at the players on the field and tried to fight multiple other students in our section. when a friend of his tried to usher him quietly out of the game, others insinuated that they were gay, chanting “i shower with my dad” and “a**hole” repeatedly until more fights almost broke out. Frustrated with the hate and violence, i looked around only to find the entire student section waving their arms and chanting “kill.” 
This might have been an exceptionally bad game, but let’s examine more deeply the messages behind these horrible comments. “p***y:” degradation and objec­tification of women. “c**k-sucking” and “f****t:” poorly applied messages of hate directed at the lgbT community. “Fat piece of s**t:” contemptuous discrimina­tion against certain body types. and the reference to waterboarding: a blatant, unadulterated endorsement of torture and discrimination against non-ameri­cans. in the year 2013 and at a university of highly-educated, intelligent students, how do these messages of hate still exist? and how do they find their way into a football stadium? 
some might say we should wave aside such comments as the drunken bluster of excited fans. i disagree. language is performative, directly creating reality. when we yell out, “That’s so gay,” as an insult, we give negative meaning to the concept of homosexuality. when we describe women as “p***ies” or compare them to a model of a car (a male friend of mine once described his search for a girlfriend like his classy new car), we reduce them to objects and fail to see their full hu­manity. and when we casually invoke concepts of torture in our daily life, we create social space for violence and condone impunity. The personal is political, and the comments i heard during that football game implicitly impose norms of white, heterosexual patriarchy. language matters, so we have to stop these com­ments if we ever want to live in a more human world. 
let’s pull it together, notre dame. let’s bring back the true spirit of foot­ball: energetic encouragement, positive community and fervent chants of “go irish.” let’s have our hearts get caught up in the proud playing of the notre dame victory march, and let’s sing the alma mater at the end of every single game, regardless of outcome — because we love our lady and we support this community.
  Lisa Taylor is a senior studying political science. She can be reached at ltaylo13@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

i have been anticipating this album for months. seeing st. lucia open for fun. last summer brought the group to my atten­tion, and, along with that show, a great ep solidified them as an early first-day, can’t­miss act at 2013’s governors ball music Festival. 
There, amidst the misty beginnings to a downfall that would later make randall’s island a mudslide for the en­tire weekend, the band’s performance of then-unreleased “when the night” lead single “elevate” brought a few rays of sunshine through the clouds. an undeni­ably danceable track, the song honored its name and beautiful hook and lifted the crowd away from the current weather conditions. 
The band enveloped courageous fes­tivalgoers in sweeping synth melodies, four-on-the-floor rhythm and strong, smooth vocals. For the rest of that muddy weekend, the song kept returning to me; the band had done their job of gaining recognition through the early timeslot to perfection. 
now, the brooklyn-based st. lucia re­leases its debut studio lp, “when the night,” to open ears and itching feet. 
“when the night” approaches synthpop in a traditional manner, putting the voices of founder and main-contrib­utor Jean-philip grobler and keyboard­ist and backing vocalist patricia beranek on display at a level equal to the shining instrumentation. it’s the type of angelic attitude toward music that’s expected of a previous member of the internationally traveled drakensberg boys choir school. 
in this proclaimed “post-chillwave” 2013, grobler could have just as easily augmented vocal samples, chopped up and battered the group’s own contribu­tions, stuck it underneath thick reverb and heavy, distorted walls of sound and created a recognizable indietronica re­lease. however, his respect for his craft helps bring the album a starting point for celebration. 
meticulous production throughout the record impeccably captures an ar­ray of fluid moods, from the haunting “september” to the uplifting “elevate,” and the somber “all eyes on you” to the optimistic, bright “closer Than This.” The instrumentation does a similarly proper job at building a backdrop for the songs to play against, notably in jungle-y, fal­setto “wait For love” and wispy, nostalgic “The way you remember me,” with its welcomed saxophone feature. Floating, unattached percussion timbres accom­pany often-pulsating synth lines and bass beats in a way that’s somewhat detached from, yet properly suited for, the higher-register, pure vocal work. 
The ambient sonic levels that some of the songs eventually end up navigating in, seamlessly fading from theme-repeat­ing, concluding melodies sprinkled with horns to this gazing atmosphere recalls long, warm summer nights in the tropics. while the songs dissolve into this spa­cious region, rather than outlasting their welcome, the extensions are encouraged. 
This is the sound that embodies the evening on the beach you didn’t want to end, so you fought sleep for as long as pos­sible only to be left in a daze of semi-co­herence. and instead of waking up to the disappointment of the next morning, the next day’s party has already started in the form of the following song on the album. or, in the case of the strained closer, title track “when the night,” the final min­utes punctuate the entire album before it, lending to another listen while leading back into the aptly named title track “The night comes again.” even at 55 minutes, the album beckons to be played in full once more, and the nostalgia hits as hard as the lush waves of synth riffs just start­ing up again. 
unfortunately, the one main issue with “when the night” is more about the lo­gistics than about the music itself. nearly half of the tracks featured on the album, five of 11, were already released either as singles or as part of the band’s ep. These songs are some of the strongest, but while their inclusion is good for the album, there’s no attempt at reinterpretation here. Knowing this, st. lucia could have capitalized on focusing the newly record­ed songs to coincide tighter thematically with the previously released tracks. 
still, considering “when the night” as a proper full-length debut, this gripe is slight. st. lucia puts together a re­markably infectious collection of songs representing grobler’s — and his co-con­spirators’— affinity and ability to produce swirling, moody synthpop. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“When the Night” 
St. Lucia 
Label: Neon Gold/Columbia 
Tracks: “Elevate,” “Closer Than This,” “September” 
If you like: College, Washed Out, Passion Pit 


By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 

bright and early saturday morning, downtown south bend exploded into a loud, lively party as thousands gathered for the color run, otherwise known as the “happiest 5K on the planet.”  unlike most 5Ks, this event is anything but a race. Focusing on happiness and health, the color run is a laid-back, untimed 5K that includes a colorful surprise — paint is thrown at the participants throughout the race so that by the end, they are literal­ly covered head to toe in color.  The start­ing line is a mass of white while the finish line is a tie-dyed mob with paint cover­ing everything in sight, making quite the scene for random passersby. in fact, on our drive home, my friends and i were sitting at a stop light when the car next to us rolled down the window and started snapping pictures of us. hope those don’t end up on Facebook; we looked a bit scary with our purple and blue faces. 
The color run began in 2012 and has visited cities all around the world, giv­ing everyone a chance to join in on the fun and happiness. equipped with a dJ, registration tents, food, water and plen­ty of merchandise, the color run tour is a 5K, rave and festival combined into one.  each runner receives a registration packet full of temporary tattoos, a white T-shirt, a white sweatband, a bib num­ber and, of course, a bag of paint. made out of corn starch, the dye is actually a powder but somehow manages to stick to everything it comes in contact with. during the 5K, volunteers toss the pow­der onto runners as they pass by certain points. after we ran through the first round of color-throwing, we had yellow “paint” on our shirts, in our hair and all over our shoes. by the end, we had it on our eyelids, under our fingernails and in our ears. in fact, you could literally “taste the rainbow,” since after each round of color the only air to breath and taste was colorful powder. i’m still trying to scrub the blue off of my hands and get the pink streaks out of my hair, even after two showers. 
once again setting it apart from ordi­nary 5K races, the color run is a “for-prof­it” company.  unlike the susan g. Komen walk for the cure, the hunger walk 5K and the mara Fox 5K here on campus, the color run does not benefit any spe­cific charity but instead functions like a traveling, profiting company. however, the color run sometimes does partner with local charities as they move loca­tions. in the case of south bend, the color run teamed up with make a difference michiana, a resource that connects vol­unteers with non-profits, and memorial children’s hospital to raise awareness about both organizations. The color run also donates a portion of its profit to the partner charities after the race and gives runners and volunteers the option to del­egate some of the money raised to the partner charities as well. so, although the race is primarily held just to be a part of a trendy new phenomenon and the regis­tration fee (which depends on when you register and if you’re running solo or as part of a team) pays mostly for a morn­ing of fun and a free T-shirt, at least a little of the profit goes back to the south bend community. 
For a race that has become more and more popular on college campuses, i was surprised at the small student population present. granted, a percentage of par­ticipants were students from notre dame and saint mary’s, but the majority were families and children. i guess the 7:30 
a.m. on a saturday race registration time was too early for sleep-deprived college students. 
even though i was running on only a few hours of sleep, the race had a unique way of making everyone present hap­py simply for being alive and together. between the music, the crowd and the overwhelming amount of paint, every­one was brought together for one big, family-friendly party. The conclusion of the race included dance-offs, more color, free stuff and a peppy dJ, giving everyone a huge energy boost, no mat­ter how tired or worn out they were from the run.  everyone looked ridiculous with color covering their faces and clothes, but that’s what made it so fun. with the com­petition aspect removed, the color run serves as a feel-good, stress-free event for people of all ages. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


Marisa Iati 
assistant managing editor 

when the stadium janitor in every notre dame student’s favorite movie tells rudy ruettiger he’s five-foot-nothing, i can relate. 
The janitor may have been hyperboliz­ing about rudy’s height, but i’m not exaggerating when i say i am literally five-foot-nothing. luckily for me, i’m not trying to walk onto the irish football team. 
still, life from the low end of the height spectrum can be amusing. 
someone dropped an earring between the dresser and the wall? guess who has to crawl behind the bureau to get it? 
my local community theater is put­ting on “The wizard of oz”? it’s pretty predictable that i’m going to be cast as a munchkin. 
and you can bet my parents sometimes pretended i was three years younger than i actually was so as to avoid paying adult admission prices to amusement parks. 
most of the results of being five-foot­nothing have been harmless. but some­times, things that my short stature brings upon me are frustrating. 
well-meaning restaurant hosts brought me children’s menus long after i passed the 12-year-old cutoff. blood boiling, i 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

“‘melophobia’ is the hatred or fear of music,” cage the elephant’s frontman matthew schultz has been quoted say­ing. “i’ve always read of musicians that couldn’t stand their own music or the sound of their own voice. now i under­stand that. To critique something to the point you literally can’t do it anymore. To literally go crazy from it.” 
schultz illustrates the tenuous ap­proach to “melophobia,” the third album from the bowling green, Ky., rockers. “melophobia,” released today, takes the band in an unprecedented direction, shifting from the raw, aggressive tones that marked their two previous releases toward a more refined, organic composi­tion that still retains the band’s signature unrelenting energy and high ambitions. 
The shift in sound is not all that shock­ing, considering the intensity with which the group has been touring since their first, self-titled album was released in 2008, hitting almost every festival imag­inable. with “melophobia,” cage the elephant has finally settled down and given themselves the opportunity to re­flect upon their work, which has resulted would proceed to make a big show of or­dering a full-sized meal off the regular, adult menu. The waiters and waitresses were typically unfazed, but hey, at least i salvaged a tiny bit of pride, right? 
Then there was the time two years ago when a man in a cracker barrel asked me how old i was. “i’m 19,” i told him truth­fully. The man guffawed. “you’re not 19! There’s no way.” um, thanks, sir. i beg to differ. 
other times, being super short is just awkward. 
let me tell you about my first slow dance: First of all, these occasions are uncomfortable enough in and of them­selves. Then the level of discomfort builds because i am inherently awkward. add another 50 or so awkwardness points due to my being five-foot-nothing, and you’ve got yourself just about the most hilariously embarrassing situation you can imagine. 
“do you want to dance?” 
“um.” i glance around in search of someone who can intervene and save me from the discomfort that is about to descend upon me, but no one is paying attention. “sure, i guess.” 
eloquent, i know. 

we do the awkward maneuvers typical of people who have no idea how the heck to position their arms or where they’re supposed to look. 
in a largely successful album that pushes rock music forward into uncharted terri­tories. For this record, the band says they stopped listening to recorded music al­most entirely to avoid outside influences and allow their own inherent style to come through. 
This focus on style is immediately apparent from the album’s lead track, “spiderhead,” kicking off with a grungy opening that transitions into smooth lyr­ics, rocking riffs and an absolutely radical chorus. This song shows off a lighter, more fun side of cage the elephant that was not as readily apparent in the band’s second album, “Thank you happy birthday.” 
next on the album is “come a little closer,” which alone could be enough to sell the album. This lead single has a smooth, mellow sound about it that is just about perfect. 
one of the best songs on “melophobia” is “Telescope,” a totally unanticipated song from the band that brought us bru­tally raw hits such as “in one ear” and “aberdeen.” it gives off an almost david bowie-esque psychedelic vibe, filled with slower, cosmic sounds that send the lis­tener off to a far and distant galaxy. The lyrics dig into the soul, showing just how much this band has grown since their 
i learn the answer to that second part when i find myself staring up at all six-foot-whatever of this boy, who finds him­self staring down at all five-foot-nothing of me. i’m craning my neck way back as if i’m trying to stare at the spot directly above the top of my head. 
predictably, the dance lasts about 30 seconds. 
my eyes start shifting around — aimed at the floor, at the ceiling, at anyone in the vicinity who might be able to extricate me from the situation. i giggle nervously. Finally, i pretend to be fascinated by something my friend is doing on the other side of the room, and i make a break for it. 
let’s just say i haven’t found myself par­ticipating in a slow dance since then. 
on the bright side, some aspects of be­ing small have served me well. 
like any logical five-foot-nothing fe­male, i chose to adopt basketball as my sport of choice. For seven years, i played in a local recreational league. (some of my teams weren’t half bad, but trust me, i claim credit for exactly none of our success.) 
after one hard-earned win, i walked over to the bleachers, where a teammate’s father intercepted me. “you know, i didn’t expect much when i saw you head out there because you’re so short,” he told me. “but you surprised me. you’re a speed 
start just a few years ago. 
The band also teamed up with The dead weather’s singer allison mossheart to record “it’s Just Forever,” which ex­plodes with dark, gritty energy that is a nice boost of intensity after the two pre­vious more mellow tracks. The chaotic piano riff ends this track perfectly, sum­marizing mossheart’s insanity in the song just right. 
other notable tracks include “Take it or leave it,” a smooth, reggae-inspired bal­lad that really highlights bassist daniel Tichenor’s awesome bumping beat. “halo” is sure to be a fan favorite, with classic, steady distortion that progresses nicely with solid transitions. The song is very upbeat but has dark lyrics, a jux­taposition that it is absolutely cage the elephant. 
“Teeth” is definitely the curveball track on this album. it’s a rambunctious, riotous throwback to the craziness in past songs such as “indy Kidz” and “Judas.” when schultz asks “are you into the beat?” the answer is a resounding yes. The second half of this track is especially unique, with schultz delivering the lyrics in a poetic fashion that is undeniably awesome. 
“melophobia” closes with “cigarette daydreams,” a fun way to end the album. 
demon.” 
darn straight, i thought. but i didn’t say that. i just thanked him and proceeded on my way. and if you question how proud i was in that moment, well, i remember it to this day, don’t i? 
someone had doubted me, and i had proven him wrong. There may be no bet­ter feeling. 
eventually, i had to realize that i’m al­ways going to be five-foot-nothing, and that won’t change, no matter how much milk i drink. (sorry, mom, but i no longer buy into the myth that i’ll grow if i get more vitamin d.) 
i’m always going to have to wear heels in order to see over the pulpit when i cantor at my home parish. 
i’m always going to have to deal with the occasional instance of someone almost running me over because he couldn’t see me. 
and i’m almost definitely going to avoid slow dances for the rest of my life. 
i’m five-foot-nothing. 
but i’m five-foot-nothing full of integ­rity, compassion and guts. 
i mean, i guess i can live with that. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The acoustic guitar is a nice contrast to the rocking distortion of the rest of this eclec­tic collection, while the light piano carries the listener off into a blissful sunset. 
if you’re a long time listener of cage, “melophobia” may initially feel slightly confusing at first because it is so radically different from their previous works. but the album is definitely worth the listen for fans and first time listeners alike because this is where the group has finally defined themselves, polished their style and re­fined their creative strengths, pushing the rock genre into daring new frontiers and explosive uncharted territories. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Melophobia” 
Cage the Elephant 
Label: RCA Records Tracks: “Telescope,” “It’s Just Forever” If you like: The Dead Weather, Silversun 
Pickups 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Breaking in to the Boys Club 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
i’ll give david pollack this: maybe erin andrews shouldn’t be added to the new college football playoff committee. 
For those of you who weren’t watching “‘college gameday”’ on saturday morning, pollack, a georgia linebacker-turned-espn­commentator, took is­sue with the news that former secretary of state condoleezza rice will likely be one of the people charged with selecting the four teams that will play for the national championship in the college Football playoff. 
when pollack’s fellow anchors asked him if his insistence that committee members be former college football players meant that no women could sit on the committee, he told the na­tional audience, “you said that. … i’ll say it.” 
unfortunately for andrews, her pointed re­tort on Fox sports’ pregame show (“i’m female; thanks for having me in college football”) was undercut by her prediction of a maryland win over Florida state. (The seminoles went on to thrash the Terps, 63-0. prognostication is a tricky business.) 
but even if andrews couldn’t pick an acc game to save her life, she is correct on one count: there are peo­ple who have never played a down of college football who can correctly identify a good football team. and some of those people are female. 
pollack is far from the only one who has said otherwise. Former auburn coach pat dye also says rice couldn’t possibly be up to the job, telling a birmingham morn­ing radio show, “all she knows about football is what somebody told her, or what she read in a book, or what she saw on television.” he then went on to suggest that her background in politics (and, we all know it, her gen­der) means that she’ll likely rely on “personal relation­ships” when rating teams. sure, rice has been the provost of a major american university (stanford). The second president bush thought she was capable of mastering the nuances of conflict in the middle east. but we’re supposed to be­lieve she can’t spot a strong offensive line when she sees one? please. 
dye went on to say rice (or any other non-football player) can’t possibly know “what it’s like out there when you can’t get your breath and it’s 110 degrees and the coach asks you to go some more.” well, that’s true. but members of the committee aren’t being asked to identify the team that tried the hard­est or huffed-and-puffed its way to the most victo­ries. They are charged with deciding which teams ac­complished the most during the regular season. That’s not always an easy call, but i somehow doubt that it’s harder than negotiating with vladimir putin and north Korea. 
besides, i’m not sure the guys “in the trenches” are always the ones with the best understanding of the nationwide picture. i love lou holtz, and i fully rec­ognize that he forgot more about football this morning than i will ever know. but do we trust him to provide ob­jective analysis, especially when it comes to a certain school in northern indiana? 
a week before notre dame’s game against oklahoma, a prominent member of the irish defense (who will remain nameless) asked me who the sooners’ quarterback is. i was taken aback — shouldn’t he have known everything there was to know about blake bell? but the truth is, there was no point to worrying about bell during michigan state week. Fans (and, apparently, david pollack) might not like to admit it, but a lot of those people who “eat, sleep and breathe football” have to be myopic. They can’t worry about any team other than the one directly in front of them. les miles doesn’t have time to watch every pac-12 game. i’m guessing urban meyer isn’t combing film from across the country, looking for a sleeper-heis­man pick. 
This intense focus is great for winning games, but it’s not great for evaluating the entirety of college football. i’m sure there are plenty of ex-football players who could easily switch to “the big picture” mode of analy­sis. but there are plenty of fans, writers, coaches’ daughters, administrators and, yes, diplomats, who could surely do likewise. 
Contact at Vicky Jacobsen vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, KalamaZoo 1; smc 3, albion 1; FranKlin 3, smc 1 
belles rally to win two out of three on weekend 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The belles beat Kalamazoo, 3-1, at home Friday to break a six-match losing streak, then trav­eled saturday to albion, mich., where they split a doubleheader against albion and Franklin. 
belles coach Toni elyea said saint mary’s (7-11, 5-5 miaa) showed a will to win in the vic­tory over Kalamazoo (10-10, 5-5). 
“This team has really been struggling,” elyea said after Friday’s match. “we’ve been coming out on fire, winning two sets, dropping three in a row, so to stay composed together and hit and to be as offensive as we were tonight and play at the lev­el we were at is awesome. it was a goal we had coming into the game, and this team decided they wanted to win tonight, and they did.” 
The belles jumped to an early lead before Kalamazoo tied the first set at 23. saint mary’s had several chances to win set point, but the hornets went up 28-27, and a blocked spike handed the belles a 29-27 loss. 
Kalamazoo ran a three-mid­dle hitter offense that was a new challenge for saint mary’s. The belles usually match up against offenses that line up one middle and two outside hitters in the front row. saint mary’s gave up points when they could not keep Kalamazoo’s middles off-balance, elyea said. 
“we got into some trouble when we weren’t able to serve as aggressively, and they were able to run their middles well,” she said. “They had a three-middle offense, which is something we haven’t seen yet this year.” 
but saint mary’s went on to win the next three sets 25-20, 25-23 and 25-17. The belles built a 17-6 lead in the fourth set and secured the match victory. 
The defense stepped up after the first set, and the belles’ ser­vice performance controlled the match, elyea said. 
“we just played really well out of system,” she said. “The de­fense really was in control and played well as a team tonight. we were really aggressive on the serve, so they weren’t able to run their middles as effectively.” 
Junior defensive specialist samantha grady agreed that strong serving and the defensive passing game led saint mary’s to victory.
 “we didn’t want to lose,” grady said. “we’ve been on a losing streak, and we don’t want to feel the way we felt anymore. so i think it was just the motiva­tion from losing that made us not want to feel that way ever again and win.” 
saint mary’s won its second straight match when it defeated albion (5-14, 1-9) in the first half of saturday’s doubleheader. 
The belles dropped the first set but won three straight to take the match 3-1. saint mary’s was able to refocus after the first set, elyea said. 
“during our first set, we had way too many unforced errors,” elyea said. “our serve receive was not communicating prop­erly, and [we] were taking shots at the net that were just not open. we were able to come into the second set and produce 14 kills, only 3 errors, as well as 16 digs. 
“playing this caliber of a team, it was important to refocus and do what we do best. our defense this season has been fantastic, and we needed to get back to that.” 
The belles dropped their sec­ond match 3-1 against Franklin (13-6, 2-0 heartland), and elyea said her team looked tired, espe­cially on defense. 
“we looked tired after our Franklin match,” elyea said. “To play four hours of volleyball straight is a tough thing to do. we needed a little more energy as well as to come up with some big plays when the pressure was on to do so. we had a good game defensively versus Franklin, but our serve receive was not mov­ing as well as it should have on saturday during that second match.” 
The belles are next in action wednesday at 7 p.m. when they host miaa foe alma at home. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER | smc 1, Trine 0 
streak stretches to three 
By MERI KELLY 
sports writer 
The belles picked up their third consecutive win on sunday when senior captain and midfielder mollie valencia converted a penalty kick in double overtime to give saint mary’s a 1-0 win over Trine. 
senior forward Jordan diffenderfer was fouled inside the 18-yard box, giving the belles (5-4-3, 3-2-3 miaa) the penalty kick opportunity that valencia converted in the 103rd minute. 
“There’s a moment when you’re awarded a penalty kick in sudden death overtime where you think you should have practiced them some more,” belles coach michael Joyce said. “but valencia has a number of successful kicks under her belt, so i wasn’t concerned.” 

The belles’ game against Trine (2-8-0, 0-7-0) was their fifth overtime contest of the en­tire season, the most in one year the belles have ever played. 
saint mary’s outshot Trine, 17-2, and had nine corner kicks against the Thunder’s four, but still couldn’t score in regulation 
“Finishing a higher percent­age of our chances is still not our strong point,” Joyce said. “we’ll just have to keep at it.” 
belles Junior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum had a shutout in goal, but only need­ed to makh one save. 
belles Junior defender Kerry green had two shots, and freshman forward rosie biehl had three against the Thunder 
green was named the miaa defensive player of the week for strong performances against adrian and Trine. The 
belles shut out both opponents, and green helped limit the two 
teams to  a combined  seven  
shots.  
biehl  was  named  miaa  

offensive player of the week, as she led the belles offensk with nine shots on goal in the two games and scored against the bulldogs. 
The belles will now wait un­til saturday for their next game against Kalamazoo. 
“with the long stretch be­tween games, [we will] mix our practices up a bit to keep them sharp and engaged,” Joyce said. “it should be a real boost for us, having a home game at the end of a free game week.” 
The belles and the hornets will kick off at saint mary’s at noon saturday. 
Contact Meri Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



later to put 12 points on the board early and head into half­time up 12-2. 
but morrissey (1-1-0) came out strong in the second half, scoring a touchdown on the third play of the third quarter. 
with one minute left in the game, morrissey was down by three, but a 20-yard run by ju­nior quarterback ryan lindquist gave the manor the lead with 30 seconds remaining. 
duncan tried to come back, but an interception and 70-yard return by the morrissey defense led to another touchdown, so­lidifying the win for the manor. 
“we came out slow in the first half but our defense really kept us in the game,” lindquist said. 
morrissey junior captain and lineman patrick valencia said he was happy with the talent on his team and the way it came togeth­er for the win. 
“we brought it together [in the] second half and did what we needed to do,” he said. 
duncan junior captain and center alan Keck said this game was a vast improvement from his team’s opening 19-0 loss to alumni. 
“we just need to work on our conditioning so we don’t tire out in the second half,” Keck said. 
duncan will face Knott on sunday, and morrissey will match up with alumni the same day. 
Contact Alexandra Lane at alane2@nd.edu 
Keenan 7, Keough 0 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
in a matchup of two unde­feated teams, Keenan shut out Keough in a 7-0 victory sunday. 
The Knights (2-0-0) scored the only touchdown of the game on a touchdown pass by sophomore quarterback patrick corry. 
Keenan sophomore captain and center Jon wiese said de­fense was the crucial factor of the game. 
“our defense was huge . . . and [the Kangaroos] didn’t get a first down until the second half,” wiese said. “as long as our de­fense continues to play like this, we’re definitely going to make it far.” 
wiese also said freshman michael Koller was an impact player who helped seal the game for the Knights. 
“he had an interception and played lockdown defense all game,” wiese said. 
Keough junior captain and lineman charlie magiera said defense was essential for the Kangaroos (1-1-0), as well. 
“obviously, i’m not happy about the final score but i think we played well, especially the de­fense,” magiera said. “Keenan’s a tough offense to stop.” 
Freshman matt mooney played quarterback for the Kangaroos because their start­ing quarterback was in Texas for the notre dame football game. 
magiera said Keough’s run­ning game leaves room for im­provement before the next game. 
“i know it was wet out and slip­pery, and it’s tough to run in that situation, but we should be able to have a solid run game regard­less of the conditions,” magiera said. 
Keough takes on stanford on sunday at 1 p.m. while Keenan faces dillon on the same day at the same time. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 
Dillon 14, O’Neill 6 
Observer Staff Report 
in a matchup between two teams eager to improve their playoff position, dillon bested o’neill, 14-6, on sunday at riehle Fields. 
The big red (2-1-0) next play Keenan on sunday at 1 p.m., while the angry mob (1-2-0) have a bye this week and will face west Quad rival Keough on nov. 3. 
Sorin-Zahm 
Observer Staff Report 
Zahm forfeited its game against sorin on sunday. The re­sult is officially recorded as a 14-0 win for the otters (1-0-1). 
The Zahmbies (0-2-0) will play Fisher on sunday at 3:30 p.m., and the otters face off against carroll at that same time. 


“That really allowed us to open up our passing game and run better, as well.” 
Fisher controlled the line of scrimmage on both sides of the ball, shutting down the st. edward’s offense with the ex­ception of a 52-yard touchdown scamper by gentleman senior running back ben eichler on the gentlemen’s first possession of the game. 
“The defensive line was in the backfield every single play,” green wave freshman lineman Joe schudt said. “we were doing a great job of penetrating and messing up their plays.” 
The gentlemen (1-2-0) were without almost one-third of their lineup, most of whom were in dallas for the notre dame foot­ball game saturday. The team rotated three players through the quarterback spot throughout the game. 
next week, Fisher looks to im­prove its playoff chances even more against Zahm, while st. edward’s has a bye week before taking on sorin on nov. 3. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Morrissey 22, Duncan 12 
By ALEXANDRA LANE 
sports writer 
morrissey made a late come­back to defeat duncan 22-12 on sunday. 
The duncan offense found success early in the game. The highlanders (0-2-0) scored on their first possession and added another touchdown a few plays 
M Interhall 
conTinued From page 12 
Fisher 21, St. Edward’s 6 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
in an important battle for play­off position, Fisher defeated st. edward’s 21-6 on sunday. 
Fisher (1-0-2) entered the game having scored three total points in its first two games, but the of­fense changed that behind the arm and legs of freshman quar­terback michael cooney. 
cooney hit junior tight end matthew nagy for a 47-yard pass to the st. edward’s three-yard line and got the green wave on the board two plays later on a two-yard touchdown run around the left side. cooney found senior receiver Justin yoder over the middle for a 35-yard score on the next drive. 
“we had two tight ends the whole game so we could get a little better blocking,” nagy said. 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Alumni slips past Siegfried to remain undefeated 
Cooney sparks Fisher offense in win over St. Edward’s; Morrissey tops Duncan; Knights quiet Kangaroos 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
alumni stayed undefeated sunday with a hard-fought 10-7 victory over siegfried, which suffered its first loss of the season. 
The lead continuously shifted back and forth all game, with alumni (3-0-0) getting on the board first with a long field goal in the first quarter. 
The ramblers (2-1-0) respond­ed at the start of the second half with a touchdown from fresh­man running back dan verzuh. 
both teams’ defenses made it tough on the opposing offenses. alumni senior cornerback Jake wrigley intercepted the ball in the first quarter, and siegfried sophomore safety grady schmidt came away with an interception early in the fourth quarter. 
siegfried held a 7-3 lead and the ball with about a minute left in the fourth when the dawg defense recovered a fumble in the end zone to get the go-ahead touchdown. siegfried tried to tie the game in the final seconds with a field goal, but the attempt fell short. 
siegfried senior captain John moore said he was fairly pleased with his team’s performance, despite the loss. 
“both teams fought really hard we just shot ourselves in the foot,” moore said. “our of­fense was looking good right up until the turnover and our defense was stopping them consistently.” 
alumni senior captain Jeffrey Kraemer said he was excited for the dawgs to try to keep up their success for the remainder of the season. 
“we need to just keep the train rolling,” Kraemer said. “The de­fense played well again. we got lucky at the end to get the win, but there’s nothing wrong with that.” 
alumni plays morrissey on sunday, while the ramblers have a bye and will next face duncan on nov. 3. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
see m inTerhall PAGE 11 


paid adverTisemenT 



WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Gargan leads Pangborn over Howard 
Wildcats dominate Babes; Purple Weasels top the Finest; Cavanaugh beats Lyons with big plays 
By EVAN ANDERSON sports writer  pangborn’s next game is also against the wildcats on sunday.  
pangborn rode a masterful  Contact Evan Anderson at  
performance from dual-threat ju­ eander11@nd.edu  
nior quarterback caitlin gargan  
to a 27-6 victory over howard on  Ryan 41, Breen-Phillips 0  
sunday to remain unbeaten and seize first place in the standings.  By BRIAN PLAMONDON sports writer  
gargan completed seven of 10  
passes for 208 yards and three  ryan dominated both sides  
touchdowns and added anoth­ of the ball sunday as it handed  
er 108 yards and a score on the  breen-phillips a 41-0 loss.  
ground.  senior captain and of- Freshman quarterback  
fensive lineman mary Kate veselik  Kathleen conaty led the high- 
said the deep ball was particularly  powered ryan offense, throwing  
key for the phoxes (4-0-0).  four touchdown passes to four  
“we’re very fortunate that  different receivers.  
[gargan] can throw that deep  The wildcats (3-0-0) opened  
ball,” veselik said. “a lot of it is  the scoring on a 17-yard touch- 
speed. … we have so many quick  down pass from conaty to junior  
receivers and once they’re gone,  receiver ashley veselik en route  
they’re gone if she can get it to  to a 34-point first half.  
them.”  The ryan offense did not have  
gargan also emphasized the  to take the field again after that  
importance of her team’s speed on  touchdown until the second  
the outside.  quarter because of touchdowns  
“it’s definitely a huge asset to  scored on both defense and spe­ 
have such fast receivers,” gargan  cial teams. senior cornerback  
said. “when they’re beating the  beth meisinger returned an in­ 
cornerbacks, it really opens up the  terception 25 yards for a score,  
rest of the offense for me.”  while senior running back leah  
pangborn, which beat its first  Fisher had a 40-yard punt return  
three opponents by a combined  touchdown.  
score of 89-0, faced a tougher test  “i had time, so i looked and  
in howard (3-1-0). The phoxes  saw three players coming from  
allowed their first points of the  one side,” Fisher said.  “i then de­ 
season when howard senior  cided to take off down the other  
quarterback and captain clare  sideline.”  
robinson scored on a one-yard  on offense, conaty found  
touchdown run midway through  freshman receiver mary grace  
the second quarter to cut the  Kenny and sophomore receiver  
pangborn lead to 7-6.  erin clark for touchdowns in  
“i was really proud of our team  the second quarter and hit se­ 
today,” robinson said. “hopefully  nior receiver maddie swan for a  
we’ll get another chance at them  touchdown in the third quarter  
in the playoffs, but we have a big  to complete the scoring.  
game [monday] and right now  “we mesh well as an offense,”  
we’re focused on that.”  conaty said. “with three games  
howard was back in action  under our belt, i think we really  
monday against ryan, while  have it down.”  

paid adverTisemenT 

breen-phillips (0-3-0) never picked up enough momentum to have a chance in the game — an illegal forward pass penalty negated a touchdown, while the offense could not capitalize after big plays. 
“ryan is a really good team, an established program,” babes senior captain and line­backer monica mcnerney said. “hopefully [monday] will be a better outcome.” 
ryan looked to remain unde­feated monday against howard, while breen-phillips also played monday against mcglinn in search of its first win. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 25, Farley 6 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
pasquerilla west managed to remain undefeated sunday with a 25-6 win over Farley. 
The Finest (1-2-0) got a quick start against the purple weasels (5-0-0) in the first half, with ju­nior caitlin smith throwing an early touchdown pass to senior receiver and captain lauren ladowski. That was followed by several defensive stops for Farley, including an interception by se­nior cornerback amanda horst. 
but pasquerilla west came back with a vengeance in the second half, as the defense made five interceptions, four of which the offense was able to convert into touchdowns. ladowski said she was disappointed her team couldn’t capitalize on its early advantage. 
“it was super frustrating be­cause we won the first half but we couldn’t keep it up in the second half,” ladowski said. “we need to work on reading the defense bet­ter and knowing when we should throw the ball to cut down on the interceptions.” 
The purple weasels hope to carry the success they had in the second half of the game into the rest of the season and perhaps maintain their sterling record, senior captain and quarterback rachel rogers said. 
“our defense really picked it up second half with some key in­terceptions and our offense was really starting to convert on the plays as our receivers got com­fortable with the routes,” rogers said. 
The Finest will get a chance to redeem themselves against lewis tonight, while pasquerilla west has a break until playing lewis on nov. 3. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh 32, Lyons 7 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
cavanaugh’s explosive and physical effort helped them pull away from lyons for a 32-7 victory sunday. 
The chaos (3-1-0) produced big plays on both sides of the ball throughout the game. senior cap­tain and safety meaghan ayers grabbed two of cavanaugh’s three interceptions and junior quarter­back oliva dietzel led the offense with two passing touchdowns and two more scores on the ground. 
The lions (2-2-0) briefly held a 7-6 lead, but two quick touchdown passes from dietzel to freshman receiver ally anton covered 60 yards and 12 yards, respectively, and tilted the game cavanaugh’s way. 
lyons senior captain and safety christina bramanti said she was disappointed the lions did not do a better job of capitalizing on their early advantage. 
“we started off pretty strong, but then we let the game slip away from us. … we didn’t do a good job of recovering after they scored a couple touchdowns,” she said. “it was a very aggressive game and it was tough physically on us.” 
dietzel said she was pleased with the chaos’ play in the pass­ing game. 
“we were really hitting on all our throws,” dietzel said, “ally [anton] had some great catches. we keep getting better and this team is re­ally starting to gel together.” 
The lions will look to quickly get back on track against pasquerilla east tonight, and the chaos will look to win their fourth straight game against the pyros on sunday. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
McGlinn 25, Walsh 0 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
with the defense pitching a shutout and the offense finding some footing, mcglinn soared over walsh, 25-0, on sunday for its first victory of the season. 
The shamrock offense was led by sophomore quarterback Katherine petrovich, who tossed four touchdown passes. Three of them were to senior captain and receiver Tara crown, including the final play of the game that clinched the mercy-rule victory for the shamrocks (1-2-0). 
on the defensive side, senior captain and cornerback Kaitlyn Keelin grabbed an interception, which she nearly turned into a touchdown, and led a unit she said played terrific throughout the game. 
“we were overall rock solid to­day,” Keelin said. “we contained well, had two interceptions, there were no long runs. … we’ve got­ten better each game and have been working towards this.” 
mcglinn did pull away late, but walsh’s captains said they were happy with the defense’s effort to keep the wild women (1-4-0) close for most of the game. 
“The defense played really well,” junior captain and safety molly Johnson said. “There were a couple drives inside the five-yard line that we stopped. … i was really happy to see that be­cause it’s hard to do. we have a lot of new girls and we are definitely seeing some improvement.” 
For the shamrocks, petrovich said their first win meant a lot. 
“i feel relieved. … everything just finally clicked,” petrovich said. 
The shamrocks hoped to keep things clicking against breen­phillips on monday. walsh will take a long break until nov. 3, when they also play the babes. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla East 18 , Lewis 6 
By MEGAN WINKEL 
sports writer 
pasquerilla east emerged vic­torious by an 18-6 margin in a matchup with lewis on sunday. 
The pyros (2-1-0) relied on strong defensive play to pull out the victory 
“defense was rock solid today,” senior captain caroline Kuse said. “The fact that they barely scored on us showed just how strong our defense was.” 
The pyros’ defense proved to be even more impressive as many starters were absent. Kuse said she thinks the victory provides momentum for the pyros going forward. 
“we were somewhat tentative going into the game because a lot of our girls were out of town and sick, but the girls that were there really stepped up,” Kuse said. “people played both ways and it was awesome to see everyone playing and doing really well. it feels so good to have a winning re­cord finally.” 
lewis (0-3-0) gained momen­tum in the fourth quarter when senior captain and receiver colleen haller caught a 30-yard pass and the chicks scored shortly thereafter. nevertheless, it proved to be too little, too late as the clock ran out seconds later. haller said the chicks’ improvement in the second half bodes well. 
“we were really happy we got that touchdown, but we knew that we needed more points,” haller said. “we played a lot better in the second half and by the end of the game, things were working and we were able to complete pass­es. we just needed a little more time.” 
The chicks hope the last quar­ter’s play will spill into their game against Farley tonight. The pyros hope to add to add another win as they face lyons on Tuesday. 
Contact Megan Winkel at mwinkel@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Cicciarelli 
conTinued From page 16 
his fellow teammates also appre­ciate the humor cicciarelli contrib­utes to the team dynamic. senior captain and goalkeeper patrick wall said cicciarelli’s character really comes into play when a member of the team takes something like prac­tice or a game too critically. 
“if someone takes things too seri­ously, vince always cracks a joke and makes him laugh,” wall said. 
cicciarelli said he recognizes he has a significant role in boosting team morale on and off the field. 
“a lot of guys are really uptight and serious,” cicciarelli said. “i think me being more of a jokester helps the team relax and see the big­ger picture and see that there’s more to it than one play or one game.” 
even right before game time, cicciarelli said he maintains a cer­tain lightness in his attitude and pre­game rituals, which include a fresh haircut before home games by soph­omore goalkeeper brian Talcott. 
“i’m really loose and walk around to talk to everyone on the team,” cicciarelli said. “i’m very laid back and talkative compared to most guys on the team, but i have a certain seriousness to my attitude once the game clock starts.” 
That seriousness cicciarelli takes when the game starts has done nothing but enhance his per­formance this season. cicciarelli scored his first career goal in notre dame’s 2-0 victory over indiana on wednesday. 
“it was pretty awesome to get my first career goal,” he said. “it was awe­some to help my teammates win a game.” 
cicciarelli said it is great to be able to contribute a goal like his against indiana because he was out last sea­son — when the irish won the big east tournament and earned the no. 1 overall seed in the ncaa tourna­ment — due to an acl injury. he also redshirted his freshman season. 
“last year was probably the most difficult season, especially be­cause i had a such a great chance to contribute to such a great team,” cicciarelli said. “getting to play this season after coming off an injury and gaining confidence to be back playing is phenomenal because we are doing so well.” 
clark agrees it is great to have cicciarelli and his athletic abil­ity back on the field and to see him healthy again. 
“he is a really strong and natu­ral athlete in every way — fast, big and strong — and i’m glad he could come back this season,” clark said. “he knew this was the year he could establish himself, and he’s doing a re­ally good job at that.” 
being back on the field, cicciarelli said, gets him excited for the poten­tial the team has this season. 
“we have come out and proven we are a really big deal,” cicciarelli said. “seeing the team develop and the hard work pay off this season is just awesome.” 
cicciarelli will give the irish a pre­game locker room laugh before he and notre dame head into a huge acc contest against no. 8 maryland tonight at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

we had one short practice before the match. we have so many games in such a short time. i think our guys are ready and prepared.” 
it will be a tough task, clark said, as the Terrapins have an ag­gressive offense that’s accounted for 172 shots and 77 shots on goal, which have resulted in 22 goals on the season. The irish, mean­while, have notched 153 shots — 54 were on target and 17 tallied a goal. 
“They have so many weapons,” clark said. “we just have to con­centrate on what we do well. we are prepared for it, and we will see what happens.” 
maryland’s offense is led by se­nior forward patrick mullins. as a junior, mullins was named an nscaa First Team all-american and was the acc offensive player of the year. This season, mullins leads the Terrapins in points with five goals and three assists. he is 
followed closely by sophomore  “you know, some of the young- 
midfielder schillo Tshuma and se­ conTinued From page 16  er [receivers], at times, there’s  
nior forward Jake pace, who both  not that certainty of where they  
have five goals and one assist.  that he probably wasn’t going  to are going to be sometimes in  
“it’s going to be tough facing  play again,” Kelly said. “Th ere press coverage, and obviously  
mullins; he’s an excellent player,”  was a lot of emotion in the loc ker one thing TJ does is he gets  
clark said. “it will come down to  room because they love dan ny people off him, because they  
how we handle the front six play- smith and what he’s done for  our respect his ability to get over the  
ers, and if we do, it will go a long  program as a dedicated pla yer top easily,” Kelly said.  
way.”  for notre dame. he loves no tre “not that the other guys can’t  
The irish have the upper hand  dame, and we’ve seen him gr ow do that, but i guess … these guys  
when it comes to defense. notre  as a person and as a player a nd [rees and Jones] have been to- 
dame has allowed 0.56 goals per  he’s going to be sorely missed.”  gether for four years, and TJ flat  
game, while the Terrapins have a  out is our no. 1 guy, and [rees]  
goals against average of 1.6.  Seniors step up  sees that in terms of going to  
“we will stick to how we play,”  in a week when rees  re-him.”  
clark said. “i think it is very im­ bounded, following two do wn senior outside linebacker  
portant to play our game. we  performances, by tossing th ree prince shembo shined on the  
have to focus on what we do be- touchdowns, irish senior  re­irish defense by recording seven  
cause we don’t have time to put  ceiver and tri-captain TJ Jo nes tackles and three sacks against  
anything in our game plan.”  finished the game with  135 the sun devils. senior corner- 
The irish are one of five un­ yards on eight receptions a nd back and tri-captain bennett  
defeated teams left in division  scored his fourth touchdown  of Jackson made four tackles on  
i and look to remain unbeaten  the season. rees completed  17 the day and forced a fumble that  
against maryland at alumni  of 38 pass attempts and finish ed turned into a key irish takeaway  
stadium tonight at 7 p.m.  with 279 yards, with Jones  ac-late in the third quarter.  

Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Football 

counting for almost half of both his completions and passing yardage. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS   | hillary mangiaForTe 



SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information about people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: shawn ashmore, 34; Toni braxton, 47; simon cowell, 54; Joy behar, 71. 
Happy Birthday: explore new avenues. use your skills and talents to look for voca­tions that help you expand your income. a creative approach to an old idea can be the ideal solution when it comes to making extra cash. networking should be your primary interest. express your feelings and make the changes that will help improve your personal life and your relationships. your numbers are 2, 9, 13, 21, 28, 33, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): look forward to an inheritance, settlement, contract or reimbursement. make final alterations to a job or goal you are working toward. romance is on the rise, and a promise someone made to you will be honored.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep life simple and refrain from sharing personal information. emotional encounters will be difficult to handle and can lead to a dispute. a change in the dynamic of a partnership is likely to cause regrets. avoid taking on added responsibilities.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look for alternate ways to use your skills. Talk to some­one influential, and you will get the inside scoop about a better position. problems at home will surface if you aren’t attentive. a change at home will help as well as promote love.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you have more control than you realize, so make a move or decision that suits you. Travel and socializing will promote new friendships. love, romance and having fun should be your goal. don’t let someone else disrupt your plans. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): choose your words wisely and pick and choose your battles. Focus on finances, medical issues and especially home and family. nurturing and protecting what you have will be well worth your while. someone may try to take advantage of your generosity. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): share your thoughts, feelings and plans. get together with friends or consider getting involved in a community event. avoid getting impli­cated in secret plans that might get you into trouble with someone you love.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you have more choices than you realize. look at your attributes, skills and connections, and you will discover that you can network your way to a better position. someone will try to inch back into your life. don’t be too accommodating. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): control your emotions. listen, observe and save your thoughts until you have all the information you need to come up with a viable solution. less anger and more help will ensure that you don’t upset someone you love.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): by helping others, you will attract attention and the possibility of a position that interests you. a change at home will be positive. an investment will pay off and boost your status. remain open regarding your plans. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): show off a little, and you will make a good impres­sion with someone who has something to offer you. a change of plans must not throw you off guard. use your clout, knowledge, expertise and connections to keep things running smoothly. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll be offended easily and are best to keep your distance from people who tend to meddle and interfere. put your effort into self-improvement and meeting any deadline you’ve been given. invest in your skills and your home. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Focus on what you can do to improve your financial, emotional or physical well-being. someone you work with will have a money issue that can end up costing you. use innovative ideas to gain support and reinforce your goals.  


Birthday Baby: you have backbone, integrity and relentless courage. you are deter­mined and steadfast. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


FOOTBALL 

Turnover battle remains critical to Irish success 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
in probably the biggest venue in all of football, if not in terms of level of importance, at least in the literal sense, notre dame captured an upset win over no. 22 arizona state in aT&T stadium in arlington, Texas, on saturday. 
The irish (4-2) displayed offen­sive balance and gained 424 total yards, 145 on the ground and 279 through the air. although the sun devils (3-2) outgained the irish, albeit by a minimal margin with 427 yards, the notre dame defense forced three turnovers on the night and held arizona state to 65 rush­ing yards on 25 attempts. 
“we were opportunistic in turn­overs. … obviously, they couldn’t run the football against us,” irish coach brian Kelly said in his tele­conference call sunday. “so those are all basic, important tenets of playing good defense.” 
irish graduate student inside linebacker dan Fox had a fumble recovery and a pick-six, while ju­nior safety matthias Farley brought down another interception. meanwhile, irish senior quarter­back Tommy rees threw an inter­ception at the start of the fourth quarter that arizona state brought 


ND hosts talented rival Maryland in marquee game 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
in a battle of powerhouses, the no. 2 irish host no. 8 maryland at alumni stadium today. 
notre dame (6-0-3, 3-0-2 acc) is coming off a 2-1 overtime victory over no. 13 clemson on saturday, while the Terrapins (5-2-3, 4-0-1) took down acc opponent boston college 2-1 on Friday for their third straight win. 
like the irish, maryland is un­beaten in acc play. The Terrapins were picked to win the acc in the coaches’ preseason poll. 
“This will be a big game for us,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we went from one big game to another. and for soccer fans, it will be a great game to watch.” 
after traveling home sunday, notre dame had one day to both practice and rest. clark said the travel and quick turnaround should not affect the irish. 
“There’s not much you can do in situations like this,” he said. “we just have to get our legs back, and 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
back for a touchdown, notre dame’s only turnover of the night. Kelly’s irish improved to 19-1 when winning the turnover battle. 
Grace, Smith suffer injuries 
irish junior inside linebacker Jarrett grace suffered a fractured fibula during the game’s first half and will miss the remainder of the season. grace appeared in all six games this season for the irish and started the past three games at one of the inside linebacker positions while participating in a rotation primarily with Fox and graduate student carlo calabrese. grace is currently tied with calabrese for the team lead in tackles with 40 but will now embark on a long recovery process, Kelly said. 
“you know, that’s a process that could take four to six months,” he said. “but obviously a big loss for us, but we’ve got a senior in danny Fox that will step in at that position.” 
Kelly said senior Kendall moore, freshman michael deeb and junior Joe schmidt are the players most likely to see time at inside lineback­er following grace’s injury. 
among the three players, schmidt leads with eight tack­les this season and has seen time in all six contests, while moore has recorded two tackles in six appearances. deeb has not yet seen action this season. 

irish senior receiver daniel smith also left the game due to an injury, and it seems he will miss the remainder of the season with a fractured ankle. 
“smith will have surgery once the swelling goes down,” Kelly said. 
ball for nine yards. 
“you know, i usually don’t use a ‘win-one-for-the-gipper’ talk, and i don’t want to equate it in those terms, but generally speaking, we talked [at halftime] about losing danny [smith] and in particular 
see FooTball PAGE 14 
“he has a substantial amount of swelling in that ankle. he did suffer a fracture, and once that swelling goes down, he’ll have surgery this week.” 
a south bend native, smith was used primarily as a blocker, al­though he made two starts for the irish this season and caught one 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Terrapin test 

Cicciarelli provides skill, humor for No. 2 Irish 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
everyone needs a good laugh, and every group has that one per­son who never fails to make them chuckle. in that respect, the irish are no different than everybody else. 
For notre dame, junior forward vince cicciarelli is the character of the team. 
when you think about a division i soccer team that is ranked no. 2 in the nation and undefeated on the season, there doesn’t seem like there would be much room, if any, for a good laugh. 
but that is quite the opposite of what the irish team is actually like. That’s where cicciarelli comes into play. outsiders might overlook his role as the team jokester, but his coaches and teammates definitely do not undervalue the lightheart­edness he brings to the table. 
“vince has a great sense of hu­mor,” irish coach bobby clark said. “he adds a nice lightness at times to the team that the team needs.” 
see cicciarelli PAGE 14 




