The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 29 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Rep. Johnson works to develop a culture of peace
 Saint Mary’s alumna promotes equality for all through her career in state and national politics 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the fourth story in a series featur­ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s graduates serving as members of Congress. This se­ries, titled “Trading Golden Dome for Capitol Dome,” will run on Fridays. 
when congresswoman eddie bernice Johnson (d-TX­
30) became the first woman in state history to lead a major Texas house committee, the labor committee, her sup­porters knew this would not be the only barrier this Texas native would break. 
Johnson, who graduated from saint mary’s in 1956 with a degree in nursing, was first elected to the Texas house of representatives in 1972. she said her first stint running for office in the Texas state house was largely motivated by timing in her home state and the support of community organizers. 
“in Texas that year, it was considered the year of the women,” Johnson said. “we had outstanding female can­didates for governor, and it was really seen as the year of encouragement. That en­couragement extended to my 
see Johnson PAGE 6 

Photo courtesy of Office of Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
In April, Rep. Johnson announced the introduction of H. R. 1421, the Advancing Innovative Manufac­turing Act of 2013, to accelerate research, development amd innovation in advanced manufacturing. 


lax team sponsors playing for peace 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
student government and the varsity lacrosse team will spon­sor a playing for peace event oct. 12 to use the power of ath­letics to form bonds with inner-city chicago catholic schools. 
student body president alex coccia said the event in chicago will bring together notre dame students and alumni to inter­act with students from cristo rey, hales Franciscan and st. malachy’s high schools for a day of service and sports. 
“[playing for peace] focuses on … building an educational culture and an ethos of conflict resolution, healthy competi­tion—a lot of the principles you 
see peace PAGE 7 



Record number of guests visit campus on game day 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
Though players and fans may not have been satisfied with the results of last weekend’s foot­ball game against oklahoma university, the people working behind the scenes to coordinate the weekend events said despite the influx of visitors, the week­end went well. 

mike seamon, director of game day operations, said more than 120,000 visitors made their way to campus last weekend, the highest total yet this year. 
“The near-perfect weather was a welcome change and added to the festivities of the weekend,” seamon said. “as expected, we saw an increase in visitors to campus on both Friday and saturday.” 
This increase was especially apparent in the parking lots on campus, which filled early in the day, seamon said. 
“given the spectacular weather, we found that people wanted to get to campus early and experience all of the various game day activities,” he said. 
seamon said the tunnel tour 
see game day PAGE 5 


‘it’s our job to make you feel welcome’ 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
clad in bright yellow jackets and hats and tasked with orga­nizing a crowd of more than 80 thousand people, the ushers of notre dame stadium are a sta­ple for students and visitors for home football weekends. 
Though ushers are perhaps most recognizable for working at football games, Jim smith, crowd control program manag­er for the notre dame athletics Facilities staff, said they stay busy throughout the year. 
“we staff about 140 events a month for about 80 thousand man-hours a year,” smith said. 
smith, who is in his third sea­son as director of ushers and his 21st year in the ushering program, said he oversees an estimated 700 ushers per home football game and has over 900 ushers on the roster. among them are residents of 22 states, one canadian, notre dame alumni, faculty, staff and an ex-notre dame football player. 
mack smgielski has been ushering at notre dame for 32 years. he said his history with notre dame stadium, however, goes back a bit farther. 
“when i was about 10 years old, in 1958, i helped my older sister sell souvenirs outside the stadium,” smgielski. “Then, in the mid-70s, i helped give traffic reports on game days from the indiana state police helicopter. in 1980, i entered the usher program working traffic and parking around the stadium.” 
when the addition to the sta­dium was completed in 1997, 
see ushers PAGE 7 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 FooTball insider 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
How would you describe the South Bend weather? 

Julie Borzagi 


Sean Mooney 
freshman 

freshman 
pangborn hall 

Fisher hall 
“intermittent.” 

“perfect.” 
Tiffani McCornick 


Ingrid Adams 
freshman 

junior 
pangborn hall 

pangborn hall 
“moody.” 

“Tempermental.” 
Arlia Delphonse 
sophomore howard hall 
“Fickle.” 


Till Oliver 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“mother nature can’t make up her mind.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kaitlyn rabach sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

catherine owers samantha Zuba charlie ducey mike ginocchio 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
emily hoffmann gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Feast of St. Francis Mara Fox 5K Run Mass at the Basilica Red Mass Snite Salon Series 
allison d’ambrosia daniel sehlhorst 
South Quad Lyons Hall Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Snite Museum of Art 
12:30p.m.-1 p.m. 10 a.m.-1 p.m. Heart Heart 5:00 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Bring your bicycle to Charity run in memory 11:45 a.m.-12:45 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Collegial art exchange 
Corrections 

be blessed. of Mara Fox. Sunday worship. Celbration for those who viewing with follow-up 
The observer regards itself as serve in law and politics. discussion. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Film: Blue Jasmine Theatre Performance: Notre Dame Hockey Panel Discussion on 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing On the Verge Compton Family Ice Pope Francis Men’s Soccer 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Arena Coleman-Morse Center Alumni Stadium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
9:30  p.m.-11:30 p.m. Arts Center 5:05 p.m.-7:05 p.m. 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Woody Allen’s 2013 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Exhibition match Talk on the Pope’s The Irish take on 
we can correct our error. 

film. Play by Eric Overmyer. against Guelph. recent interview . Maryland. 


paid adverTisemenT 




— 
-


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Johnson women,” Johnson said. “many of the professions that re­
conTinued From page 1 

quire very strong background community, and i was pushed in sTem courses have been to run.” dominated by males, but we 
after a successful stint in need all the brain power that state office, Johnson said we can muster to meet the president Jimmy carter ap-challenges of a global society.” pointed her in 1977 to serve because of the many strong as regional director of the role models present at the department of health, college, Johnson said she was education and welfare be-exposed to a strong commit-cause he recognized her advo-ment to social justice on both cacy for workers, children and domestic and international families. levels. 
“i left the administration “i had excellent role models after president carter was de-among the various nuns, and, feated, and i remained active of course, we had some pro-in the community,” Johnson fessors that were not of order, said. “i had many people sug-but the idea of that commit­gesting that i get into office ment to people, to the nation, again, so that is the reason i was very impressive,” Johnson ran for the state senate.” said. “students from all over 
in 1986, Johnson said she the world were welcomed, and was elected a Texas state sena-i think that because of this, i just there for war, the major-over the past two sum-global society that we are in,” tor, becoming the first female had a very rich experience at ity of the people, for the most mers, cwil has hosted a Johnson said. and african american from saint mary’s.” part, scream out for peace,” state department-sponsored Johnson said she is thank-the dallas area to hold this of-Johnson said. “so what i try program titled “study of the ful for her experience at the fice since the reconstruction. Commitment to peace to do is touch the women to united states institute.” The college and stays in touch in 1992, she retired from as an african-american make sure they can speak up program brings international with other saint mary’s alum-the state senate because she woman in the political sphere, and gain leadership positions women to saint mary’s for four nae in congress, particular-was encouraged to run for Johnson said she has experi-in those countries to focus on weeks of intensive training on ly, congresswoman donna congress. enced discrimination. peace and conflict resolution. women’s leadership. The insti-christensen, u.s. representa-
Johnson began her term in “sometimes i’ve wondered These women can promote re-tute concludes in washington, tive for the virgin islands. the house of representatives whether i should identify first specting differences instead d.c. “ [ c on g r e s s w om a n in January 1993. as an african american or as of war.” Johnson said she had the op-christensen] and i meet up 
a woman,” Johnson said. “i portunity to meet the young sometimes,” Johnson said. ‘Confident about the have certainly felt and expe-Going back women studying at the insti-“we know the experience of education I received’ rienced discrimination along although it has been years tute in July 2012 and July 2013. saint mary’s. … a little while 
although she said she does the way. i have tried my best to since Johnson attended saint “i was impressed with the back, Father hesburgh was not believe saint mary’s as a not allow it to get in the way, mary’s, she said she still goes questions [the women] asked, in d.c. and honored for an whole prepared her for a ca-but rather attempt to practice back for reunions and has and i thought it was an ex-award, and we were excited reer in politics, she said the ways in which i may help those periodically served on dif-cellent example of how in-to tell him we were from saint college allowed her to feel who are prejudice understand ferent boards, one of which ternationally, women can be mary’s.” confident about her educa-that we all — for the most part is the board of the center connected, how to encour­tional background. — want the same things.” for women’s intercultural age networking and how Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at 
“i think it is important that having been involved with leadership (cwil). we can work to fit into this krabac01@saintmarys.edu anyone who decided to run for several different caucuses, paid adverTisemenT 
office have a good educational Johnson said she believes all background,” Johnson said. “i are calling out for peace and feel very confident about the equality. education i received at saint after experiencing the mary’s and am very proud of 2001 terrorist attacks in everything i achieved there.” washington, d.c., the con-
as the first nurse elected to gresswoman said she felt she the house of representatives, had to do something to reduce Johnson said her background war and violence in the world. in psychiatric nursing gave in order to do so, she believes her the skills to work well with women have a very special role people.  as peacekeepers in the world. 
“The main thing i learned in “Throughout my time in of-nursing was the importance fice, i have seen the faces of of paying attention to detail,” war firsthand in bosnia and Johnson said. “with this ca-the congo,” Johnson said. reer and training, i developed “after 9/11, i decided i need-a strong habit of doing home-ed to do something, however work and a focus on planning, small, to try to develop a cul­which i believe has helped ture of peace in the world. me throughout my political “i had seen on the cover of career.” newsweek magazine two boys 
Johnson, who serves on from liberia who were 12 and the committee of science, 14 years old all dressed in war space and Technology, said gear with machine guns, and her background in science, i just thought enough was technology, engineering and enough.” mathematics (sTem) fields Johnson said in 2001 she gave her the knowledge and founded the “a world of ability to contribute to discus-women for world peace” ini­sion on the committee’s legis-tiative, which includes con­lation. From 2000 to 2002, she flict resolution programs for was the ranking member of the women and girls of all ages. subcommittee on research by using several different av-and science education. while enues, including radio, travel on the subcommittee, she said and skype, Johnson said she she emphasized education in has been able to communicate sTem disciplines. with women across the world. 
“i really think it is time “i have learned that, gener­for america and american ally speaking, people all over women to understand that the world really do want peace, all professions should be, and even when leadership in those for the most part are, open to countries seem like they are 





‘Love thee’ is a two-way street 
replacing breakingbad 
Ashley Dacy 
photographer 
it’s finally happened — the season’s record-breaking crime drama “breaking bad,” noted by the guinness book of world records as the highest-rated series of all time with a metacritic score of 99/100, aired its last episode at the end of last month. with three-fourths of the semester still to go (and the fourth game of Thrones season not premier­ing until 2014), students across campus are searching for new productions to justify their cable (or netflix) bills. if you just can’t shake that extra free time, these Tv up-and-comers could be for you. 
doctor who: First airing in the 1960s and boasting a mind-boggling total of 753 epi­sodes, you don’t have to be a diehard science fiction fan to love this bbc gem. it follows the adventures of the time-traveling doctor and his companions through the universe in his trademark blue police box (Tardis, for the initiated) as they right wrongs and save civi­lizations. with comedy, drama, romance, ac­tion and the occasional eerie sentient statue, this show has something for everyone. it may be running on its eighth season, but don’t let that deter you — there’s still plenty of time to catch up on netflix before the newest season begins. For established whovians, the much-anticipated 50th anniversary special airs on bbc on november 23. 
orange is the new black: part of netflix’s foray into original series territory, this series is a comedy-drama that follows the experiences of piper chapman after she is incarcerated in a new york women’s federal prison for as­sisting in a smuggling operation. currently pulling in more views than both “house of cards” and “arrested development,” netflix’s other top original series, it has received critical and fan acclaim for its authenticity and sharp humor. The fact that it’s based on the memoir of author piper Kerman gives it that extra “real life” feeling. The show has a running count of 13 episodes and was recently renewed for a second season. 
agents of s.h.i.e.l.d.: Following the mas­sive success of “The avengers” last year, abc and marvel have teamed up to bring fans this behind-the-scenes look at how the em­ployees of s.h.i.e.l.d. (an anagram of the fictitious strategic homeland intervention, enforcement and logistics division) protect the common man in a world full of super-powered heroes and villains. Fans of the movie will be glad to see clark gregg reprising his role as agent coulson, who returns from almost certain death to serve as the series’ central character. it is only on its second episode, but has received positive reactions from both critics and fans. if you liked “The avengers,” now is the time to tune in and find out what happened after the shawarma scene. 
sharknado: shark week may be over, but don’t worry: sharknado is here to fill all your shark- and weather-related Tv desires. There’s only one season so far, but with concept gold like this fingers are crossed for more to come. 
Contact Ashley Dacy at adacy@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
when members of the football team jogged, walked and trudged toward the tunnel following saturday’s loss to oklahoma, they only heard one thing. 
They did not hear the band, nor did they hear cheers. They heard boos coming from their classmates in the stands — and lots of them. 
The booing was defensible then. The students did not know about irish coach brian Kelly’s new policy that nixed singing the alma mater after home losses. students were confused and upset. 
but how about when fans jeered the irish at halftime of the south Florida game in 2011? or when Tommy rees entered the purdue game a year ago? or even when notre dame took a knee to end the first half against oklahoma? 
For those brief moments, the students — some of us included 
— forgot these players were also their classmates. The “ce­lebrities” on the field were no longer group project members, roommates and friends. They were losers who were making the university look bad. 
For a university that prides itself on the student aspect of stu­dent-athletes, notre dame’s students do not treat the football players like peers when they are on the field. boos do not rain down on the basketball teams, the soccer teams or the hockey team when they lose, but they do for Kelly’s irish. 
so it really should not come as a shock if some football play­ers are not overly enthusiastic about swaying and singing with a population that just yelled at them for losing. 

if the students expect the football players to sing — win or lose — the students have to be there for the football players, win or lose. 
at the same time, the fans are not wholly to blame: The foot­ball program also has become more and more distant from notre dame. 
since Kelly began at notre dame, he has made a number of tradition-altering changes. he instituted training tables for the team at the guglielmino athletics complex (gug), while other athletic teams have to settle for north dining hall. on saturdays, the team now walks from the gug to notre dame stadium instead of from the basilica after gameday mass. The pregame mass now occurs a day before the game instead of a few hours. 
Kelly has removed his team from the public — and student 
— eye and has concentrated them on the east side of campus at the intersection of isolation and privilege. 
if the football players want the students to be there for them, win or lose, Kelly should allow students to see his players as their peers. 
Kelly’s decision for his players not to sing the alma mater af­ter home losses is not a tradition-breaking one (the policy was most recently put in place by charlie weis in 2006). but for the student body on campus, it’s all they have ever known. 
They only know to stay until the end of the game. They only know to put their arms around each other and sway. They only know to “love thee, notre dame.” 
now, they just need to know this is a two-way street. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

swarbrick confirms alma mater policy will remain in 2013 
dear students, 
in light of the discussion that has taken place since our game against oklahoma on saturday, i want to address concerns raised by some of you relating to confusion that surrounded the post-game playing of “notre dame, our mother.” 
The tradition of the members of the football team standing with their classmates and singing the alma mater began during the 2006 season. ever since, it has been a valued part of game day at notre dame, especially for our players who frequently cite its emotional impact when reflecting on their experience as a mem­ber of our football team. 
as part of that tradition we would, when the marching band traveled with us, also sing the alma mater after a road game. regrettably, in recent years, our attempts to honor this tradition while traveling became more difficult. Too frequently, especially after a loss on the road, the singing of the alma mater was met with derision by fans of our opponents. we were not, as one might hope, accorded the same respect that we give to the mili­tary academies when they sing their alma mater — even in defeat 
— at notre dame stadium. as a proud graduate of notre dame, having to deal with abusive behavior when attempting to sing “notre dame, our mother” represented an outcome that was simply unacceptable to me. Faced with this reality, i concluded that we needed to decide what our policy would be. should we sing the alma mater only at home and never on the road? should we sing it after victories on the road, but after both victory and defeat at home? should we sing it only after victory? 
in making the decision, one of the most important steps coach Kelly and i took was to consult with the student-athlete leader­ship of our team. as you undoubtedly know, different notre dame teams have different traditions. For example, our men’s lacrosse team enters the stadium led by a member of the team playing the bagpipes, but it does not play the alma mater after the game. both of our soccer teams sing the alma mater after home games, but our basketball teams typically do not. i welcome these differences so long as they are appropriate and they reflect the preferences of the student-athletes. 
after consideration of the matter, and with the input of the student-athlete leadership of our football team, coach Kelly and i chose to sing with our band as it plays the alma mater only after victories — a fact that i discussed publicly after the deci­sion was made. in this way, the singing of the alma mater honors our university and becomes an expression of solidarity with the student body that we enjoy only after we achieve our shared goal of a victory for notre dame — whether that triumph comes at home or on the road. 

i apologize for the confusion after the oklahoma game, but it was understandable. we made our decision toward the end of the 2011 season, but having not lost a home game since october of that year, many of our players had forgotten the policy and half of them — the sophomores and freshmen — had no frame of reference because they had never experienced a home defeat. 
coach Kelly, i and — most importantly — our players are deep­ly appreciative of the support each of you provides to the football team. every player who was on the field at the end of the stanford game last year will tell you that they may not have prevailed without the energy you provided to them as we defended the “student end zone” during that memorable goal line stand. and that experience also speaks to why our team prefers to preserve the special experience of singing the alma mater with you, their fellow students, when they achieve the shared goal of victory. 
Finally, let me emphasize how much coach Kelly and i appre­ciate the manner in which so many of you have chosen to express your concerns about this issue to us. we recognize those con­cerns for what they are — the heartfelt view of the best student fans in the country. when, at the end of this season, coach Kelly and i sit down, as we always do, and talk about what we might do differently in 2014, you can be assured that we will include our post-game activities as part of that discussion. i cannot promise you that, in consultation with our players, we will reach a differ­ent conclusion about our approach to the post-game singing of the alma mater, but i can promise you that we will carefully con­sider the issue in light of the concerns you have raised. For the remainder of this season, however, please do not allow this issue to become a distraction for our team or a detriment to your con­tinued support for your classmates. with your help we will do all we can to be in a position, as victors, to sing the alma mater with you after each game. 
Thanks for all that you do to support your classmates who represent our university as members of an athletic team. and go irish! 
Jack Swarbrick ‘76 
director of athletics university of notre dame oct.  3 
Mia Lillis 
we are nd 

This summer, pope Francis took his first papal trip beyond the vatican to lampedusa, a small italian island known as a destination point for thou­sands of immigrants from africa. unfortunately, the immigrant voyage to lampedusa is no easy feat, and thou­sands have drowned in their attempts to find a better life. The pope mourned the lost lives and the suffering that immi­grants of lampedusa have experienced, and in a homily given to a crowd of over 10,000 people, he declared, “The church is with you in the search for a more dig­nified life for you and your family.” 
The speech caused a stir in europe, where the political arena has long been dominated by anti-immigrant senti­ments. anti-immigrant political parties have reached record levels of popularity in greece, France, scandinavia and the netherlands, among other european countries. but the significance of the pope’s politically charged words extends 
Stand for the dream 
beyond european borders. 
americans are no strangers to the tension surrounding the topic of im­migration. data from the pew research center indicates that domestic opinion on whether undocumented immigrants ought to have access to public services or education is in constant fluctuation. such fluctuation is unsurprising given the fluctuation of the immigrant popu­lation, which is once again on the rise. as of last year, pew research estimates that the united states was home to 11.7 million undocumented immigrants. 
dara márquez, a current student of st. mary’s college, is one of these 11.7 million. dara’s family immigrated when she was only three years old. according to dara, her family’s decision to immi­grate was due to the fact that her father constantly struggled to provide for her family. according to dara, that struggle “meant not enough money to buy milk or food on a daily basis.” her parents aspired to provide a more secure life for their family than this mere day-to-day survival, and such security was difficult to find in mexico. For that reason, dara’s family relocated to the united states in search of better work opportunities. while dara has sometimes faced com­plications due to her undocumented status, such as not qualifying for finan­cial aid, she and her family have never­theless fared significantly better in the united states, and day-to-day survival is a thing of the past for them. 
dara’s story is not unique among undocumented immigrants currently residing in our country. most immi­grants come to the united states after enduring extreme poverty and starva­tion in the hopes of finding a “more dignified life” for themselves and for their family. pope Francis is not alone among church leaders supporting this move. The united states conference of catholic bishops, or usccb, has long been a public supporter of comprehen­sive reform of immigration policy and outspoken advocate for undocumented citizens in our borders. pope Francis, the usccb, and other moral lead­ers have sent the citizens of the world consistent clear messages regarding immigration, and they have issued a broad unequivocal call for compassion and acceptance of our undocumented brothers and sisters. 

This summer, our university released an announcement indicating that she will heed this call. as of this year, notre dame has committed to welcoming and admitting undocumented students to the ranks of the Fighting irish. Today at 4:00 p.m., in celebration of this deci­sion, the university is hosting ndream on the steps of main building, and i strongly encourage all readers to attend this celebration. The time has come to heed the call of pope Francis. it is time for us to put aside political jargon, to ap­proach immigrants in our country with compassion, and to welcome undocu­mented domers with open arms. i can think of no family more up to the task than our own. 
Mia Lillis is a senior living in Cavanaugh Hall. She can be reached at mlillis@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Gary J. Caruso 
capitol comments 

This week, for the first time in 21 years, congress failed to fund the fed­eral government, therefore suspending the work and pay of more than 800,000 civilian workers through a “furlough” process. house republicans — who frantically attempted, but failed, to com­pletely dismantle the affordable health care act with more than 40 votes this session rather than attending to their budget differences with the senate bud­get — are holding the entire national government hostage in the name of delaying president obama’s signature health care act. Throughout the sum­mer, senate democrats requested 18 times for the house to name conferees, or negotiators, to work out those differ­ences. but alas, the Tea party fringe in the house prevented such negotiations, partly because they generally don’t be­lieve in governmental services and in healthcare services, specifically. 
The blame squarely lies with the gop, who never stepped to the bud­get negotiation table all summer af­ter 18 democratic requests and after democrats actually offered a lower budget number than the gop’s infa­mous “ryan budget” proposal. The gop, refusing to accept a national presidential defeat and voting nonsensically over and over and over again all year like addicted dependents against the healthcare law, now feigns that all they ever wanted was for democrats to negotiate at the budget 
Furlough this 
table. obviously, gop rhetoricians like Texas senator Ted cruz conspired to create this showdown and closedown in october as a final play to remedy their fanaticism against the president and against government. The president and democrats are correct in not negotiating with hostage takers. 
This negative infliction upon our economy, upon innocent veterans, hun­gry preschool students and cancer-laden children awaiting treatment through governmental health facilities is but collateral damage for the zany zealots in congress. intellectual elitists like bill Kristol of the conservative weekly standard, whose wrongheaded think­ing at the project for the new american century drenches his hands with blood from theorizing how easily won and necessary war in iraq would be, now pontificates about how insignificant this shutdown really is beyond his personal bubble. ask any dedicated patriotic governmental worker what it is like to be without a paycheck merely because of unending, nutty actions against “obamacare” by congress. 
The collective gop should be ashamed of not limiting the nutty Tea party element of their party. it is an insult that gop representatives helped move a barrier at the world war ii memorial for visiting veterans, but then offered as their first budget consider­ation the park service budget while ignoring the homeland security (dhs) budget, the aviation safety budget, the agriculture food safety budget and the defense department’s civilian budget. 
every so-called reasonable or moderate republican in congress today is just as culpable as their fringe fellow represen­tatives — and should rightfully be la­beled as cowards for sitting idly by while their whacky colleagues highjack their party and speaker John boehner’s ability to govern. 
a quick example of one subcomponent of a multi-billion-dollar dhs agency budget should make every american shutter about how silly, dangerous and ill-conceived any government shutdown is in light of our national needs. This international dhs component has 7,649 employees. of that number, furloughs were issued according to how each em­ployee is paid. Those paid by a certain account are not less essential in their duties, but considered nonessential through the payroll funding. The or­ganization is permitted to maintain 10 percent personnel from a certain fund­ing stream. 
only 71 nationally were deemed ex­empt personnel. shockingly, only 23 headquarters staff are left to support exempt activities specifically to operate, maintain, and disseminate intelligence data, telecommunications, computer connectivity, direct and immediate pro­curement, financial, legal and human resources support. This includes staff who must orderly shutdown the agency, process personnel and pay records along with property and inventory records to assure the protection of our govern­ment’s interests and assets. Try asking an international company like exxon to accomplish the same temporary reduction. 

This budget standoff reminds me of how silly schoolboys can act on a playground. Teddy calls ollie, a hurtful name, so ollie takes the only baseball bat on the field home with him. Teddy conspires with Johnny to get the bat by offering a candy bar. ollie returns, prepared to trade his bat, and possi­bly to bring his new bat, for candy. but little Teddy pulls out a carrot he had stashed all along in his pocket, prevent­ing Johnny from having any bargain­ing power. instead, deceitful, cunning and insincere Teddy holds firm and furloughs both teams of players who sit without a game. 
The tragedy of our real life scenario is that good, decent americans go hungry and without a paycheck when all the lit­tle Teddies and Johnnies mess with their lives while the little billies cheer them on. The destructive element in congress should take to heart their own oath of office, exactly what president obama wrote to the furloughed workers, “so while the budget fights in washington are too often partisan, your service to the country must never be.” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. Contact him at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Gabriela Leskur 
scene writer 

last week i accepted a dare that i was actually very excited to undertake. 
no, the dare was not eating pasta and cheese every day. i do that already. 
The dare was to apply and audition for the irish bachelorette. 
some of you who are not up to date with the latest notre dame gos­sip may be asking, “what is the irish bachelorette?” 
The irish bachelorette is an upcom­ing ndtv show that will bring the format of the nationally televised abc series “The bachelorette” to our lovely campus. with the backdrop of the golden dome (and hopefully laFun at 2 a.m. on a saturday), 10 Fighting irish men will vie for one lovely woman. 
hoping to get lucky, the men will pursue a special clover. They will re­ceive shamrocks as they are chosen to continue in each round, in place of the usual rose used on the national televi­sion show. 
with full knowledge of what i was getting myself into, i applied to the pro­gram online with this little blurb: 
“gender relations at notre dame can, at times, be difficult. at other times, impossible. 
while spending all of my free time chasing boys has been rewarding, i feel as if it’s about time they chase me. all sarcasm aside, i think that this show is an interesting way to both laugh at There are a lot of issues within the ro­mantic conventions at notre dame that can be effectively addressed through the awkward, intriguing nature of such a show.” 
Then, in the application, i went on to describe my quest for domer love: 
“i’m really just a nice human being, who enjoys reading plato and discuss­ing philosophy on a Friday night while partaking on a long walk around st. Joseph’s beach, looking for friendship and something more substantive than a sweaty dorm-party hook-up.” 
isn’t that what we’re all hoping for? 
my persuasive rhetoric must have caught their attention, since i was soon notified that i would be called for an audition — an audition that would only take five to 10 minutes in a room in alumni hall. cue eerie scary movie music and an audience screaming, “don’t go in there!” 
i was a little skeptical as i walked in on a Thursday afternoon to sit down with a group of complete strangers. i went in having no idea how i would re­spond to any of their questions, so my answers were genuine and surprising, even to me. 
i realized my answers to what i want in a relationship, what i look for in a friend, what i find necessary for a healthy relationship, what my ideal date is, only just as they asked the questions. 
i was honestly just as intrigued by the answers coming out of my mouth as 
That’s one thing i enjoyed about the experience: answering questions i usu­ally forget to ask myself. 
so often, we go through our lives without taking a moment to think what it is we want, what our intentions are. but when you are sitting in a room with five people and one camera staring right at you, asking you to hold yourself accountable to your answers, you really have no choice but to figure yourself out. 
The experience served for me as reminder of what i’m actually hoping for in another who could be one day significant. and it made it significantly obvious that i don’t know if i’ve found that person yet or that, if i have, i’m not in the place to realize it. i can barely handle hanging out with myself all the time, let alone someone else. 
and that leads into the other thing i really enjoyed about this dare: expe­riencing myself as if i were a stranger. This may sound weird, but let me explain. 
we do spend a lot of time with our­selves. i don’t know about you, but i’m with myself for about 24 hours of the day, every day. obviously, with this extreme amount of one on one time, myself and i can get pretty sick of each other. 
as i sat talking with some wonderful strangers and saw their reactions to me and my answers, it was akin to when you catch a glimpse of someone in a mirror and don’t realize for a second 

it can be a very humbling and en­couraging experience to explain who you are to people who have no precon­ceived notions of you. 
To them, i am merely a sophomore in Farley, majoring in the program of liberal studies. i am simply a writer for The observer and a singer in the Folk choir. i am a girl who enjoys a mean­ingful and enriching conversation, with a good dose of laughter mixed in. i am a weirdo whose ideal date is driving out into the country, hiking up a moun­tain and then camping under the stars, watching the sun set and rise while discussing philosophy. i am a catholic who wants socrates’ second speech in “phaedrus” to be read at my wedding. This is the person they got to know in those 10 minutes. 
The exciting part about being merely “this” in their eyes is in realizing if this and only this is who i am to someone, i am pretty okay with that. 
Disclaimer: While we regret to in­form you, readers of The Observer, that Gabriela Leskur was not chosen to rep­resent the Notre Dame female student body on the Irish Bachelorette, if any bachelors are so compelled, Ms. Leskur is still accepting applications. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


ETERNAL SUMMER PLAYLIST 

“Ya Hey” 
Vampire Weekend 

“Pink Rabbits” 
The National 
“Hive” 
Earl Sweatshirt 
“Bound 2” 
Kanye West 

“Modern Jesus” 
Portugal, The Man 
“Forbidden Fruit” 
Johnny Cash 
“Tom Ford” 
Jay-Z 
“Control” 

Big Sean ft. Kendrick Lamar 
“Schoolboy” 
Grouplove 
“Reynolds” 

A$AP Ferg ft. Danny Brown 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene writer 
while everyone else is excited about the coming of october, i can’t help but get a little choked up. no, i’m not crying over how excited i am to wear scarves, how much i love pumpkin spice lattes or how i “just can’t wait to go on a hay ride!” The reason i’ve been constantly on the verge of tears this week is that fall came far too quickly this year. 
maybe it was because i spent my summer working full time, but the season just seemed to fly by. while others are jazzed about the autumn weather and won’t stop talking about “the colors,” i am the girl sulking with a serious case of post-summer sadness. don’t get me wrong, fall is nice and everything, but i simply am not ready like the rest of you are. 
in response to this, i’ve done everything in my power to actively deny the changing seasons. i’ve written the date wrong every day this week (appar­ently my subconscious still believes it’s august), i’ve worn weather-inappropriate clothing in defiance, and, most pleasantly, i refuse to stop listening to summer songs. 
see, i’m usually a strict believer in seasonal playl­ists, so much so that when a fun, “summery” song comes on in the winter, i actively hit the “next” button. 
This year, however, i’m making an exception and setting aside my weird, borderline obsessive-com­pulsive music tendencies. i just can’t let go of sum­mertime music, and though it certainly has to do with my previously mentioned slow summer griev­ing process, it also is because i found this summer’s music surprisingly great. 
in the hip-hop world, we got a bevy of quality al­bums. between J cole, Kanye, Jay-Z, earl sweatshirt, big sean and asap Ferg, i was almost overwhelmed (okay, definitely overwhelmed) by the hip-hop scene this summer. Then, of course, came Kendrick’s “control” verse, stirring things up even more, and it seemed like everyone was suddenly dropping some innovative or controversial verse by the end of the summer, making it a great time to be a rap fan. 

Then, there was the slew of impressive alternative-rock albums this summer, and there’s no way i’m getting over them any time soon. notables include portugal, the man, who not only released their new­est album, “evil Friends,” in June but also put on one of the most incredible live performances i’ve ever seen at bonnaroo. similarly, sigur ros, the icelandic group who put on quite the live show, dropped “Kveikur” in June. and though both albums were released in may, The national’s “Trouble will Find me” and vampire weekend’s “modern vampires of the city” stood out in the summer soundtrack. 
even the pop scene was on point, i’m surprised to say. maybe it was just because i was overexposed to bubbly pop in my early-morning carpool this sum­mer, but sleeper hits from lana del rey and icona pop and new songs from grouplove and even selena gomez proved to the just the catchy, happy new mu­sic i needed to make it to work each morning. 
all in all, it was a good time for music, and if you couldn’t already tell from this recap, i’m simply not ready to move on. 
with that, i present you a playlist of the best songs of the summer. may your transition through this october be better than mine, but don’t forget to take a little summer music with you. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Andrew Gastelum 
editor in chief 
way back in april, i wrote that chance the rapper’s “acid rap” was the best listen of the year — fluid, thorough, fun, witty, with a hint of jazz. on one of “acid rap’s” hit songs “cocoa butter Kisses” raps one of chance’s biggest competitors and best friends vic mensa. 
but now mensa is no lon­ger the guy who rolls with chance. he has a project of his own now, and he shows he can pull his own weight. on “innaneTape,” mensa pulls together so many dif­ferent sounds, ranging from jazz to electro wave to alter­native, in order to differenti­ate himself from his chicago counterparts. 
mensa has a similar flow to that of chance the rapper, a similar inflection to mac miller and a similar, intrigu­ing flair for the weird to that of an earl sweatshirt. but with all the similarities, mensa is, above all, himself. 
There are songs that con­found — so out there, it’s cool. if that’s what you’re into, see “Tweakin’” featuring chance The rapper. as mensa opens, “it sounds like ray J and chris brown in a celebrity death-match,” and he is not far off. The track is pretty simplistic with one humming synth and a ranging reverb while mensa and chance drop the slick­est of rhymes. it sounds as if mensa went into odd Future headquarters and came away with a choice beat (also see “run!” featuring Thundercat. 
There are songs that inspire. 
“yap yap” has the charisma of a young Kid cudi with a quick-witted sequence of syllables and sentences and the occa­sional statement. in “magic,” mensa refers to himself as magic, posing the standard “do you believe in magic” question in an original way. The beauty of these songs is the beats fall by the wayside as it becomes more of a poem than anything else. lyrics are what really matter. 
There are songs that weigh on you. “holy holy” featur­ing Top dawg entertainment standout ab-soul is actually a pretty sad tale with a lighter feel to it. meanwhile, “Time is money” follows in a similar vein about the quest to make money but “don’t let the mon­ey make you.” 
but the best songs are the ones that cruise along. 
“hollywood la” sounds like it could come off “acid rap” and only deserves to be played in a convertible under the sun and a slight breeze. by far, the best track of the mix tape is “lovely day.” it’s fast-paced enough to foster energy at any time but also chill enough to play in any kickback setting. suited with a catchy hook and hum-worthy melody, this is vic mensa at his finest. 
it’s not the 4.5 out of 5 i gave to “acid rap,” (the highest rat­ing given in the Kickback thus far) but “innaneTape” is a very solid effort that is sure to grow on you with every lis­ten. however, some tracks are lacking some juice. but don’t worry, everything’s good. 




EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The ‘real’ fantasy team 

Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
watching fictional athletes in sports movies or on Tv al­ways gets me thinking: how would these athletes fare in the real world? 
in honor of that thought, i’ve complied a list of the top eight fictional athletes from Tv or movies. no athletes based on real people will be included, just original char­acters. without further ado… 
8. Rod Tidwell, “Jerry Maguire“ 
get this man a contract! Jerry maguire lucked out when his last remaining client ended up being this brash receiver on the arizona cardinals. while Tidwell’s off-the-field persona may re­semble Terrell owens’, on the field he is the equivalent of steve smith. undersized, yet bold and fearless, Tidwell is willing to sacrifice his body for his team and family. 
7. Thad Castle, “Blue Mountain State” 
The hardest-hitting line­backer in the country, castle has long been bms’s best player. while his team­mates may not agree with his inappropriate leader­ship tactics, no one can argue with his status as a two-time all american and three-time captain. his lack of intelligence is seen as a hindrance by some but in truth allows Thad to obey his coach and sacrifice his body unquestioningly. 
6. Willie Beamen, “Any Given Sunday” 
beamen has robert griffin iii’s brilliant mix of arm strength and speed and is able to make a huge play out of nothing. but like Tom brady, beamen plays with a chip on his shoulder, using his status as a late-round draft choice to motivate himself. while he initially struggles with nerves and then a growing ego, beamen eventually found a balance that allowed him to exploit his unique talents. 
5.  Roy Hobbs, “The Natural” 
The movie’s title says it all; hobbs was made to play baseball. he was an unhit­table up-and-coming pitcher before being shot in the ab­domen, an injury that ended his career. his pitching career that is, as hobbs re­turned and became the best hitter in the game, single­handedly taking his team to the playoffs. if not for his in­jury, hobbs very likely could have been no. 1 on this list. 
4. Forrest Gump, “Forrest Gump” 
Forrest caught bear bryant’s eye in college and earned a spot on the alabama football team, an achieve­ment any notre dame fan should be able to appreciate. Then Forrest became a mas­ter ping-pong player, earning sponsorships and playing internationally on behalf of the u.s. Forrest later showed he could have been a dominant marathoner by running across the country. what Forrest lacked in intel­ligence, he made up for in speed, endurance and sheer determination. 
3. Paul Crewe, “The Longest Yard” (1974) 
This is the 1974 version of crewe, not the doughy ver­sion played by adam sandler in the remake. as crewe, burt reynolds, who was a running back at Florida state, was the most convincing quarterback ever portrayed. if not for his questionable ethics, crewe may have been the perfect quarterback, with a cannon of an arm and remarkable athleticism. 
2. Rocky Balboa, “Rocky 1-6” 
a mountain of muscles with an iron chin, rocky is the ultimate chump-to-champ story. balboa has fought and beaten the most fearsome opponents imaginable. he’s so iconic that philadelphia erected a statue of him, and some consider his victory over ivan drago in rocky iv a turning point in the cold war. he might rank no. 1, but like many other legends his late-career attempts at a comeback diminished his legacy. 
1. Jesus Shuttlesworth, “He’s Got Game” 
First of all, what a name! second, shuttlesworth is depicted as a Kobe-like tal­ent, being hyped by media, agents and recruiters as the best prospect ever. but on top of that show-stopping athleticism, shuttlesworth is played by ray allen, the greatest three-point shooter in nba history. a combina­tion of allen’s shooting and bryant’s talent would allow shuttlesworth to compete for the title of best basket­ball player ever and is cer­tainly enough to name him the greatest movie athlete ever. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

luck, wilson to square off 
Associated Press 
renTon — doug baldwin does not want to be in the mid­dle of this debate. 
on one side is his guy from college, andrew luck, whom baldwin believes will one day be recognized as one of the all-time great quarterbacks. on the other is the guy delivering passes to baldwin now, russell wilson, who is enjoying just as much success as luck, both in their second nFl seasons. 
Two great Qbs, two decidedly unique talents that will meet on the field for the first time on sunday when the colts host the seahawks. 
of course, the first meeting between the two leads to com­parisons and discussions of what traits or skills one has that the other doesn’t. it makes for great debate and was not a path baldwin wanted to go down. 
“They’re both very, very good quarterbacks,” baldwin said. “highly intelligent. both can make plays with their feet. both have great arms.” 
and then baldwin paused and chuckled. 
“i don’t want to take it any further than that,” he said. 
luck and wilson are part of a quarterback class that will always be linked and overana­lyzed, even if they are all very different players. while robert griffin iii won the rookie of the year award, it’s been luck and wilson who so far have enjoyed the most overall success. 
seattle is off to its first 4-0 start in franchise history. indianapolis is 3-1 and sitting on top of the aFc south along with Tennessee. sunday would be a big game without these two quarterbacks involved. 
“They vary in some ways, 

FOR SALE 
POPULAR LOCATION CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CLEAN, NICELY MAINTAINED 3 BDRM FEATURES BEAUTIFUL HARDWOOD FLOORS, SUNSHINY KITCHEN SPACIOUS LIVING ROOM WITH BUILT INS. REMODELED BATH, NICE DINING AREA. FINISHED 
BASEMENT  COMPLETE  
WITH  BAR.  LARGE  BRICK  
PATIO  HUGE  BACKYARD.  3  

SEASON SUNROOM HAS WOODBURNING FIREPLACE! SUSAN@SUSANULLERY.COM OR 574-968-4211 
Open House Sun 10/6 2-4 13271 Adams Rd Granger. Historic re­stored home with barn on 1.5 acres. 3B 2Fbaths. Cressy Everett Realty Pam DeCola 574-532-0204 

but they’re also very similar in some ways,” baldwin said. “The cerebral part of the game, they are definitely similar in, and they both study the game of football tremendously and take different aspects of play­ers they have watched like Tom brady, aaron rodgers. i know luck loved watching aaron rodgers and i think the cere­bral part of the game is very similar.” 
luck is the prototype, the guy who fit the mold of how a quarterback should look, how he should analyze the game and how he should lead a team. The one who was calling his own plays in college and amaz­es teammates past and pres­ent with his knowledge of the game. 
“he’s an incredibly perspica­cious guy. he’s incredibly intel­ligent at the line of scrimmage, he uses great verbiage, he rec­ognizes defenses quickly,” said seattle cornerback richard sherman, a teammate of luck’s at stanford. “he’s probably one of the most intelligent quarter­backs out there in the way he reads coverages and the way he reads the games.” 
wilson is the outlier, who breaks convention with his lack of size, but makes up for being vertically challenged with his smarts and the athletic ability to keep plays alive when noth­ing is there. 
“he’s a phenomenal play-maker when things go south. nFl arm strength, you can make every throw, you see him spinning out, running back­ward, and chucking the ball 70 yards down field in stride to someone running, which is incredibly impressive,” luck said. “so when things sort of go south or guys run free, his ability to extend plays and make something happen is very impressive.” 
statistically, both are about even early in their sophomore seasons. luck has thrown for more yards, although with an improved running game in indianapolis he’s not being called upon to pass as much as he did last year. wilson has a slightly better passer rating and has thrown for one more touchdown than luck. 
even what would seem to separate the two, doesn’t. 
wilson’s improvisation when a play breaks down is part of the seahawks offense. while wilson’s need to scramble for safety has happened more than seattle would like — especially last week against houston 
— he’s escaped a number of potential negative yardage situations and has only been sacked 13 times, a number that for most quarterbacks facing the pressure he has would be higher. 
That has led to wilson rush­ing for 131 yards so far this sea­son, good for fifth in the league among Qbs. but right behind him is luck, with 126 yards rushing. 
“when i have watched him, seems like he does a great job staying in the pocket, step­ping up sliding and just ex­tending plays. Finding a way. he’s so athletic for how big he is, i think that’s the thing that impresses me the most about his game in general, he’s a very athletic football player,” wilson said. “my creativity, i just try to extend the play. i try to keep my eyes downfield. Try and fa­cilitate the ball to the right guy at the right time, and if it’s not there then try and make some­thing happen.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 

USC weekend rental - close to cam­pus. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 

Male sophomore student at Purdue University here in South Bend look­ing for mechanical engineer tutor in Dynamics and Electrical Engineering. Please serious inquires only 574-291-8859 
On a dark desert highway, cool wind in my hair, warm smell of colitas, ris­ing up through the air. Up ahead in the distance, I saw a shimmering light. My head grew heavy and my sight grew dim, had to stop for the night. There she stood in the doorway, I heard the mission bell. I was thinking to myself “This could be heaven or this could be hell.” Then she lit up the candle, and she showed me the way. There were voices down the corridor, thought I heard them say: “Welcome to the Hotel California!” Such a lovely place (such a lovely place) Such a lovely place. Plenty of room at the Hotel California. Any time of year (any time of year) you can find it here. Her mind is Tiffany Twisted, she got the Mercedes bends. She got a lot of pretty, pretty boys that she calls friends. How they dance in the courtyard, sweet summer sweat. Some dance to remember, some dance to for­get. So I called up the captain, “Please bring me my wine,” and he said  “We haven’t had that spirit here since 1969.” And still those voices are calling from far away. Wake you up in the middle of the night, just to hear them say: “Welcome to the Hotel California!” Such a lovely place (such a lovely place) Such a lovely place. Plenty of room at the Hotel California. Any time of year (any time of year) you can find it here. 


MEN’S TENNIS | iTa all-american championships 
Andrews bows out at ITA competition 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
The main draw of the iTa all­american championships con­tinued after the qualifying round wrapped up wednesday afternoon. 
The last remaining notre dame representative, senior greg andrews, knocked out south carolina senior Tsvetan mihov on Thursday morning but fell to oklahoma junior dane webb, 6-3, 6-7 (4), 6-3, in the afternoon. 
“[webb] is a great player, so i knew it would be a competitive match,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “i’m sure [andrews] feels like he could have played a little bit bet­ter and that he had a chance to win, but that shouldn’t take anything away from [webb]. he played a great match and deserved to win.” 
andrews beat mihov in consecu­tive sets, 6-3, 7-6 (3). according to sachire, despite mihov’s higher ranking, andrews brought a confi­dence to the match that helped him succeed. 
“greg [andrews] is one of the best players in the country, but this tournament is chock-full of great players,” sachire said. “even though mihov had the seed next to his name, greg was confident he could win if he played a good match. he wasn’t perfect; there was a little bit of a blip there in the second set when he got down 3-0. other than that, he played a really clean match and did a lot of good things.” 
as the only notre dame com­petitor on wednesday, sophomore Quentin monaghan fell to Texas freshman george goldhoff, 7-5, 6-4, in the qualifying round and failed to make the main draw. 
“Quentin played a good match,” sachire said. “it was a little bit like [andrews] against webb. when you’re playing against the best com­petition, there’s a really fine edge be­tween winning and losing. a couple points here or a couple points there, and you have a different match.” 
according to sachire, there is still a lot of room for theirish to improve. 
“it really comes down to having the right mentality and having the right focus throughout the match,” sachire said. “i think both our guys had some moments where they probably would have loved to have been a little sharper with their focus or assertive with their mentality. when you have those little lapses, it’s hard to pull out a win against top players.” 
nonetheless, sachire said monaghan and andrews played well and will continue to improve. 
“certainly, that’s something we’ll continually talk to our guys about,” sachire said. “They will get better as time goes on, but both of them … should be proud of their efforts.” 
The irish will host four oppos­ing teams this weekend for the first bobby bayliss invitational — which honors the recently-retired irish coach — as western michigan, cleveland state, louisville and michigan state travel to notre dame. play will begin at 2 p.m. to­day at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 


Howard 
conTinued From page 17 
but the phoxes will take on an­other unbeaten team in howard (3-0-0). 
The ducks defeated the same three opponents as the phoxes, albe­it with a little less flash, behind a bal­anced offense and a stout defense. most recently, they defeated breen­phillips in comeback fashion after a few key defensive adjustments in the second half. 
howard senior coach byron henry said he was proud of his team’s play this season. 
“This team is dedicated [and] hard-working and has such will to win,” henry said. “Their willingness to listen and their ability to adapt have been so impressive.” 
henry also said he had plenty of confidence in his team’s ability to win sunday. 
“our defense is going to be the key to victory,” he said. “i think we’ll step it up.” 
The phoxes and ducks will battle sunday at 4 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 
Ryanvs.Breen-Phillips 
ByBRIANPLAMONDON 
sports writer 
ryan and breen-phillips find themselves with opposite records as they prepare to clash this sunday. 
The wildcats (2-0-0) will look to continue their hot start, one that has seen them put up 63 points and give up none, against the struggling babes (0-2-0). 
ryan senior captain and offensive lineman andrea carlson said she at­tributed her team’s early success to both sides of the ball playing off one another. 
“our defense is always there with a big stop if our offense can’t score,” carlson said. “This motivates us on offense to keep moving the ball downfield.” 
carlson said she was also pleased with the way the team’s freshmen have played. she emphasized the strong play of freshman defensive lineman shawn hall, who already has multiple interceptions, and freshman quarterback Kathleen conaty. 
“Kathleen has been huge for us,” carlson said. “she has been very confident with the ball. she’s not afraid to tell the offense what to do.” 
breen-phillips lost to howard on monday but did manage to score the first two touchdowns of its season after suffering a shutout in its season opener. 
senior captain and linebacker monica mcnerney said a young team made up generally of fresh­men explains the babes’ early strug­gles. despite this, mcnerney said she was pleased with how quickly many of them have taken control of the offense. 
“Freshman running back emily affinito has really impressed,” mcnerney said. “she is incredibly fast and should be making some big plays this weekend.” 
The wildcats and babes will meet sunday at 6 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish host competitive Notre Dame Invitational 
in each region.” tough for both the men and well, [senior] walter schafer believes the level of competi-
By ALEX WILCOX 

sports writer connelly said he knows the the women, and that the key has to run well, and you’re tion is part of what makes it 
competition is going to be to a good performance Friday going to see [sophomore] so important. 
after coming out of the gate tough and that the meet will is sound group running. michael clevinger slip right “it’s at home, it’s a great with two strong performances be a good test for his unprov-“we have to do the same in there and of course [junior] meet, we’re going to run at the crusader invitational en squad. group running, but this meet Jake Kildoo. Those are prob-against terrific competi­and the national catholic “our challenge is going to is going to be exceptionally ably our best six.” tion and for the seniors, this championships, notre dame be: how do we respond to difficult,” piane said. “There while the men will rely on is their last race at home, so faces its third test of the sea-great competition?” connelly are eight nationally-ranked their seniors, connelly said that means a lot to them,” son in this weekend’s notre said. “That’s with every coach teams. There’s 27 teams on the women’s squad will run piane said. “but also, we’re dame invitational. in every sport; they want to the men’s side that are ranked some unproven faces due to going to run against a lot of 
while the irish finished well see how their kids are go-within the region, and i think injuries. quality teams so you have an in their two opening meets, ing to respond when they are it’s very similar on the wom-“[sophomore] molly seidel’s opportunity to get at-large both coaches said they had challenged, so that’ll be the en’s side. This is probably the got a sore calf so we won’t race points. [no. 7] Tulsa is very expected high finishes due to big question mark going into best meet in the country this her, [junior] hannah eckstein good, [no. 24] virginia is very subpar competition and know Friday, and hopefully they all weekend.” is probably two weeks away good, [no. 26] Florida state that this weekend will pose a believe that they’re ready to piane said that in a meet from being ready to race,” is very good, [no. 21] new much greater challenge. run really well.” this strong, he is counting on connelly said. “we’re going mexico is extremely good, 
“The level of competition The no. 19 irish women his seniors to help pull the to have to rely on some young [no. 9] princeton is very good. in the first two meets rela-welcome seven teams ranked team through. people that haven’t been in There’s potential at-large tive to what we’re going to see in the top 30 nationally and “you have to look at guys that position yet but i feel points there, so you have to Friday is like a whole different three highly-ranked teams like [graduate student] pretty good about the fact beat a few of these teams.” world,” women’s head coach from division ii and division Jeremy rae who have run that they’re kids who love to The irish will look to keep Tim connelly said. “we went iii. The no. 22 notre dame exceptionally well. he had compete, so i think they’ll be their hot start going at the in running against teams that men will face seven nation-a great summer; he’s been ready for a big challenge.” notre dame invitational on we knew we were better than, ally-ranked teams and four running well,” piane said. every year there is always Friday beginning at 2 p.m. on and now all of a sudden we’re division ii and division iii “we’ve got to get our seniors great excitement for the notre the notre dame golf course. going against [teams in the teams. going. [graduate student] J.p. dame invitational, and this top four] in the country, and men’s head coach Joe piane malette has to run well, [se-year is no different, the irish Contact Alex Wilcox at some of the top ranked teams said he believes it will be nior] martin grady has to run coaches said. coach piane awilcox1@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

belles work to end six-match skid 

against Kalamazoo, the belles
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
look to break that streak and 
get back on track. 

after a solid start to the according to belles coach season, the belles (5-10, 3-5 Toni elyea, the key aspect the miaa) have been in a slide as team has been struggling with of late, having dropped their has been the mental tough-past six matches. ness needed to finish, some-
with a match tonight thing the belles have been 
sports writer 
working on all week. 
“we have been working a lot these last two days on our mental game and staying in control,” elyea said. “we have all of the tools that it will take to get the win. it will be a mat­ter of being consistent and ex­ecuting the key plays to do so.” 
The hornets (8-9, 4-4) have also been on a slide, hav­ing dropped their last five matches after starting the season 8-4. elyea said one of the keys for the belles to win will be stopping Kalamazoo sophomore outside hitter nya greenstone, who leads the hornets with 161 kills and 2.82 kills per set. elyea added saint mary’s must play in a more balanced way itself. 
“we will need to be ag­gressive at the service line as they have a well balanced at­tack from their middles and outsides,” elyea said. “nya will be a player we will have to shut down if we want the win. we will need our hitters to be efficient and our defen­sive players and serve-receive to continue to do what they have been doing this whole season.” 
For the belles, key players to watch include freshman set­ter clare mcmillan, who has complied 517 assists this sea­son and averages a strong 9.07 assists per set. Junior outside hitter Kati schneider leads the belles with 230 kills this season and a 3.97 kill-per-set average, while sophomore outside hitter Katie hecklinski checks in second with 149 kills and a 2.57 kill-per-set average. elsewhere, the belles will rely on the strong defense of play­ers such as junior middle hit­ter melanie Kuczek, who leads the team with 40 blocks. 
ultimately, elyea said af­ter losing several games that went down to the wire, the key for the belles will be having the drive to finish the job each game. 
“we need to continue to be­lieve in each other and our­selves,” elyea said. “This team has so much talent and chem­istry, that when they decide that they want to win … they will.” 
The belles will take on the hornets tonight at saint mary’s at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 




ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish look for first ACC victory against Wake 
By MERI KELLY 
sports writer 
with the home-court ad­vantage, the irish hope to ob­tain their first conference win and top acc opponent wake Forest tonight. 
The irish (6-8, 0-3 acc) fell to acc foe duke on wednesday night, mainly because of de­fensive problems. but defen­sive issues are not usual for notre dame, and irish coach debbie brown said different matches always arise differ­ent weaknesses. brown said the irish worked on strength­ening their defense this week in practice. 
“but if we correct the de­fense, we need to make sure our passing stays strong, or that our hitting stays strong,” brown said. “we need to have consistency and play the whole game, and most impor­tantly play it well.” 
The last time notre dame played wake Forest (11-3, 0-2) was in 1982, when the irish took home a 2-0 win. and al­though the irish have not faced wake Forest for many years, brown said they know what to expect. 
“looking at film and look­ing at the scouting report, they play an untraditional lineup, so we will have to play attention to that,” brown said. “They are led by an outside [hitter] and a middle [hitter], some of their two strongest offensive players that play opposite each other in the lineup.” 
brown said the irish will not have to change their game plan to counteract wake Forest’s untraditional lineup, but they will have to be aware of it. 
brown said she has a high level of respect for wake Forest, especially its winning record. 
“but i think that if we keep care of the ball on our side, we should be fine,” brown said. 
The irish are calling fans to participate in “white out wake” tonight. Free white t-shirts will be handed out be­fore the game. 
“any time you’re playing in front of a home crowd that is rowdy and raucous, its good, 



and  we’ve had  some  great  great at providing a home- the purcell pavilion.  
crowds  here,”  brown  said.  court atmosphere for us. “  
“when  the  students  have  The  irish face the  demon  Contact Meri Kelly at  
come out, they have been  deacons at 7 p.m. tonight at  mkelly29@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
be a half-step behind the ball or a half-step too early. i’m pleased at creating the kind of chances we did, especially against a team as good as wake, but you’ve got to convert those opportunities when you get them.” 
notre dame’s best opportunity to take the lead in the first half came in the 41st minute when freshman midfielder morgan andrews curled the ball backwards in the box to freshmanforwardKaleigholmsted, who headed the ball into the arms of demon deacon senior goalkeeper aubrey bledsoe. bledsoe capped the night with five saves, drawing praise from waldrum. 
“i think bledsoe is very, very good,” waldrum said. “From what i saw of her tonight, she’s been the best goalkeeper we’ve come up against so far.” 
The irish finally got past bledsoe in the 76th minute, off a feed from olmstead to junior forward Karin simonian in front of the box, to give the home team a 1-0 lead. 
however, the demon deacons (8-2-2, 3-2-2) responded less than a minute later with a goal by fresh­man midfielder Kendall Fischlein off a pass from senior forward Katie stengel. 
with the exception of the assist, the irish limited stengel’s play, hold­ing wake Forest’s leading scorer to two shots on goal. 
“i thought we did a good job on her, although every time she got it, it was like, more gray hairs coming out because she’s so good with it and she’s so dangerous,” waldrum said. “but for the most part, i thought [irish sophomore defender] Katie naughton and [junior defender] sammy scofield did a good job keeping her contained.” 
with stengel and the demon deacons behind them, the irish will head south to face miami and junior forward ashley Flinn on sunday. 
Flinn leads the hurricanes (6-4-0, 1-4-0) with six goals and has a .667 shots-on-goal percentage. however, waldrum said he is not certain what to expect from her and her team, which comes off a nine-day break for the match. 
“They have a new coach, and i know it’s a very difficult place to play,” he said. “i would expect them to kind of bunker in and try to keep the score low and keep it close as long as they can.” 
waldrum also said the long trip to Florida and the sunshine state’s weather may take a toll on his team coming off a late, double-overtime finish in which seven players went all 110 minutes. 
“it won’t be easy, just traveling there, and [it’s] probably still going to be 95 degrees in miami, and we had a lot of players play a lot of minutes [Thursday], so we’ve got to be care­ful and maybe mix up our lineup a little bit on sunday,” waldrum said. 
with two days to recover from the extra-minutes draw, the irish will face the hurricanes on sunday at 1 p.m. at cobb stadium in coral gables, Fla. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
freshmen that could potentially play first or second lines. 
“i think [the game with guelph] is going to help, the faster we can get chemistry between our lines, and with [former irish captain and cen­ter] anders [lee] out of the lineup and someone needing to step into his first or second line role, guys are going to be moving around and won’t be playing with the people they have been playing with for the past few years.” 
Jackson said the lines are not set yet, and the game will create an op­portunity to take a look at the play­ers competing for the open spots. 
For the blueliners, sophomore andy ryan will compete with freshmen ben ostlie and Justin wade for the last defensive spot. 
“our top five [on defense] is pretty solid, so it will be three guys com­peting for one spot to play,” Jackson said. “we will see how it goes.” 
The irish will also look to fresh­man vinnie hinostroza to be an of­fensive force. 
“i think primarily, vinnie hinostroza will have an immediate impact up front for us,”Jackson said. 
notre dame will rely on its 10 returning seniors to lead the team against guelph and into its first sea­son in the hockey east conference, Jackson said. 
“They have all had a pretty big impact on the team for the last three years,” Jackson said. “as freshmen, they had a big impact on getting us to the Frozen Four. They also saw the downs of their sophomore year 
— a lot of them had off seasons, maybe with a sophomore jinx. 
“but they rebounded extremely well as juniors. They were the domi­nant players on our roster, for the most part, and this year it is their time to shine. we need them to el­evate a little bit more to have a better year and that will come from their leadership on and off the ice.” 
The irish begin their season with an exhibition game against guelph at 5:05 p.m. sunday at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Hadley 
conTinued From page 20 
already be out of the race. 
now, six weeks into the sea­son, the irish are closing out a dominant early stretch of acc play that had them sitting in a tie for first place with the no. 1 team in the nation, virginia, be­fore last night’s tie against no. 13 wake Forest. and the best part of it all for coach randy waldrum is how balanced the irish have been while doing it. 
as good as the irish looked at the start of the season, smothering illinois and northwestern, 4-1 each, they’ve been even better since they fell to then-no. 2 ucla, 1-0. since that loss, notre dame has went 6-0-1, outscoring its opponents 18-2. 
it would be hard to say which aspect of the game the irish excel in most. Freshman goal­keeper Kaela little sported an impressive 0.42 goals-against average entering last night’s match, good for second in the acc. of course, her job is that much easier when the irish defense allows only 3.3 shots on goal per game. overall, notre dame allowed just 0.4 goals a game through the first 10 games, the eighth-best mark in the nation. 

offensively, the irish ranked 10th in scoring offense nation­ally, with 29 goals before last night, and outshot opponents, 208-89, nearly half of which were on goal. They ranked ninth nationally in assists. 
The irish look like a team destined for a deep run. chalk it up to waldrum’s wizardry. with a roster of mostly freshmen, he worked his magic last year to push the irish further than anyone expected. he’s doing it again, and it shouldn’t be sur­prising that notre dame is this sharp early on in the season. 
in a conference full of great coaches, waldrum is one of the all-time best. he is 10th on the all-time wins list in ncaa history and has reached the college cup eight times in 14 years at notre dame. waldrum is a winner. 
of course, waldrum has the benefit of coaching some of the best talent in the country. The irish are one of the deepest teams in the conference, if not the nation. last year’s freshmen have the benefit of their ncaa experience and are joined by a top-10-ranked class of fresh­men, including superstar morgan andrews. 
Together with the solid lead­ership provided by the upper­classmen, the irish have all the pieces for a truly great season. The last time notre dame start­ed a season 9-1 was 2010, which was also the last time the irish won a national championship. 
it’s too early to tell if this year’s squad is that good, but i think it’s fairly clear that the irish are headed for bigger things than fifth in the acc. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
finally beginning to really sync to­gether, especially after the indiana game. 
“in the last couple games, we’ve really started to click offensively,” shipp said. “[sophomore] patrick hodan has been a huge impact in the midfield and [junior forward] vince cicciarelli just scored his first career goal. 
“hopefully we are getting to the point where we don’t just stop at two goals and instead shut teams out 3-0,” shipp said. 
clark said the thing that he likes about his squad is that goals can come from every position on the field, and he’s hoping to see that happen against clemson. 
“a lot of people can score goals and there’s not one particular person,” clark said. “almost ev­eryone one of our players could be a potential goal player, and i think that’s a nice thing about this squad.” 
The irish are learning to adapt to playing different teams in the acc, shipp said, and clemson is no different story. 
“we are getting used to playing against different styles throughout the acc,” shipp said. “They all try different ways to play us because we are currently ranked higher.” 
clark said he is confident in the team’s ability against the Tigers. 
“if we play properly, we can match up pretty well with any team in the country,” clark said. “i feel very comfortable saying that. 
“if we don’t give in to our op­ponent, then we will be very, very, very difficult to beat,” clark said. “if we do our part well, we will be fine against clemson.” 
clark said the team is definite­ly getting into the game-mode mindset as kickoff approaches. 
“i think at the moment we are ready and getting focused,” clark said. “we have indiana behind us and will refocus by game time on saturday to be ready to play.” 
The irish take on clemson at riggs Field in clemson, s.c. on saturday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
with.” 
The otters and the Zahmbies will face off at riehle Fields on sunday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Cornelius McGrath at cmcgrat2@nd.edu 
Fisher-St. Edward’s 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
sunday’s upcoming game is a pivotal one in the race for the playoffs for both Fisher and st. edward’s. 
The green wave (0-0-2) will look for an offensive spark other than junior kicker peter sullivan after their first two games result­ed in 3-3 and 0-0 ties. 
however, their quest will not get any easier this weekend, as many players on the team will be in dallas for the notre dame-arizona state game. This includes senior quarterback Joseph paggi, so Fisher has spent time in practice working to find a replacement. 
“we’re trying to figure out who we’re going to have play quarter­back right now,” junior captain and linebacker matthew nagy said. “we might just try to run the ball more this week, especially since we won’t have a quarter­back with a lot of experience.” 
For all their offensive struggles though, the green wave defense has only given up three points all year. 
“in the first two games, our defense has looked really good,” nagy said. 
he also said Fisher’s keys to victory would be the defense con­tinuing to play well and the of­fense limiting turnovers. 
The gentlemen (1-1-0) come off a “heartbreaking” loss to carroll last week, senior safety andrew blonigan said. 
however, blonigan found some positives in the loss, especially ju­nior receiver John wetzel. 
“he had a bunch of huge catches for us down the stretch,” blonigan said. “[he] almost turned the game around.” 
like Fisher, st. edward’s will bring out a little different look on offense. 
“we’re tearing up the playbook and trying to trot out something new to showcase our power and grit and might,” blonigan said. 
with both teams still serious contenders for playoff spots, the game has the makings of an in­tense battle sunday at 3:30 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
M Interhall 
conTinued From page 18 
weekend. 
“although our game against Fisher was plagued by plenty of sloppy mistakes, i do believe hav­ing a bye week [the] first game of the season played a huge part in our poor performance, because usually, the greatest improve­ment in any side comes between week one and two, so we hope we can perform better this week,” yurek said. 
yurek said he feels the result will be decided by how the otters’ offense plays, 
“we definitely need to throw the ball and i think that with the changes we have made to our for­mations, we should be able to ex­ecute more passes successfully,” 

paid adverTisemenT 
he said. 
similarly, Zahm’s senior cap­tain and offensive lineman Joseph rice said he feels his squad is fully focused on sunday’s game. 
“morale within the team is very good,” he said. “The guys have been training very hard for the last two weeks and can’t wait to get out onto the field again.” 
rice said he believes the Zahmbies (0-1-0) gave up their six-point lead to st. edward’s in the opening week because of lineup balance problems, not fatigue. 
“The team is in very good shape so i think that we need to work on our overall balance between the offense and defense,” rice said. “if we can get the ball to our sophomore wide receiver Travis allen on the outside, then i think we will be a force to be reckoned 


W Interhall 
conTinued From page 18 
by capturing the win,” Fisher said. The shamrocks and wild women will meet face-to-face sunday at 5 
p.m.atlabar Fields. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh-Lyons 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
lyons and cavanaugh play this weekend in a mid-season matchup between two squads that have im­pressedthusfar. 
after a close opening loss, cavanaugh (2-1-0) has won its last two games by a combined score of 58-7. Junior running back and re­ceiver olivia dietzel has been a fo­cal point for the chaos’ high-flying offense. 
senior captain and middle linebacker meaghan ayers said she expects cavanaugh’s recent dominancetocontinue. 
“our offense has been doing re­ally well, putting up lots of points and we’ll be relying on our defense to keep [lyons] at zero,” ayers said. “our confidence from other games is really going to help us … and be an asset going forward.” 
an offense led by freshman quar­terback Kristen lombardo has led the lions (2-1-0) to their strong start. 
senior captain and receiver christina bramanti said she is im­pressed with the effort of her team, especially the quarterback. 
“everyone plays the entire game and really steps up,” bramanti said. “we have a lot of new plays. …we just need to focus on properly executing. Kristen [lombardo] has done a great job of seeing the whole field.” 
lyons will also look to build on its defensive success by mixing up its coverage, according to bramanti, who also plays safety. 
“we will switch from man to zone. … we like having that as a weapon.” bramantisaid. 
The chaos and lions battle at 5 
p.m. sunday at labar Fields. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
Pangborn vs.Howard 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
pangborn and howard meet sunday with two undefeated re­cords, an upper hand in the stand­ings and plenty of bragging rights on the line. 
The phoxes (3-0-0) have been particularly dominant this season. behind a strong defense, pangborn recorded consecutive shutout victo­ries over walsh, welsh Family and breen-phillips, each by at least three touchdowns. 
senior offensive lineman and cap­tain mary Kate veselik said she was confident her team’s winning ways wouldcontinue. 
“we just have to stay the course and keep doing what we’re doing,” veselik said. “we’ve been dominant defensively. … if they can’t score, then they can’t beat us.” 
see howard PAGE 13 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

O’Neill, Dillon set to clash 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
o’neill looks to keep its momentum on a roll when it matches up with dillon on sunday. 
The angry mob (1-1-0) come into the game fresh off their first win of the season, a 12-0 victory over stanford. o’neill junior captain and linebacker donghoon lee said his team is eager for a winning season this year and hopes to come one step closer to that goal with a win over the big red (1-1-0). 
“The whole time i’ve been here, o’neill hasn’t made the playoffs, and a lot of guys are hungry,” he said. “They came from a lot of successful high school programs, and they’re tired of losing. There’s a lot of pent-up frustration right now.” 
lee said he will count on seniors quarterback Justin rumps and utility player eric reed to have solid performanc­es sunday for the angry mob to get the win. 
on the other side of the ball, the big red aim to bounce back after a 22-6 loss to Keough last week. 
dillon senior captain and lineman nate steele said he thinks a solid week of prac­tice and some tinkering with positions will help his squad sunday. 
“we’ve made two position changes, one on the offensive line and one in the defensive secondary, that i think are go­ing to be very positive for us,” he said. 
while steele said he antici­pates a stout o’neill defense, he believes the big red can win if they keep the ball away from the angry mob. 
“as long as we win the turn­over battle, i think we’ll have a really good shot at coming out with the victory,” he said. 
dillon and o’neill will meet sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Keenan vs. Keough 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
with one game behind each of them, Keenan and Keough both hope to secure their sec­ond victories when they face off sunday. 
The Knights (1-0-0) rode an undefeated season to win the championship last year, but their record was marred by a tie against the Kangaroos (1-0-0). 
Keenan senior captain and receiver Jeremy riche said he believes the Knights’ experi­ence will give them the advan­tage in the upcoming game. 
“we brought back a majority of starters from last year and the chemistry is really high,” riche said. “That’s one of our biggest strengths.” 

on the other hand, Keough senior captain and quarter­back seamus donegan said he thinks the young talent on his team is one of the Kangaroos’ biggest assets. 
“The freshmen are a huge part of our team,” donegan said. “They are absolutely essential.” 
both captains said they be­lieve that offense and defense will be equally important in the game. 
“we’re a well-balanced team and … we don’t lean one way, offensively or defensively,” donegan said. 
donegan will lead his team’s offense as quarterback while sophomore patrick corry will throw for Keenan. 
riche said he believes the Knight offense, with only one game played, is still adjusting. 
“i think we should work on the flow of the offense and get­ting into the rhythm a little bit earlier and carrying that throughout the game,” riche said. 
Keenan and Keough will play each other sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 
Duncan vs. Morrissey 
By ALEXANDRA LANE 
sports writer 
duncan and morrissey will both look for their first wins of the season when they square off sunday. 
The highlanders (0-1-0) opened their season sunday with a 19-0 loss to alumni. duncan junior captain and center alan Keck said the team did not play as well as he knows it can. 
“we made a lot of mistakes,” Keck said. 
The manor (0-1-0) also opened their season with a loss, falling to siegfried on sept. 22. 
“siegfried is one of the best, if not the best team,” morrissey junior captain and lineman patrick valencia said. “we only lost 7-0. we played really well, much better than everyone expected.” 
looking forward to the game on sunday, Keck said he has hopes the highlanders will fare better in this game, looking to the running backs specifically to provide more protection. 
“we just need to be more dis­ciplined and produce what we know we can,” Keck said. 
valencia said morrissey and its junior quarterback, ryan lindquist, are ready for the game. 
“we’re going to look to es­tablish a strong offense and use that to set the tone for the entire game,” valencia said. “[lindquist] is a good game manager and he makes smart decisions.” 
The highlanders and the manor meet sunday at 2:15 
p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Alexandra Lane at alane2@nd.edu 
Alumni – Siegfried 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
undefeated alumni and siegfried will battle sunday in a closely-matched game that could have playoff implications. 
siegfried senior lineman and captain John moore said he ex­pects it to be a tough game for both teams. 
“alumni and siegfried are two teams that really respect each other,” moore said. “it’s usually a hard-fought battle between two teams who really care about their sport and their dorms. we hope to see them again in the playoffs.” 
defense will no doubt be a major factor in the game, as both teams have yet to sur­render a point to any of their opponents. 
“i’m sure it will come down to whichever defense falters first,” alumni senior captain Jeffrey Kraemer said. “i think one big play could determine who wins.” 
That’s not to say the teams’ offenses will not have an impact as well. moore said he believes siegfried junior quarterback nate burggraf can overcome the strong defense of alumni (2-0-0), while Kraemer said he has confidence in the dawgs’ sophomore quarterback Trevor hurley and their running backs. 
senior defensive lineman cody ruiz, sophomore safety grady schmidt and freshman safety derek gauthier will lead the defense for the ramblers (2­0-0), moore said. 
“we’ve got a lot of individual talented guys who are work­ing together in a pretty great scheme and executing to per­fection,” moore said. “it should be a challenging game that will really test both teams.” 
The dawgs and ramblers will kick off at 2:15 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rg­riffi6@nd.edu 
Zahm vs. Sorin 
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
sports writer 
both sorin and Zahm aim to claim their first wins of the sea­son in their matchup sunday. 
after tying its first game 0-0 against Fisher on sunday, otters sophomore co-captain and defensive back Jake yurek said he feels sorin (0-0-1) will surprise its opposition this 
see m inTerhall PAGE 17 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

weasels seek to stay undefeated 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
pasquerilla west hopes to keep its undefeated record sunday against Farley, who will be looking to build off a positive performance last week with another win. 
The purple weasels (4-0-0) have dominated their first four contests, outscoring their opponents by a combined score of 96-7. 
senior linebacker and captain breezi Toole said she attributes the success to hard work and cooperation. 
“i think we’ve been working really hard and it’s paid off in the games,” Toole said. “we still have a long way to go before we get to where we want to be. i think we’ve been operat­ing well as a team, and we’ve been working on and off the field to build camaraderie.” 
however, pasquerilla west may be challenged more this week, as senior starting quarterback rachel rogers is injured and may not be able to take the field sunday. senior backup quarterback maddie schneeman will have to step in, with junior colleen doyle possibly getting some reps, as well. 
Farley (1-1-0) bounced back from a week one loss to pasquerilla east by defeating badin on sunday. The Finest will be motivated against pasquerilla west, senior captain and receiver lauren ladowski said. 
“i’m expecting our team to come out with a lot of energy,” ladowski said. “we actually scrimmaged them before the season started, and we lost, so we’re looking for some vengeance there.” 
in addition to ladowski, junior quarterback caitlin smith and se­nior running back giselle sabal will lead the Farley offense against the formidable purple weasel defense. pasquerilla west’s new quarter­backs, meanwhile, will face senior linebacker emily shepherd and the Finest defense. 
The Finest and purple weasels will kick off at 6 p.m. at labar Fields onsunday. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
Lewis  vs. Pasquerilla East 
By MEGAN WINKEL 
sports writer 
with two games in the book for each squad, pasquerilla east and lewis face off sunday. 
after lewis (0-2-0) started the sea­son with two losses, senior captain colleen haller said she hopes that by pulling more complex plays out of their playbook, the chicks will be able to add a win. 
“originally, for offense, we were just working on the basics,” haller said. “but now we can put in differ­ent options of what we can do when facing different types of defense.” 
pasquerilla east (1-1-0) is also coming into this game off a recent loss. after defeating Farley in the first week, the pyros lost a 27-7 battle with pasquerilla west in game Two. senior captain caroline Kuse said the pyros’ defense needs to improve against the run this week. 
“defense was definitely the de­fining factor of our loss,” Kuse said. “[pasquerilla west] was faster than we expected, and they beat us on running plays. our defense is good with pass plays, but we need to work on running defense for the upcom­ing game.” 
Kuse said she believes that loss was just a bump in the road and, like haller, looks to go beyond the funda­mentals to ensure a win. 
“we were doing basics before, but now we’re trying to work some more variety into our game plan.” Kuse said. “i think if we stick to what we’ve been doing at practice, we will see success.” 
The pyros and the chicks will face off sunday at 6 p.m. at labar fields. 
Contact Megan Winkel at mwinkel@nd.edu 
McGlinn  vs. Walsh 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
mcglinn and walsh hope to start off october on the right foot by se­curing a victory in their upcoming battle sunday. 
The shamrocks (0-2-0) look to claim their first win of the season af­ter suffering a 7-6 loss against welsh Family on sunday. senior captain and receiver Tara crown said they made fundamental mistakes in their loss to the whirlwinds. 
“we suffered from a variety of is­sues on both offense and defense in that game,” crown said. “Though some problems with the defense were fixed, we still need to work on our offense, especially the connec­tion between the quarterback and the receivers.” 
The wild women (1-3) achieved their first victory against welsh Family on monday, which junior captain and receiver maggie Fisher said gave walsh a confidence boost going into this week’s practice. 
“our offense is finally starting to get it together,” Fisher said. “if our offensive players keep improving and get their routes down, i have no doubt that we’ll play well.” 
mcglinn also plans on going into the game against walsh with a posi­tive and strong attitude, crown said. 
“The team needs to stay focused and play with absolute intensity,” crown said. “when we play well, we are a very good team, so i believe that we just need to play to our potential.” 
The matchup between mcglinn and walsh means a lot to the wild women, according to Fisher. 
“mcglinn actually beat walsh in the women’s interhall champion­ship game last year, so hopefully we can get a little revenge this weekend 
see w inTerhall PAGE 17 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
ACROSS 36 Word after a splat
1 First female candidate to 
37 Like some win the Ames 

lovers’ hearts Straw Poll 41 Strikes 16 War paths 45 She may be fawning
17 It airs in the morning, 46 Colorful cover-ironically ups 
18 Case builders: 48 Brandy letters Abbr. 49 Grilling test 19 Copy from a CD 51 Misses abroad: 
20 Understood 
Abbr. 52 Newborn 21 Show featuring abroad
special agents 53 ___ Hedin, 
22 Red Cloud, e.g. 
discoverer24 Player of the of the Trans-bad teacher in Himalaya“Bad Teacher” 55 Folman who 26 Rear directed the 27 Possible rank 2013 film “The indicator 

Congress” 29 Overseas relig. 

56 Comcast Center 
title 

hoopster 30 Big name in car 57 Alternative to monitors 
a breakfast 32 Beat it burrito 34 “Keep 61 Big source for dreaming!” modern slang 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
T T A  D R O L  D E M Y H R  
Y H T  N A M O  E L  I  O T E  
R E T R A C E N A C  I  R R U H  
O S H O  E R D N A  L O C  
A E L  S T O T  S T  I M O  
E U G E S  A N  I  R T A K  
K R Y P T O  A  I  G  
G  I M L E T  EYE  O F N E W T  
A P O  S E  I  N E S  
T Y P H O O N  B R  I  D E  
R E U S E  I  P U T  E L Y  
A N T  G L E N S  E W E S  
B R O O K L Y N C Y C L O N E  
B O R N E O  E  I  R E  H O V  
I  N S E A M  R O T S  C H E  

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
62 Some critical comments from co-workers 
DOWN 
1 Yellowstone 
setting: Abbr. 2 Odysseus, e.g. 3 Dopes 
4 Knocks off 5 Control tower info 6 Re-serve 
judgment? 7 Female adviser 8 Ill-humored 9 Norwegian Star 
port of call 
10 Old oscilloscope part, briefly 
11 Turns over in 
one’s plot? 12 Was reflective 13 Its adherents 
are in disbelief 14 Formula one? 15 Neighbor of 
Victoria: Abbr. 21 Top kick, for one: Abbr. 22 Puck and others 23 Some exact likenesses 
25 Part of Queen Elizabeth’s makeup? 
27 Certain league divisions 28 Forerunners of discs 31 Kind of cross 
33 They may be returned with regrets: Abbr. 
35 458 Spider and F12 Berlinetta 
PUZZLE BY DAVID STEINBERG 
37 Production 
47 Emulates 38 Definitely Homer 
39 Give some  50 Actor Burton  58 Org. with a  
space, say 40 Grind 42 Stormed 43 Modern mouse  52 Competitor of Lauren and Klein 54 Numerical  clenched fist logo 59 Org. created right after the cold war  
hole?  prefix  60 MS-DOS  
44 Ring bearer,  56 First name in  component:  
maybe  footwear  Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

city      state Zip 
57 “Two, three, four” lead-in 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  
16  
17  
18  19  20  
21  22  23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  
62  

address 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ashlee simpson, 29; seann william scott, 37; neve campbell, 40; gwen stefani, 44. 
Happy Birthday: happy birthday: plan and put everything in its place. revisit the past, tie up loose ends and prepare to move forward. consider what you want and how you would like to change your situation at work and at home. listen to what’s being offered, but don’t be too quick to help someone else get all the perks and recognition. strive for equality. your numbers are 3, 7, 16, 21, 25, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Just because you are a doer doesn’t mean you should let people take advantage of you. making promises for the wrong reasons will lead to frustration. do what will benefit you, not someone else. 
set a high stan­dard for future encounters. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): apply pressure if you want something from some­one. it may not be the way you do things under normal conditions, but you mustn’t allow anyone to get in the way of the goals you are striving to reach. romance will improve your day.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): learn as you go. create your own unique style and elaborate to impress clients or those who can influence your professional future. protect against minor illness or injury. you need to be healthy to reach your goals.   


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let your mood ruin your plans or your day. look at the big picture and set your sights on places you want to visit or projects you want to pursue. don’t let jealousy and possessiveness hurt a relationship that is important to you.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take the initiative to find out exactly what’s going on. you cannot fix a problem unless you fully understand the situation. ask questions, remain calm and be prepared to adapt to whatever change is necessary. visit a familiar destination. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Jump in and offer a helping hand. meeting new people or reconnecting with someone from your past will lead to interesting conversations and valuable information. don’t let anger stand between you and achieving your goals. let bygones be bygones. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): call in favors and connect with people you have worked with in the past. Follow through with a work-related project that will bring in extra cash. instead of fighting change, see where it leads. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look, see and do. Focus on home, family and learning all you can in preparation for what you want to do next. Travel to destinations that provide you with knowledge, and explore the relationships that interest you. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): look at your financial situation and make adjustments to the way you live in order to fit your budget. don’t let emotional matters cost you time or money. adjust to whatever you face and keep moving. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Tidy up unfinished business. cut your losses and secure your position. protect your reputation and explore new possibilities. greater opportunities for relationships are apparent. make choices based on your needs as well as what’s being offered. romance is in the stars. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have trouble making a decision or coming to an agreement with those you deal with. collect your thoughts and revisit your options. change will turn out to be beneficial once the process begins. avoid lending or borrowing.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): protect against injury or trying to do too much at once. discipline and careful plans will bring you satisfaction and success. expand your friendships with people who can offer you a different perspective. a mini vacation will ease your stress.  

Birthday Baby: you are entertaining and persuasive. you are unique and versa­tile. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, waKe ForesT 1 
Irish endure weather delay, tie Wake Forest 
By MARY GREEN 
sportswriter 
after an hour-and-a-half weather delay and two overtime periods, neither no. 4 notre dame nor no. 13 wake Forest could separate it­self, as the acc opponents end­ed Thursday’s match at alumni stadium in a 1-1 draw. 
before the lightning and thunder rolled in at halftime and caused the delay, the irish (9-1-1, 5-0-1 acc) controlled the game, but the 0-0 score did not reflect it. 
notre dame was able to get the ball near the goal several times and closed the first half with nine shots. The irish ended regulation with 19 shots and added four more in over­time, though the team only put one goal on the board. 
“we were just a little off with some of the opportunities,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “our corners, we were delivering in good areas, and we were getting runs into the right area, and we just seemed to 
see w soccer PAGE 16 
ACC proving ground 

Balance helps team excel in elite ACC 

Greg Hadley 
sports writer 
with six teams ranked in the top 13 of the nscaa poll, the acc is indisputably the premier conference in the country for women’s soccer. 
so it wasn’t exactly a surprise or an insult when no. 4 notre dame was picked to finish fifth in the conference in the pre­season coaches’ poll. 
even though they were re­turning 10 starters from a team that advanced all the way to the ncaa quarterfinals, the irish (9-1-1, 5-0-1 acc) faced an uphill battle in their first year in the acc. defending national cham­pion north carolina, college cup finalist Florida state and de­fending acc champion virginia all stood in notre dame’s way. Top to bottom, the conference was loaded with high-quality opponents. one or two off nights, and the irish would 
see hadley PAGE 17 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish travel to Clemson 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The no. 2 irish hit the road to take on clemson in clemson, s.c., on saturday at 7 p.m. 
notre dame (5-0-3, 2-0-2 acc) enters the game after a 2-0 win over in-state rival indiana on wednesday night at alumni stadium. 
The irish defeated the Tigers (7-1-1, 2-1-1) last season with a 2-1 victory at the adidas/iu credit union classic in bloomington, ind., to win the tournament title. This time, notre dame travels to clemson to take on the Tigers at historic riggs Field. 
irish coach bobby clark said the team is ready to return to clemson. 
“clemson always draws a big crowd, and it’s a beautiful field,” clark said. “we are ready to get back there and play them again.” 
clark said this is a huge acc conference game for the irish. 
“a lot of conference ramifica­tions will spill out of this game,” clark said. 
senior forward harrison shipp said the irish are definitely an­ticipating a challenging matchup with the Tigers. 

“we played clemson last year, but it was a really close, com­petitive game, and the game this weekend is going to be a tough battle as well,” he said. 
shipp said the irish are ready and excited to get back on the field after wednesday’s victory over the hoosiers. 
“i think we are excited to play again coming off a big win against indiana,” shipp said. “we haven’t had a big win yet on the road, so we are excited to clinch that on-the-road win in the acc.” 

clark said he likes the quick turnaround between games. 
“The nice thing about our schedule is you don’t have very long to rest on something be­cause you have to move on from one big game to the next immedi­ately,” he said. 
shipp said the irish attack is 
see m soccer PAGE 17 
HOCKEY 

gryphons visit for lone nd exhibition 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
hockey gets underway sunday at compton Family ice arena, as the irish host guelph in an exhibi­tion matchup in their first game since a 5-1 loss to st. cloud state in the first round of last year’s ncaa tournament. 
“we are excited about the start of a new season,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “ever since the finish of last year, i think we have all been motivated to get back to starting over again, especially moving into a new conference. ... it’s going to be a great schedule, especially for our fans and students at home, and that’s always a great thing. we are looking forward to a new challenge.” 
The tough schedule and new challenges begin for theirish as they face off against the gryphons from the university of guelph in ontario, canada. The gryphons are coming off a 4-2 exhibition loss to western ontario. 
The last time the irish played guelph was an exhibition game notre dame won 5-3 to start the 2010-11 season — the same season the irish went to the Frozen Four. a year ago, notre dame tied the u.s. under-18 team in its only exhibition game. 
irish senior goaltender steven summerhays said guelph will pre­pare the irish well for the start of their season. 
“This year, we are starting [the regular season on oct. 11] with western michigan, who is going to be a tough opponent to start off with,” summerhays said. “i think guelph will be a physical team and western is more of a physical team, compared to playing a [united states] developmental team, which is a lot of skilled guys. hopefully we can start to get some lines and gain­ing chemistry and clicking a little bit.” 
summerhays said the exhibition game with guelph is important because it will solve some of the un­known variables of college hockey. 
“it’s so tough in college [to estab­lish lines], because guys leave here and there every year and the fresh­men [are] coming in.” summerhays said. “we have some really talented 
see hocKey PAGE 16 




