The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 104 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Cardinal to speak at commencement 
Archbishop of New York will receive honorary degree, address graduates at May 19 ceremony 
notre dame stadium. on human dignity, and we are students and to provide them dolan was ordained to the 
Observer Staff Report 
“over the past several years, grateful that he has accepted with words of wisdom as they priesthood in June 1976. he cardinal Timothy dolan, i have had the honor and plea-
set out into the world.” completed a doctorate in 

archbishop of new york and sure of getting to know cardinal 
president of the u.s. conference dolan,” university president 
of catholic bishops, will be the Fr. John Jenkins said in the 
2013 commencement speaker, press release. “he is a man of 
according to a university press great intelligence and personal 
release. warmth, and a dedicated shep­
dolan will speak and re-herd of the church. we were pope emeritus benedict Xvi american church history at 
named dolan archbishop of The catholic university of 
new york in February 2009 af­america. 
ter dolan served seven years From 1994 to 2001, dolan 
as archbishop of milwaukee. served as rector of the pontifical 
dolan was elected president of north american college in 
the u.s. conference of catholic rome. while there, he was also 
ceive an honorary degree pleased to have him here in bishops in november 2010. The a visiting professor of 
at the university’s 168th 2011 to give the inaugural lec-our invitation to join us in cele-pope elevated him to cardinal 
commencement on may 19 at ture for the notre dame project brating the achievements of our in January 2012.  see cardinal PAGE 7 



Administrators support 
muslim student 


Call to Action movement 
group reorganizes 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the sec­ond of a three-part series about the Call to Action movement and the experiences of minority students within the Notre Dame campus community. 
The town hall meeting held march 5, 2012 to discuss ra­cial discrimination was the first step to mobilizing the notre dame community in the call to action movement. 
in the year that has fol­lowed that meeting, assistant vice president of student af­fairs dr. david moss has been 
see acTion PAGE 6 



By GRACE McCORMACK 
news writer 
despite being a small mi­nority on a predominantly catholic campus, muslim students at notre dame maintain a strong faith com­munity through the muslim students association (msa). 
The club now sponsors seminars, daily prayer, weekly Quran studies and trips to a local mosque, though it offered little only a year ago, according to presi­dent aamir ahmed Khan. 
“[The msa] was in a dead 
zone … as good as inactive,” 
JODI LO | The Observer 
Khan said. 

Keri Kei Shibata, assistant chief for safety services, met with Call to 
recognizing the msa’s 


Action leaders to develop NDSP’s role in better community relations. 
need for revitalization, priscilla wong, associate di­rector for administration at campus ministry, reached out to Khan when he was a first-year graduate student, Khan said. 
Khan said he and a number of other students established a committee to reorganize the group. 
“since we reorganized the committee, we’ve been get­ting a lot of positive respons­es from the students,” said 
s. moudud islam, the msa treasurer. 
about 20 of the university’s estimated 90 muslim 
see msa PAGE 5 




‘Spread the word to end the word’ 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
notre dame students are pledging to “spread the word to end the word” today to fight insensitivity toward those with disabilities as part of “end the r-word day.” 
“spread the word to end the word [is] a campaign started by soeren palumbo, a 2011 gradu­ate, and Timothy shriver,” said maureen connelly, co-presi­dent of special olympics notre dame. “The ultimate focus of the campaign is to spread awareness and help people real­ize the hurtfulness of the derog­atory use of the word ‘retarded’ and to encourage them not only to pledge to not use it, but to en­courage other people to not use it as well.” 
This year marks the fifth “end the r-word day.” while palumbo instituted the day at notre dame, the university is just one of hundreds of colleges and elementary, middle and high schools across the country participating in the campaign. 
palumbo, a 2011 graduate of notre dame, founded special olympics notre dame his senior year with a group of students in an effort to increase engagement between students and disabled members of the community through athletics. palumbo, who is pursuing a Jd/mba at the university of pennsylvania, will be speaking at tomorrow’s “spread the word” rally at 7 p.m. in the hesburgh library’s carey auditorium.
 “i’ll be there to talk about where ‘spread the word’ came from, how did it start, how did it 
see word PAGE 5 


MAGGIE O’BRIEN | The Observer 

A student pledges to combat insensitive treatment of the disabled by signing a banner in LaFortune Student Center in March 2012. 

maTh scholarship PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 noTre dame 66, sT. John’s 40 PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you could go anywhere in the universe for spring break, where would you go? 


Anna Reyes 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“i want to walk into mordor.” 

Eric Jesse 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“italy, to eat italian food.” 

Desiree San Martin 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“i would go to narnia to meet aslan.” 


Kristen Parkinson 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 

“i want to go to hogwarts. no explanation needed.” 

Annie McEnery 
junior 
badin hall 

“hang gliding in australia.” 

Taylor Byrnes 
junior badin hall 
“space.” 


Irish freshman forward Cameron Biedscheid, center, is held back by teammates after engaging in a fight with a St. John’s player during Tuesday night’s basketball game. Notre Dame went on to win the game, 66-40. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
John cameron chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
christian myers Katie heit catherine owers greg hadley 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jacqueline o’neill ankur chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 

Physics Colloquium Hospitality Lunch Writing Workshop Men’s Lacrosse Catholic Mass 
Kirby mcKenna Tabitha ricketts 
Nieuwland Science Geddes Hall Coleman-Morse Arlotta Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Hall 11:45 p.m.-1 p.m. Center 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Heart 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Proceeds benefit 1 p.m.-2 p.m. Game vs. Hofstra. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. 
Corrections 

Presentation by Dr. the Catholic Peace Strategies for long-
The observer regards itself as Fernando A. Montes. Fellowship. term writing projects. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Film: “Even the Rain” Zen Meditation Film: “The Master” Women’s Lacrosse Chamber Concert 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing Arlotta Stadium DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Center Arts Center 3 p.m.-5 p.m. Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-9:15 p.m. 5:15-6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8:50 p.m. Game vs. Boston 3 p.m.-5 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Film in Spanish with Sitting and walking A Navy veteran returns University. Featuring cellist Lara 
we can correct our error. 

English subtitles. meditation. from war. Turner. 


Student accepted to ranks of Churchill Scholars 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
senior murphyKate montee won’t need to shy away from the classic senior spring question: “do you know what you’re doing next year?” 
montee, along with 13 other students, will head to churchill college at cambridge university as a winston churchill scholar. 
“The scholarship offers pretty much all of my school costs, travel and visa. it’s an incredibly generous gift from the winston churchill 
“The feeling of proving something in math is very like the feeling after a successful performance. It’s a high.” 
MurphyKate Montee 
senior 
Foundation,” said montee, the second notre dame stu­dent to receive the award. 
“i’ll be doing part iii, which is a taught program in math,” she said. “i’ll be concentrating in theoretical math, probably with a geom­etry and topology focus.” 

although montee will con­tinue to pursue mathematics, the subject has not been her sole focus at notre dame. in fact, she is a math and music double major. 
“i love them both. They are both beautiful and creative in their own way, and very fun,” montee said. “The feeling of proving something in math is very like the feeling after a successful performance. it’s a high.” 
montee first heard about the churchill math program over a year ago from the center for undergraduate scholarly engagement (cuse) and later from a friend from the university of michigan, nicholas Triantafillou, who also won the award for 2013. she said her interest was im­mediately piqued, and she felt driven to apply for the churchill scholarship. 
“it’s a really great taught math program at cambridge, very rigorous and with lots of interesting possible topics,” she said. 
The application process included the submission of a personal statement and a collection of short essays fo­cused on montee’s interest in england and cambridge university. montee was also interviewed by peter patrikis, executive director for the foundation in the united states, over the phone, dur­ing which she was informed of her acceptance. 

“mr. patrikis was pretty sneaky about how he told me actually,” montee said. “we had been talking for about fif­teen minutes, and he asked, ‘so, what are you most look­ing forward to when you’re in england next year?‘ it was a really exhilarating moment when i realized that i had ac­tually done it.” 
The churchill scholarship is the latest in a number of distinguished awards for montee. she recently won the alice T. schafer prize 
in  mathematics  from  the  
association  for  women  
in  mathematics  and  the  

norman and beatrice haaser mathematics scholarships 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 
from the notre dame math department. 
while montee is passionate about her work in mathemat­ics, she said she is going to make some time to enjoy her new surroundings next year. 
“This is going to be my first long term visit abroad,” she said. “i’m looking forward to meeting people, and travel-ling to see the geography and some great musical sights.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

saint mary’s choir prepares for five-state tour 
a member of the choir, said 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 

news writer she’s looking forward to shar­
ing some of the group’s latest 
while many students are pieces with audiences. packing up their bags for “i’m really excited for the trips home or to tropical loca-tour, i think it’s going to be tions, the saint mary’s college one of the highlights of the se­women’s choir is gearing up mester for me,” stewart said. for a five-state performance “we’re singing a lot of interest-tour. ing music, and in a lot of in-
sophomore claire stewart, teresting cities that i’ve never 
paid adverTisemenT 

been to.” 

The choir’s director, dr. nancy menk, said the tour is 
an  opportunity  to  improve  
the  quality  of  the  group’s  
performance.  

“it’s great for the choir,” menk said. “we always sound a million times better when we come back. mainly it’s the refinement of the music that takes place from constantly performing it. That’s why our homecoming concert is always a really good one.” 
The choir will leave Friday and will stop in cities in indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, georgia and Florida. 
“we are singing with another choir in every city,” menk said. “it’s goodwill, it’s exchange 
— they get to sing with us. They’re all high school choirs, so they get to hear the more mature voices. The teachers usually like to bring us in to sing for the kids because they think we’re a good model; something they can aspire to.” 
sophomore nia parillo said pairing with high school choirs is an opportunity to put the group’s performance skills to the test. 
“i think it’s going to be re­ally cool to work with each other,” parillo said. “it’s kind of a test to see how profession­al we are. if they’re doing the same things we are, or if they are like, ‘oh my gosh, they’re so good, i can’t wait to go to a collegiate level choir,’ that’s going to make us feel good and [let’s us] know that our hard work is paying off.” 
menk said she is looking for­ward to hearing the choir per­form in the various venues. 
“i’m looking forward to sing­ing some of our a cappella pieces in some of the spaces we are going to be singing,” menk said. “i’ve heard they have very good acoustics, especially in atlanta, Florida and louisville. 
“I’m really excited for the tour, I think it’s going to be one of the highlights of the semester for me.” 
Claire Stewart 
sophomore 

i know some of our music will sound really great there.” 
menk said the frequent per­formances won’t consume all of the choir’s time. 
“we get to do some fun sight­seeing stuff too; it’s not just work,” menk said. “in every city we try to get to the main attraction in that city. There’s plenty of fun built in. and we are going to end up in Florida, so they are going to have a beach day.” 
stewart said the enjoyable performances and recreation­al aspects of the trip make the hard work worthwhile. 
“we’re definitely giving up a lot of time for it, and it’s going to be really intense in terms of the amount of work we have to put into singing, but i think i’m going to have way more fun on this trip than i would at home, because none of my friends have the same break,” she said. 
First-year carrie dubeau said she is excited to both represent saint mary’s to un­familiar audiences and to ex­perience some locations for the first time. 
“we get to go places that i would never actually go,” said dubeau. “i would never get to visit these cities otherwise, in one week.” 
stewart said she is also excit­ed to visit a few of the destina­tions for the first time. 
“The only place i’ve been is indianapolis, out of all the places we’re going, so i’m re­ally excited to get to see differ­ent places,” said stewart. “it’s kind of a cool dynamic. we get to sing a lot, but on the other hand we get to have some fun.” 
soon after they return to campus, the choir will per­form a homecoming concert on march 22 at 7:30 p.m. 
“it’s the result of the tour and [students will] hear a re­ally polished performance,” dr. menk said. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Lecture explores Catholic intellectual tradition 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
news writer 
despite major church setbacks in recent years, catholic intel­lectual tradition is still alive and well in the contemporary world, margaret o’brien steinfels, for­mer co-director of the center on religion and culture at Fordham university said. 
she discussed this tradition, which she defined as the in­terplay of human intellect and spirituality through history, in a lecture titled “perspectives on the catholic intellectual Tradition” saint mary’s college’s spring lec­ture series, “mind, body, spirit: connected,” Tuesday night. 
steinfels said the fallout of the major sex abuse allegations in the early 2000s was a significant prob­lem for the church. 
“The scandal reported in January of 2002 about the boston 
MSA 
conTinued From page 1 
students actively participate in the club. Kahn said the re­source is especially helpful for international students. 
“we are far from our own country and we miss our family and religion and practices,” he said. “we’re trying to make an environ­ment [that] lets students know that we can do the same thing here.” 
while muslim students catholic church covering up sex­ual abuse by church leaders was a pivotal moment for our church,” steinfels said. “This crisis affected every part of the catholic com­munity. The robust confidence in our church as a whole has fallen several notches because of this.” 

steinfels said this crisis and oth­er issues created ambiguity about the strength of church authority, the intellectual tradition and its interplay with social justice. 
“This tradition is both decisive and expansive,” steinfels said. “catholics have gone from [the tradition] being a structured phe­nomenon to something that can no longer be pinned down deci­sively. however, catholics do have a rich selection of people to cite when we think about catholic in­tellectual tradition and social jus­tice. This selection spans decades and continents. “ 
in order to engage the catholic 
may feel isolated because of their separation from the familiarities of their home lives, Khan said he has not heard of negative experiences. 
“we have not faced any challenge[s] so far, only ap­preciation and encourage­ment,” he said. 
Khan said the group is an asset to the entire campus, not just its muslim members. 
he said he has seen an in­crease in non-muslim inter­ests in the muslim faith and 
paid adverTisemenT 

intellectual tradition, steinfels said catholics must look to future progress. 
“catholics needs to scan the horizon and argue the world,” steinfels said. “we need to place emphasis on the notion that catholic intellectual tradition looks not only to the past, but to the present and the future.” 
in order to actively participate in this tradition, steinfels said church members must seize the label “intellectual” as a badge of honor. 
“intellectuals are often found in public forums. They are agonis­tic,” steinfels said. “intellectuals argue on different sides of large and important subjects.” 
she said intellectuals are the ones who pass down and reinvent tradition, and that this intellec­tual tradition will play into how future generations relate to the catholic faith. 
culture, which has mani­fested itself at msa events and through a student-made documentary on muslims at notre dame titled “scarves and crosses,” which pre­miered at the student Film Festival. 
“[non-muslim students] are asking questions posi­tively,” Khan said. “and that is really an encouraging thing.” 
Contact Grace McCormack at gmccorma@nd.edu 

“Tradition defined as some­thing that is passed down implies that we always thought or acted in such a way, “steinfels said. “if we really do what tradition asks we must acknowledge that each gen­eration asks different questions and faces different challenges. Tradition may be a given that we hold near, but it is also invented.” 
steinfels said catholic intel­lectual tradition is especially important in today’s world, with its strong emphasis on empirical evidence. 
“There is more to the world we see through microscopes and telescopes,” steinfels said. “our church’s tradition allows us to contest ideas and worldviews. This tradition allows us to create conversation that works to criti­cize and understand what we see around us.” 
“empirical findings enrich the understanding of a human person, but they are not the end-all, be-all. aspects of the human person cannot be explained scien­tifically,” she said. “if the scientific context of truth is not questioned then we will forever be living in a society where human life and hu­man action are reduced.” 
steinfels stressed the impor­tance of the church sharing this tradition with the public. 
“some people wish for religion to be confined to private life. i believe it is a loss to the whole society when any religion is con­fined to the private life,” steinfels said. “catholics have a tradition that takes philosophy and philo­sophical thought seriously. These thoughts should be open for pub­lic discussion and do have an influence on policies and other matters of public life.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach krabac01@saintmarys.edu 



Word 
conTinued From page 1 

grow, what role did notre dame play in those two things, why is it important, where is it going [and] what is notre dame’s role in the future of the campaign,” palumbo said. 
students can commit to the cause by signing banners from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. in both dining halls and laFortune student center. connelly said students are en­couraged to not only pledge themselves to the campaign, but to solicit participation from friends.
 “encourage others — truly spread the word to end the word. if you hear someone us­ing it, it’s uncomfortable, but at the same time it’s so powerful to have someone tell you, ‘hey, you really shouldn’t use that in that sense,’” connelly said. “if you never really realized how offensive it was before, it kind of opens up your eyes. people are scared sometimes to speak out against it, but they don’t real­ize that some people truly don’t know that it’s offensive.” 
palumbo said the campaign is about more than ending use of the r-word. 
“i think that it’s important to end the use of the r-word because language not only in­forms us, language transforms us,” he said. “when we use divisive words or exclusionary words or dehumanizing words, like retard or retarded, we not only build up barriers between people and isolate people and exclude people, but we our­selves become the barriers. we 
“When we use the words retard or retarded, we embrace the attitude that it engenders and we prevent all of that.” 
Soeren Palumbo 
class of 2011 

force others out when we define our world through exclusionary language.” 
using these insensitive terms is not just hurtful to people with disabilities, palumbo said. 
“at the same time, i think that it robs us without disabilities of that perspective, that dimension of the human experience that i think is very enriching and con­tributes to a more complete and more beautiful understanding of what it means to be human,” he said. “when we use the words re­tard or retarded, we embrace the attitude that it engenders and we prevent all of that.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

incidents of harassment. 
Action 

outlaw said this resolu­
conTinued From page 1 

tion complimented internal 
discussion within student an administrator walking at affairs at the time regarding the forefront of the university discrimination. officials trying to follow that “when the resolution came lead. from the senate it went up to 
“The students have a very the [then-vice president of powerful voice on our cam-student affairs Fr. Tom doyle], pus, and when they decide who had at the time already that this type of activity, put some things together to this type of harassment, is investigate and make some no longer acceptable in our changes,” outlaw said.  “as a community then it will be division we were already talk-eradicated,” moss said. ing about how some things 
To ensure that the students’ need to be changed … this voices dominated the call to helped to add credit to what action discourse, moss said the students were saying … he intentionally structured and to push forward our own his work with the movement review.” so that he would facilitate as the current vice presi-for reporting racial harass-even in high-risk situations, interact with the world.” student-led initiatives. dent of student affairs, erin ment and discrimination.“if she said. outlaw said the First year 
“i’m there for support and hoffmann harding has main-we don’t have a reporting cul-“we’re here to help, we’re of studies program provides to get things done on my level tained her predecessor’s focus ture, then these issues con-here to serve. … we want to many opportunities for stu­of the administration, but this on fostering diversity, outlaw tinue to fester,” moss said. interact and to have honest dents to explore the diverse really needs to be a student-said.  “if a student believes that if conversations about things array of cultures represent-led movement because i think they report an incident that that happened, and also just ed at notre dame, that have that gets us longevity,” moss ‘A welcoming environment’ it’s going to take a lot of time, to help people learn to be safe been complimented by msps said. “my advice has been for in keeping with that student and it’s going to take a lot of in the way that they go about initiatives and other pro-them to find their own voice, senate resolution, moss said effort and then they’re go-their lives,” shibata said. “we grams across the university. because in the past i would administrators within the ing to be frustrated with the welcome any feedback that The goal of these efforts is to say that these efforts were pri-call to action movement result then they just won’t people have and any sugges-encourage students to think marily generated and moved have worked closely with the report.” tions that they have about outside of the box, she said. forward by the administra-student activities office to outlaw said mechanisms how we can improve our ser-“Thinking beyond the com­tion, and though that solves ensure administrators con-to support a more defined vice to the community.” fort zone of your own race or the issue for the time being, sider the needs of individual reporting culture have been ethnicity — that’s all we’re if the students aren’t behind students as they go through created in partnership with Cultural competency really asking,” outlaw said. it and if they don’t buy into it freshman orientation. the notre dame security outlaw said the call to “we want to shift people’s then those gains sometimes “we’ve been doing a lot of police (ndsp), building what action leaders have also paradigms so they will think are not long-lasting.” work with student activities he called a “one-stop shop” worked with academic pro-in a broader context while in­
to make sure we are aware of for reporting discriminatory grams, looking to develop teracting with people and not ‘A grassroots movement’ the kinds of things that can incidents. Keri Kei shibata, a curriculum on cultural rely on stereotypes — but learn 
From the very beginning, alienate incoming students,” assistant chief for safety ser-consciousness. about people one-on-one.” leaders focused on enlisting moss said. “i don’t believe vices, said ndsp staff met “That’s one of the things the support of many differ-that notre dame is a mali-with student leaders following we wanted, to get a cultural ‘A long way to go’ ent groups — student and ad-cious place, by any stretch of the march 5, 2012 town hall competency course that … change at notre dame on ministrative — to increase the the imagination, [but] i just meeting to discuss safety con-all students would have to go these issues will take time. movement’s capacity to act, think that we get so comfort-cerns that had been presented through regardless of their For moss, these various ad-moss said. able with it being a nice place during that discussion. major,” outlaw said. ministrative steps with 
“The idea of having all these that we sometimes don’t pay “we talked through some elizabeth laFortune, aca-call to action only reflect a different entities involved attention to the things that we of those things and they said demic advisor for First year of beginning. with this process ensures should. that some of the police pro-studies, is currently the pri-“honestly, i think there is that we will have long-term “our goal is to heighten the cedure they weren’t aware of, mary instructor for the first a long way to go,” moss said. conversations, and i think awareness of what could be and that it might be helpful iteration of the voluntary, “it’s not as bad as it used to that’s where the most effec-welcoming and what could be to all students if it were avail-one-credit “intro to cultural be but [i think it’s important] tive change happens,” moss alienating to our students.” able to them,” shibata said. competence” course. for us not to have any illu­said.moss said most critical to student affairs plans “we also talked about specific laFortune said the course is sions about how far we need the facilitation of productive to work with the resident situations [mentioned at the part of a broader initiative to go, because there are still conversations is maintaining assistants as they are selected meeting], and many of them within the First year of stud-people here who have experi­each conversation’s focus on for the 2013-14 school year to we had never been aware of ies to increase students’ abil-ences here that are not what the movement’s driving force: ensure they can maintain a as an administration … we ity to engage with cultures we would call [experiences] the needs of students. welcoming environment in stressed to the students that different from their own. of the notre dame family.” 
“we’re really trying to be a their halls, moss said. it’s really important that if “students learn why cul-moss said he hopes the grassroots [movement],” moss his department also con-there is a concern that some-tural competence skills have movement motivates people said.  “we’re not talking at ducted a review of over 70 thing was handled wrongly, become essential to function-to actively work to make the 30,000 feet. we’re right down notre dame websites to en-we want to know about it right ing successfully in the pres-notre dame environment on the ground, [talking] about sure they presented a wel-away because then we can ad-ent environment, what those more inclusive. how this is the experience of coming message, he said. dress it and correct it.” skills are, and how to acquire “one of the things i’ve al­our students and that this is moss said the review focused To increase student aware-and demonstrate them,” ways said about notre dame how your department might on honestly portraying the ness of police procedure, laFortune said. is that this is not an inten­interface with that experience degree of diversity on campus shibata said her department even in the initial class tionally hostile or discrimi­
— so let’s have a conversa-so that notre dame’s websites created a webpage called meetings, laFortune said natory environment, but it is tion about making that notre represent all of notre dame. “Know your rights and re-her students’ experiences in not an assertive environment dame experience the best “[based on the results of] sponsibilities.” The web-her class appear already to either,” moss said.  “For me, that it can be. that survey, i actually made site specifically explains the have begun to change their the result of this movement 
iris outlaw, director of mul-telephone calls to those indi-rights of both students and of-perspectives. — i hope — is going to be that ticultural student programs viduals and to those halls, to ficers in many common situa-“we began the course with when individuals hear about and services, said the call those departments our stu-tions, she said. a discussion of the unearned racism, or sexism, or hetero-for cultural change at notre dents indicated [needed to shibata said the department privileges of being part of a sexism, or whatever the case dame found support from review their website],” moss also implemented a policy dominant culture, based on may be, that when they hear the student senate, which re-said.  “everyone was more that requires officers to offer nationality, sexuality, reli-about it that they’ don’t just quested institutional reform than willing to … see what their business cards to stu-gion, socioeconomic group, heart [it] and do nothing, but related to racial harassment changes could be made to dents after any interaction so race, ability and gender,” that they actually become last spring. make sure that students felt thes then can express positive laFortune said.  “our discus-involved … and somehow 
Following the march 5, 2012 included on welcome on our or negative feedback about sions have been honest and let people know that these town hall meeting, the senate campus.” thedofficer’s behavior.  The lively. The greatest effect on types of activities are not passed a resolution asking for department has maintained the students as a whole has acceptable.” a reevaluation of residence ‘A reporting culture’ other ongoing racial sensitiv-been a greater awareness of hall staff training and clear-moss said the community ity training to continue to im-their own cultures and how Contact Nicole Michels at er reporting procedures for needed a clearer mechanism prove officer communication, their cultures affect how they nmichels@nd.edu 



Venezuelan-Americans react to Chavez’s death 
Associated Press 
doral, Fla. — cheering venezuelans in the u.s. waved their country’s flag and ex­pressed hope Tuesday that change would come to their homeland after the death of long-ruling populist president hugo chavez. 
“he’s gone!” dozens in a largely anti-chavez commu­nity chanted after word spread of the death of the 58-year-old leftist. many said they were rejoicing after nearly a decade and a half of socialist rule heav­ily concentrated in the hands of chavez. 
“we are not celebrating death,” ana san Jorge, 37, said amid a jubilant crowd in the miami suburb of doral. “we are celebrating the opening of a new door, of hope and change.” 
wearing caps and T-shirts in venezuela’s colors of yellow, blue and red, many expressed cautious optimism and con­cern after the announcement of the death. 
“although we might all be united here celebrating today, we don’t know what the future holds,” said Francisco gamez, 18, at el arepazo, a popu­lar venezuelan restaurant in doral. 
chavez, though cancer-stricken in recent years, had led the oil-rich latin american na­tion for years while espousing a fiery brand of socialism and bickering with a succession of 
u.s. 
governments over what he called washington’s hegemony in the region. 

many in Florida’s large venezuelan community and other such pockets around the 

u.s.
 are stridently anti-chavez and had fled their home 


country in response to the poli­cies his government instituted. 
doral has the largest concen­tration of venezuelans living in the u.s. They transformed what was a quiet suburb near miami’s airport into a bustling city affectionately known as “doralzuela.” 
el arepazo is at the heart of the community and sells arepas, corn flour patties stuffed with fresh cheese and other fillings. hundreds of venezuelans gathered at the restaurant with family and friends to watch news broad­casts covering the death. 
doral mayor luigi boria said 30 police officers were assigned to monitor reaction, but said all was under control late Tuesday. 
an estimated 189,219 venezuelan immigrants live in the united states, according to u.s. census figures. in ad­dition to Florida, there are siz­able venezuelan communities in los angeles and new york. 


a large number of profes­sionals and others left their country beginning after chavez became president in 1999. many did not agree with his socialist government, be­came frightened of soaring crime or simply sought better fortunes abroad. 
at mil Jugos restaurant in downtown santa ana, in southern california’s orange county, the briceno family re­joiced. daughter norah briceno left her country 14 years ago after struggling economically under chavez despite a mas­ter’s degree in finance and a popular restaurant. she sold her business to a friend and opened an identical restaurant in california. 
“when chavez won, if you weren’t with the chavez revo­lution, you were out and you barely had enough money to eat,” she said. “Finally, he’s died. he’s the reason we had to leave home and we’re all here.” 

paid adverTisemenT 
u.n. eyes sanctions for north Korea 
Associated Press 

uniTed naTions — a u.s.­china draft resolution aimed at reining in north Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile program would impose some of the strongest sanctions ever ordered by the united nations, in a move certain to infuriate the regime and inflame ten­sions on the Korean peninsula. 
The proposed resolution put forward by the united states and china — north Korea’s closest ally — followed pyongyang’s third nuclear test on Feb. 12. it reflected the u.n. security council’s growing anger over the country’s defi­ance of three previous rounds of sanctions aimed at halting all nuclear and missile tests. 
pyongyang threatened to cancel the 1953 cease-fire that ended the Korean war in response to the looming fourth round of sanctions. north Korea insists its nucle­ar program is a response to american hostility that dates back to the Korean war, which ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty, leaving the Korean peninsula still techni­cally in a state of war. 
“north Korea will be subject to some of the toughest sanc­tions imposed by the united nations,” susan rice, the u.s. ambassador to the u.n. said. “The breadth and scope of these sanctions is exceptional and demonstrates the strength of the international communi­ty’s commitment to denucle­arization and the demand that north Korea comply with its international obligations.” 
rice and china’s u.n. ambassador li baodong, who negotiated the text behind closed doors over the last three weeks, predicted speedy approval of the resolution. 
“The vote will be Thursday 
— that’s the target,” li said. rice said the council hoped for “unanimous adoption.” 
The draft resolution would make it significantly harder for north Korea to move around the funds it needs to carry out its illicit programs. 
it would also strengthen existing sanctions that bar north Korea from testing or using nuclear or ballistic mis­sile technology and from im­porting or exporting material for these programs. it would strengthen the inspection of suspect cargo bound to and from the country. 
many analysts believe that the success of this new round of sanctions depends largely on how well china enforces them. most of the companies and banks that north Korea is believed to work with are based in china. 
The Korean people’s army supreme command, citing the u.s.-led push for sanctions, threatened Tuesday to cancel the armistice agreement on march 11 because of ongoing u.s.-south Korean military drills that began march 1. without elaborating, the com­mand also warned of “surgi­cal strikes” meant to unify the divided Korean peninsula and of an indigenous, “precision nuclear striking tool.” 
such heated military rhet­oric and threats have be­come increasingly common from north Korea as tensions have escalated following last december’s rocket launch and pyongyang’s recent nuclear test. 
Cardinal 
conTinued From page 1 

church history at the pontifical gregorian university and a fac­ulty member in the department of ecumenical Theology at the pontifical university of st. Thomas aquinas. 
dolan served as chairman of catholic relief services from January 2009 to november 2010. he is currently a trustee at catholic university and a mem­ber of the pontifical council for promoting new evangelization and the pontifical council for social communications. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

defining home 

Maddie Daly 
news writer 

one of my least favorite questions, right below “how tall are you?” and “do you play volleyball?” is the classic awkward­first-encounter question, “so where are you from?” and no, it’s not just because i say chicago, naperville and benet academy like a substantial majority of stu­dents here do. The longest i’ve lived in one place is eight years, and my loyalty to each town is based off of memories, not time. 
The first five years of my life were spent in Tulsa, okla., my technical hometown that i can hardly even conjure up a pic­ture of in my head. besides to see the few remaining family members that never left the cow-infested, tornado-wrecked southern state, i have no desire to go back to oklahoma. The closest i get to feeling like a true oklahoman is wearing my cow­boy boots and saying the occasional y’all. 
next, my dad’s job kicked us out of Tulsa and into geneva, ill. for the next three years of our unstable life. my memories of those years include sledding in six-inch deep snow, singing and dancing in the backyard dressed up like sandy from “grease.” as far as five-year-old kids go, i was pretty happy, even when my dad an­nounced that we would be moving 750 miles south to a place called alpharetta, georgia.  
That stucco brown house at the end of the cul-de-sac in abbotts pond, is the place i learned to call home. no, i wasn’t born there, i didn’t live there the longest and i have no family there, but georgia is where i grew up. From winning my first tennis match to meeting my best friend to crying the night my mom told us she had cancer, georgia holds the most memories, good and bad. The seven years i lived there, from first grade to the sum­mer before eighth, were the happiest of my life. and then, one chilly 55-degree day in January while devouring queso and chips at our favorite mexican restaurant, cinco, my world fell apart. we were mov­ing again, he said. in august. back to the cold, expensive, flat and unfriendly state of illinois. 
To blame my reaction on 13-year-old angst would be unfair; this was getting ridiculous. i was about to finish my middle school career at holy redeemer, had plans to sing in the eighth grade musical and had already paid for the next year’s cheerleading uniform. high school was on the horizon, and the boy i had a crush on finally liked me back. i was finally starting to feel at home somewhere, and now i was going to have to start all over again. 
The move was rough to say the least, but eventually i adjusted and at least stopped hating my new home. even though i wish we could have stayed in georgia, i’m glad for each move because it brought me where i am today, and i wouldn’t change that for the world. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Carter Boyd 

god, country, notre dame 
i had the opportunity to go on the February Freshmen retreat. at the onset of the first wave of tests for this semester, i was reluctant about taking 24 hours out of my weekend to attend a retreat with about fifty other fellow freshmen. 
The theme of the retreat was “we are incomplete.” The retreat came at just the right time for me and served as a great reminder that it is in god’s design for us that here on earth we are incomplete, desperately yearning for something greater than this world has to offer. either consciously or subconsciously, we realize that we are incomplete in nature; we look to the world around us to fill ourselves, to complete us, to fill the void in our hearts, souls and minds. it would not be a prob­lem if this desire for completeness was only transitory or fleeting, but our mas­terful creator in heaven designed us with a desire for him. god designed us with a desire for him, an eternal and magnifi­cent being, where we remain restless, apprehensive and uneasy without his fulfillment. 
unfortunately, throughout the world and especially in america, we turn to the temptations of the world to satisfy our de­sire for our missing half. we turn to vio­lence, to drugs, to alcohol, to sex, to food, to money, to excessiveness, to shopping, to coffee, to popularity, to fame, to gossip, to knowledge, to videogames, attempt­ing to fill ourselves. The problem that we realize is that what we are using to com­plete our voids is insufficient, so we move on to the next thing in a never ending cycle. some people, however, have grown tired of the search for security and happi­ness in worldly things and they have put their trust, their faith and their uncondi­tional love in the god who created them. i find it amazing, brilliant and intriguing that god has instilled a desire in us for him at our deepest core. in our pursuits, while falling to the temptations of the world, we are simply looking for him, for his peace and grace to fill our hearts and for the great refuge we can enjoy in his presence. 
on any given day at notre dame, we can see god’s enduring love. The grotto burns 24/7 and is open for anyone to say a prayer, the rosary or just stand in awe of the beauty. christ is present in the eucharist in classrooms and dorms. many flock to the grotto or a chapel to find that flicker of hope that they need to get through the day. yes, the struggles we face seem overwhelming. we often start out thinking, “i have my day all planned” and then gradually our plans become just a memory. everything is going great but then there is a pop quiz, a disagreement with a roommate, a phone that breaks, a stressful amount of work, a rejection from an internship, a rainy day, a break­up, a loved one who grows ill at home. 
we go in to disarray over whatever it may be. our spirits become deflated, our thoughts downtrodden. we are broken. we don’t have control. yet in these mo­ments of loneliness, depression, anger, hurt or pain, we get a call from a friend, a smile from a stranger, a moment of sunshine, a class gets canceled or we get a job offer. here we see that someone does have control. god has a plan, a purpose, a love for us. why is it that we want to be the ones in charge and dictate to god when we need him? why is it so hard for us to remember that we cannot do it without god’s guidance, love and wisdom? we need to accept that we are incomplete and surrender our lives to god so one day we can be complete in his love. 
There are so many opportunities fr all of us in the notre dame family. in this time of lent, let us remember our charge for prayer, fasting and alms giving. as we pray during lent, it is important to exam­ine our consciences. attending a penance service and going to confession is an important step in preparing ourselves as a steward in our faith. being immersed in prayer leads us to fasting for our lord. it is in fasting that we know that our mind is making a conscious decision of discipline to control our body. This is very impor­tant as we show our love, honor and respect for god. There are many oppor­tunities for us to do good for others. we can help someone with their studies, talk with a discouraged roommate, encour­age our friends in their everyday lives or volunteer. giving back is vital in realizing that we are incomplete. 
Filling our voids with positive acts will lead us to completeness with god. isn’t that what we are all striving for? during lent, we are given the great reminder that on our own we are insufficient and that we are dependent on god for true happiness and joy in this world. let our hearts turn to god to quench our persis­tent hunger for wholeness. 
Carter Boyd is a freshman studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Why I left Mendoza for Arts and Letters 
Adam Newman 
scienta potentia est 

last year, i was a junior finance major doing extremely well in school. once the year ended, i would be six business classes away from graduat­ing with a degree from mendoza. The only issue was that i was miserable in mendoza. halfway into the semester, i transferred out and into the college of arts and letters. while this may surprise many, (and make others question my sanity,) hopefully my story can provide insight into one of the most important decisions i ever made. 
my greatest passion is american politics and policy. nothing else even comes close.  however, i decided in high school that i would be a busi­ness major in college. i made this decision because both of my parents were in the business world and i rea­soned business was more practical than political science. 
however, my first year in mendoza taught me that i really did not like my business classes. They were okay, but i was neither passionate about nor in­terested in them. even still, i worked hard in these classes out of a desire to do well. 
during my semester in washington 
d.c. fall of junior year, i took only political science classes and i loved it. For the first time, i really enjoyed going to class, liked what i was learn­ing and really liked how the courses were structured. even still, upon re­turning to notre dame in the spring i enrolled in six business classes. 
as junior year progressed, i began to realize how much i did not like business. i was not very interested in the material and was finding it much harder to listen in class and study for tests. i knew deep down that i would prefer political science, but knew that i had to live with being a business major. 
This created an internal mix of frustration, sadness and anger every day. one night i was in my room in Fisher hall working through a prob­lem set and got really frustrated at how little i cared about the material. i do not know why, but at that mo­ment i decided to pull up a youTube video of steve Job’s 2005 commence­ment speech at stanford. in this speech steve Jobs, at the time a can­cer survivor, talks about the most important lessons he learned in life. i had found the speech inspiring be­fore, but as i listened to it again it had a new meaning, with one excerpt in particular standing out: 
“when i was 17, i read a quote that went something like: ‘if you live each day as if it was your last, someday you’ll most certainly be right.’ it made an impression on me, and since then, for the past 33 years, i have looked in the mirror every morn­ing and asked myself: ‘if today were the last day of my life, would i want to do what i am about to do today?’ and whenever the answer has been ‘no’ for too many days in a row, i know i need to change something. remembering that i’ll be dead soon is the most important tool i’ve ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. because almost everything — all external expecta­tions, all pride, all fear of embar­rassment or failure — these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. remembering that you are going to die is the best way i know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. you are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.” 
That was the moment when i re­alized what a major mistake i had made. i knew that i was listening to none of steve Jobs’ advice because i had prioritized the plan of attaining a business degree higher than my personal happiness. 
steve Jobs gave me the courage to tell my parents at Jpw that i hated my classes, hated what i was doing, did not want to be a business major any more and wanted to transfer to arts and letters. They were originally not crazy about the idea to say the least, but after a two-month-long process of talking with them, career counselors and other nd staff, i transferred to arts and letters as a political science major, meaning that i will not re­ceive any degree from mendoza. (Full disclosure: any switch would have forced me to take summer classes or an extra semester. i chose the latter, and will not deny how fortunate i am to have this opportunity). 
what was extremely important in my decision to transfer was that i made it with all the information, had an idea of how i would use my degree after college and how i would market myself to employers. i also substan­tially increased the amount of career preparation and networking to en­sure a smooth transition to the work world. 
right now, i really like my politi­cal science classes and my switch allowed me the opportunity to write a senior thesis on health care, by far the most important and exciting learning i have ever experienced. we will see whether or not political science turns out to be a good deci­sion. i am confident that it will be, but only time can tell. as Jobs said, “again, you can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only con­nect them looking backwards. so you have to trust that the dots will some­how connect in your future. you have to trust in something — your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. This approach has never let me down, and it has made all the difference in my life.” 
This article is not meant to insult mendoza or its students, because i have major respect for both. i also have to express my gratitude to the many patient business professors who spent hours helping me and heartened by those who encouraged me to switch to political science. but that does not take away that many students are passionate about anoth­er field, but sacrifice that passion to receive a degree through mendoza. 
so in conclusion, remember steve Jobs: “remembering that you are going to die is the best way i know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. you are already naked. There is no reason not to fol­low your heart.” 
i can affirm that any time of doubt serves as an opportunity. all it takes is the courage to embrace it. 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

‘Spread the Word to End the Word’ 
a few years ago, i had a conversation with my brother that changed my life. i was sharing a story about an autistic boy, liam, with whom i had spent time as a camp counselor for people with special needs. my brother commented that liam was a boy with autism rather than an autistic boy. liam was a person first; autism should be used to describe, not to define. before this, altering labels seemed like trivial semantics. 
That night, however, i realized that language matters.  while words inform and share, they serve another function. whether consciously or subcon­sciously, our words define and limit our outlook on the world, our opinion of others and our un­derstanding of how others should be treated. by defining liam as an autistic boy rather than a boy with autism, i was also confirming my view that liam was somehow different from me and some­how separate from me. 
wednesday, march 6, was the fifth annual spread the word to end the word day, a campaign devoted to raising awareness about the dehuman­izing effects of words such as retard and retarded. as stated by special olympics, these derogatory slurs promote “painful stereotypes of people with intellectual disabilities being less valued members of humanity.” i believe the elimination of hurtful words such as retard and retarded will help fade the differences that seem to set people with physi­cal and intellectual disabilities apart and allow humanity to emerge as the defining characteristic of us all. 
i am not asking for donations of time or domer dollars. rather, i ask my classmates to recognize that words dictate how we view and understand others in our community and consequently influ­ence our actions. whether you joined the myriad of people around the world by signing the pledge on march 6 to uphold the dignity of all people, i encourage you, as a member of notre dame com­munity, to do even more. i urge you to practice what you preach by extending the spirit of inclu­sion and love that is intrinsic to the notre dame family to everyone, regardless of ability. 
Rachael Palumbo senior pangborn hall 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JESSIE CHRISTIAN 
scene writer 
on a quiet sunday afternoon with the muted hue of an over­cast sky spilling in through my dorm room window, i sat with my roommate watching Tv when i heard a knock on the door. 
i opened it up to reveal an ef­fortlessly radiant Jade barber, who, with a subtle smile, stood patiently awaiting an invitation to come inside and a breakdown of the game plan for the day. 
my plan was conceptually very simple. i wanted to channel the intensity present within the fierc­est of athletes into a style concept that demonstrated that same level of elegance and power. 
barber, a sophomore on the irish track and field team, was undoubtedly the perfect per­son to help fulfill this vision. a dominant force in the sprints and hurdles, she helped to propel the irish to a big east conference title with her first-place finish in the 60-meter hurdles, second-place finish in the 200-meter dash and leadoff leg on the winning 4x400­meter relay team. Though her ac­complishments at the conference championship earned her big east Female athlete of the meet, barber didn’t stop there. Just two weeks later in the alex wilson Track and Field invitational this past weekend, she picked up yet another season best in the 60-meter hurdles.  her time of 8.13 seconds broke her own school record, the meet record and earned her a fourth-place spot in the coveted sweet sixteen of ladies competing for the na­tional title in the event. 
when asked about what factors contributed to her wild success on the track, barber had this to say: 
“good coaching is necessary to improve form and technique. when i got to notre dame, both my running and hurdling forms were terrible. my coach got on my case because he believed that i had the ability to be good. he dedicated extra time to me be­cause he cared and believed that i wanted success badly enough to put in the hard work. 
my teammates were also extremely important for my track success. all of the ladies that i train with are very talented, and running with such experienced women every day prepares me for the high level of competition that [division i] athletics have to offer. more importantly, my teammates motivate me to per­form well. before my races one of my teammates always comes up to me and holds me accountable for my performance. she reminds me that when i’m running, i’m not running for myself and that i’m running for my team. when i wear my uniform, i’m expected to bring pride and glory to the notre dame track family. 
my family is the last essen­tial factor for my current track accomplishments. if it weren’t for my family i never would have started running track. i ran track because of my brother. he ran and i wanted to be just like him. when my twin sister Kaila and i showed some potential, my fam­ily began to push for us to pursue track and she and i both ended up running at notre dame. she is my support line as well as my best friend. my grandma unex­pectedly made the trip to the big east indoor championship this year and i cried. i cried while in the starting blocks for the 60-me­ter hurdle finals 

because i was so 

animalistic pieces happy that my 
add a level of edginess family was there.” 
to Jade’s look and si­barber’s sup­
multaneously channel port system has 
the superstar’s fierce helped to shape 
competitive drive on the the powerhouse 
track. of an athlete that she has become 
Rough and Tough 

in a number of 
To represent Jade’s ways. First and 
“no pain, no gain” atti­foremost, she 
tude, she sports a pair of emits an undeni-
Timberland boots and a able aura of con­
button-down jean shirt. 

fidence when she steps onto the track. she also pos­sesses the impressive ability to remain consistently strong from meet to meet. Finally, on top of all of that, she remains admirably humble, never forgoing the op­portunity to accept a congratula­

tory hug or offer words of wisdom to a frustrated friend. 
To capture the fierceness that Jade possesses on the track in her style outside of the athletic arena, incorporating her story into her looks was key. Brilliant Eyes 
Jade’s eyes are framed by a striking mixture of gold, silver and natural metallic hues to add warmth and intensity to her gaze. For a pop of color and fun to match her bright personality, a dab of pink eye shadow was added at the corner of each eye. To finish off the look, she sports a strong cat-eye courtesy of a black liquid eyeliner, thick and flirty lashes courtesy of a true black mascara and a rich brown pencil eyeliner to line her water line. The result is a set of eyes as powerful as the woman to which they belong. 
Fierce Competition 
The kicks, which have traditionally been marketed as men’s work boots, look powerful and feminine on their wearer. The jean top also supports that “tough girl” look that Jade pulls off so well. 
Clean and Classy 
although Jade is both fierce and powerful on the track, she manages to stay strikingly poised as she floats over hurdles and around the track. a simple black dress and beige strap channel her seemingly effortless grace in competition. 
Truly Traditional 
To complete Jade’s look, she sports the student-athlete mono­gram jacket, awarded to notre dame varsity athletes who have performed exceptionally well in their respective sports. The jacket is just one testament to the great athletic accomplishments that Jade has made at the university thus far, and is a reminder to all that her allegiance both on and off of the track lies with the Fighting irish. 
Contact Jessie Christian at jchrist7@nd.edu 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bonds started era of scandal  

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 

Editor’s note: This is the ninth in a 12-part series discussing the de­fining sportsman (or woman) of this century. In this installment, Isaac Lorton argues for Barry Bonds. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #DefiningSportsman. 
he was never his father, nor his godfather the “say hey Kid,” and he was never Ken griffey Jr. barry bonds was more than all of them, and he was less. 

if we take steroids out of the picture, bonds is the greatest baseball player of all-time. if we leave steroids in the picture, well who knows if he is or not? 
bonds won a record seven mvp awards, including four consecutive mvp awards from 2001-2004. To put it in per­spective, the next-most mvp awards won by an individual over a career is three. bonds was a 14-time all-star, eight-time gold glove recipient. bonds holds the record for 762 career home runs, 73 home runs in one season, 2,558 ca­reer walks, 688 intentional walks and most consecutive seasons with 30-plus home runs in a season (13 from 1992­2004). Teams were so afraid to face bonds they would rather walk him — even when the bases were loaded. it was a sad moment in diamondbacks history on may 28, 1998, when bonds came up to the plate and became the fifth player ever in mlb history to be intentional walked with the bases loaded. 
bonds is one of four members in the 300 (hrs)/300(steals) club. The other three were willie mays, bobby bonds and andre dawson. This club is one of the greatest measurements of an all-around offensive player and baseball athlete. it is the unique combination of power and speed and being able to get on base. 
barry bonds is in the 400/400 club and barry bonds is in the 500/500 club. he was the first player (and probably the last) to enter the 400/400 club and he will definitely be the only player ever to reach 500/500. he has touched heights that one can only dream of. bonds was at the top of his sport and at the top of the sporting world to begin the 21st century. 
yet the media never liked bonds. Fans never liked bonds. he was an incredibly talented, hubristic, arrogant and polar­izing player. bonds was never loved as willie mays, his godfa­ther, was loved.   people did not take to him as they took to Ken griffey Jr. and when the steroid scandals officially came to light via the balco (bay area laboratory co-operative) case in 2003, people sought to bring this demi-god, this monster, this giant, down. and down he fell. 
it just goes to show that ath­letes on the side of the media and the fans will be protected (look at ryan braun). his achievements are tainted with asterisks and, as the vote on Jan. 9, 2013, showed, he will not be remembered as a hall of Fame player. 
it was reported that bonds had tested positive for anabolic steroids, specifically stanozo­lol, in nov. 2000. seven years and four mvps later, bonds was indicted on nov. 15, 2007 for perjury and obstruction of justice. 2007 marked the last year of bond’s 21-year career. on april 13, 2011, bonds was convicted for obstruction of justice and giving an evasive answer under oath. bonds and his team of lawyers appealed and the appeal is still going on today. 
in the 13 years of the 21st century, bonds has occupied all of them, as the central fig­ure of the steroid scandal in baseball and steroids in sports. bonds singlehandedly changed how media and fans view ath­letes. we, as a collective whole, began to seek to catch athletes, especially the best athletes, involved in controversy. 
since the bonds’ scandal, many of the best players in baseball were found to be tainted with steroids, college football programs began re­ceiving sanctions right and left for a whole host of things — preferential treatment, we are missing a heisman in 2005, Joe paterno is no longer a legend, —Tiger woods is a sex addict, michael phelps smokes mari­juana, four of the seven Tour de France winners since 1998 were found to be positive for steroids, lance armstrong was disowned by the world, nFl players are taking “study pills” and people are even throw­ing badminton games in The olympics. 
all of this fallout began when bonds, the greatest athlete in sports, was accused of using steroids in 2001. since then, the 21st century of sports has been characterized and defined by the pursuit of catching premier athletes and sports programs doing something wrong. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

clowney ignores analysts, prepares for new season 
Associated Press

     Jadeveon clowney is back on the football field, getting ready for another season — at south carolina. 
after an offsweason of ques­tions about whether the defen­sive end should play college ball this fall and risk being injured, he let his actions show how he felt Tuesday. he participated in drills, working on his technique in prep­aration for the gamecocks’ 2013 season. 
several nFl analysts say the 6-foot-6, 256-pound sophomore 
— who did not speak with report­ers after his workout — would be the first pick in this year’s draft if he were eligible to turn pro. 
“he understands this is a big year for coming for him perfor­mance-wise, academically and athletically,” gamecocks defen­sive coordinator lorenzo ward said. “he’s doing well the last two or three weeks handling the situation.” 
clowney’s been the face of college football since his hit on michigan’s vincent smith — espn’s version on youTube.com has gotten over 3.2 million view­ings — sent the runner’s helmet flying and laid the player out flat before clowney reached out with one hand to retrieve the ball. That’s led plenty of debate whether clowney should gamble his high pro draft position with another season of college ball. 
clowney never thought about that scenario, ward said. 
The player and his parents met with ward soon after south carolina’s 33-28 outback bowl victory simply to talk about what clowney needed to do to improve. 
“it wasn’t an issue with them. it wasn’t an issue with us,” ward said. “That’s why he’s out here practicing.” 
clowney looked at home on the practice field. ward and head coach steve spurrier stopped by to talk and wish him well dur­ing pre-workout stretches before 

FOR SALE 

110 E. Pokagon, Large home near ND. 574-277-3910 ask for Jackie 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Fort Lauderdale Spring Breakers - join your ND Alumni Club in St. Patrick’s Parade and Festival on Sat Mar 9. See http://fortlauderdale.undclub. org for details 
Dear Sydni, So there’s this girl... blah blah blah...would you go to the Keough toga dance with me? Your pal, Brian 

clowney broke out for position drills led by first-year defensive line coach deke adams. adams made clowney go through the tackling dummies a second time when the player didn’t do it crisp­ly enough. “good, good. much better,” adams told him. 
clowney hurried off the field across from williams-brice stadium when the session was over. 
“we’ve talked to him a little bit,” spurrier said. “he’s an exuberant young man and he’s handled it pretty well. we’ll work with him.” 
clowney’s lived in a spotlight since high school as the country’s no. 1 college prospect coming out of south pointe high school. he delayed his college choice nearly two weeks after signing day in 2011, picking south carolina over alabama and clemson. clowney was the southeastern conference’s freshman of the year that fall and took his game to another level this season, record­ing 4.5 sacks in the gamecocks 27-17 win over rival clemson last november. 
count on clowney again be­ing one of south carolina’s most talked-about players. he said last fall he hoped to con­tend for the heisman Trophy, college football’s top prize, be­fore finishing up his time with the gamecocks. To do that, he’ll need a sharp focus, something teammate Kaiwan lewis says he’s shown through all the talk about clowney’s future. 
“we were with him nearly every single day,” said lewis, a lineback­er. “it was a funny situation be­cause it didn’t really affect him.” 
ward, the second-year defen­sive coordinator, said if clowney had given up on this season, it would have made a bad impres­sion with pro teams. 
“There’s not an nFl owner who would tell clowney to sit out the season,” ward said. “one of the last guys to challenge the league was [ohio state tailback] maurice clarett. where is he?” 
clowney tied for third national­ly in the Football bowl subdivision with 13 sacks and was second in the country with 23.5 tackles for loss. ward said he’ll work his all-american as hard as possible since clowney needs to improve in giving consistent effort. 
“if i get him to play 100 percent every time, he might be unstop­pable,” ward said. “if he wants to be the number one player picked in the draft, he’s got to play hard. he understands that.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
Until coffee gained popularity, beer was the breakfast beverage of choice in most urban areas of the United States. 
In a 2004 episode of Sesame Street, Cookie Monster said that before he started eating cookies, his name was Sid. 
On the 2001 New Zealand census, 53,715 people listed their religion as “Jedi.” 


SPORTS TELEVISION 

Fox prepares to launch new sports network 
broadcasting major league 
Associated Press 

baseball games, including part 
new yorK — For anyone of the postseason. it will show who thinks Tv is already sat-some nascar sprint cup urated with sports of every series races as early as 2015, stripe, stay tuned. with other nascar events on 
here comes Fox with an in-the air from the startup. your-face challenge to espn “we believe we’ve amassed 
— a 24-hour sports cable net-enough live events and can work called Fox sports 1, set to package and put programming launch aug. 17. around it where we can have 
“espn, quite frankly, is a scale,” Fox sports co-president machine,” Fox sports execu-randy Freer said. “we can tive vice president bill wanger have significance. we can be a said Tuesday in announcing major player in the market.” the venture. “They have very however, unlike espn’s consistent ratings, obviously lineup, there’s no nba, no sec huge revenue. we’re coming in football, no acc basketball trying to take on the establish-and, the biggest attraction of ment. it’s no different than Fox all, no nFl games. on that last news or Fox broadcasting back point, wanger was quick to in the ‘80s. we’re going to have add: “yet.” to scratch and claw our way all still to be determined is the way to the top.” whether the nFl sells some 
To do that, Fox execu-Thursday night games sepa­tives are confident they have rately from its nFl network enough live events, with rights package. if it does, everyone to college basketball and foot-will try to buy a piece of the several years. go to as an alternative to one series race from michigan and ball, nascar, soccer and uFc action. Fs1 has two main challeng-of the more powerful sports a uFc event in prime time.. fights. in its first year, the new That will be the case for any es, he said. one is producing channels out there,” he said. Fox executives had talked network will broadcast nearly rights deals that come along; enough alluring live events to will they watch nightly high-about potentially launching 5,000 hours of competition and there aren’t many, with long-draw viewers, and he thinks lights on something other than a sports network for years. as news. term pacts now the norm. nbc the network is already in good “sportscenter” ? Fs1 will try dvrs made live events even 
Fox owns rights to many and cbs already have their shape to do that. The other is to find out with its own news more valuable, the timing was big 12, pac-12 and conference own cable sports networks, inertia: Fans accustomed to show, which will look more right once the company was usa basketball and football and Turner is also a factor. tuning to espn must be per-like Fox’s nFl pregame cover-able to line up enough broad-games. its soccer deals include Fox sports co-president eric suaded to switch to a different age than espn’s cornerstone cast rights. and not having a ueFa champions league and shanks mentioned the nba, network. program. cable sports partner could hurt the men’s and women’s world big Ten and u.s. open tennis “people need to over time “we like our position,” espn the main Fox network in ne­cups from 2015-22. as appealing properties whose feel like there’s a channel num-spokesman Josh Krulewitz gotiations, Freer said. Fox has 
starting in 2014, Fs1 will start contracts expire in the next ber in their head that they can said. “we have always had vig-used cable channel FX in the orous competition so there is past to show some sports. 
paid adverTisemenT 

really nothing substantially The network wasn’t ready to new here. others are, however, announce its deal with the new beginning to recognize what basketball conference formed we have long known: The pow-by breakaway big east schools, er of live sports, especially in but Fox’s executives were hap-light of technological advanc-py to talk up the ratings draw es, is substantial and brings the league will provide. Freer tremendous value in today’s called it an “iconic basketball entertainment landscape.” brand” that will immediately 
espn has eight cable net-be one of the top hoops confer-works that combine for almost ences in the country. 30,000 hours of live coverage. “They’re very historic, 
Fs1 will be converted from high-profile teams. The speed Tv, a motorsports net-georgetowns of the world and work, and will be available in so on, st. John’s, villanova 90 million homes, compared etc.,” wanger said. “it would be with almost 99 million for a coup if that deal did happen.” espn and espn2. Fox is airing the 2014 super 
and in what might seem bowl in the new york area, a odd for a company known for valuable opportunity to pro-drawing a young audience, mote the new network. its 22 regis philbin will host a week-regional channels will also of-day sports talk show for the fer regular chances to direct new network. viewers to Fs1. 
The 81-year-old philbin jok-a report by rbc capital ingly pretended to be hard of markets analyst david banks hearing when questions came says that while Fs1 may not up about this at the press match espn right away, it can conference. still thrive without doing so. 
wanger noted that “live! banks writes that a “modestly with regis and Kelly” did well successful” venture would in younger demographics be-more than quadruple Fox’s fore philbin left that show in monthly subscriber fees from late 2011. what speed received and in­
“regis has appeal from crease ad revenue from $90 young to old,” wanger said. million to $460 million. “That’s why we want him.” “it’s going to take us a while, 
Fox plans to use its “double and we’re aware of this fact,” box” format for showing com-Fox sports chairman david mercials during live action for hill said. “we’re not expecting sports events. Kicking off the to knock espn off in the first coverage on aug. 17 will be week or two. ... it’s going to be nascar camping world Truck a solid slog.” 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
SEC expects upsets in tournament 
Associated Press 
duluTh, ga. — The six southeastern conference teams ranked in the Top 25 should be wary of up­sets in this week’s women’s tournament. 
and with good reason — there’s no reason the tourna­ment should be any different than the regular season. 
most of the ranked teams, including no. 9 Tennessee, the sec’s regular-season champion and top seed in the tournament, lost at least once to an unranked team dur­ing the 16-game conference schedule. unranked missouri beat the lady vols. 
no. 12 georgia, the no. 3 seed, lost at mississippi state. no. 19 Texas a&m, the fourth seed, lost its last three, in­cluding to vanderbilt and then-unranked lsu. 
Kentucky coach matthew mitchell says that is just life in the sec. 
no. 7 Kentucky earned the no. 2 seed by closing the reg­ular season with a win over Tennessee. mitchell said win­ning the sec tournament “is won the regular-season title. 

The lady vols (23-6, 14-2 sec) won the regular-sea­son title in their first season with coach holly warlick. she spent the last 27 years as an assistant on pat summitt’s staffs. 
summitt led the lady vols to eight national titles in 38 seasons. she stepped down last april after announcing in 2011 she had early-onset dementia. 
The regular-season cham­pionship under warlick was a strong statement of Tennessee’s continued strength in the post-summitt era. 
“i’m never going to com­pare myself to pat summitt,” warlick said. “There’s only one pat summitt. 
“i just want this team to get better. i have an unbelievable staff. i think one thing that pat did teach me is surround yourself with quality people.” 
The lady vols have injury concerns this week. 
point guard ariel massengale and center isabelle harrison have knee injuries. warlick said se­
“I really think it’s the best league in the country. I believe you could have lower seeds beating higher seeds. I absolutely believe that is possible.” 
Matthew Mitchell Kentucky coach 
one of the greatest accom­plishments in basketball.” 
“i’m so impressed with the quality of depth in the southeastern conference,” mitchell said. “i really think it’s the best league in the country. i believe you could have lower seeds beating higher seeds. i absolutely be­lieve that is possible.” 
mitchell named lsu, the sixth seed which moved into the Top 25 at no. 22 this week, and unranked vanderbilt as possible surprise teams which could win the tournament. 
“i don’t know if there’s a clear-cut favorite,” mitchell said. 
The other ranked team in the tournament is no. 17 south carolina. 
The tournament begins wednesday night when alabama, which lost its last 10 regular-season games, plays mississippi state. 
only 13 of the league’s 14 teams are participating. mississippi (9-20, 2-14) an­nounced a self-imposed post­season ban on nov. 9. coach adrian wiggins and two assis­tants were fired after a school investigation found academic and recruiting misconduct. 
Tennessee beat lsu in last year’s tournament champi­onship game after Kentucky nior guard Kamiko williams sprained both ankles in the loss to Kentucky. 

“both of them,” warlick said when asked about williams’ injuries. “That’s hard to do but she found a way to do it.” 
warlick said she did not know if harrison will be able to return for the tournament. she said massengale is “a little sore” and is confident williams “will bounce back.” 
lsu is the league’s hottest team. The lady Tigers (19-10, 10-6) closed the regular sea­son with six straight wins, in­cluding the 67-52 win at no. 13 Texas a&m. 
lsu will play auburn on Thursday night and will have to play on four straight days to win the tournament. The top four seeds have byes until Friday’s quarterfinals. 
“our chances are about as good as anyone else’s,” said second-year lsu coach 
nikki  caldwell,  the  for­ 
mer  Tennessee player  and  
assistant.  

“i know everybody in this conference knows how tough it is to win here. we beat up on each other all year long. we’ve been able to get hot at the right time.” 
Texas a&m coach gary blair said his message to his play­ers after three straight losses is “There’s nothing wrong with us.” 
This is Texas a&m’s first year in the conference, but blair previously coached in the league at arkansas. 
“we’ve got to play harder, play smarter, and sometimes give credit to your opponent,” blair said. “usually the team that wins the conference champ doesn’t always win the tournament champion­ship. That’s what we’re going to try to sell here. 


“we’ve got to get that feel-good feeling again and con-adjustment.” vince our kids we don’t need The alabama-mississippi to go into the shop for total state winner will play south repairs. we just need some carolina after the arkansas­band-aids and attitude Florida game on Thursday. 
paid adverTisemenT 
missouri will play vanderbilt before the lsu-auburn game on Thursday night. 
The championship game is scheduled for sunday night. 


NFL 

Browns promote Lombardi to GM 

Associated Press 

cleveland — a week from chasing nFl free agents, the cleveland browns changed their front office. 
ray Farmer, who spent the past seven seasons with Kansas city, was hired as the browns’ new assistant general manager Tuesday. The addition of Famer led to mike lombardi’s title being switched from vice president of player personnel to gm. 
ceo Joe banner said plans to bring Farmer aboard had been in the works “for a lit­tle while.” but in order to get Farmer from the chiefs he had to be promoted and that meant lombardi’s title had to change. banner made it clear that lombardi’s respon­sibilities would remain the same, and that Farmer would assist the gm in overseeing the pro and college scouting departments. 
“he adds a voice,” banner said of Farmer, “and as a top-tier player evaluator in the nFl.” 
lombardi was hired on Jan. 18 after spending the past five years working as a Tv commentator. he previously worked in cleveland under former coach bill belichick. 
“There’s no change in mike’s position at all,” banner said during a conference call. “it’s purely an add of ray. The title change just facilitated our getting permission from Kansas city.” 
banner worked with the 38-year-old Farmer in philadelphia and said he al­ways had the former line­backer in mind as someone he wanted to work with in anoth­er organization. 
“he’s a very bright, hard­working guy,” banner said. “he understands the elements of putting together a team versus just picking players.” 
Farmer impressed banner and owner Jimmy haslam when he interviewed with the browns during their gm search this offseason. 
banner prefers a front-office structure without a gm, but was willing to alter the makeup because of the chance to hire Farmer. before the change, banner felt not having a gm gave his staff some incentive. 
“Frankly, it gave mike and the department something to aspire to, and i thought that was a good thing to have,” banner said. “but i thought it was outweighed by the oppor­tunity to add another top-tier person in his department.” 
next week, the browns’ new regime will have its first foray into free agency. cleveland is approximately $46 million under the salary cap and the browns are expected to be ac­tive on the market. 
while banner was with the eagles, the team drafted Farmer in the fourth round of the 1996 draft. Farmer started 16 games and appeared in 32 games before a knee injury ended his playing career. 
Farmer spent four years as a scout with atlanta before joining the chiefs. The duke graduate was responsible for scouting and evaluating pro players with Kansas city. 
MARATHONS 

Gaza marathon bans female participation 
gaZa ciTy, gaza strip — The united nations on Tuesday can­celed a planned marathon in gaza after the palestinian ter­ritory’s hamas rulers banned women from participating, in a new attempt by the islamic mili­tant group to impose its ideology inside the crowded coastal strip. 
The dispute threatened to fur­ther strain the already delicate relationship between hamas and the united nations. gaza sportswomen met the news with resignation, saying their conser­vative society had made it diffi­cult to train even before the ban. 
since seizing power in gaza in 2007, hamas has issued a num­ber of edicts meant to constrain the freedoms of women. but a number of these initiatives fiz­zled in the face of public opposi­tion, making the ban on female runners somewhat surprising. hamas had also recently relaxed some of its earlier orders impos­ing its conservative interpreta­tion of islamic law. 

gaza’s cabinet secretary, abdul-salam siam, said wom­en running in public violated palestinian customs. 
“we don’t want women and men mixing in the same race,” siam said. “we don’t want any woman running uncovered.” 
siam said girls could join the event, just not grown women. The race, scheduled for april 10, would have been the third an­nual marathon in gaza. siam would not say why hamas did not ban women from the two previous races in 2012 and 2011. 
The race was meant to run the entire length of the tiny territory 
— which is slightly shorter than the official length of a 26.2 mile (42-kilometer) marathon. some 800 people registered, includ­ing 266 palestinian women and 119 women from abroad, u.n. spokesman sami mshasha said. 
mshasha said the u.n. was surprised when hamas officials informed them that women couldn’t participate because organizers have always been careful to ask participants to dress modestly to avoid offend­ing gaza residents. most donned full-length running pants and long-sleeved shirts in previous races. 
The united nations relief and works agency, known as unrwa, assists palestinian refugees and their descen­dants throughout the region. in gaza, the agency runs dozens of schools and medical clinics and distributes food to many of the territory’s 1.6 million residents. 
but hamas has frequently squabbled with unrwa in a ri­valry for the hearts and minds of gaza’s people. hamas has pressed the u.n. not to organize mixed folkloric dancing for boys and girls; to keep holocaust edu­cation out of its curriculum and it has used harsh rhetoric against previous senior u.n. officials. 
gaza rights groups urged the 
u.n. to defy hamas and hold the marathon, arguing the militant group has no right to discriminate against women’s participation. 
The marathon was initially organized to draw attention to gaza, at the time under an israeli and egyptian blockade that was imposed since the militant group hamas seized power. The block­ade has since loosened, although restrictions remain on exports and imports of some raw mate­rials. it also remains difficult for palestinians to leave gaza. 
islam has no specific ban on women running, even under the conservative interpretations that most palestinians follow. but some gaza residents, including hamas members, follow even sterner tribal norms that frown on women moving in ways that allow their body shape to be discerned. 
The vast majority of gaza wom­en don muslim headscarves that cover their hair. many also wear long, loose robes to conceal their figure. a growing number also cover their faces. The minority of gaza women involved in sports tend to exercise indoors. 
gaza residents appeared con­flicted over the ban. 
enas mekky said women should be allowed to run as long as they dress modestly. 
“as long as (women)’s dress doesn’t breach public morality, there shouldn’t be any problem,” she said. 
but gaza runner, nader masri, 33, who represented palestine in the five-kilometer race in the 2008 beijing olympics, said the territory’s conservative culture made the idea of women run­ning in public impossible. 
“who would allow his daugh­ter or sister to run in the street?” masri aasked. “when a girl of 16 or 17 is running in the street, that’s not acceptable.” 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Moros 
conTinued From page 20 
illini senior bruno abdelnour and freshman Jared hiltzik 8-4. Freshman alex lawson and junior billy pecor fol­lowed suit, sealing the first point of the match when they 
“I think it will be great for us going forward into spring break [with] a lot of motivation and high spirits.” 
Blas Moros 
senior 
took down the illini duo of sophomore Farris gosea and freshman alex Jesse 8-5. 
“The doubles point is always huge,” moros said. “it may only be one point but it’s very important for momentum.” 
illinois answered by win­ning a point of its own in sin­gles play when no. 38 Kiltzik took down notre dame’s no. 97 greg andrews 6-4, 6-4, but that was the only point the illini earned. 
From there, the irish re­gained control. senior michael moore came through on the no. 6 court, winning 6-4, 6-3 against abelnour. sophomore wyatt mccoy fol­lowed in his footsteps with a 6-4, 7-6 win over gosea in the no. 5 slot. 

with the irish up 3-1, the two-set sets ended. The re­maining three courts went to three sets apiece, alternating the lead on each. 
pecor was the first to pull out with an individual win, securing the overall notre dame win by increasing the score to 4-1. he came from behind in  a one-set deficit to overcome no. 118 sophomore ross guignon 2-6, 7-6, 6-1 on the no. 4 court. 
moros held a prolonged bat­tle with no. 113 sophomore Tim Kopinski on the no. 3 court. moros took the first set 6-4 before losing the second set 5-7 to carry the match to another round, but play was stopped when pecor’s match ended. 
monaghan, like pecor, started from behind on the no. 2 court. illinois’ se­nior stephen hoh took the first set by one point before monaghan took a powerful turn in the second. pecor’s win also kept monaghan from needing to conclude the final set. 
“i think it will be great for us going forward into spring break [with] a lot of motiva­tion and high spirits,” moros said. 
The irish return to play march 15 in montgomery, ala., for the blue gray Tennis classic. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Kolean excited about team’s prospects 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will enter spring play with some mo­mentum and high expecta­tions. after a strong fall and a second-place finish at the michigan intercollegiate athletic association’s end of season weekend Jamboree, belles coach Jason Kolean was optimistic about the belles’ chances this spring. 
“we have quality golfers on this squad, all competitive and driven, that will continue the success of the past years,” Kolean said. “we have high goals and expectations of our­selves and i am excited to see each and every one of them succeed on and off the course.” 
The belles returns a squad that may have the experience to reach those high goals. saint mary’s returns two players from last spring’s 2012 ncaa division iii championship squad. even more recently, the belles had four players — junior Justine bresnahan, sophomore Janice heffernan, freshman claire boyle and freshman amanda graham —named to the all-miaa second team for the fall. For a sport that only counts a team’s top four scores, these talented golfers will help the belles compete at a high level this spring. 

“each one of these young la­dies brings a different aspect to the game of golf and helps to make working with them fun and exciting,” Kolean said. 
one of the key leaders on this year’s roster will be the lone senior, Jessica Kinnick, who will also be the team’s captain. after a rocky fall, Kinnick will look to drop nearly 10 strokes from her scoring average and return to her level of play last year. 
another belle making an im­pact already is graham. after shooting an outstanding 76 in the first round of her young collegiate career, the fresh­man proceeded to put up the second-lowest scoring average of the season on the squad. 
The belles will begin play over spring break on march 14 in peoria, ariz., at the george Fox phoenix invitational. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu. 


SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles face first challenge 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 

after losing six seniors and five starters from last year’s squad , saint mary’s will look toward to its tour­nament in Florida next week as a developmental oppor­tunity for the team. 
“[we lost] two of the three pitchers, starting first base­man, second baseman, third baseman and two outfield­ers. it was a good percentage of the team,” belles coach erin sullivan said. “but we brought in [10] freshmen who could definitely take their spots.” 
senior captain and catcher morgan bedan said the trip to Florida will be a great op­portunity to test the team’s ability and cohesiveness. 
“Florida will be a good chance to try out some line­ups,” bedan said. “and then [we will] see how everyone reacts in a game situation.” 
sullivan also said the games in Florida next week will be a learning curve for her young roster. sullivan is optimistic the belles can notch wins in the tourna­ment and gave valuable experience. 
“in general, they [the notched 27 victories and freshman] lack knowledge gained their sixth appear-experience,” sullivan said. ance in the miaa confer­“but because of their atti-ence tournament. tudes, their willingness to Five returning players — play and their passion for senior co-captains morgan the sport, i don’t think they bedan and emily sherwood, are going to take long to get junior callie selner and used to it. “i expect them to sophomores victoria 
“In general, they [the freshmen] lack knowledge and experience ... But because of their attitudes, their willingness to play, and their passion for the sports, I don’t think they are going to take long to get used to it” 
Erin Sullivan Belles coach 

all step up in their own way and contribute the best they can for the team.” 
bedan said she is excited and confident not only about the tournament next week, but the season in general. 
“of the teams i have played on at saint mary’s, this team has the most tal­ent and potential,” bedan said. “we should be very competitive in our confer­ence and i believe we have a strong chance of playing in the miaa tournament.” 
last year the belles connelly and cecily medina will attempt to replicate the road to success from last spring. 
sullivan said the five re­turnees will serve as great mentors for the fresh­man throughout the entire season. 
The belles will kick off their season sunday and will play 10 game, over the course of five days, begin­ning in cape coral, Fla. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 




Granger 
conTinued From page 20 

finish on. we’re just excited because we think she’s build­ing confidence every game, and like i said, when she has the ability to take the ball to the goal it only sparks confi­dence in our entire offensive unit, so i’m really proud of her 
leadership.”  
granger  credited  her  
teammates  for  her strong  
performance.  

“it always starts with the de­fense, they were the ones who were always getting the ball up to us,” granger said. “a lot of my goals were assisted by other players too, so they’re the ones who did all the work, i just put the finishing touch on it.” 
in addition to a solid transi­tion game, notre dame also dominated possession. The offense seemed to always have the ball in detroit terri­tory, making the game much easier on the irish defense. when the defense was need­ed they came up big, allow­ing just four shots on goal the entire game and causing 26 detroit turnovers. 
“They were outstanding, our fundamental defense was wonderful,” halfpenny said. “The pressure was ex­actly what we were looking for and you take a lot of pride in the footwork of our de­fense as well as their i.Q., and i thought today they came out together. last saturday against duquesne, we were coming out there and had the right idea, but we seemed very reactive. Today, we were dic­tative, and i think we saw that in those turnovers and those takeaways.” 
The game was all but decid­ed by halftime as notre dame led 13-0. detroit finally got on the board with 8:19 left in the game on a goal by freshmen attack ivy marshall, cutting the lead to 21-1. other ma­jor contributors for the irish included sophomore attack shauna pugliese, who tallied five points including three second half goals and a four-point effort by junior attack Kristen cousins, who also had three goals. 
The irish will look to build off this performance in their next contest, a home battle with boston university on saturday. The game will take place at 3 p.m. at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 



SMC TENNIS 

belles head south over break 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 

The belles will head to orlando, Fla., for their an­nual spring break trip from march 9-16. saint mary’s is scheduled to play exhibitions against regional opponents st. scholastica, wisconsin lutheran, wheaton and illinois wesleyan in addition to haverford. This will be a fa­miliar schedule for the team as the belles played three of those teams last year in orlando and in past years as well. last year, the belles decisively de­feated illinois wesleyan and wisconsin lutheran, but fell to st. scholstica and wheaton. belles coach dale campbell said he believes this will be a great opportunity to find out what techniques need more working before the actual con­ference schedule resumes. 
“Teams come from all over the place and they are all famil­iar with each other,” campbell said.  “overall it’s a great place to train. These non-conference games will be great practice.” 
The belles (0-2) have been slowly rebuilding and improv­ing over the season despite a young roster which currently includes two freshmen, five sophomores, two juniors and no seniors. last year was a sim­ilar case, as the belles played without a senior. despite in­experience and a slow start in the season, the belles built their own momentum fighting strong against dominant ohio northern and case western teams. case western won 9-0 over the belles while ohio northern won 7-2. leading the team is no. 1 singles and doubles junior co-captain mary catherine Faller and all­miaa first-team selection and sophomore co-captain audrey Kiefer. 
“The co-captains are rela­tively young but are very re­spected by teammates so they take on the role of seniors,” campbell said. “That success and experience by a young group will be crucial for us battle for a top-four spot in the miaa.” 
after returning from the spring break tuneup in Florida, the belles will have a couple days off and get back to work on march 20 when they face indiana wesleyan, one of the toughest teams on their sched­ule. indiana wesleyan earned the no. 12 ranking in the re­cent naia women’s Tennis coaches’ Top-25 poll. indiana wesleyan (15-0) also went un­beaten during the winter sea­son and won the crossroads league championship for the 21st consecutive season and have won the league title every year since 1992.  despite these daunting statistics, the belles will use the spring break trip to hone their game
 “it’s going to be tough game for us but we will work our best and prepare during the break,” coach campbell said.The belles spring schedule will offi­cially begin march 20 at 3 p.m. against indiana wesleyan. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Cooley 
conTinued From page 20 
second half after being held scoreless against marquette on saturday in just 15 minutes of action. The tri-captain finished with 12 points and 13 rebounds. 
“Jack was such a force inside,” brey said. “[i’m] thrilled for him to play like that in his last home game.” 
The red storm led by four at halftime after 20 minutes of play marked by turnovers and cold shooting from both squads. st. John’s managed to shoot 41 per­cent from the field, while the irish connected on just 28 per­cent of their shots and the teams combined for 11 turnovers in the opening stanza. 
“we were pissed off that we weren’t playing as well as we should on the offensive side of the ball,” atkins said. “we just weren’t hitting shots.” 
The red storm utilized their su­perior athleticism in the first half and opened up a 26-19 lead over the irish in the waning minutes. 
atkins stopped an 8-0 st. John’s run with a trey to trim the red storm lead to 26-22 at the intermission. 
The game began slowly, as the teams shot a combined four­for-22 from the field and commit­ted three turnovers each in the opening eight minutes. 

with 1:46 left in the game, irish freshman forward cam biedscheid and st. John’s sopho­more guard/forward sir’dominic pointer got in a fight at center court. 
both players received tech­nical fouls and were ejected. pending review, biedscheid will be suspended for saturday’s reg­ular season finale against no. 8 louisville. 
“i didn’t really see it,” brey said of the altercation. “it’s unfortu­nate that that happened. guys have to defend themselves and i thought he did. it’s unfortunate that now he’ll have to sit out the louisville game under that rule. i think everyone felt bad that happened, st. John’s and notre dame.” 
without biedscheid, the irish will square off with the cardinals on saturday. notre dame, still holding out hope for a double-bye in the big east tournament, is tied for fourth in the league with pittsburgh. syracuse, who owns the tiebreaker over the irish, trails by a half game but has two games remaining. 
notre dame closes out the regular season against louisville on saturday at 4 p.m. at the KFc yum! center in louisville, Ky. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &                                   paTricK cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kevin connolly, 39; matt lucas, 39; eva mendes, 39; dean stockwell, 77. 
Happy Birthday: Keep your emotions in check so you don’t miss out on opportu­nities this year that can help you stabilize your financial situation as well as any contractual obligations you might have. Too much of anything will be what stands between you and success. be prepared to compromise and share equally. a personal promise must be honored. your numbers are 9, 13, 24, 30, 33, 42, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): check your options before making a hasty move that might slow you down. you have more choices than you realize. put more thought into what you have to offer and how you can make your skills more attractive and diverse.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help a friend or make contributions to a cause you believe in. your interactions with others will win you favors and friendships. hands-on help rather than making a donation will bring you far higher rewards in the end. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): slow down until you fully understand the signals. expect to face deception from someone you feel attached to emotionally. don’t be fooled by someone’s bravado.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you can advance if you display your skills, attributes and talent. don’t wait to be asked. share your ideas and you will formulate good relation­ships with the people interested in following and supporting your efforts. love is highlighted. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take any opportunity that comes along to change your surroundings, whether it is just moving furniture around or actually making a geo­graphical move. even just a day trip to an unfamiliar destination will be rejuvenat­ing. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): nurture your relationships. emotional problems must not be left to fester. make suggestions and be willing to compromise. excess and overreacting will be what lead to trouble in the first place. less criticizing and more complimenting will be necessary. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put more thought and creativity into a job. a serious con­sideration will be made based on the way you handle your peers as well as how you present and promote what you have to offer. don’t make others look bad. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t overspend to make an impression. simplicity cou­pled with an original idea and a little mystery thrown into the mix will put you in a category of your own. a surprise will bring about an unexpected opportunity. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will find that you are in an uncompromising position if you let your emotions lead you into conversations that will cost you a friendship, advancement or lead to a family feud. Think before you share your feel­ings. Focus on home improvements. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): dig deep into your past and you will not make the same mistake twice. you can secure your position and improve your reputation if you are strict in the way you handle personal and professional situations that have potential to cause friction. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):Take a creative approach to the way you live your life. a change to your environment or friendships will help you move in a positive direction that will improve your chances to accomplish your goals. Focus on self-improvement.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t trust anyone offering the impossible. do what needs doing and keep moving in a direction that suits you. waiting for others to complete a job or to make a comment on what you are doing will be a waste of time. 


Birthday Baby: you thrive on challenges and learn from experience. you are coura­geous. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 66, sT. John’s 40 
Seniors seize the storm 
Notre Dame crushes St. John’s, celebrates senior night at home 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
on a cold, wintry south bend night, the no. 24 irish used a red-hot second half and overcame icy first-half shooting to finally defeat st. John’s 66-40 on senior night at purcell pavilion on Tuesday. 
propelled by a dominant sec­ond half, notre dame (23-7, 11-6 big east) snapped a three-game losing skid to the red storm (16­13, 8-9). The irish outscored st. John’s 44-14 in the second frame after a lethargic first half. 
“Thank god there was a second half,” irish coach mike brey said. “i am thrilled how we defend­ed in the second half and then we finally got into an offensive rhythm. we were able to get out in transition a little bit and not have to play against their set defense.” 
Trailing 26-22 at the intermis­sion, notre dame stormed out of the gates on a 29-8 run, highlight­ed by three three-pointers from junior guards Jerian grant and eric atkins, to kick off the second half and claim a 51-34 lead with 
5:49 to play. The irish kept pouring it on and extended their lead to 66-38 with 

2:21 remaining. grant and atkins scored 11 and 10 second-half points, respectively. The back-court pair shot five-for-five from behind the arc in the half. 
“our guards ran the whole building tonight,” brey said. “They probably took tickets, sold popcorn. when our guards are playing like that i just sit down and shut up and let them do whatever they want. They were fabulous to watch.” 
The red storm had no answer for the sweet shooting of grant and atkins and struggled to find any offensive continuity in the second half. notre dame held st. John’s to 19 percent shooting from the floor after the intermission. 
“Just a dominating second half of basketball,” st. John’s coach steve lavin said. “This was prob­ably the most dominant second half of basketball that we’ve faced from an opponent this year.” 
irish senior forward Jack cooley, who battled an illness last week, scored 12 points and hauled in eight rebounds in the 
see cooley PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 22, deTroiT 1 

MEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, iu 1 


Early lead squashes rivals 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 

The no. 29 irish immediately secured  momentum against no. 17 illinois and maintained it throughout the evening to come out on top with a 4-1 win at home. Thanks to a strong start in doubles play and a string of triumphs in singles play, notre dame secured the match even before two singles courts had concluded play. 
“playing at home always helps,” no. 102 senior blas moros said. “you’re used to your own courts, the speed, the crowd, and those little things add up and make a big difference.” 
notre dame (8-5) entered the match looking to start with the strong step it has so often lacked this season, and it did just that. Junior matt dooley and fresh­man Quentin monaghan showed no signs of hesitation on the no. 3 doubles court, taking down illini senior bruno abdelnour and freshman Jared hiltzik 8-4. Freshman alex lawson and ju­nior billy pecor followed suit, seal­ing the first point of the 
see moros PAGE 16 
irish dominate from start to finish 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 

There was no slow start this time around for notre dame, as the no. 6 irish dominated detroit 22-1 at home in a re-cord-setting effort Tuesday night. 
after notre dame (4-0) opened the season with three straight come-from­behind wins, irish coach chris halfpenny said she was proud of her team’s resil­ience and perseverance, but still wanted to see them get out of the gate and dominate a game. against detroit, she saw just that. 
“i think we’ve been hav­ing such a wonderful process of growth,” halfpenny said. “while we’ve seen we can battle back from being down, our big focus for the month of march is coming out of the gates strong, then being able to play at that level for a full 60 minutes. Today our focus was to win the draw, gain possession and make smart decisions with the ball on offense so we can start out strong and optimistic.” 
senior attack Jenny granger opened the scoring with two goals in the first five minutes of the game, and with less than nine minutes off the clock notre dame al­ready led 7-0. after granger’s second goal, the irish scored five goals in three min­utes and never looked back. granger finished the day with four goals, all in the first half,. 
“[granger’s] goals are a form of leadership for us, we’ve been working on her dynamic ability to score,” halfpenny said. “sometimes you see it off the feed, some­times you see she has the ability to feed, and she’s also awesome in the 1-on-1 drives she has the ability to 
see granger PAGE 17 



