The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 94 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Candidates propose ideas for next year 
Senior, junior and sophomore class council tickets campaign for students’ votes in today’s election 
Observer Staff Report 
Sophomore Class Council 

Jake Grefenstette, Michael DeSantis, Jane Goodson and Megan Schilling 
The grefenstette ticket said it hopes to leverage its expe­rience within student gov­ernment to improve campus programming and expand community ties to campus. 
with grefenstette, goodson and schilling serving as freshman class council vice president, treasurer and 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 



campus ministry answers call for ‘year of faith’ 
secretary, respectively, the trio is confident it can follow through with its goals. 
“our goals include creation of a student-run [debartolo] coffee cart, puppies dur­ing exam weeks, increase of communication between the university and south bend and a cookout and carnival on south quad,” grefenstette said. 
additionally, the ticket in­tends to coordinate dances, a bonfire and a chicago trip for 
see councils PAGE 5 


policy fellowship 
around the world at stanford 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
the general public and lead-

The stanford woods institute 

for the environment has hon­
ored biology professor Jennifer 
Tank as one of this year’s 
leopold leadership fellows, a 
group of 20 academics selected 
ers who make environmental 
such as fr. edward sorin … 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
policy. and st. andre bessette,” she 
news writer 
“The fellowship was devel­
said. 
oped a number of years ago 
pope benedict Xvi declared annus fidei, a liturgical 
because they were finding this liturgical year a “year of music series incorporating faith,” a time of faith renew-all the basilica of the sacred 
problems with scientists who 
to undergo intensive training intended to empower them to impact public policy. 
Tank will begin the fellow­ship with a training session this summer, joining the group from university in california. 
Tank said she applied for the fellowship to improve her com­munication skills, which would were doing great work yet were unable to translate that science for the public,” Tank said. “it’s really a mechanism to link 
see fellowship PAGE 7 


pemco. to premiere ‘how to succeed in business’ 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer  
The opening of “how to succeed  
in business without really Trying”  
this weekend will mark the culmi­ 
nation of nearly one year’s worth  
of preparation for the pasquerilla  
east musical company (pemco.).  
“This season started with ‘next  
to normal’ back in october, but re­ 
ally the whole process of this start- 
ed in the beginning of march  SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer  
Freshman Joel Ostdiek portrays the character J. Pierrepont Finch  
see play PAGE 3  during dress rehearsal in Washington Hall on Tuesday.  

al for catholics worldwide. building off this theme, the office of campus ministry at notre dame has sponsored a number of projects and events to encourage students to reexamine and deepen their relationships with god. 
Kate barrett, assistant di­rector of undergraduate min­istry, said recent activities include the “Think you know moreau?” scavenger hunt and “retreat on the run,” a program that will continue through february that helps students incorporate prayer into their busy lives. barrett said the scavenger hunt was a success with almost 200 participants. 
“we challenged partici­pants to travel the campus as quickly as possible, find­ing clues and along the way learning more about blessed basil moreau, … the founder of the congregation of holy cross, as well as other re­markable holy cross priests heart choirs, began feb.10. “annus fidei” means “year of faith” in latin. 
“[annus fidei] combined readings and songs to high­light some of the themes pope benedict outlined at the be­ginning of the year,” barrett said. 
in the second half of the se­mester, barrett said campus ministry will focus on pro­gramming to assist students in keeping their prayer lives active during the summer months away from campus. 
“That will be called ‘portable prayer’ and will have very practical tips and suggestions for students,” she said. 
barrett said she believes the year of faith calls for both personal and communal re­newal, and campus ministry is offering activities that will assist in both. 
“a personal call will end 
see faiTh PAGE 4 


smc sTudenT gov. PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 10 scene PAGE 12 bengal bouTs quarTerfinal preview PAGE 24 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How often do you go to the library? 

Teri Dye 
freshman 
pasquerilla west hall 
“every single day.” 

Donald Dye 
freshman 
Knott hall 
“all day, every day.” 


Glory Kim 
freshman 
walsh hall 

“uh, every day. it’s a terrible thing.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Michael Dinh 
freshman 
carroll hall 

“only when the temperature reaches above 45 degrees.” 

Caroline Park 
freshman 
lewis hall 

“like every day. i love it!” 

Mariah Sasson 
sophomore 
pasquerilla west hall 

“about three times a week.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
John cameron chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
christian myers laura coletti catherine owers greg hadley 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jacqueline o’neill maria fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mark Brazaitis Sewing Circle Women’s Tennis Fencing Men’s Basketball 
michael Kramm dan brombach 
Reading Snite Museum of Art Eck Tennis Pavilion. Joyce Center Joyce Center Eck Center Auditorium 10 a.m.-7:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Fieldhouse 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 
7:30p.m. Artist Marie Watt Game vs. Baylor. All day. Game vs. Cincinnati. 
Corrections 

Author reads from hosts a day-long Free admission. 
The observer regards itself as “The Incurables.”  sewing circle. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Bengal Bouts “Band of Sisters” “Shadows of the Vigil Mass Campus Girl Scouts 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Quarterfinals DeBartolo Performing Reef” Basilica of the Sacred Cookie Sale 
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Heart LaFortune Student 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m. Arts Center 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The men’s boxing Documentary by Marie 7:30 p.m. Catholic Mass. 2:30 p.m.-4 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

tournament continues. Fishman, 1982 alumna. Play by Prof. Juan. Benefits local Scouts. 


Saint Mary’s candidates run unopposed 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
Juniors Kat sullivan and maddy martin will run unopposed for 2013-14 saint mary’s student body president and vice president. 
The ticket’s candidacy was an­nounced Tuesday, one day after submitting its platform. 
sullivan and martin bring ex­tensive experience on student government association (sga) and on other campus boards. sullivan, has been a member of the student activities board since her first year at the college. This year, she holds an executive posi­tion on sga as the vice president of external affairs. martin also holds a position on sga as the vice president of finance. 
sullivan, a communication studies major with business ad­ministration and film studies minors from melrose, mass., said she wants to be student body president to give students a louder voice in policy and programming at saint mary’s. 
“[i want to] make sure my fel­low belles know that they can come to [sga] with any questions or concerns. … i care about the needs of the saint mary’s belles,” she said. “i realize how vital it is that the voices of the students are 
Play 
conTinued from page 1 
last year,” senior pemco. producer nathan williams said. 
“how to succeed” is the second show in pemco’s 2012-13 lineup and williams said he is pleased with the group’s progress as Thursday’s opening night nears. 
“it’s really come together in a fun way i think,” williams said. “i’d seen it before and i didn’t like it; i thought it was dated and sexist, but then watching this whole vibe of the ‘60s and this whole nostalgic heard.” 
sullivan said she wants to fol­low in her mother’s footsteps as student body president. Joan mcdermott sullivan served as saint mary’s student body presi­dent as a senior during the 1975­76 school year. 
“my mom has always held a special place in her heart for the school and her memories here,” she said. “it would mean a great deal to me to be able to share this with her.” 
martin, a biology and spanish double major from grand rapids, mich., said she saw room to im­prove the student government’s approachability. 
“i would love to focus on bet­ter communication between sga and the student body,” she said. “i feel like there is still some dis­connect and i would love to try to eliminate that. i want students to be able to know who we are and that they can come to us for anything.” 
in their platform, sullivan and martin said they plan for stu­dents, clubs, administrations and sga to “work together as a com­munity.” sullivan said assembling the right team would be essential to reaching this goal. 
“i want to make sure that we really hit the ground running for 


kind of thing, it’s really fun.” 
sophomore director shannon Kirk explained that the show’s seemingly-sexist humor is satirical. 
“it’s similar to ‘mad men’ in that when you’re watching it, obviously the characters aren’t self-aware that it’s sexist,” Kirk said. “it’s just from our perspective of watching it and how the actors portray it now. you have the retrospective aware­ness, and it adds so many more layers to [the show] from when it originally premiered.” 
Kirk noted that the recent popu­larity of ‘60s-era television shows the 2013-14 academic year,” she said. “it will be really important to have a well-established structure and continue with what previous sga leaders have already accom­plished. That being said, choosing girls who want to have a positive impact at saint mary’s will be key.” 
in addition to better commu­nication and effective leadership, martin said the team intends to introduce initiatives and plan events to instill more unity on campus. 
“i would really like to increase the school spirit around campus,” she said. “i am so proud to be a saint mary’s belle and i believe all girls should feel this way.” 
sullivan echoed martin’s goal for an increased sense of school spirit and inclusion. 
“i’d love to focus on sisterhood and community,” she said. “saint mary’s girls have a lot of pride in who we are and what this school stands for. i want to make sure that every girl on this campus, both current and future belles feel welcome and comfortable.” 
sullivan said she wants to im­prove the quality and attendance of campus programming. 
“my personal goals include increasing attendance at events through a better understanding 
like “mad men” influenced the choice of “how to succeed” after the group was unable to secure rights to the original selection, “my fair lady.” 
“with this we were trying to think of things that people would want to audition for and people would want to come see,” Kirk said. 
while the show wasn’t the troupe’s first choice, Kirk said she is pleased with the outcome. 
“i’m actually really glad we got to do this,” she said. “‘my fair lady’ is probably a better show overall if it’s done perfectly, but this is definitely a more fun show to do in terms of of [online information platform] orgsync and building on the strong bonds that saint mary’s women have,” she said. “i want to raise awareness on issues that are prevalent on campus such as bullying, depression, anxiety and eating disorders, just to name a few. 
“by making these issues more known we will better able to help saint mary’s women who struggle with these issues and bring the community together.” 
Though only one ticket is run­ning, sullivan and martin must receive a majority vote on feb. 
ensemble involvement, and this is more of a comedy.” 
williams said while keeping the cast focused and motivated could be challenging, ultimately the en­tertaining rehearsals and valuable friendships formed made the long process worthwhile. 
“i think part of the challenge is just maintaining it over such a long process,” he said. “we started with auditions in late october and rehearsals right after that … and then there’s a month off in the middle.” 
despite the demands of a lengthy schedule, Kirk praised her 28 in order to assume their new positions upon the april 1 sga turnover. 
“i’m happy about [being the only ticket] but i hope that people feel confident in our abilities as leaders,” sullivan said. “i want people to trust us to voice their concerns. i think that campaign­ing will still be important because people should still know who we are so they know who to ask when they need something done at saint mary’s.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
cast’s commitment to the show. 
“energy hasn’t been much of a problem actually,” she said. “i think people just really enjoy the show and they kind of feed off each other’s energy and the energy the music is bringing.” 
Kirk whittled the cast down from 100 hopefuls who turned up at the first auditions to the final cast of around 25 people, williams said. 
during callbacks, Kirk said she was able to customize the some­what-flexible characters to fit the potential actors. 
“[The main character] finch could be very cute and ambitious, or he could be very conniving, and i like the cute, ambitious one bet­ter because then by the end of the show you’re not sick of him,” Kirk said. 
as a nonacademic organization, pemco. offers an opportunity for a diverse array of students — across both majors and class years — to collaborate together. 
in his pemco. debut, freshman Joel ostdiek portrays rising busi­ness star J. pierrepont finch. 
“Joel’s doing great,” williams said before Tuesday night’s dress rehearsal. 
senior claire lis, who plays rosemary pilkington, agreed. 
“he came in at the first rehearsal and was thanking everyone and talking about how honored he was to be there,” she said. 
“how to succeed in business without really Trying” opens at washington hall Thursday at 7:30 pm. Tickets can be purchased in the lafortune box office. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu. 




Nurse discusses assault treatment program 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
saint mary’s students gained insight Tuesday into the workings of sexual assault nurse examiners (sanes) during a talk with francine henley, sane program coor­dinator at st. Joseph regional medical center. 
henley said the sane posi­tion developed approximately 30 years ago in response to the needs of sex-crime vic­tims who were receiving in­sufficient treatment. 
“different groups were do­ing research. … The biggest point that [victims] made was that they felt like they were being re-assaulted,” henley said. “[The victims] received no compassion.” 
The response came in the 
Faith 
conTinued from page 1 
up enlivening all of our com­munities of faith,” barrett said. “when any of us feel renewed, recommitted, reen­ergized in our faith, and then we come together for mass or to engage in service to the poor or to welcome the lonely, then the church as a whole — and in each and every parish, or hall chapel — is renewed and re-energized.” 
barrett said the response to campus ministry’s year of faith activities has been positive. 
“we’ve had good responses from residence halls who are following our themes when they plan events in the halls,” she said.  “for example, back in november when our theme was ‘sacred places,’ several halls started grotto walks in which groups of students walk over to the grotto to­gether to pray.” 
despite the successful pro­gramming across campus, barrett said the year of faith is meant to focus on long­term faith development. 
“however, our hope was always for the year of faith to be quietly durable rather than splashy,” barrett said. “we hope that people take away from the year good hab­its of faith that remain with them for a long time.” 
information about past and upcoming activities for the year of faith can be found at campusministry.nd.edu. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 


form of “pioneer nurses” who it better,” henley said. performing a certain amount sought training to offer better belles against violence of sexual assault exams, au­care and to become better ex-office director connie adams diting a court case, riding said sanes contribute signifi­cantly to handling cases of 
“Violence and “A SANE often 
sexual assault. 
abuse are a serves as a calming 
“sane programs are in-
part of college 

presence when credibly valuable assets to 
communities 

someone seeks communities,” adams said. “sanes deeply impact the 
across the country medical attention 
lives of survivors of vio­
and they impact and walks with 
lence and their loved ones. a 
Saint Mary’s as 

them throughout sane often serves as a calm-
well.” 

the examination.” ing presence when someone seeks medical attention and 
Connie Adams Connie Adams 
walks with them throughout 
Belles Against Violence Office Belles Against Violence Office 
the examination.” 
director director 
sanes receive special 

training to learn how to prop-along with law enforcement pert witnesses in the proceed-erly perform a sexual assault and visiting a crime lab. ings after an assault, henley exam and assist in the legal “They train you in every-said. sanes are employees of proceedings that often follow, thing,” henley said, “They the u.s. department of Justice. henley said. after 40 hours train you how to testify 
“it was a bad situation to be of training, sanes fulfill fol-[and] what to wear in addi­in, but the sane nurse made low-up requirements, such as tion to [how to perform] the examination.” 
in addition to informing audience members about the nature of the work of sanes, adams said the event in­tended to enable victims and friends of victims to act in an informed way in response to an assault. 
“violence and abuse are a part of college communities across the country and they impact saint mary’s as well,” adams said. “providing edu­cation to women provides op­tions. while attendees may not personally need the infor­mation, it can be invaluable to share with a friend or fam­ily member. women have the right to know what to expect and how to seek support.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Councils 
conTinued from page 1 
next year’s sophomore class, according to the ticket’s web­site. its community outreach efforts will center on working with the robinson community learning center and the south bend center for the homeless. 
Andrew Stoker, Cody Mason, Mary Grace Gallagher and Darby Mountford 
The key to andrew stoker’s sophomore class council tick­et is communication, he said. 
“one big goal for class coun­cil next year is to make sure everyone is informed about what we’re doing,” stoker said. “i’d like to make a website list­ing all of our upcoming events as well as where to buy class apparel and how to contact council members.” 
The group plans to organize recreational programming to promote class unity, such as an attempt to break a world record as a class. stoker said the success of this and other potential events will be driven by the ticket’s focus on making information easily accessible to members of its class. 
“awareness for events is real­ly important because the more people that go to an event, the more fun it is,” he said. 
if elected, the team would expand on class apparel, co­ordinate a class trip and plan class dances, stoker said. The group would use office hours to garner other ideas from stu­dent feedback, according to the ticket’s website. 
Margaret Mannix, Kellie Tomin, Peter Noell and Theodore Cogan 
mannix’s ticket said it hopes to emphasize communication and inclusion by focusing on promoting community and academics and planning fun activities. 
“our job is for our class to make a mark at this university and it starts with the students,” mannix said. “we want to defi­nitely increase discussion between classmates and the student government in order to hear their thoughts and wants so we can eventually imple­ment policies that will benefit everyone.” 
The group plans to solicit student feedback through sur­veys and bi-monthly meetings with residence halls, clubs and student senate, mannix said. she said installing a redbox in the lafortune student center would be one of the ticket’s first priorities. 
each member of mannix’s ticket held executive posi­tions in various activities in high school, have performed a collective 1,000 hours of community service and are involved in a number of ex­tracurriculars at notre dame, mannix said. 
Tomin participates in notre dame mock Trial, cogan is in glee club, noell is in army roTc and mannix participates 
paid adverTisemenT 
in student international business council and with the holy cross convent at saint mary’s, mannix said. 
Brandon Faresch, Alex Rizk, Mary Kate Vicenzi and Gloria Maciorowski 
brandon faresch’s ticket said it plans to focus on strength­ening class spirit and unity if elected to be next year’s sophomore class council leadership. 
vice presidential candidate alex rizk said the ticket’s di­verse interests position it well to serve the diverse class. 
“Though we are a close knit group of friends, each of us has a personal passion we wish to execute if elected,” rizk said. 
potential programming in­cludes a class of 2016 carnival on south quad and a “puppy pause” event, which would al­low students to reduce stress by playing with local puppies once a month. They also intend to bring a “vast enhancement” to class apparel, rizk said. 
rizk said the team would be inspired to work hard in its leadership positions by the efforts of the class it would represent. 
“we promise that, if elected, we would put forth our best efforts in order to make the class and, most importantly, notre dame a better place than when we found it,” rizk said. “our classmates work too hard for us not to match, or exceed, their enthusiasm and passion in order to best serve them.” 
Junior Class Council 
Edward Flood, Alexander Kroeger, Allyson Kirst and Stephanie Scherer 
edward flood said his Junior class council ticket is ex­cited to bring new blood and new ideas into the council leadership. 
while flood and scherer lack student government experi­ence, Kroeger and Kirst have experience with hall councils. flood said his own outgoing nature will be an important asset as a class leader. 
“my strength is that i’m out­going, and i know a decent amount of people on campus, so i’ll be in the know,” he said. 
The ticket plans to host a class prom to bring the posi­tive aspects of residence hall formals to a single event for all juniors, flood said. The group also wants to expand the cur­rent class council study break events beyond finals weeks to help students deal with busy schedules throughout the semester. 
They hope to set up bus shuttles to the indiana dunes saturdays in the spring, flood said, and they would hold an event similar to the national color run. 
“we want to have a char­ity 5K that’s actually a paint run, so students can have fun throwing paint at each other before working out for a great cause,” flood said. 
Olivia LaMagna, Caitlin Smith, Briggs Hoyt and Martin Walsh 
The lamagna ticket said it plans to improve the expe­rience of next year’s junior class by making information about class and campus pro­gramming more accessible to students. 
“we want to make a more dominant online presence and plan bigger, better events,” walsh said. 
while the ticket has prelimi­nary ideas about potential pro­gramming, they hope to use student feedback to prioritize and allocate funds, walsh said. 
“we’re thinking a barn dance, a beach or ski trip and career-oriented speakers,” walsh said. “insert any dream events of the class of 2015 and we can make magic happen next year.” 
walsh said his ticket has the skills and experience to serve next year’s junior class well. 
“we want to make sure your junior year is the best one yet,” walsh said. “our ‘dream team’ has the experience, the looks and the know-how to plan events that you’ll never want to miss.” 
Senior Class Council 
Carolina Wilson, Patrick Touhy, Elizabeth Gibbons and Michael Nichols 
The wilson ticket hopes to provide a “fun, resourceful and meaningful” year for their senior class, wilson said. The team would focus on foster­ing enjoyable and memorable semesters , as well as practical programming. 
“we hope to grow together as a class, ready to take on the world after graduation while never forgetting our home here at notre dame,” she said. 
if elected, wilson said the group plans to expand free activities programming and on-campus resources for post-graduation preparation, including employment recruit­ers, career center connections and cooking classes. 
above all, wilson said her team hopes to “help seniors take their next step” in pre­paring for the transition from notre dame to the real world by providing opportunities for students to interact with the notre dame, south bend and national communities. 
“we want to give seniors a year that makes them feel ex­cited to be a senior, ready for what lies ahead and humbled to be an active member of the notre dame community who is giving back at … a national level and in our local home,” she said. 
Editor’s Note: Carolina Wilson is a news writer for The Observer. 
Caroline Thompson, Carter Perrin, Peter Diamond and Caroline Mungenast 
The Thompson ticket said it hopes to enliven its class’s se­nior year experience with more class outings and a senior ser­vice project. 
one of the major themes of the officers’ term would be making the last of their class’s college years a memorable ex­perience, Thompson said. 
“some of our ideas include a monthly bowling night or other events at south bend venues,” Thompson said.  “or, before a pep rally we could do a senior pep rally with a beer garden or some kind of tailgate — those kind of things.” 
leaving a legacy of service is equally important to the tick­et’s platform, Thompson said. 
“we hope to collaborate with the b+ foundation, which is an organization that raises money for patients and families deal­ing with childhood cancer,” Thompson said. 
Thompson said her team’s past experience in student gov­ernment and other extracurric­ular activities leaves it capable of serving next year’s senior class. Thompson has served on two class councils and as vice president of ryan hall for two semesters, perrin served on sophomore class council and on a student senate com­mittee, diamond is the presi­dent of the environmental club and mungenast was on freshman and sophomore class councils. 




Rubio challenges Obama on immigration 
Associated Press 
washingTon — The white house on Tuesday sought to keep delicate immigration ne­gotiations on track, as a key republican senator distanced himself further from a draft bill president barack obama’s aides are readying in case congressio­nal talks crumble. 
florida republican sen. marco rubio’s office said obama’s plan “injected additional partisanship into an already difficult process.” The white house, following the weekend leak of its draft legisla­tion, insisted the president wants the bipartisan senate group rubio is a member of to put for­ward its own bill instead. 
obama spoke with rubio on Tuesday to reiterate his commit­ment to the senate process and to make clear that he had his own legislation ready, the white house said. The president also called republicans sens. lindsey graham of south carolina and John mccain of arizona, two other gop lawmakers involved in the immigration negotiations. 
“it is, by far, the president’s preference that the senate pro­cess move forward, that the bipartisan group of eight have success, and that they produce a bill that wins the support of democrats and republicans in senate,” white house spokes­man Jay carney said. 
senate aides said privately Tuesday that bipartisan negotia­tions are in a good place and they did not feel as though the disclo­sure of details in obama’s draft bill would disrupt their process. in fact, obama’s backup bill could end up spurring gop lawmak­ers to rally behind a congressio­nal plan with many similarities rather than support legislation attached to the president. 
while they differ on some key details, both sides are contem­plating legislation that would provide a pathway to citizen­ship for most of the 11 million illegal immigrants already in the u.s., tighten border secu­rity, crack down on businesses that employ illegal workers and strengthen the legal immigra­tion system. 
rubio, a rising republican star and favorite of his party’s con­servative wing, has particular incentive to publicly disavow obama’s proposals. 
as one of his party’s leading voices on immigration, rubio will be called on to sell other conservatives on any deal and he knows that doing so will be harder if that deal has the presi­dent’s stamp on it. he’ll also have to convince republicans that a bipartisan senate agree­ment would be more conserva­tive than what obama would propose on his own. 
rubio’s office, trying to further distance itself from the white house, insisted Tuesday that the senator’s team had not been in talks with the administration on immigration. but rubio spokes­man alex conant later said that a representative from the sena­tor’s office participated in five meetings with administration officials. 
administration officials said they were willing to take hits from the florida lawmaker if do­ing so gave him the cover to work with senate democrats to reach a deal. 
“as long as sen. rubio and the rest of the gang are making real progress on immigration reform, we are happy to be on the side­lines and even serve as a punch­ing bag every once in a while,” dan pfeiffer, obama’s senior ad­viser, said. 
The white house insisted it did not intentionally leak details of its immigration plan, which circulated widely at key govern­ment agencies. Top obama aides 
paid adverTisemenT 


tried to clear up the mess over the weekend, sending apolo­getic emails to the offices of the eight senators, including rubio, at the center of the capitol hill negotiations. 
obama officials say the docu­ments represent draft proposals, not a final bill. The president and his aides have repeatedly said publicly that the white house was readying legislation and would submit it to congress if the senate process stalls. 
The draft white house proposal and the principles out­lined by the senate group overlap in many areas, though there are some key differences. 
The administration’s draft proposal would create a visa for those in the country illegally and allow them to become le­gal permanent residents within about eight years as part of a broader pathway to citizenship. The senate group is looking at a 10-year timeline before people already in the u.s. illegally could get green cards. 




microsoft set to unveil new outlook service 
their email services in recent 
Asociated Press 
months. 

san francisco — microsoft after keeping outlook.com in is so confident it has the internet’s a “preview” phase since July 31, best email service that it is about microsoft corp. is ready to accept to spend at least $30 million to all comers. send its message across the u.s. To welcome new users, 
The barrage began Tuesday microsoft is financing what it when microsoft’s twist on email, believes to be the biggest market­outlook.com, escalated an assault ing blitz in the history of email. on rival services from google inc., outlook.com will be featured yahoo inc., aol inc. and a long list in ads running on prime-time of internet service providers. Tv, radio stations, websites, bill-
as part of the process, all us-boards and buses. microsoft ers of microsoft’s hotmail and expects to spend somewhere be-other email services operating tween $30 million to $90 million under different domains such as on the outlook campaign, which msn.com will be automatically will run for at least three months. converted to outlook.com by the The outlook ads will over-summer, if they don’t voluntarily lap with an anti-gmail market-switch before then. all the old ing campaign that microsoft gmail nearly nine years ago. heap. during the preview period, fetch new contact information messages, contacts and settings launched earlier this month. The gmail is now the industry lead-outlook attracted 60 million ac-posted on google plus, although in the old inboxes will be exported “scroogled” attacks depict gmail er, although estimates on its pop-countholders, including about 20 it doesn’t yet mine facebook, to outlook.com. users will also be as a snoopy service that scans ularity vary. million that defected from gmail, Twitter and linkedin. able to keep their old addresses. the contents of messages to de-google says gmail has more according to microsoft. comscore google declined to comment 
email remains a key battle-liver ads related to topics being than 425 million accounthold-listed outlook with 38 million us-on outlook.com. The company, ground, even at a time when more discussed. ers, including those that visit ers through december. which is based in mountain people are texting each other on The gmail ads are meant to be only on smartphones and other The new features being intro-view, calif., plans to convert phones. educational while the outlook mobile devices. The latest data duced in outlook include: the abil-all of its gmail users to its rede­
people still regularly check campaign is motivational, said from research firm comscore, ity to send massive files, including signed format within the next their inboxes, albeit increasingly dharmesh mehta, outlook.com’s which doesn’t include mobile hundreds of photos at a time, in a few months. on their smartphones. The recur-senior director. traffic, shows gmail with 306 single email; address books that yahoo, which is based in ring email habit provides internet “we are trying to push people million worldwide users through automatically update new con-sunnyvale, calif. revamped its companies a way to keep people who have gotten lazy and com-december, up 21 percent from tact information that connections email service late last year in an coming back to websites. it gives fortable with an email service that the previous year. yahoo’s email post on facebook, Twitter and effort to provide a more consistent people a reason to log in during may not be all that great and help ranked second with 293 million linkedin; and about 60 percent experience on personal comput­their visits so it’s easier for email show them what email can really users, a 2 percent decrease from fewer ads than hotmail. ers and mobile devices. providers to track their activi-do for them,” mehta said. the previous year, followed by none of these features are rev-outlook.com is the latest in ties. frequent visits and personal by microsoft’s own admission, hotmail at 267 million users, a 16 olutionary. google already has a series of major product leas-identification are two of the keys hotmail had lost the competitive percent decline. been giving its users the option to es from microsoft, which has to selling ads, the main way most edge that once made it the world’s microsoft, which is based in switch to a new version of gmail been struggling to regain the websites make money. largest email service. The lack of redmond, wash., is counting on that also allows for larger files cachet that once made it the 
That’s why microsoft, google innovation left an opening for outlook.com to catapult the com-to be sent in a single email. and world’s most valuable technol­and yahoo have been retooling google to exploit when it unveiled pany back to the top of the email address books in gmail already ogy company. 
paid adverTisemenT environment and considers is-
Fellowship 
sues like fertilizer runoff and 
conTinued from page 1 

irrigation, she said. today’s great, cutting-edge sci-“you can’t protect the environ­ence with better communication ment at the cost of the people skills.” who are supported by it, but you 
Tank described the program also can’t protect farmers at the as a sort of “nursery school in expense of the environment,” communication skills” for sci-she said. entists, named after prominent Tank will learn communica­environmentalist aldo leopold. tion skills through the fellowship she said the extensive applica-that will help her better convey tion process included a series of the product of her research with essays meant to show a serious policymakers who can take ac-commitment to sharing research tion to approach this balance, with the public. she said. 
“They want to keep the group “They really challenge you very small because the program [through the fellowship] to actually lasts for two years, see if you can relate the value starting with 10 days at a retreat of your research to the people center this summer,” Tank said. who need to hear it, to see if “when you go back for the sec-you can give them a take-home ond year, you’ve had the chance message in a nutshell,” she to practice, so you can focus on said. “They’ll train you about honing those skills you learned print communication as well in the first year.” as various types of digital me-
she said her specialty with-dia, including the effective use in ecology pertains directly of social network options like to public policy as it relates to facebook and Twitter.” agriculture. Tank said she hopes to apply 
“i’m a freshwater ecologist, what she learns about commu­so i work on streams and riv-nicating with the public to her ers, mainly on nutrient cycling,” work in the classroom. Tank said. “The work i’ve been “all the things that go into be-doing recently has to do with ing a good teacher also go into how land use, like intensive ag-the process of being a good com­riculture, influences freshwater municator,” she said. “i’m excit­resources.” ed about it, and i hope i can do 
Tank’s work focuses on notre dame proud.” finding a proper balance be­tween the economic needs of Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski farmers and the health of the at ajakubo1@nd.edu 




Military leader resigns for personal reasons 
Associated Press 
washingTon — president barack obama is looking for a new candidate to lead american and allied forces in europe af­ter his first choice, marine gen. John allen, bowed out Tuesday and announced his intention to retire for what he called personal reasons. 
The move further clouds the picture for obama as he reposi­tions key figures on his national security team and in key mili­tary leadership roles. The white house is fighting for senate confirmation of chuck hagel as defense secretary; a confirma­tion vote was stalled last week by republicans but is expected to happen next week. 
obama also is switching com­manders at central command, which is responsible for u.s. mil­itary operations throughout the greater middle east, and africa command. 
after meeting with allen at the white house, the president issued a brief statement prais­ing allen’s service. he called the 57-year-old allen “one of america’s finest military leaders, a true patriot, and a man i have come to respect greatly.” 
allen appeared to be a shoo-in as the next top commander of allied forces in europe. obama nominated him last oct. 10, but in november, defense secretary leon panetta stunned many by announcing that allen was be­ing investigated for potentially inappropriate email exchanges with a florida socialite, Jill Kelley. panetta put allen’s nomination on hold. 
last month, shortly before allen completed a 19-month tour as the top u.s. commander in afghanistan, the pentagon announced that allen had been cleared of any wrongdoing and the white house said it was pre­pared to re-nominate him for the europe job. 
even so, it was not clear that allen would choose to go ahead with a senate confirmation hear­ing, given the nature of the email probe. 
allen is held in high regard by democrats and republicans on the senate armed services committee, which would have voted on his appointment, and he was expected to win full senate confirmation. it came as no surprise to many on capitol hill when allen was cleared of wrongdoing in the email probe, which several lawmakers had in­dicated was not as troublesome as some had initially suggested. The actual emails between allen and Kelley were never made public. 
one of hagel’s biggest de­tractors, sen. lindsey graham, r-s.c., showered allen with praise Tuesday, saying the nation owes him a great debt and “his leadership in the future will be 

firm traces hacks to chinese army 

missed.” 
an iraq war veteran with a reputation as an astute strate­gist, allen took over in Kabul in July 2011, succeeding gen. david petraeus, who quit to be­come cia director. allen relin­quished command feb. 10 to a fellow marine general, Joseph dunford. 
allen said retiring from the military was “the only choice i could make.” although he did not explain his reasons in detail, he said “my primary concern is for the health of my wife, who had sacrificed so much for so long.” he served 38 years in the marine corps. 
in retiring, allen passed up obama’s offer to promote him to the europe job, which is one of the more prestigious jobs in the military. it carries the dual responsibilities of commanding naTo troops from allied head­quarters in belgium and heading the u.s. european command, a separate organization based in germany. 
The u.s. has about 80,000 troops based in europe. 
it’s unclear who obama will nominate for that job. The current commander, navy adm. James stavridis, had planned to leave last year, but was asked to stay on until allen could take over. he is ex­pected to remain until a suc­cessor is confirmed. 
army gen. carter ham might have been a logical choice, in part because he previously served as commander of all u.s. army forces in europe. but he is scheduled to retire this year. he currently serves as commander of u.s. africa command. 
in a written statement Tuesday, allen he wants to focus on helping his wife, Kathy, cope with health issues. he was not specific about her ailments, but The washington post quoted allen on monday as saying that his wife suffers from a combi­nation of chronic health issues that include an autoimmune disorder. 
Associated Press 
washingTon — as pub­lic evidence mounts that the chinese military is respon­sible for stealing massive amounts of u.s. government data and corporate trade secrets, the obama admin­istration is eyeing fines and other trade actions it may take against beijing or any other country guilty of cyberespionage. 
according to officials famil­iar with the plans, the white house will lay out a new re­port wednesday that suggests initial, more-aggressive steps the u.s. would take in re­sponse to what top authorities say has been an unrelenting campaign of cyberstealing linked to the chinese gov­ernment. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not autho­rized to speak publicly about the threatened action. 
The white house plans come after a virginia-based cybersecurity firm released a torrent of details monday that tied a secret chinese mili­tary unit in shanghai to years of cyberattacks against u.s. companies. after analyzing breaches that compromised more than 140 companies, mandiant has concluded that they can be linked to the people’s liberation army’s unit 61398. 
military experts believe the unit is part of the people’s liberation army’s cyber­command, which is under the direct authority of the general staff department, china’s version of the Joint chiefs of staff. as such, its ac­tivities would be likely to be authorized at the highest lev­els of china’s military. 
The release of mandiant’s report, complete with details on three of the alleged hack­ers and photographs of one of the military unit’s build­ings in shanghai, makes pub­lic what u.s. authorities have said less publicly for years. but it also increases the pres­sure on the u.s. to take more forceful action against the chinese for what experts say has been years of systematic espionage. 
“if the chinese government flew planes into our airspace, our planes would escort them away. if it happened two, three or four times, the presi­dent would be on the phone and there would be threats of retaliation,” said former fbi executive assistant director shawn henry. “This is hap­pening thousands of times a day. There needs to be some definition of where the red line is and what the repercus­sions would be.” 
henry, now president of the security firm crowdstrike, said that rather than tell com­panies to increase their cy­bersecurity the government needs to focus more on how to deter the hackers and the na­tions that are backing them. 
James lewis, a cybersecu­rity expert at the center for strategic and international studies, said that in the past year the white house has been taking a serious look at responding to china, add­ing that “this will be the year they will put more pressure on, even while realizing it will be hard for the chinese to change. There’s not an on-off switch.” 


paid adverTisemenT 


CHINA 

China passes United States as world’s biggest trader, denies title 
Associated Press 
beiJing — china has a new status its government doesn’t want — world’s biggest trader. 
official chinese and american trade data indicate china passed the united states last year in total imports and exports by a margin of $3.866 trillion to $3.822 trillion. That is about $44 billion, or just over 1 percent of china’s total. 
The commerce ministry has taken the unusual step of publicly denying china is the new no. 1. it says china still trailed the u.s. by $15.6 billion last year — or a razor-thin 0.3 percent — under world Trade organization standards for valuing goods. 
beijing wants to be a global leader but insists it still is a poor country. it is wary of any change that might erode that status and fuel demands for action to stimulate the global economy or concessions on trade and climate change. 
“i think there is some con­cern from the ministry of commerce that this might be used as evidence by western countries that china is not doing its part to rebalance the global economy,” said Xianfang ren, china analyst for ihs global insight. 
china’s explosive trade growth has abruptly altered global business. it created new opportunities for some but prompted complaints by the united states and others over its multibillion-dollar trade surpluses, market barriers and currency controls. 
in just five years, china has surpassed the united states as a trading partner for much of the world, including american allies such as south Korea and 

australia,  according  to  an  
associated  press  analysis  of  
trade data.  

as recently as 2006, the u.s. was the larger trading partner for 127 countries, versus just 70 for china. by 2011 the two had clearly traded places: 124 countries for china, 76 for the u.s. 
Trade is especially sensitive amid anxiety over a possible global slowdown. beijing’s trading partners accused it of hampering a recovery from the 2008 crisis by obstructing ac­cess to its market. 
for 2012, beijing reported a $231 billion global trade sur­plus on exports of $2.049 tril­lion and imports of $1.818 

trillion. The united states re­ported $1.547 trillion in exports and $2.335 trillion in imports, for a deficit of $788 billion. 
The commerce ministry’s statement last week said a wTo global trade report due out this month or in early march would recalculate those figures and should show china still no. 2. 
also, some commenta­tors have questioned whether china’s trade data can be trust­ed because many companies are believed to misreport im­ports and exports to avoid taxes or get trade-related payments. 
“of course, it is only a matter of time before china becomes no. 1,” said ren. 
behind the headline num­bers, china and the united states are drastically different traders. 
china is the world’s low-cost factory, assembling most of its mobile phones, home appli­ances and other goods. but its factories need imported tech­nology and components. much of the value of its exports flows to u.s. and european technol­ogy suppliers and to produc­ers of components in Japan, Taiwan, south Korea and southeast asia. 
That has meant surpluses asian countries used to run with the united states were shifted to china’s column in 
u.s. national accounts. 
by contrast, the united states uses its own technology and adds more value to goods such as jetliners and factory machinery. so it keeps a big­ger share of the value of its exports. 
paid adverTisemenT 

google’s 
stock 
price 
jumps 
Associated Press 
san francisco — google’s stock price topped $800 for the first time Tuesday amid renewed confidence in the company’s abil­ity to reap higher profits from its dominance of internet search and prominence in the growing mo­bile market. 
The milestone comes more than five years after google’s shares ini­tially hit $700. not long after break­ing that barrier in october 2007, the economy collapsed into the worst recession since world war ii and google’s stock tumbled into a prolonged malaise that eventually led to a change in leadership. 
besides enriching google’s employees and other sharehold­ers, the company’s resurgent stock is an implicit endorsement of co-founder larry page. he re­placed his managerial mentor, eric schmidt, as ceo in april 2011. google’s stock has risen by 36 per­cent since page took over. by con­trast, the benchmark standard & poor’s 500 index has climbed by 15 percent over the same stretch. 
most of google’s gains have oc­curred in the past seven months 
— a period that has overlapped with a sharp downturn in the stock price of rival apple inc. The iphone maker’s market value has plunged by about $230 billion, or 35 percent, since late september. 
“all that apple money had to go somewhere,” said bgc financial analyst colin gillis. 
standard & poor’s capital iq an­alyst scott Kessler concurred, rea­soning that many investors who have abandoned apple are gravi­tating to one of its biggest rivals. 
google makes and distrib­utes its free android software to samsung electronics co., hTc corp. and other mobile device makers looking to compete with apple’s iphone and ipad. since its 2008 introduction, android has established itself as the most popular mobile operating system, partly because the free software makes it easier for device mak­ers to undercut apple’s prices for iphones and ipads. 
android is set up to feature google’s search engine and other services, giving the company a chance to sell more ads. 
“if you are looking at apple’s peers in its space and see who seems to be really doing well right now, it makes a lot of sense to in­vest in google now,” Kessler said. 
despite its diminished luster, apple remains the most valuable 
u.s. company with a market value of $432 billion. google now ranks third with a market value of $266 billion, with exxon mobil corp. holding the spot in between at $402 billion. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

my pet peeves 

Steph Wulz 
graphic designer 

recently in an interview, they asked me what my pet peeves were and why they bothered me. i figured i’d share my re­sponses with you, since you may feel the same way about them and because i was on a deadline to get this inside column written. 
The first one was simple: slow walkers. it gets pretty frustrating when you are walking down south quad and the peo­ple in front of you are walking at the pace of a snail. let it be known that i do appre­ciate those who take in their surround­ings and take some time to breathe in the cold, crisp winter air, but when you are dragging your feet and taking up the en­tire sidewalk with your group of friends, it can really bog a girl down. either way, this was only the foundation. The real pet peeve was the icing on the cake. 
Texting during meals. man, do i sound old, but take a second to hear me out. if i am going with someone to a meal, why do they have to be connected with selected members of their social network on their phone? i can understand if you are awaiting an important email, call or snapchat (level of importance debatable), but if we are sitting together, why can’t we have a conversation without frequent texting interruptions? 
more recently, my friends and i have realized that our phones were keeping us from some great conversation. we attempted to remedy this by stacking all of our phones in a pile in the middle of the table. Therefore, when someone’s phone would buzz we wouldn’t know whose it was. we could talk about the interesting music selection in south dining hall or why the squirrels here are so domesticated. This tactic actually started to really impact our daily conver­sations. as tempting as it was to reach for our phones, we soon became more im­mersed in discussion of past embarrass­ing stories or what our current favorite harlem shake video is. our conversations became present and progressive, rather than being blocked by the constant iphone email checks, status updates and group texts. 
some of you will hate the idea of getting off your phone. some may try it. it gets fun if you take this into a bar setting and challenge each other not to check your phones the entire time there. you could wager a drink and see who loses. either way, i encourage you to chat it up a bit more. with the semester coming close to spring break, we will realize too late that our time here is limited. we don’t have much time physically together but we will always be connected through social networking later, so lay the phone down and get chatting. 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 

i awoke feb. 11 with several exams and tests later that week. i shared the same sense of shock many of us felt in hearing pope benedict Xvi had announced his resignation from the papacy. The first thought that came to my mind was that this must have been some kind of joke. i then checked several other news sites confirming the information that i had just read. after receiving validation from mul­tiple sites, my second thought was, “he can’t resign. That has to be ille­gal.” 
after stepping back and realizing the ability of a pope to resign is not a matter of legality, i was still troubled by the pope’s announcement. i can’t help but think of the causations and implications of such a move. while i do not have all the questions answered in my own head of the pope’s resigna­tion, i hope to shed some light on his humbling and difficult decision to step down from his role. 
from my brief research on the resignation, it is evident that pope benedict’s announcement hinted that he has had some kind of health complications. This is the prevalent belief of most observers of the recent announcement, and seems to be a plausible and likely cause consider­ing his mid-80s age. many people i have talked to believe that the pope stepping down due to poor health is a wise and humbling decision for the pope to make. These peers of mine reason that since pope benedict Xvi has prayerfully discerned he will not be able to lead the church as it needs to be led, then his resignation is ad­mirable. my question is why no other popes have done this. in recent his­tory, all of our popes have died serving god as leader of the church. These popes were not young, healthy men at the time of their deaths, but instead suffered from failing health leading up to their deaths. while i know the pope must be undergoing immense suffer­ing, i am concerned that his decision might be confusing to many of us. There are many people throughout the world that suffer amid the jobs, roles and vocations god has placed them in. are we all at times of hurt, pain, suffering, declining health, or times where we lose the vigor and ability we once had supposed to step down, to give up? 
i think not. i think we are supposed to have the faith, the hope and the love for our benevolent and merciful god to turn to his son Jesus christ, to his suffering and his teachings, and to ask the holy spirit for guidance in our lives. we should use our pain and suf­fering, whether it be emotional pain, physical pain, the loss of a loved one or a perpetual ailment, to draw us closer to god and the suffering Jesus went through on the road to calvary. while easier said than done, this is what i wanted my pope to have announced feb. 11. 
i wanted him to tell the world that he knows his health is dwindling, that he knows he has lost the strength he once has and that his abilities have been weakened. 
i wanted him to tell the world that he has the immense faith to turn to the father, the son and the holy spirit to ask for their support, knowing that his inabilities, that his weaknesses, that his declining health will be trans­formed into ability, strength and a renewed vigor to serve as the leader of the roman catholic church for the rest of the time he has left here on earth. 
yet, i also realize that i cannot make that judgement or second guess our most humble pope benedict, who un­doubtedly has been in deep prayer and discernment regarding this decision. 
i know that pope benedict, as hard as it is for me to understand, did pray to our heavenly father, who is guiding him during this perplexing time not only for our pope but for our catholic church. as others have pointed out to me in my struggle with his decision, god may bring in the next pope just at the right time. god may have a plan far beyond the eyes of what we can see, and i strongly believe that he does. 
i do pray for our pope, for our church leaders and the catholic church through this transitional pe­riod, that we will remain rooted and united in our faith as we move forward as the body of christ. may this hum­bling act of faith from pope benedict be a catalyst for all of us to becoming stronger in our faith, steadfast in our love and unwavering in our hope. 
Carter Boyd is a freshman studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Steph Wulz at swulz@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A standard for celebrities 
mr. schietinger, i agree with the main argument presented in your ar­ticle “innocent until proven guilty?” (feb. 19). however, i absolutely do not believe that the case of the murder of reeva steenkamp is an example of such attacks. you and i may be reading dif­ferent newspapers, but almost all of the coverage i’ve read — including articles in The guardian, The new york Times, and The washington post — have not “rushed to judge and attack” oscar pistorius. 
on the contrary, following the event i have read descriptions of pistorius as a hero and an inspiration. a new york Times article attempts to explain his actions as resulting from being an “adrenaline freak” and “not as cautious as he always should be,” while also say­ing that this event was a tragedy for pistorius. 
This might be disturbing in itself. Though pistorius has not been con­victed of any crime, he has a docu­mented history of domestic abuse against steenkamp and other women. describing pistorius in such a way is ex­tremely representative of our culture’s perception of domestic violence, as are the descriptions of Jovan belcher as a “family man” following his murder of his girlfriend Kasandra perkins. 
what is even more disturbing than the media lauding pistorius is their treatment of reeva steenkamp. in a washington post article, the first sen­tences that talk about her at all call her a “leggy blonde” known for her “bikini­clad, vamping photo spreads.” reeva steenkamp is a murder victim and does not deserve to have her actions shamed and criticized. many articles barely mention steenkamp, focusing instead on pistorius’ “fall from grace.” i would like to point out that your article did not mention her name once. 
because these celebrities, as you argue, are not morally different from regular people, i say we should hold them to the same standard as anyone else. and for anyone else, shooting and killing someone would not be excused by a person’s affinity for adrenaline.  domestic violence and the way it is ad­dressed in popular discourse is a huge problem in our society. This case is a prime example of that. 
Shelly Chatman 
junior off campus 
UWIRE 

Obama’s manufacturing solution 
Paul Sherman 
michigan daily 

for the past four years, americans have been wait­ing for the solution to the economy they thought would have come sooner. four years ago, in his first state of the union address, president barack obama said that americans had to “answer history’s call” in the light of a potential “second depression.” This time, as he entered the house chamber and looked in the television cameras for a fifth time, he focused on the idea that creating middle class jobs must be the “north star that guides our (economic) efforts.” 
while there are many important issues that face this country, i was pleased that the president brought up manufacturing. he said that washington must “guarantee that the next revolution in manu­facturing is made in america.” with the republicans reeling and looking to find support, obama must strike a bipartisan agreement on the fiscal issues facing this country. now is the time for congress to finally make america a “magnet for jobs and manufacturing.” 
Though there have been signs of erosion, the american manufacturing industry is still one of the largest in the world. a January 2012 congressional research service report found that america’s share of global manufacturing activity has decreased in recent years. china’s manufacturing sector is almost as large as in the united states, valued at $1.814 tril­lion and $1.756 trillion respectively. in december 2012, the manufacturing sector made modest gains in manufacturing activity and factory hiring. 
one of the common arguments related to manu­facturing thrown around recently is that american companies are outsourcing jobs to other countries because their labor laws allow manufacturing opera­tions to be more profitable. however, this is not as big of an issue as most americans think it is. as the bureau of labor statistics has found, the effect of outsourcing has been minimal. in the third quarter of 2012, when more than 100,000 workers were laid off, firms told bls that less than 1 percent of these workers had their jobs moved to another country. 
an article from The atlantic reported that american companies are seeing the economic ben­efits of keeping jobs in america and have, in fact, started to “insource” jobs. china’s foxconn, the chinese manufacturing giant, is actually planning on increasing their operations in the united states. american companies are realizing the benefits of keeping jobs in the united states, which will limit the effect that outsourcing will have on the economy. 
on the other hand, what’s preventing companies from producing in the united states is the attractive­ness of production in other countries. part of the issue is that the value of the dollar made producing goods in the united states less attractive than other countries with cheaper labor and production costs and lower marginal tax rates. if america wants to become more competitive in this regard, the federal government must be willing to create a plan that provides subsidies and “lowers tax rates for busi­nesses and manufactures that (will) create jobs right here in america.” This would help reduce the costs of production in the u.s., which would make compa­nies more willing to attract new jobs without having to reduce workers’ salaries. 
one point that president obama has been stressing is that increasing our focus on alternative energy will make america a stronger manufacturing country. according the department of energy, in august 2012 the wind sector was employing “75,000 american workers, including workers at manufacturing fa­cilities up and down the supply chain, as well as engineers and construction workers who build and operate the wind farms.” people are now feeling the benefits of alternative energy manufacturing. on top of providing jobs, it will help americans save money on energy consumption. This is the direction the manufacturing sector is going. if we fail to recognize the importance of alternative energy, america will fall behind. 
manufacturing is what has driven america over the past century. if we plan to give up on manufac­turing, we are throwing the future of this country away. but words can only go so far. This plan will not completely revive the american car industry or the steel industry. while it’s not complete, president obama’s plan will make american manufacturing industry more competitive that it is today so that we can be authors of the next great chapter in our american story. 
This column originally ran in the Feb. 13 edition of Michigan Daily, serving  the University of Michigan. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
but feel enticed to go for an afternoon walk in the woods and breathe in the great outdoors.
 Lizzy Schroff 

scene writer “Dearest Forsaken” — Iron and Wine 
This song has an old-style feel about it, from the twangy intonation of the acoustic gui­tar to the rough vocals. it’s featured on iron and wine’s compilation album of b-sides and “Young Man in America” — Anais Mitchell rarities that make you feel like you were dropped down in the middle of a scene from “o’ 
i gushed in a previous article about my love of anais mitchell (my review of her 2010 brother, where art Thou?” album “hadestown,” to which i gave five out of five shamrocks). her  2012 album “young man in america” does not disappoint either. The narrative lyrics are influenced by the “Star Witness” — Neko Case recession and uncertainty in modern america, mitchell says, and her unique girlish voice neko case has one of those voices you’ll never forget, which makes the poignant and brilliantly expressed these words and interweaves the songs’ beautiful harmonies. melancholy lyrics of “star witness” all the more effective. There are so many layers to this 
track — acoustic and electric guitars, harmonies from neko, gentle and steady drums, cel­“Barton Hollow” — The Civil Wars lo and much more. and if you’ve got the time, check out the youTube cover by canadian 
This song starts on a memorable note, keeping a strong foot-stomping beat throughout. students Kate macdonald and Janelle blanchard. The harmonies between John paul white and Joy williams are impeccable, filled with emotion, heart and just the right amount of twang. (no wonder adele has said they are the “Just a Boy” — Angus & Julia Stone best live group she has seen in concert.) This song from the brother and sister duo from australia has a beautiful simplicity 
about it. no flashiness or special effects — just pure and plain melodies, relatable lyrics, “Please Read the Letter” — Robert Plant and Alison Krauss piano and some harmonica thrown into the mix that make for a charming tune. 
rock god robert plant and bluegrass/folk queen alison Krauss? who ever thought that would be a good pairing? i know that’s what you’re thinking, but believe me, it works. “If I Had a Boat” — James Vincent McMorrow oh so well. Just look at the all of the grammys their album “raising sand” and its single i just have to start out by saying that i love this song. The track begins with haunting “gone, gone, gone (done moved on)” won. six. That’s right. siX. a capella vocals before gliding into the ethereal and enticing body of the song, filled with 
piano, banjo, beautiful backing vocals and expressive guitar. James vincent mcmorrow’s “Talking Empty Bed Blues”— Jay Farrar, Will Johnson, Anders Parker and voice has a slight roughness that brings out a depth of emotion that pulls you right in from Yim Yames the get go. 
i came across the “new multitudes,” an album consisting solely of woody guthrie cov­ers, just by happenstance. but i am so glad i did. The album honors the 100th anniversary “Place to Be” — Nick Drake of the birth of folk god woody guthrie, putting new spins on his legendary songs in a va-Though nick drake tragically passed away at an early age, the brief time that he spent riety of genres. making music has left a lasting legacy. he almost never performed live, which led to his 
lack of fame during his lifetime. it’s a shame that more people didn’t experience his genius “For the Roses” — Joni Mitchell in a live setting. his songs feature intricate, nonstandard rhythms and alternative tunings 
i think Joni mitchell has one of the most beautiful voices. it’s pure, honest and un-that practically set his music in a category of its own. This, along with lyrics inspired by abashed. and it’s backed by a unique playing style on the guitar and deeply introspective british writers and symbols from nature, make for a mystical musical pairing. lyrics. This song professed her ensuing period of absence from the music business and the demands of fame. “Ship Out On the Sea” — The Be Good Tanyas 
i just had to round off the playlist with a track from this canadian all-girls group. Their “Everything is Moving So Fast” — Great Lake Swimmers old-fashioned bluegrass style is sure to satisfy your folk cravings. The great lake swimmers have a way of evoking an atmosphere of openness and peacefulness in their music with echoing vocals and acoustic instruments. you can’t help Contact  Lizzy  Schroff  at  eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By  CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 

Keough Hall rector Fr. Pete McCormick has talents that can be applied in many places: in the Church, in the dorm, in Campus Ministry — and on the dance floor. McCormick juggles the roles of priest, rector and collar poppin’ disc jockey. Born and raised in Grand Rapids, Mich., he earned his Master’s of Divinity at Notre Dame, spent some time as an assistant rector in Dillon Hall and is currently rector of Keough Hall and Associate Director of Vocations. But to those who love to hit the late-night dancing scene, he’s DJ McSwish. 
Claire Stephens: Why DJ McSwish? 
fr. pete mccormick: The name comes from one of my favorite basketballs, called mccormick swish. when i was a kid growing up, my dad would always write mccormick on our basketballs so we’d know whose basketball it was. one day i needed positive energy and wrote swish under it. my friend lenny delorenzo, [director] at notre dame vision, saw it and said “mcswish,” which was coined as a result. he and i dJed at legends together last semester: he’s dJ mad hatter. 
CS: When did you first start to DJ? 
fpm: it started when i was growing up. my family would play “name that Tune” a lot, and i would lead because i had the biggest music library. it started as a joke when a cousin said “you should dJ my wedding.” so the rest is history. i was always waiting for my first chance because i love to do it. i love to know what’s new and current, just to see how music progresses over the years. i’ve always loved it. i’ve dJed probably five weddings in my time as a priest, and i’m open to future possibilities as well. i think it’s really an oppor­tunity to anticipate people’s needs and give people a chance to just have fun. it gives me an opportunity to help others as well. 
CS: What events have you done at Notre Dame? What were they like? 
fpm: lenny delorenzo and i dJed together at the end of notre dame vision. There’s a celebration at the end, and we would dJ that as a way to cap off the sum­mer. so when i received a phone call from the pro­gramming coordinator at legends asking if i wanted to dJ, i needed a co-dJ and lenny was totally on board with it. when you dJ, it’s like “how am going to play music for four hours?” it’s one thing to listen versus being intentional. you have to do it three minutes at a time. it’s a little daunting at first. you have to figure out what’s the group dynamic, what are they going to respond to and am i going to have enough of that music. 
CS: What is the most common reaction you get to your hobby? 
fpm: people just don’t believe it. This coming fall — and i’ve done this in the past — i’ve done the wedding then dJed it later that night. There’s a [notre dame] couple i knew while they were here that i’m going to marry in october, and they called up and asked if i’d dJ their wedding. it gives me something to do at the reception. There’s not much to do as a priest, and it allows me to be actively engaged in some level, and i very much enjoy it. i love it. 
CS: What kind of music do you play? 
fpm: That morning i dJed, i was asking folks what music people like, and they gave me some ideas. i went online and mined songs from the past two years, some “hot 100” stuff that i thought would work. lenny and i were collaborating on this: what’s the mood of the group, what song do we think is going to work, what do we try to shift into, then we play the song and see what happens. it’s always a bit of a nerve-wracking thing. are people going to react or walk off the dance floor? you keep people engaged by playing a mixture of songs to keep every person engaged in some level. you can’t play all new stuff. you have to throw some old school stuff people enjoy too. i think of it as a big puzzle, and that’s why i enjoy dJing so much. 
CS: What is your favorite kind of music? 
fpm: country. i love country music, but i grew up listening to a lot of 90s rap. i have an appreciation for hip hop and top 40 stuff, but my greatest admiration is for country music, by and large. being aware of mu­sic and what people are listening to is a way into their lives. people get passionate about certain things and, if music is one of them, you can enter into conversa­tion into other things going on in their lives. it’s one way of staying current and aware and to have that level of connection with people. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 

price, despite this disappointment, believes he is meant admittedly i didn’t see the show on broadway, but i can’t 
By  COURTNEY  COX 

scene editor for great things and certainly will make great strides with imagine the cast being much better than what i saw in 
the lds mission in africa. he comes to realize, however, chicago. 
last friday, i visited -chicago’s bank of america Theatre that the ugandan people are much less receptive to the ben platt, who plays the lovable elder cunningham, may for a performance of “The book of mormon,” but i admit-Third Testament than he had thought. be recognizable to audiences from his role as the equally tedly knew very little going into it. i knew it would be about price begins to doubt himself and the possibility of awkward but charming benji in this fall’s “pitch perfect.” mormons and that “south park” creators Trey parker and making a change, so he confides in the other mormons in The ensemble who worked together as ugandan villagers matt stone wrote the musical — but that’s about it. uganda with him. They understand where he’s coming were beyond incredible at delivering the most humorous 
when the performance began, it became immediately from but sing a hilariously depressing song about “turning moments of the play through song. The performance is evident that the show would maintain the borderline offen-off” these negative feelings. definitely worth a trip to the windy city —hop on the south sive style of social criticism characteristic of “south park.” They find conversion much more difficult than they ini-shore to enjoy the show soon, which will be in chicago until 
The opening number is a play on the traditional door-to-tially expected because of the more impending problems september. “The book of mormon” is sure to intrigue and door method of conversion with several young mormon that the ugandans face like aids, a violent warlord threat-entertain a notre dame audience. men wearing the now-recognizable uniform of a short-ening the village and abject poverty. sleeved button down and tie. The men are completing their success comes for the mormons only when elder Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu training at the church of latter day saints (lds) training cunningham begins to make his own adjustments to the 
center in utah before they begin their two-year missions traditional teachings of the church. This causes elder price abroad. to become increasingly jealous and what ensues is nothing 
“The Book of Mormon” 
elder price, the show’s handsome second coming of short of inspired. 
Theatre: Bank of America Theatre, Chicago 
mormon prophet Joseph smith, has been praying to god for The major strength of the play is its ability to combine years that he may be sent to the happiest place on earth to an apt criticism of organized religion with the lyrically rich 
Dates: Through Sept. 8, 2013 
fulfill his mission — orlando. songs created by parker, stone and their partner robert 
Tickets: $45-$115 

instead, elder price is sent to the beautiful paradise of lopez, co-writer of “avenue q.” despite some inappropriate uganda. and to make matters worse, his mission partner themes and language, the show never offends unnecessarily. is the most maladjusted of all other elders within the group, Typically, off-shoot productions have a cast margin-elder cunningham. ally less talented than the original broadway show, and 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

There’s nothing like baseball 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
baseball is synonymous with the seasons. 
it is not summer — it is the regular season. it is not fall 
—
 it is mr. october and mr. november. it is not winter 

—
 it is the offseason. it is not spring because punxsutawney phil says it is — it is spring because pitchers and catchers reported. 


yes, the best time in sports is here again, and everyone should be excited that base­ball is back because baseball is more american than george washington eating apple pie on the back of an eagle. 
The nfl can have the title of america’s favorite sport be­cause baseball is, and always will be, america’s pastime. 
but what does it mean to be a pastime? 
if you google “pastime,” you get the following definition: “an activity that someone 5:17 p.m. every night game, took exactly 150 ground balls during warm-ups and wrote the hebrew word “chai,” which means life, in the bat­ter’s box before every at-bat. it’s hard to argue with two gold gloves and a .328 career batting average. There are strict routines to be followed, there are celebrations that must be observed and there are, of course, slump busters. mark grace and Jason giambi can attest to that. The com­pulsive tendencies in everyone feel at home when watching baseball. 
baseball is an extraordinary, average person’s sport. 
where else do you get to see an athlete with incredible physique, like pablo “Kung fu panda” sandoval, compete at the highest level of his or her respective sport? athletes come in all shapes and sizes, from fun-sized dustin pedroia to bean stalk randy Johnson. The diversity of the athletes 

Everyone should be excited that baseball is back because baseball is more American than George Washington eating apple pie on the back of an eagle. 
does regularly for enjoyment rather than work.” 
many things fit into this classification, including googling, finger painting, stamp collecting, model build­ing or even watching football or basketball, but describing baseball as a pastime implies more than that. 
baseball encompasses a cul­ture unlike that of any other sport.  
no other sport can match the quirks and traditions of baseball. every fan is a stat­istician. stats are thrown around like a ping-pong ball on the weekends. There are, of course, the traditional stats and the eye test to judge players, but whips, dips, lips and even vorps are also used to judge players perfor­mances (walks+hits/innings pitched, defense independent pitching stats, late-inning pressure situations, value over replacement player). in no other sport are fans so caught up in the statistics of the game. baseball is just en­gaging in that way. 
and if you are not a stats fan, then maybe you are a su­perstitious fan. superstitious tendencies in baseball, which make voodoo look tame, are commonplace. wade boggs, for example, ate the same meal before every game, took batting practice at precisely appeals to people everywhere. not all baseball players are elite physical specimens; they are prince fielder and ichiro suzuki and yadier molina. all future hall of famers, but not all the same blueprint. There is a baseball player (or at least a closer) out there for every person. There are oddballs like brian wilson. There are intense guys like Jose valverde. There are class acts like mariano rivera. and there are guys everyone loves to hate like byung-hyun Kim (maybe that’s just me). baseball is a sport we can all relate to. 
but then again, maybe the tradition holds your attention. 
baseball is a storyteller. from baseball’s first official rules in 1846 made by the Knickerbockers to the post-steroid era, there are countless stories on and off the field of why baseball is steadfastly in the fiber of the american flag. baseball is incredible because it offers a little bit of every­thing for everybody. 
so dust off your hat, grab yourself a dog and a drink, sit back and relax — baseball is 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Kentucky struggles to find way without Noel 
Associated Press 

humiliated Kentucky seeks redemption in its second post­nerlens noel outing. 
Kentucky is entering a stretch of nearly must-win games and can’t afford another embarrassing performance like the wildcats had against Tennessee. in the wildcats’ first contest after losing their fresh­man center for the season with a knee injury, the volunteers thumped Kentucky 88-58. 
The wildcats (17-8, 8-4 southeastern conference) will host vanderbilt (10-14, 4-8) wednesday looking to show they can win without noel — sidelined after tearing his left anterior cruciate ligament a week ago. 
coach John calipari said Tuesday without the nation’s leading shot-blocker, the wildcats will have to change their defensive strategy to pre­vent opponents from getting to the basket. he is also hoping the loss leads to the commit­ment and cohesion Kentucky needs to make a tournament run. 
“maybe we were a little shocked,” Kentucky guard Jarrod polson said of their initial game without noel. “i mean, we didn’t realize how much he affected things on the defensive end. 
“but we’re trying to get over it, see what kind of defense we can do now without him. i think we’re going to have a good scheme.” 
while calipari didn’t ex­pect 7-foot freshman willie cauley-stein to seal off the rim as well as the 6-10 noel, the coach didn’t think the change would result in Tennessee out­scoring Kentucky 40-22 in the paint and outrebounding the wildcats 39-21. 
calipari wants cauley-stein to become more forceful in­side, but he’s also urging play­ers to sacrifice themselves more and take more charges in an attempt to slow oppo­nents’ hopes of exploiting the wildcats inside. 
“it’s a big change,” calipari 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 

said. “you have to change a lit­tle bit of how you’re defending, which we are.” 
while vanderbilt expects less resistance inside without noel, the commodores are still wary of cauley-stein. his four blocks and eight rebounds in the wildcats’ 60-58 win in nashville on Jan. 10 were each one better than the highly tout­ed noel, who had 13 points in­cluding the decisive basket. 
The two big men started and played extensive minutes together in that first game against vanderbilt. This time, if alex poythress or even archie goodwin improve their de­fensive play and provide some support for cauley-stein, he could be more of a presence on wednesday. 
“cauley-stein’s still a great player and he’s obviously long, he’s athletic and definitely makes up for some of that loss,” vanderbilt junior forward rod odum said. “i think they’re go­ing to look a little different than last time. i’m not sure what way, but i think it’ll be a little bit different.” 
one of the major changes Kentucky needs to be success­ful has to come at the point guard position, which has been an issue all season. sophomore ryan harrow seemed to be getting a grip on the position when league play started but had just two assists in the two games before Tennessee. 
That led to polson making his first collegiate start in harrow’s place against the volunteers and the junior finished with a career-high 11 points. but the distribution void continued, with harrow and polson com­bining for no assists and two turnovers. 
calipari stressed that that’s where more aggressiveness is needed. he didn’t have to tell polson, who knows he must improve. 
“we didn’t play well at all,” said polson, projected to make his second straight start. “we’re just trying to get better and try­ing to push the ball more.” 
calipari’s main hope is that saturday’s loss finally drives home his points about con­sistent energy, execution and communicating. none of that happened against the vols and the coach suggested after­ward that part of the problem was a couple of “uncoachable” players hindering the process 
— though he didn’t mention names. 
he backtracked Tuesday, saying “uncoachable” was used in the context of what’s said on the bench during games. maybe, but it succeeded in get­ting the wildcats’ attention as they enter an important stretch run. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
William Howard Taft was not only  these pouches to store rocks and  
the heaviest U.S. president, but also  prey.  
the last to sport facial hair.  
Naperville Central High School  
In  2009,  researchers  at  near Chicago, is the only high  
Newcastle University’s Centre for  school in America with an Egyptian  
Life said eating a bacon sandwich  mummy.  
can help cure a hangover.  
Beanie Babies were such a craze  
Southern sea otters have flaps  in the 1990s that even struggling  
of skin under their forelegs that act  MLB teams used them to sell out  
as pockets. When diving, they use  home games.  



NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | indiana 72, msu 68 
Oladipo powers No. 1 Indiana against Spartans 
Associated Press 
easT lansing, mich. — victor oladipo shook off a sprained left ankle with a spectacular performance to lift top-ranked indiana to a 72-68 win over no. 4 michigan state on Tuesday night. 
oladipo’s go-ahead put-back, dunk and free throws in the final minute gave him 19 points to go along with nine rebounds, five steals and a block. not bad for a guy who didn’t play after halftime of his previous game, just three days earlier, because of the injury. 
hoosiers coach Tom crean insisted that the junior shoot­ing guard “wasn’t even close” to 100-percent healthy. 
“There’s no doubt his foot hurt,” crean said. “That mind was right, and that was the biggest thing.” 
indiana (24-3, 12-2 big Ten) broke a first-place tie in the conference — with four games left in the regular sea­son — and moved a step closer toward earning top seeding next month in the ncaa tournament. 

“it was a huge win for us,” oladipo said. “we’ve come a alive,” crean said. “it didn’t af-on a 3-point attempt. he indiana got the rebound — its second game in the regular long way.” fect them.” missed the first one — setting oladipo grabbed it, of course season against a no. 1 team. 
The hoosiers had lost 17 michigan state (22-5, 11-3) off sighs in the sold-out arena — and he hit two free throws nix made a go-ahead shot straight — since 1991 — on the blew opportunities at the line. — and after making the sec-to seal the win. — after grabbing rebounds road against the spartans. Trailing by three with 3.7 ond, he deliberately missed “we were right there,” gary off two of his misses — to put “most of those guys weren’t seconds left, harris was fouled the third. harris said somberly. “and, we michigan state ahead 64-63 could’ve won.” lead with 3:08 left and scored 
paid adverTisemenT 

Keith appling had missed again in the post on its next the front end of a one and one possession. with a little more than a min-harris made one of two free ute left. throws with 1:38 remaining 
“i’d say i was more upset to give the spartans a game-than surprised,” he said. high, four-point lead. 
cody Zeller had 17 points — watford responded with a nearly doubling what he had in three-point play on the ensu­the previous matchup against ing possession to pull indiana michigan state — while within a point and oladipo did Jordan hulls and christian the rest. watford scored 12 each for the michigan state had won five hoosiers. straight and 11 of 12 with its 
oladipo and Zeller went over only loss during the stretch at the 1,000-point mark of their indiana. in last month’s five-careers in the game, joining point loss at indiana, oladipo hulls and watford in the club, had 21 points, seven rebounds, to give the storied program six steals and three blocks. four players with that many The rematch marked the points on the same team for first time two top-five teams the first time. have met at the breslin center. 
“They’ve got a lot of weap-it was the third matchup of ons,” izzo said. “They’ve got a top-four teams in college bas-lot of experience.” ketball this season — the sec­
harris, indiana’s mr. ond for indiana, which beat basketball last year, missed then top-ranked michigan — a layup in a crowded lane and was just the fourth with with 16 seconds left and fin-a pair of big Ten teams since ished with 19 points. adreian 1997. payne scored 17 and the rest “nothing rattles us too of their teammates struggled much,” Zeller said. offensively. The highly anticipated and 
appling, michigan state’s hyped game lived up to the leading scorer, was held to six billing with end-to-end ac-points on 1-of-8 shooting. tion, scrambles for loose balls, 
“my quarterback struggled a 3-point shots, blocks in the little bit,” izzo said. lane and plenty of physical 
branden dawson had eight play. points and derrick nix scored and, a banged-up oladipo eight and some of his contri-was the star of the showdown. butions offensively late in the “oladipo is just a refuse-to­game looked like they were lose guy,” izzo said. “winning going to help the school win time, he made the plays.” 




NFL 

Players don’t trust Goodell, Foxworth says 
Associated Press 
new yorK — union leader domonique foxworth says nfl players don’t trust commissioner roger goodell because of the saints bounty case, in particular. 
The nflpa president added he wouldn’t be able to persuade players to have faith in the league even if he wanted to. 
speaking on a conference call Tuesday, days before union rep­resentatives meet with nfl of­ficials at the scouting combine in indianapolis, foxworth re­turned to a theme he stressed at the nflpa’s pre-super bowl news conference. 
“it’s pretty obvious that there’s a gap in what would be a reason­able amount of trust ...” foxworth said. “There’ve been a number of events to lead players to believe they cannot trust the league. 
“There was a bridge beginning to be built and then there were some recent events that kind of broke that bridge again.” 
foxworth said the players are seeking checks and balances such as a neutral arbitrator to improve relations between the union and league. he cited the bounties and how former commissioner paul Tagliabue was not “unbiased.” 
yet Tagliabue made the final decision that tossed out the sus­pensions of four players. 
“when things like that hap­pen,” the former defensive back said of Tagliabue’s appointment by goodell, “it’s hard for our players to believe that the league has their best interests in mind. and that makes it harder for me to do my job, and for the pa to do our jobs and for the league to do their jobs. because we really need to agree upon things, mov­ing forward.” 
nfl spokesman greg aiello insisted that the union has not looked ahead since a new collec­tive bargaining agreement with the league was reached a year and a half ago. 
“since 2011 the union has spent most of its time backing away from its commitments,” aiello said in an email to The associated press. “whether on old litigation, hgh, or commis­sioner discipline, the nflpa has consistently looked backwards. 
“Trust is a two-way street. if the union wants to work together to build a better, safer and even more popular game, we extend our hand in partnership and re­spect. if the union wants to stir up old grievances and create mistrust, we will simply have to do the best we can to serve the interests on the fans, players and the game.” 



paid adverTisemenT 
Key issues foxworth and other union officials will discuss with the nfl’s competition commit­tee in indianapolis involve play­er safety, including the league’s plan to make hip and thigh pads mandatory next season. 
many players have spoken out against such a requirement, saying using the pads should be optional. The nfl believes the pads will substantially reduce injuries or wear and tear on players. 



NASCAR 

Wallace makes history on NASCAR speedway 
Associated Press 
dayTona beach, fla. — with his canon 60d in hand, darrell wallace Jr. is a fixture at the track, eagerly snapping pho­tos with an insider’s view of auto racing. his instagram account is littered with day-in-the-life snapshots of cars and crews, all carrying the tag, “my crazy life captured in pictures.” 
wallace, though, isn’t a typical 19-year-old nascar prospect trying to climb the ladder, and he’s less interested in a budding photography career. he is a pio­neer of sorts as only the fourth black driver with a full-time ride in a nascar series. 
when wallace takes the wheel for the Truck series race friday at daytona international speedway, he’ll become a slice of nascar history in a race that ig­nites his goal of serving as a role model for a generation of poten­tial future black drivers. 
“it’s kind of up to me,” wallace said. “it’s kind of a huge weight.” 
busting down racial barri­ers in a sport long reserved for whites is pretty heavy stuff for a teenager and all eyes are on him. yet wallace, the son of a white father and black mother, open­ly talks of becoming the Tiger woods of nascar — the great black star who can transcend the sport and prove people of all colors can race. 
“you don’t have a role model. That’s why you don’t see any­body in it,” wallace said. “They can’t look up and be like, ‘i want to be like him because he’s the same color as me.’ There’s no one there to do that. i’m the top one right now and i’m only 19.” 
wallace joins wendell scott, willy T. ribbs and bill lester as the only full-time black driv­ers in the 65-year history of nascar. scott is the only black driver to win a race, way back in 1964. 
wallace is signed with Joe gibbs racing and will drive the no. 54 Toyota for Kyle busch motorsports on friday. gibbs knows as well as anyone what it’s like to work with black ath­letes under the microscope. he coached the washington redskins when doug williams became the first black quarter­back to win a super bowl in 1988. gibbs said wallace has the tal­ent and the mental toughness to break through in nascar. 
“i think he’s the right kid,” gibbs said. 
wallace, raised in concord, n.c., has the full support of the black drivers before him. lester has sent him encourag­ing tweets. wallace met some of scott’s children at a race in virginia. 
“They’re just happy to see someone following in their dad’s footsteps,” he said. “i’m hoping that i can carry that torch a little farther.” 
he’s in a better position to suc­ceed than many other minorities over the years. he has sponsor­ship, a top-flight team in Jgr and is a graduate of nascar’s diver­sity program. even in nascar, the climate has changed where drivers of all sexes and colors are openly accepted, in the garage, and hopefully in the stands. 
wallace, who goes by bubba, spent the last three seasons driv­ing in a low-level nascar devel­opmental series and said racism in all forms was nonexistent. 
at lower levels of racing, though, wallace would hear ra­cial insults or encounter igno­rant views. 
“we used to take it from fans,” his father, darrell, said. “we’ve had it from other drivers. we’ve had it from officials. we’ve had it from promoters. we’ve had it from track owners. we’ve pretty much had it from everybody.” 
wallace said the heckles and hurtful words from his forma­tive years in the sport have been left on the side of the road and he can continue to focus on racing 
— just this time on his biggest stage so far. 
“i’d show up the next week and wear ‘em out again,” he said, smiling. “i really didn’t under­stand it. my dad got more fired up than anything.” 
his father sparked a love of the sport when he was 9, put­ting him in go-karts, and always scouting out the next series. darrell wallace even bought a legends car from mark martin. he attends every race and will be in the stands friday night. his mother, desiree, ran track at Tennessee and stays home to watch on Tv (“she likes hearing what they say about me.”). 


mom did offer a piece of ad­vice that has stuck with wallace. avoid confrontations with other drivers who used slurs. Just go win. 
wallace’s love and talent for the sport will mean nothing if he can’t find the right spon­sor willing to fund his career. sponsorship cash is the lifeblood of the sport. 
his father has owned an in­dustrial cleaning business since 1999 and pumped at least $1 mil­lion into his son’s fledgling ca­reer. he spent as much $250,000 in 2008. The elder wallace paid bills late and borrowed money to keep his son’s career alive. 
“he tried to do everything he could to keep me racing,” wallace said. 
it’s a path he expects to land him in the sprint cup series. 
“i’m not ready for it next year. i’m not ready for it in two years,” he said. “it’s all about the timing. it’s all about how well i do this year.” 
nascar has initiated sev­eral pushes toward boosting the number of minorities in the sport. There’s a drive for diversity program that may pay some dividends with wallace and Kyle larson after struggling to find racers for the top series. The program is 10 years old and was designed to attract minori­ties and women to the sport in all fields, from the track to the front office. wallace participated in a short-lived reality show in 2010 called “changing lanes,” that featured 10 young female and minority racers competing for a spot on a developmental team. 
not even showbiz helped wallace land the big-bucks sponsor needed to race in the second-tier series. wallace ideally would have run in the nationwide series this season, but was unable to land enough sponsorship. he had three top­10 finishes and a pole in four nationwide races in 2012. 
gibbs said wallace is still slat­ed for some nationwide races. 
“we’ve had a lot of other african-american drivers get in the sport, but they got in late,” gibbs said. “it’s hard to get in late. you’ve got to start when you’re young and race your way up. i think darrell’s got it.” 
wallace was busy balanc­ing daytona duties with media requests this week and was set to hold a press conference with gibbs on wednesday at the track. 
“darrell’s equipped to han­dle the attention,” said marcus Jadotte, nascar’s vice presi­dent for public affairs and mul­ticultural development. “most importantly, he’s equipped to handle the competition on the race track.” 


paid adverTisemenT 


MLB 

Oakland’s Colon set to return from suspension 
Associated Press 
phoeniX — bartolo colon knew he had failed a drug test for about six weeks before he got hit with a 50-game suspension last season. he made several starts for the oakland athletics while knowing he probably wouldn’t participate in the pennant race. 
“i continued to pitch, but my mind wasn’t good,” he said. 
now that colon is back in the clubhouse at spring training with the teammates he let down, the 39-year-old right-hander knows he can only earn peace of mind and forgiveness by getting back in top form on the mound. 
colon finally spoke Tuesday about his season-ending sus­pension for a positive testoster­one test. Through a translator, the former cy young award winner with 171 career victories expressed regret for his past mis­takes and hope for his future. 
“The only thing i can say about last year is i apologize to everybody, even the fans, the team, the front office about what happened,” he said. 
The a’s organization already has forgiven the veteran starter whose first season with oakland ended prematurely. not only did the unlikely al west champions re-sign colon, they gave him a raise with a $3 million, one-year contract. 
“i feel loved, because oakland gave me the opportunity to come back and be part of it again,” he said. 
The dominican veteran doesn’t intend to call a team meeting to apologize to every­body. he said he’ll speak to the a’s individually about his past mistake and their future. 
“i talked to him beforehand, and i thought that was the prop­er way to go about it,” oakland manager bob melvin said. “he’s not a guy that wants to call a team meeting. That’s not his personality, but it’s his person­ality to deal with guys individu­ally, and he’s done that to this point. i think he’s handled ev­erything so far to this point very well.” 
colon still must serve the last five games this season, costing him a turn in the rotation. colon is expected to be a calming vet­eran presence in one of the ma­jors’ youngest starting rotations, but oakland has plenty of start­ing depth with brett anderson, Jarrod parker, Tommy milone, 
a.J. griffin and dan straily. 
colon went 10-9 with a 3.43 era in 24 starts last season, his 15th in the majors. he pitched fairly well after learning of his positive test, going 4-2 after July 1 while presumably not using banned substances. 
The a’s were frustrated after losing colon in mid-august, yet they stuck with him. colon never claimed he had been the victim of a flawed test, accepting responsibility for getting caught with the banned substance. 
“we also know a little bit, based on what we’ve seen through last year, of the qual­ity of the person,” melvin said. “he was really a great resource here, never a problem, always doing what you need him to do, and there for younger guys when they ask questions. not the most vocal guy in the world, but leads by example and really was very good for us last year.” 
The a’s re-signed colon af­ter watching him throw in the offseason, with general man­ager billy beane believing colon hadn’t lost anything without his artificial enhancements. colon said he didn’t speak to any other teams, staying with oakland af­ter getting the contract offer in november. 

paid adverTisemenT 




MLB 

Sveum prepares to lead Cubs in second season 
Associated Press 
mesa, ariz. — dale sveum doesn’t plan on wearing the bright orange hunting vest with the large bull’s-eye on the back anytime soon. 
at least not until after his sec­ond season as cubs manager. 
about halfway through his opening speech at spring train­ing, sveum noticed chicago’s players peeling off their jack­ets and jerseys to reveal orange hunting tops. soon, many of the cubs were also sporting match­ing orange caps in a playful dig at their manager, who was ac­cidentally shot by hall of famer robin young, his close friend, while hunting quail during the offseason. 
sveum enjoyed the joke. 
“it’s nice that maybe they’re saying they don’t want to lose me in a hunting accident,” he said with a loud laugh on Tuesday. 


paid adverTisemenT 


hey, least the guy didn’t lose his sense of humor, too, after a 101-loss season. 
but beyond being a well-planned, well-executed prank, the cubs’ trick on sveum was a sign of respect for the 49-year-old, who guided a young chicago team through a rough year on the field, but one that was much smoother for the club off it than in previous seasons. 
“most 101-loss teams or even most last-place teams have a lot of controversies and a lot of brush fires and we had none last year,” cubs general manag­er Jed hoyer said. “i think some of that credit belongs to our players, but a lot of it should go to dale and his staff. They kept a positive atmosphere. 
“we weren’t talented enough, that’s why we lost all those games. but we were prepared, our guys had a good attitude and that will help us a lot down the road.” 
with his straight-talking, confident approach and an ease in his manner, sveum has endeared himself to chicago’s front office and players. The cubs enjoy playing for sveum, who was a journeyman short­stop for seven teams in 12 ma­jor league seasons. 
Baseball 
conTinued from page 24 
ninth, they trailed 5-3. still, they remained within strik­ing distance. it is important that notre dame responded quickly, even if it was only one run, because getting far down early could have easily shut down the irish mental game. especially early in the season, it is good to see the irish battle back from a defi­cit. it is even better to see the notre dame’s marquee play­ers come through when most needed. 
in the bottom of the ninth, senior outfielder and co-captain charlie markson hit a one-out single to center field that brought junior third baseman and all-american candidate eric Jagielo to the plate as the tying run. Jagielo lived up to his reputation by hitting a monster 400-foot two-run homer to deep center to tie the game and take the contest to extra innings. in the bottom of the 10th, after freshman James nevant led off with a key walk, freshman lane richards laid down a perfect sacrifice bunt that advanced freshman pinch runner Kyle richardson into scoring position. senior sec­ond baseman and co-captain frank desico was next to step into the batter’s box. desico was 0-for-4 on the day, but when his team was in a position to win he seized the opportunity with his first walk-off career single to right field to complete notre dame’s comeback win 6-5. 
it may be early on, but the determination the irish dis­played is a good sign. notre dame played small ball as a team, scratching and clawing to get back in the game, and then was able to rely upon its leader to seal the deal. 
The irish carried this mo­mentum to friday’s second game, where they routed ohio state 13-3. senior pitcher adam norton tossed seven innings, gave up three earned runs, collected four strikeouts and gave up zero walks. The offense did not disappoint in the game with the buckeyes, either. desico went 4-for-5 with two rbis and four runs, leading the irish to a total of 16 hits during the game. Jagielo followed suit and went 3-for-5 with two runs scored and five rbis to go with a three-run home run. sophomore designated hitter ryan bull contributed three hits as well. desico, Jagielo and bull went 16-for-28 at the dish where they racked up 10 rbis, eight runs and three home runs during friday’s doubleheader. it was the first time notre dame has swept an opening day doubleheader since 1992. if notre dame can have solid outings like this weekend’s series all year, it will have the offense to compete in every game.  The irish seem capable of great things this season. 
but then the championship game against mercer hap­pened saturday. 
maybe it was the hangover from the extra-inning win and the huge win over ohio, or maybe it was fatigue, but the irish underwhelmed against mercer. 
The irish are going to have to remain consistent in order to win this year. before the season irish coach mik aoki stressed that the team needs to win the games they are supposed to win in order to succeed — and this game was one of them. 
The irish got to an early one-run lead in the first, but trailed the rest of the game af­ter mercer made the score 3-1. notre dame had to come back from a 5-2 deficit going into the seventh, but was unable to make another comeback and lost the championship 5-4. 
maybe i am looking too much into the final loss, be­cause the irish still won the weekend’s series.  winning every three-game series will put the irish right where they need to be — the big east playoffs. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



MLB 

Mets face uncertainties as workouts begin 

Associated Press 
porT sT. lucie, fla. — asked about his outfield at the general managers’ meet­ings last november, new york mets general manager sandy alderson quipped: “what outfield?” 
with scott hairston, Jason bay and andres Torres de­parting, and collin cowgill, marlon byrd, andrew brown and Jamie hoffman coming in, the outfield remains as un­settled as it was three months ago. 
“This is about opportunity and you never know how some­one’s going to take advantage of opportunity,” alderson said. 
as the mets held their sec­ond full-squad workout Tuesday, the seven outfielders on the 40-man roster totaled 434 games of major league ex­perience in the outfield. 
lucas duda has 175 of those and is slotted into left field following a demotion to the minor leagues for a month last summer. he had surgery in november after he broke his right wrist while moving furniture. 
Kirk nieuwenhuis and cowgill, acquired in a december trade with oakland, could platoon in center. 
right field could be manned by byrd. or it could be a com­bination of mike baxter, byrd brown and hoffman — with the three newcomers all at spring training with minor league deals. 
creating even more options, infielders Zach lutz and Justin Turner also are working out in the outfield. 
“it’s definitely an opportu­nity for young guys and any­one else,” duda said. “we’ve got a few veterans and young guys in the mix. we are pretty inexperienced as a whole, but that doesn’t necessarily mean we aren’t going to play hard or play well.” 
Though duda is the only player manager Terry collins has labeled as an everyday outfielder, the 27-year-old still has to show he belongs there. he batted .239 last year with 15 homers and 57 rbis in 459 plate appearances this year af­ter hitting .292 with 10 homers and 50 rbis in 347 plate ap­pearances in 2011. 
collins said he expects a better year for duda offensive­ly and defensively — where he is switching from right field to left. 
“i think if he’s comfortable he’ll show us the offense we know he is capable of having,” collins said. “he will improve his defense, and at the same time his offense will improve to where he’s a positive player for us. i have a lot of hope for lucas, and we’re relying on him.” 
collins mentioned baxter as a possible leadoff hitter last week. he’s also praising byrd, an all-star in 2010 when he batted .293 for the chicago cubs. 
byrd hit .210 in 47 games for the cubs and the boston red sox last year, was released June 12 and then suspended June 25 for 50 games following a positive test for Tamoxifen, which can reduce side effects of steroid use and increase testosterone. 
“This guy was one of the best players in the national league not too long ago,” collins said. “if he’s the same player he was in chicago a couple of years ago, we might have found our­selves a right fielder. i know he’s that kind of talent.” 
baxter’s season was inter­rupted when he crashed into the left-field wall to preserve Johan santana’s no-hitter against st. louis on June 1. baxter displaced the joint be­tween his right collarbone and sternum and tore rib cartilage on his right side, and he didn’t return until July 30. while he hit .323 in 65 at-bats before the injury, he batted .228 in 114 at-bats after his return. That left him at .263 overall. 
“i think we’ve got a good group that’s definitely ex­cited about the opportunities to prove what they can do, and we’re excited about that,” baxter said. “anytime a team is going to give you a chance to show what you can do and give you a chance to win a starting job on the team, that’s a great opportunity — one you should take advantage of and make the most of.” 
The 76 games of big league outfield experience for the 28-year-old baxter make him a relative veteran on the mets. cowgill, 26, hit .269 in 38 games with oakland last year and has played 61 games in a big league outfield. 
nieuwenhuis, 25, made his major league debut last year and hit .252 in 91 games, 83 of them in the outfield. 
“as a group we know what we can do,” cowgill said. “we don’t have to prove anyone right or wrong. we just have to go out and play hard and win games. That’s our goal, and i feel like this team is going to do that, and the outfield is going to have a lot to do with that.” 

paid adverTisemenT 



Bouts 
conTinued from page 24 
minute of the tournament, not just showing up for your fight,” ulrich said. “we’re an anomaly in the world of boxing because it’s a team tournament.” 
Two matchups to watch in the quarterfinals will be junior mike falvey ver­sus law student and former leprechaun dan collins in the 138-pound division and freshman eamon mcosker versus senior matt enzweiler in the 194-pound divi­sion. other boxers to watch throughout the tournament include mma-trained law student gage o’connell, ju­nior returning heavyweight champion and captain dan yi, undefeated law student brian salvi and senior three-time champion and captain Jack lally. lally is seek­ing his 4th title and varsity monogram status. 
ulrich hopes that they and all the other boxers will leave everything they have in the ring. To make the train­ing worth it, they will have to fight their hardest. and some may need to lean on a teammate. 
“when it comes down to actual boxing, you know the pain of doing 100 burpees, sprints across stepan field, 1,000 pushups,” ulrich said. “but it’s nothing compared to an actual boxing match. all the matches, the guys hug after the match. part of it is working with the guy for so long, and part of it is ‘man, i can’t stand up. i left it all in the ring,’ and needing to hold on to the other guy.” 
quarterfinals begin at 6 
p.m. wednesday in the Joyce center fieldhouse. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Norton 
conTinued from page 24 

in his freshman and sopho­more seasons, respectively. it wasn’t until last year that norton really came into his own, this time on the pitch­ing mound. 
norton threw 98.0 innings for the irish in 2012, going 5-5 with a 4.32 era. most impressive was norton’s control — the right-hander walked just seven batters the entire 2012 season. norton credits irish pitching coach chuck ristano for his com­mand-centered mentality. 
“one of the things he says is, ‘work fast, throw strikes,’” norton said. “Just looking at the stats, the hitters are going to get themselves out more times than they’re go­ing to get a hit. [but] if you walk them, they’re going to be on base 100 percent of the time. every pitching coach i 

paid adverTisemenT 

had growing up always said it. i’ve always been more of 
it’s not about how hard you a command guy than throw-
throw, it’s where you throw ing it all over the place as hard as i can.” The irish will rely heavily on norton this year as one of their weekend starters. in his first start of the sea­son against ohio state on saturday, norton was out­standing, going 7.0 innings and allowing three runs against the buckeyes. True to form, norton did not allow a walk against ohio state. although he grew up just over an hour away from south bend in highland, ind., norton said he only be­gan to seriously think about playing for notre dame once the team started showing interest in him. “being from the north, everyone playing baseball kind of has the dream of go­ing south and playing in the nice weather and being able to play year round,” norton said. “[notre dame] showed a lot of interest in me to come here and play. … Then once you come and visit the campus it’s a pretty tough place to turn down.” norton said he’s not fixat­ed on any specific numbers as his goals this season. but he did echo the sentiment of several other notre dame coaches and players in say­ing he believes this team has a real opportunity to achieve memorable things in 2013. “from where we’re at right now i’d say this is definitely the most talented team that i’ve been a part of in the last four years here,” norton said. “i think that if we con­tinue to improve through­out the year and play our game as opposed to trying to do too much, i think we can do some things here that haven’t been done in a while.” There’s no doubt the irish will lean on norton in order for them to do just that. 
Contact John Sandberg at jsandbe1@nd.edu 



ND SOFTBALL 

Buntin’s bat leads steady Irish squad 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
senior captain amy buntin is now a force for the irish both with her bat and with her glove, but it hasn’t always been this way. 
“from my freshman year to my senior year, my confidence has grown tremendously, both in the batter’s box and behind the plate,” the irish catcher said. “i attribute this to game experience over the years and becoming comfortable in any situation on the field.” 
in true notre dame form, the brentwood, Tenn., native chose the school for its excel­lence in both academics and athletics. 
“The tradition surrounding this campus and the notre dame family [is] unlike any other university,” she said. 
buntin joined the irish ros­ter in 2009 as a utility player, but gradually developed into a full-time catcher. after two versatile seasons playing at a number of positions for notre dame, buntin burst onto the scene during her junior sea­son and led notre dame with a .360 batting average, 62 hits, 60 rbis and 45 runs scored. she started every game for the irish and was just the 21st player in school history to be named an all-american for her efforts. 
This season, buntin is look­ing to continue her on-field prowess while leading the irish to new heights. 
“The goals i have for this team is to go further than notre dame softball has ever gone before,” she said. “This is a special team and i think we have what it takes to push the program to the next level.” 
The irish are 4-5 on the sea­son, but have dropped some tough games to competitive opposition. last weekend, they took no. 1 oklahoma to extra innings before suc­cumbing to the sooners in a close 7-5 loss. buntin blasted a two-run home run in the bottom of the ninth inning to bring notre dame to within two runs of the sooners be­fore the remainder of the side was retired. buntin and junior outfielder lauren stuhr lead the irish in rbis this season with four apiece. 



True to her performance so far, buntin said as co-captain she has tried to lead the team by her example. 
“i’m not the player to deliver a huge pump-up speech be­fore the game,” she said. “i try to lead with my composure on 
paid adverTisemenT 
the field and being the player that everyone wants in the batter’s box in the pressure situations.” 
buntin will continue to try to stay calm and collected as she and the rest of the irish travel to greenville, n.c., to play in the pirate invitational this weekend. notre dame will face liberty to begin the invitational on saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &           paTricK cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Trevor bayne, 22; benicio del Toro, 46; Jeff daniels, 58; smokey robinson, 73 
Happy Birthday: emotional issues will surface. don’t let anything derail your plans. focus on what you want and don’t take detours. love is apparent, and adjustments at home must be made. The aim is to stabilize your position, direction and your lifestyle in order to reach your goals. your numbers are 6, 13, 21, 27, 32, 45, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t share personal secrets. offer an alternative if someone doesn’t like the way your work turns out. being adaptable and versatile will help you find a way to please everyone without going over budget. romance is highlighted. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t rely on someone making impossible promises. a practical outlook will allow you to save time and bypass the inconvenience that will result if you allow someone else to take care of your responsibilities. Take control.  



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put greater emphasis on what you can offer and how you can use your skills, talents and knowledge to your best ability. someone is likely to withhold information or try to mislead you regarding a job. don’t be pressured into making an unnecessary donation.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): speak up and share your thoughts and ideas, and you will get a warm response from friends, family and peers. a social or work-related event will bring you in contact with someone who is impressed with what you can do or have to say. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22):Take care of your domestic responsibilities. what you do for those who count on you may not reward you, but in the end your kindness and generosity will pay off. invest in something that will improve your assets and add to your comfort. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get down to business and focus on whatever task needs to be done. avoid interference from anyone by being discreet and secretive. an emo­tional matter will spin out of control. do your best to stay calm and focused. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take a short trip if it will lead to knowledge, experience or the chance to make new friends or meet potential collaborative partners. love and romance are in the stars.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick close to home and take the time to make your surroundings more comfortable and adaptable to your lifestyle. you don’t have to overspend and shouldn’t let anyone pressure you into something you don’t need or want. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): prepare to answer questions and back up your reasons for doing things your way. a problem with a friend, relative or neighbor will escalate if you aren’t prepared to compromise. prepare to make necessary changes. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): familiar people and places will put you at ease and guide you in a positive direction. back away from anyone showing signs of instabil­ity, excess or unpredictability. professional gains can be made with the use of a little ingenuity. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):put more time and effort into self- and home-im­provement projects. Keep the changes you make within budget. your ability to make something ordinary trendy will be appreciated. consider turning one of your ideas into a profitable service or product. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t exaggerate. you have to stick to the truth and be prepared to define what your motives are. Try to keep your conversations simple and your plans moderate. you can make headway, but dedication and thriftiness will be required. 


Birthday Baby: you are charming, progressive and sensitive. you are adaptable and insightful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Ring the bell 
Bengal Bouts move into quarterfinal round; tournament maintains focus on charity 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
They practice for four gru­eling months to earn just a few minutes in the ring. The boxers who will fight wednesday in the bengal bouts quarterfinals have one chance to win and stay in the tournament. winning is thrilling, but losing after all that work can be a ter­rible disappointment. bengal bouts’ service mission and close teamwork during train­ing helps lessen the blow. 
The service element drives bengal bouts. Team activities revolve around understand­ing the meaning of fighting in bengal bouts and include a screening of a documenta­ry detailing the impact of the money raised for holy cross missions in bangladesh. senior captain Jeff ulrich emphasized that the boxers must remember this at every stage in the tournament. 
“This is a huge part of what notre dame stands for in two 
BASEBALL 
Senior pitcher finds niche on the mound 
By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports writer 
baseball fans that want to know what the game looks like from all angles should chat with notre dame senior adam norton. 
norton primarily played shortstop for andrean high school in merrillville, ind., before starting 26 games at third base his freshman year at notre dame. when irish coach mik aoki was intro­duced as the new coach the fall of norton’s sophomore year, the new coaching staff decided to test norton’s skills in the outfield in addition to having him pitch more. 
when playing the outfield didn’t work out as norton and the irish coaching staff had planned, norton spent time as notre dame’s desig­nated hitter in addition to ac­cumulating some innings as a weekday starter. 
norton batted .261 and .254 
see norTon PAGE 21 
specific ways,” ulrich said. “one, because of how long­standing a tradition bengal bouts is. it has been close to 100 years of boxing at notre dame and 83 of bengal bouts. Thousands and thousands of notre dame students have participated and watched over the years. second, be­cause of the worldwide fam­ily and service aspect.” 
The money the event rais­es goes a long way. between $2 and $4 could buy a fam­ily in bangladesh a chicken. approximately $4 buys a nice shirt, while $9 gets a good pair of dress shoes. and $15 pays for one month at a hos­tel so a student can attend a mission school. The captains make sure that the boxers remember this while they train. 
“it’s a huge focus through­out the season,” ulrich said. “once a week we have an event and someone comes in to talk about bangladesh. …we have four boxers going there this summer.” 


bengal bouts is also unique as opponents. enjoying the each quarterfinal fight. in that it is a team tourna-tournament and appreciat-“for me, it’s about enjoy­ment. all the boxers train ing the work of fellow boxers ment, really being there for together, and many will matters more than a win or every hour and every exchange hugs as team-loss, ulrich said, and he ex-mates after fighting a bout pects to see these qualities in see bouTs PAGE 21 
Irish settle into new season 

Notre Dame will contend if they remain consistent 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
The irish got off to a great start to the season and will be a big east title contender — if they remain consistent for every game. 
last weekend, the irish traveled to sarasota, fla., to compete in the snowbird classic, where they took on florida gulf coast, ohio state and mercer. 
in friday’s first matchup against the eagles, notre dame was down early, trail­ing 4-0 by the middle of the third inning. but notre dame responded, slowly chipping away at florida gulf coast’s lead. following the third, the score was 4-1, and after the fourth the irish had pulled within one to make the game 4-3. The irish allowed a run in the fifth and going into the bottom of the 
see baseball PAGE 19 




