The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 36 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Arts and Letters adds new minor 
Interdisciplinary program combines study of philosophy, religion and literature 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
The college of arts and letters recently announced a new cross-disciplinary mi­nor in philosophy, religion and literature (prl), open to students of all majors 
professor henry weinfield of the program of liberal studies will direct the new minor, which he said will re­place the former philosophy and literature minor. 
“last year, i was asked by John mcgreevy, the dean of the college of arts and letters, to take over the di­rectorship of the philosophy and literature minor, which had existed for at least a de­cade,” weinfield said. “in the discussions i had with the dean, we both agreed that it made sense to combine philosophy and literature with religion and literature, which had not yet been for­mally organized as a minor.” 
weinfield said the mi­nor, which will be formally launched in the spring se­mester, will require 15 cred­it hours. The requirements will include a three-credit gateway seminar in philoso­phy and literature or religion and literature, a three-credit capstone essay and three ad­ditional three-credit courses. 
according to the minor’s website, the course of study will be organized along two 
see prl PAGE 4 




CSC engages South Bend youth 
students to examine their neighborhoods through the lens of photography. 
The nrc collaborated with notre dame’s center for social concerns to create the project, specifically working with maria mcKenna, assis­tant professional specialist with notre dame’s institute for educational initiatives; stuart greene, english pro­fessor and fellow with the institute for educational initiatives and Kevin burke, assistant professional 
see youTh PAGE 4 

smc hosts zumbathon for cancer 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 
in honor of breast can­cer awareness month, the saint mary’s stand up to cancer club held a zum­bathon to raise funds for cancer research on saturday in the angela athletic facility gym. 
club president christi hutch said about 125 peo­ple attended the three-hour dance marathon. in addition to the zumba dancing, the event fea­tured prize raffling and vendors selling various products to support indi­viduals fighting cancer in the south bend area. 
Twenty zumba instruc­tors from the area vol­unteered to direct the exercises for participants. To break up the three con­secutive hours of dancing, Troop nd and the irish dance team performed at the event’s halfway point, hutch said. 
 “This event is fantastic because it incorporates the involvement of the south bend community, as well as the involvement of the student communities at saint mary’s and notre dame,” hutch said. ”we have come together today to fight for a good cause.” 
leah ramaekers, club historian, said she admires her organization’s work. 
“This is the club’s sec­ond annual zumbathon, where 100 percent of our proceeds will go to the ‘national organization to stand up to cancer,’” she said.  
club vice president Julia ritter said the fundraiser’s popularity makes it a suc­cessful fundraiser. 
“The zumbathon worked so well last year that we’ve become obsessed with zumba and therefore, we’ve decided to keep do­ing it as our fundraiser,” 
see Zumba PAGE 5 



former dean dies from als 
Roger Schmitz
professor 

Observer Staff Report 
former notre dame pro­fessor and administra­tor roger a. schmitz died 


at his south bend home friday after suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as als or lou gherig’s dis­ease.  he was 78. 
schmitz was a professor emeritus of chemical and biomolecular engineering at notre dame, according to a university press re­lease. he first joined the 
see schmiTZ PAGE 5 



By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
Three years ago, naomi penney, former president of the neighborhood research corporation (nrc) in south bend, developed an idea that hopefully would en­gage youths in community building and neighborhood development. 
her idea has since come to life in the form of the engaging youths, engaging neighborhoods project (eyen), which allows mid­dle school and high school 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite ‘90s song? 

Steve Penny 
sophmore 
sorin hall 
“That’s how i beat shaq.” 

Jake Reilly 
sophomore 
Zahm hall 
“even flow.” 


Karine Dube 
junior 
lewis hall 
“bye, bye, bye.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Stephen Scobee 
sophomore 
sorin hall 
“Tubthumping.” 

Garrett Duffy 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“Tearin’ up my heart.” 


Carrie Dubeau 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“mmmbop.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
ann marie Jakubowski greg hadley Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Katie mccarty Kit loughran haleigh ehmsen isaac lorton 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher allie Tollaksen 

Photo Viewpoint 

wei lin austin Taliaferro Men’s Soccer Kaneb Center Open Third Thursdays @ Trumpets Under the Vigil Mass Alumni Stadium House the Snite Dome Stepan Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Debartolo Hall Snite Museum of Art Main Building 4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. The Irish take on 3 p.m. - 5p.m. 5 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. Trumpets Mass before the 

Corrections 

the Northwestern Enjoy hors d’oeuvres Glassblowing kick off the football Irish take on the USC 
The observer regards itself as 

Wildcats. and conversation. demonstration. weekend. Trojans. 
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“A Star is Born” Trivia Night Zen Meditation Macbeth Concert on the Steps 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing St. Liam Hall 6 p.m. - Coleman-Morse Debartolo Performing Bond Hall at 6:00 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center at 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. Center 5:15 p.m. -6:15 Arts Center at 7 p.m. Notre Dame Band 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Classic film directed Part of the Wellness p.m. Open to students Broadcast by National plays 90 minutes 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. by William Wellman. Wednesday series. and faculty of all faiths. Theatre Live. before kickoff. 




ASC awards engineering professor research award 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
last month, the american chemical society (asc) recog­nized notre dame chemical and biomolecular engineering professor Joan brennecke’s re­search with the 2014 e.v. murphree award in industrial and engineering chemistry. The award, which brennecke will ac­cept at the acs’s spring national meeting in march, includes a $5000 cash prize and travel expenses. 
brennecke and her research group have studied ionic liquids, chemical compounds which she said could  make refrigeration and power plants more environ­mentally friendly. 
brennecke said she was excit­ed about the prestige the award would bring to her research and to notre dame. 
“[The award] brings recogni­tion to the research,” brennecke said. “what it says is that the research that we’re doing here at notre dame, the graduate students and the postdocs and the undergrads who work in my group — it says that we’re doing good work. we’re doing things that are good scientifically and good technologically, and this award recognizes that.” 
brennecke said her team has several projects that develop commercial uses for ionic liquids, which are salts in liquid form. because of the sub­stances’ chemical makeup and low melting points, she said they have widespread applications. 

“we can design them,” she said. “we can put all sorts of dif­ferent combinations of cations and anions and put substituents on top of the cations and an­ions, so we can really change the properties.” 
one of brennecke’s team’s projects focuses on designing a way to use ionic liquids to re­move carbon dioxide from flue gas in power plants, preventing it from entering the atmosphere and intensifying climate change. The process works by placing naphthalene into the ionic liquid and allowing the carbon diox­ide to evaporate with the naph­thalene, she said. This process of carbon dioxide removal uses less energy than other meth­ods, which could use up 30 per­cent of a power plant’s energy capability. 
“we’ve got some [ionic liquids] that, based on the prospects of this modeling and all the ther­modynamic properties and everything should use about 22 percent [of the energy of the power plant], and that’s cer­tainly better than 30 percent,” brennecke said. “we’ve also got some interesting ones that start 
paid adverTisemenT 
out as solids, but when they react with the [carbon dioxide] they become liquid, so we call them phase-change ionic liquids. 
“Those numbers look like it’s closer to 15 percent, so that could be a really huge improvement.” 
another project, one that brennecke said has more com­mercial potential, is designing air conditioners and refrigera­tors using ionic liquids. carbon dioxid, would be a good replace­ment for traditional refrigerants such as chlorofluorocarbon, because it is non-toxic and non­flammabl, with relatively low global warming potential, she said. a stable liquid, however, would be needed in order to har­ness as much energy as possible from the carbon dioxide. 
“so then we said, ‘well, gee, ionic liquids are just perfect.’ we know how to tune them explic­itly to work with carbon dioxide, so that’s been another project that we’ve been working on,” brennecke said,s”several of us faculty have got a start-up com­pany working on commercializ­ing that application. 
brennecke has won several awards for her research on both ionic liquids and supercritical carbon dioxide, a liquid form of the compound. 


Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

nd physicist models brain’s network structure 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
perhaps social media web­sites like facebook are always on our minds because our brains are structured in a way simi­lar to these ubiquitous social networks. a recently published study by notre dame physics professor Zoltán Toroczkai on the fundamental wiring of the neurons that make up the com­plex structure of the brain sug­gests this may be the case. 
Toroczkai, an expert in the study of large-scale networks said he uses his unconventional background  as a physicist to investigate the structure and dynamics of a wide range of networks. 
“social systems, such as facebook, are an example com­plex networks,” Toroczkai said. “with technological advances we are even more connected, more information is flowing. 
“so you can think of the social network as another large net­work that evolves due to the in­formation in it. from a top-level perspective, this is not different from what happens in the pri­mate brain.” 
The challenge to Toroczkai lies in adapting the statistical methods of the physicist to inter­preting and understanding the underlying phenomena in these systems.
 “in the brain, the neurons can almost arbitrarily be connected, humans can almost arbitrarily be connected — the connections between real-world networks, such as social networks and neuronal networks, are not like the ones in a crystalline solid,” Toroczkai said. “They are much more complicated. so there is a challenge for a physicist to de­velop the methods that we use to study regular materials and apply them to different types of networks.” 
in his recent finding, Toroczkai said he collaborated with a group of researchers, including biologists from france, to ana­lyze a wealth of data obtained from thorough retrograde trac­ing experiments on macaque monkey cortexes. They injected a chemical dye into the brain of the monke, and after affew weeks, the tissues are dissected to reveal the path that the tracer took through the dense network of neurons, which allows one to make some sense of the struc­ture, he said. 
“The primate brain has an extremely large number of ele­ments,” Toroczkai said. “if you think about the neocortex, which is basically a couple-mil­limeter-thick sheet that is lining your brain, it’s about the size of a napkin in the typical primate brain. it’s very small, and yet it has about 100 billion neurons and they are not isolated. 
“They are interconnected in a very complicated network—it is estimated that there are about 100 trillion connections in this area.” 
This complicated network in the cortex can be divided into 29 functional areas, such as those controlling motion and sensory perception, in order construct a model, Toroczkai said. in doing so, he said he noticed that cer­tain patterns emerged from the data related to density of con­nections and distance. 
“we said that this network should be subject to a physical constraint,” Toroczkai said. “i mean that when the brain devel­ops, the neuron is growing these axons, and there’s a growth pro­cess that eventually stops. 
“The longer you want to grow, the more effort you have to put in. These neurons are grown chemi­cally during development, so i said that there should be some sort of exponential cost—some grow long and some grow short. and the simplest model you could think of, if you’re a mod­eler, is exponential decay. and that’s exactly what it was. so we used this wiring along with the geometry of the cortex to come up with this simple model.” 
The result, Toroczkai said, was very surprising—the model turned out to be extremely sim­ple, yet it largely explained much of the structural interconnectiv­ity between the different func­tional areas of the cortex. 
“it has only one parameter, which you also get from the data, and you get a network that looks very much like the one in the brain,” he said. “it tells you that the large-scale network between the different areas of the brain can be explained by physical principles, based on entropic cost of wiring.” 
The next step in further eluci­dating the workings of the brain would be to look at dynamic processes, such as neuronal sig­naling and resulting behaviors, Toroczkai said. To that end, he said he will loos forward to fu­ture cross-disciplinary collabo­rations to which he can add his unconventional approaches and insights. 
“here we had a collabora­tion between biologists and physicists,” Toroczkai said. “as a physicist our goal is usually to simplify a problem—to reduce it to the essential components. we are not looking for the differenc­es between things in the world, we’re are looking for things that are common, invariant.” 
Contact Henry Gens at         hgens@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

PRL 
conTinued from page 1 
separate tracks, philosophy and literature and religion and literature. despite the existence of two options, weinfield said students in the minor will take classes that incorporate elements of the other track. 
“if students concentrate in philosophy and literature, for example, they must take at least one course in religion and literature,” weinfield said. 
weinfield said he worked with professors vittorio montemaggi of the department of romance languages and literature, david o’connor of the department of philosophy and susannah monta of the department of english to craft the new minor. 
weinfield said he is look­ing forward to the exchange among disciplines that the minor will facilitate. 
“The prl minor brings together disciplines that have traditionally been central to notre dame,” he said. “literature frequently has a religious or philosophi­cal dimension, and so it’s nat­ural that philosophy, religion and literature be conjoined and brought into conversa­tion with one another.” 
weinfield said the minor is open to all students who want to consider the relation­ships among the three dis­ciplines.“ “There are many students at notre dame who are pursuing majors that pre­viously did not allow them to accommodate their interests in philosophy, religio, and literature,” he said. “These students will now have a home.” 
montemaggi said the mi­nor is intended to be simple for students of all colleges and majors to pick up. 
“without compromising academic rigor, the minor is designed to have maximum flexibilit, so as to allow stu­dents to pursue the trajecto­ry within it most congenial to them, in fruitful connection with the rest of their studies and interests,” montemaggi said. 
weinfield said he hopes the new minor will also prompt interchange among students and faculty of all departments. 
“in the college of arts and letters, we want to be build­ing bridges and creating conversations that involve undergraduates, graduate student, and professors in ways that go beyond tradi­tional disciplinary bound­aries, and we want people in other colleges to be part of those conversations,” weinfield said. “hopefully, the prl minor will be a ve­hicle for doing all of this.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 

Youth 
conTinued from page 1 
specialist with the alliance for catholic education. “The goals were twofold: one, to have youth voices heard in community planning and de­velopment and two, to engen­der a sense of agency in youth that would sustain them into adulthood,” mcKenna said.
 The program particularly seeks to empower children from low-income families and youth of color in the south bend area, burke said. “one of the ways we think about empowering youth was, what if we asked them to tell us a story of their neighborhoods in photos?” burke said. “what would you change and what do you think is a real asset to the community?” 
mcKenna said eyen has worked with three groups of young people in the past two years. 

“each of the three groups … have presented a unique photo exhibit of their work and also prepared proposals for community change proj­ects in their various neigh­borhoods,” mcKenna said. 
Their second project was in collaboration with the robinson community learning center, a youth cen­ter in south bend frequented by many notre dame student volunteers. 
mcKenna, greene and burke said youths think about their neighborhoods in a broader sense than do adults, and have thus greatly in­formed both the project and the neighborhoods with their research and experience. 
“They see things that adults might not see,” greene said. “They see assets in parks and safe spaces, even the homeless center, that adults might not see because those are places that draw people together.” 
greene saidTthe leaders of the project listened to the children when they suggest­ed something new for the fu­ture of eyen. 
“[for the next project] we didn’t take on another neigh­borhood,” greene said. “we took on youth from these [past] projects and created a youth leadership group … that was a brainchild of this one student in the third project.” 
according to the center for social concerns web­site, the youth council and leadership summit took place this past augustt ex­pandind the already existing goals of the eyen. 
“The idea is to bring youth together … to get kids to think about what they bring, what are their assets and how can they use their collective assets … to see the strengths of the city of south bend but also then look to where we could improve things,” greene said. 
when  asked  about  the  
future  of  the  project,  
greene  said  the  leaders  

want to see eyen become self-sustaining. 
“we would like youth to come to the point now that as they become older, they’ll be in the position to mentor young people, and that will be a really nice perpetuating cycle of youth working with youth to change the city and have a strong enough voice,” greene said. 
for those who find the eyen intriguing, greene and mcKenna plan to teach a community based learning class in the spring of 2014 that will work with the youths of this project. 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



‘Universitea’ connects women across campuses 

By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
on saturday, the movimiento estundiantil chicano de aztlán (mecha) club at notre dame  in­vited women from saint mary’s and holy cross to join notre dame women at “universitea,” a tea party discussion about the dif­ferences and stereotypes within the tri-campus community. 
The event provided a so­cial forum for these women to come together and re­view their similarities and differences while talking about the barriers that exist between the three institu­tions, sophomore event co­ordinator peggy Tull said. 
participants at the tea party were each handed a pink carnation upon arrival and directed to one of nine tables. if women arrived in a group, the group was divided so that no woman sat exclusively with friends. 
a moderator from mecha sat at each table, and led dis­cussion on a specific topic. 
“The people who had vol­unteered to be moderators ... pick[ed] which topic in­
terested  them  the  most,”  
Tull said.  
Topics  included  expec­ 

tations prior to and after arriving on campus, the im­pact of social media, par­ties and social lif,; society’s effect on the campuses and the influence of men on the interactions of women from the three campuses. 
Tull said the idea was to get women talking to see what problems everyone recognized and what they felt could be done about it. 
“we wanted to figure out some solutions to the issues on [notre dame’s] campus and between campuses and even convey some of them to the administration if we can,” Tull said. 

overall, she said she be­lieved the event was a success. 
“although it generated a lot of good discussion about what people at [notre dame] can do, this one event can’t do everything that we want it to,” she said. “There were a lot of things we could’ve talked more about ... but if it left people with more to say, that’s always a good thing.” 
mecha hopes to involve more students, including male students, in future events revolving around the same subject. although the women at the tea party were encouraged not to identify themselves directly with their school, mecha club member and universitea moderator rose walsh said her group had been mostly from saint mary’s. 
“we were initially hoping to focus on [female] stu­dents,” Tull said. “we felt 

Zumba 
conTinued from page 1 
ritter said. 

saint mary’s alumna Kimi Troy, who graduated with a degree in english writing, helped coordinate the event. 
Troy said she presented the idea of holding a zumba charity event to the student activities board as a way to connect with the communi­ty and fundraise for the na­tional “stand up to cancer” organization. 
 “i have been involved with the program ever since,” Troy said. 
allison lukomski, another club member, said her own dancing ability had nothing to do with her enjoyment of the event.
 “even though i am a bad dancer, it really doesn’t matter if i am a good dancer or not; i am dancing to make a difference,” she said. “cancer runs in my family and because of it, the fight is more personal to me … 
i want to combat it in any way possible.” participant olivia Jackson said. she said she would definitely recom­mend this event to friends in the future.
  “Zumba is a great work­out, and why not give back to the community at the same time?” she said. 
hutch said approximately $1,100 was raised at the end of the Zumbathon. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at     cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 
Schmitz 
conTinued from page 1 

faculty in 1979 and served as the mccloskey dean of the college of engineering from 1981-1987. 
after his tenure as dean, schmitz was appointed 
vice  president  and  as­ 
sociate  provost  of  the  
university.  during  his  
eight-year  tenure  at  that  

post, he worked to develop campus-wide computing 
removing the male presence from an event might make women more comfortable, [although] male students are just as responsible for issues between campuses.” 
Tull said the idea for the event arose out of last year’s mecha event, “gender roles at notre dame.” The name of the event had been changed, after an initial title referencing “mrs de­grees” and “smc chicks” provoked a lot of controver­sy. walsh said she thought the event had saint mary’s students in particular very riled up. 
walsh said the moderators diffused the tension pret­ty quickly and made some friends,” but the conflict showed mecha club mem­bers there were underlying issues between the campuse and especially between the women of the community. 
Tull said the club’s pil­lars are family, education and service, with a broad focus on social justice. universitea was designed to address the breakdowns in the family of the holy cross community. 
“This event was focused on the family aspect be­tween our schools,” she said. “right now, that [tri­campus] family is not nearly as strong as it should be. 
“considering how close we are geographically and how involved we are in each oth­er’s experiences, it should be a much warmer, friend­lier environment — one that builds and supports each other.” 
strong, healthy relation­ships with one another is important to creating a 

and information technol­ogies, the press release stated. 
he returned to full-time teaching and research in 1995 and served as a pro­fessor emeritus from 2005 until his death. 
during his career, schmitz earned vari­ous honors, including a guggenheim fellowship, the american society of engineering education’s george westinghouse unified effort to promote positive change in the com­munity, Tull said. 
“one thing about mecha is ... we want to help im­prove the world not just our own campus,” she said. “[but] you can’t help anyone else when your own house is fractured.” 
“Although it generated a lot of  good discussion about what people at [Notre Dame] can do, this one event can’t do everything we want it to.” 
Peggy Tull 
SMC sophomore 
Tull said students who are interested should look for mecha’s five-day event, semana de la mujer, this spring. she also encourages students to follow mecha on facebook and Twitter, or email mecha@nd.edu for more information. 
angelica martinez, mecha co-president, said she hopes other clubs will follow mecha’s lead in confronting inter-campus issues. 
“i hope that we aren’t the only club that’s making an effort to make these cam­puses a whole community,” martinez said. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 

award and the allan p. 
colburn  award  of  the  
american  institute  of  
chemical  engineers,  ac­ 

cording to the release. he was also a member of the national academy of engineering. 
a mass of christian burial will take place at 
3:30 p.m. wednesday at the basilica of the sacred heart. a visitation will take place beforehand, from 1:15 to 3:15 p.m. 
Age of the empowerment anthem 

INSIDE COLUMN 

squashing the stinkbugs 
Alex Winegar 
news writer 

when i imagined what it would be like to live in an all-girls dorm, i thought it was going to be great. i thought of the advantages, such as the toilet seat would always be down, it would be cleaner and it wouldn’t smell like a dirty sweat sock. but, i failed to acknowledge the fact that there wouldn’t be any boys to take care of the bugs and spiders. 
at home, i had my dad take care of any bug issue that was in sight. from the time i was a little girl, if i saw a bug in the house i would just scream and i just knew that my dad would come to my rescue. but when my roommate and i discovered a stinkbug invasion in our room at the beginning of the semester, my dad couldn’t come save us. 
during the middle of the night, my roommate discovered a stinker perched upon her pillow and she was less then pleased. so began the stinkbug invasion of 2013. 
we kept asking each other, “where are all these stinkbugs coming from?” later, we uncovered the source — our window screens were crooked and there was a vast gap where the bugs were entering. upon this discovery, we decided to call for help. 
so with all of this in mind, i would like to use this column as a thank you note to all the people that have helped my roommate and i in this difficult period. 
Thank you to our lovely hall director for climbing the many stairs to assess our situation. she called house mainte­nance, which then led to many people coming to our dorm to try and rectify the situation. 
Thank you to the house maintenance staff for replacing and tightening the screws on our windows. you had the forethought to check the security of our second window, which i am sure pre­vented the entry of additional smelly intruders. 
Thank you to the cleaning staff of my dorm. you not only do a superb job making sure that the building is clean on a daily basis, but you went above and beyond your duties to take the time to spray our windows with stinkbug repel­lent. i really appreciate all that you do and i am sorry that i was still in my paja­mas when you came in. 
Thank you to my neighbors for dealing with our hullabaloo over the past couple weeks. my roommate and i would like to thank you from the bottom of our hearts for helping us dispose of the bugs. we are so grateful that our neighbors are not afraid of bugs. 
i love living in an all-girls dorm and wouldn’t trade it for a bug-free one. plus, i’ve gained some memorable moments that i can share at future dinner parties. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Michael Flitsos 
viewpoint columnist 
one need not venture too far from a ra­dio, spotify playlist or syr venue to hear the bombastic chorus and synths of Katy perry’s now-ubiquitous-to-the-point-of­making-me-sick hit single “roar.” when you shout along to the lyrics the meaning of the song becomes your own — you are a champion, they’re going to hear you roar. The track is a classic case of the inspirational empowerment anthems that have squarely wedged themselves in pop radio playlists from the likes of p!nk, lady gaga, Katy perry, Kelly clarkson to others. without a doubt, songs have inspired this writer as well, but in a way Katy probably wouldn’t be happy about. 
uplifting songs are harmless enough in and of themselves — the pop singer wants money and wants to make her fans feel good, so everyone wins. however, when viewed within the larger context of the environment in which young people currently live, the popularity of these songs reflects a larger problem. 
one of the many words used to de­scribe children and young adults in the modern day is “coddled” — we are told, genuinely and frequently, that we are smart, kind, motivated, intelligent and talented. we can probably all think of the handful of once-gold, now dusty sports and academic trophies labeled “participation” sitting in our closets back home. and from the day our admis­sions statistics are released, we arrive at this school primed for the greatness we experienced throughout twelve years of formative education. we learn to accept this constant stream of praise from oth­ers, making it increasingly easy to lose an understanding of what it means to actu­ally work at accomplishing something substantial and perhaps more impor­tantly, how to deal with being average or even failing. 

This problem plagues some of the most talented college students out there 
— even the ones at notre dame. our student body comes from all over the country and the world, from all walks of life. students are shocked when they come here and encounter fellow students who are smarter, stronger, faster, prettier and whatever-er than they are, finding themselves knocked down a few rungs on the competitive ladder. feelings of inadequacy or self-doubt follow, with many first year students (this writer included) at one point or another ask­ing themselves the question, “what on god’s green earth am i doing here?!” The realization that you may not be the brightest bulb in the ridiculously lumi­nescent bunch that is the university of notre dame comes as a harsh realization for some. 
but, as with most medicines, drudging through the bitter taste leads to an essen­tial outcome. 
i’ve been a tutor for the past four years at places including the learning resource center here at nd, meaning that i’ve dealt with a few disillusioned and discouraged students. regardless of their reason for seeking help, what i find to be a common struggle for my students both here and at home is that the idea of hitting any sort of brick wall academi­cally is a novel concept. i find that they often times expect me — the “smart” and “qualified” tutor who is being paid to teach them chemistry — to look down on them or treat them differently because i’ve presumably never been in their shoes. when i tell them that i struggled myself with the very same course mate­rial, they oftentimes stare back at me with the “you’re-just-saying-that-to­make-me-feel-better” look. but in reality, getting my first chemistry exam grade shattered my preconceived expectations for success in the course. i was presented with two very distinct routes — either sulk and admit defeat, or find the route to eventually succeed. i took the lat­ter road (which was not an easy one to travel, mind you) and through hard work and dedication, was able to eventually overcome this obstacle well enough to tutor the subject for others. 
it was only after relaying this story to those struggling that i eventually understood the vast significance of my journey through the depths of chem 10171. i did not succeed because of the work of others. i did not succeed because someone else taught me how to. and, most of all, i did not succeed because Katy perry told me i was a firework and i could show them what i’m worth. i suc­ceeded because i took a good look inside myself, evaluated my choices and real­ized the impacts each choice would have in the long run. granted, some hurdles are harder to clear than others, but that doesn’t mean they’re insurmountable. we all have within us the ability to make our own choices and find our own inner strength, but no one is going to do it for you. 
so that being said, is this whole col­umn hypocritical? 
i guess that’s for you to decide. 
Michael is a sophomore Science-Business major living in Duncan Hall. and can be reached at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Breaking Bad: ‘five seasons of sin’ 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 

one of the latest crazes in popular culture has been the television show breaking bad. claims have been made that the show, which details the story of a teacher turned meth dealer to provide a secure financial future for his family while he endures the fear of an eminent death due to cancer, is the best show ever on television. saying that breaking bad is the best show ever on television is a bold statement. This means breaking bad would have to be better than The flintstones, The cosby’s, andy griffith, The Today show, espn and Jeopardy. i do not think that we the people are willing to make that leap quite yet. even if we are willing to assert, due to ratings, that breaking bad is the greatest television show to ever air, we should not declare breaking bad as the best Tv show ever. we should proclaim it as bad and better yet, as one of the worst television shows to ever air. 
for all those breaking bad lovers, i bet i got your attention now. i bet you wanted to read what was next, just like you couldn’t wait for the week to roll around to sunday to watch the next episode of walter’s murderous empire both through violence and through the increase of addictions and abuse of drugs that he has profited from. now that i have your attention, i rescind my previous statement. breaking bad unfortunately is not the worst show to air on television. i do, however, propose that we step back for a moment and ponder the deeper pic­ture of the implications and consequences of the show. 
it is easy to see how we could make an argument that breaking bad is a good show in the sense that it captivated a population. in reality, this argument is only a half measure. The show’s followers, rep­resenting every age range, waited eagerly for their chance to attain that high while watching that week’s episode. after just a few doses the fans where hooked, addicted to the point of dependence on the show. The show produced deep compulsion within the affected individuals to perpetually ask others, “have you seen breaking bad yet? you should re­ally watch it.” whether due to peer-pressure, dar­ing attitudes or forced coercion, the clean viewers were not crystal-white for much longer as they too tried the newest “thing” that everybody was do­ing, and they too, without wanting it or choosing it, became hopelessly enslaved to the fleeting thrills and sensation attained. The dose was taken weekly, because the supplier amc only satisfied the de­mand once a week, but many people who started later in the game had the luxury of being able to binge on episodes and enjoy more highs more often. Therefore in this sense, the show is extremely good. it mesmerized us for a time and those behind the operation knew they only would have a few years and brilliantly took their product out of the market while at the top. 
if we step back and put our self-righteous american attitudes aside, it is visible that in a very different sense than previously discussed, breaking bad is a bad show. while breaking bad doesn’t ap­pear to glorify rampant drug industry, excessively murderous violence, brief sexual innuendos and pervasive profanity, it nevertheless delivers those messages.  consciously, we may be able to convince ourselves, “yes, killing people involved or related to my drug typhoon to save my family is bad,” but are there deeper effects of watching such messages that affect us without our knowing? 
many of people have told me that regardless of the drugs, violence, sex and profanity, the story itself of breaking bad is moralistic and can teach us many important lessons. if we must turn to the sto­ry of a man like walter white to find inspiration for our lives and to form the morals of our conscience, this truly shows how low our twenty-first century society in the united states has come. it is hard for me to believe that anyone became a better person in watching five seasons of sin unfold on breaking bad. The problem here on earth is that it can be a struggle sometimes to really discern god’s will. with every action, every word and every thought ei­ther we grow closer to god or we distance ourselves from him. in watching breaking bad, i cannot see how it brought anyone to a deeper love and relation­ship with god. let us pray together that god will save us all from the boredoms of television. 
in other regards, let’s imagine there is great new Tv show out now. have you heard of it yet? The show is called securing good and it tells the story of a man named malter might, a high school physi­cal education teacher who finds that his life is out of shape when he is diagnosed with severe heart disease in which the doctors give him little time to live. malter is faced with a decision as to what to do in order to provide for his family with his loom­ing death. malter, a church-goer, hears from the gospel of luke “i have come to set the earth on fire, and how i wish it were already blazing!” malter dis­cerns that he has been called to begin a large-scale evangelization of those around him and in doing so make the world a better place for his family. it’s a great show. why don’t we give it a chance, we might just like it and be inspired. 
Carter Boyd is a sophomore studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

syr themes disrespect rural poverty 
here are a few friendly suggestions for future hillbillies or white trash are counted in the us never even be suggested. but let us not forget about syr themes. urban poverty formal. brazilian slum census report as over 7.5 million americans living the poverty we can’t see. let us not forget that one soiree. impoverished immigrant mixer. if the very in rural poverty. how many of the students who in five children who live in poverty are from rural idea of an syr along these themes repulses and attended the “americana” syr have participated or areas and that the overwhelming majority of them horrifies you (as it very well should), let me ask are planning to participate in the center for social will never escape it. let us instead, strive to ad-you a follow-up question, why are we okay having concerns appalachia seminar held over the fall dress the issue of rural poverty rather than deride a dance with the theme of rural poverty? although and spring breaks? how many of these students, and stereotype the population who fall victim to the sao-approved theme for Knott hall’s syr this nevertheless, dressed in accordance with the very it. let us be repulsed by the idea of a “white Trash past weekend was “americana” students preferred stereotypes this seminar attempts to invalidate? bash.” to call it the “white Trash bash” as they asked There is no denying that there is a nationwide around for a pair of “jorts” to borrow or boarded spotlight on urban poverty. we read about it in our Grace Chiarella the bus bound for the dance at the rv hall of classes, hear about it on the news and see it on the senior fame. street corners of major urban centers. This visibil-lewis hall 
The population we casually call rednecks, ity is why an urban poverty-themed dance would oct. 14 


By MADDIE DALY 
scene writer 

if, god forbid, we lose another home football game this season, we are going to have to find another song to play other than the alma mater that will keep the stu­dents in good spirits as they leave the stadium. especially if the football team doesn’t stay to sing with us, we need to be distracted from the sadness of the loss and look to­wards our next chance at victory. although it would surely upset some older alumni and tradition-obsessed fans, why not play everyone’s favorite song at the moment, miley cyrus’s “wrecking ball?”  okay, maybe it’s not everyone’s favorite, but who can honestly tell me they listen to that song without reflexively shouting out the chorus with accompanying dramatic hand motions?  also, it’s technically about a break-up so the mood is just sad enough to relate to our deep sense of tragedy after a home loss. i would love to see the student section simultaneously screaming out the lyrics while the opposing team’s fans watch with amazement and utter jealousy. or confusion and judgment, but at least we’d be having fun. 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

what song better captures the mood of a home loss than “bad day?”  The title literally expresses exactly how you’re feeling.  and no one knows this feeling better than the one-hit wonder’s performer, daniel powter.  first of all, he produced one of the most recognized one-hit wonders in the history of music and will be unable to ever reach that level of success again in his career — ahem, brian Kelly.  secondly, powter’s last name is a perfect homophone for the word defined as “one who pouts,” like losers often do.  The song would match impeccably the crestfallen faces of fans that cameramen always capture when covering those final moments of a game — after all, the camera don’t lie.  now, how often does something like all that come together? 
By ISAAC LORTON 
scene writer 

statues on our campus most commonly pose in ones speaking of welcome, com­fort and love, with their arms and more importantly their hearts, wide open. like the prodigal son, the notre dame football team may have gone out and squandered its talents, money and effort on a loss, but no matter what the outcome is, we as the fans should be like the loving father who welcomes its sin-filled son back into his arms. we should not be like the jealous brother who already has everything and expects everything. The whole time we have been basking in the glory of our lady, but we must greet our losing team with joy. what better way to “protect,” as brian Kelly put it, our football players, than with a nice warm hug? That is why i propose creed’s “with arms wide open” as the song we should sing instead of the alma mater after a loss. when you look to the north and to the heavens, you see Touchdown Jesus and mary atop the golden dome with arms wide open, welcoming our losing football team back into their arms and back into our community. and who better represents Jesus, than his look alike scott stapp, who belts out music so angelically? 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

if the team is feeling particularly bad after a loss, there is absolutely no better way to express this grief than through miley cyrus’ smash hit “wrecking ball.” The deep, passionate lyrics can be seen as representative of the struggles of how we “came in like a wrecking ball” and “just wanted them to let us in” to the endzone, but only ended up being wrecked in the end. even in the worst of losses, they can’t ever say we “just walked away.” This song is an absolutely perfect way to end any loss, with a beautiful, appropriate music video to complement the loss and inspire the team to victory next time. The good news is that no matter how bad a loss may seem, we will never hit as low of a rock bottom as miley has. 
By SARAH DIECKMAN 
scene writer 

There’s a scene in season Two of “The office” where dwight sits and sulks in his car after witnessing ryan and michael bond over business school. his distress over his in­ability to connect with them prompts him to sit alone in his car, blasting the anthem “everybody hurts” through the speakers. our stadium could be full of dwights on saturdays, depending on whether the fighting irish can secure a win over their op­ponents. according to r.e.m., “sometimes everything is wrong. now it’s time to sing along.” however, the case of a notre dame loss seems to be the exception to this rule. should we lose, students and teammates will not sway and sing the alma mater to­gether, leaving the band silent without the traditional fanfare to play. To fix this prob­lem, “everybody hurts” is the perfect substitute, highlighting our communal feeling of pain over an unfortunate ending to a night of football and our subsequent urge to find comfort in our friends. This song reminds us that we’re not alone and that everyone sometimes needs to have a good cry when things don’t go their way. yet, everybody hurts and everybody cries only sometimes. we can’t all perpetually sulk, but rather we must persevere through the rough times until we see that “irish win” on the score­board again. r.e.m. reminds us to not let ourselves go, but hold on, hold on, hold on … 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

when watching a losing football game, there are lots of things we, the fans, see com­ing that our players don’t. our bird’s eye view from the stands gives us the opportunity to watch plays painfully unfold before our half-covered eyes. occasionally, we fans think about ways each play could have gone, and occasionally, rowdy students voice those thoughts as loudly as possible. it seems that everyone has an opinion of how the game could have gone differently. because of this, i think a perfect post-game song is cher’s classic, “if i could Turn back Time.” we all know the feeling of walking away from a loss thinking of the possibilities if only they would wind back the game clock. cher lets it loose in this emotional ballad, and i’m confident that the student body can do the same. with lyrics like, “my world was shattered, i was torn apart,” cher under­stands our pain; she knows that if only we could turn back time, we could find a way to a win. 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

having a day to digest “The walking dead” season four premiere, i wanted to go back and extrapolate on a comment i made to myself during its airing, which was not the first time i’ve said this:  “The walking dead” will never be what i want it to be. 
additionally, it will never surpass the bar it set with its superb hour and a half long first episode.  The mood captured from the feature movie-length caliber pilot has been all but lost on the weekly episodes the show puts out.  perhaps it’s unreasonable to expect this level of television to be sustained, considering how much more time everyone involved in the show had to develop the first episode compared to every successive one. still, the glimmers of what the show could be come through now and then, suggesting otherwise. 
with a revolving door of showrunners, it’s understand­able that the series has changed direction and shifted tone since its beginning episodes.  it has never had a chance to develop on a conceived course or had the same meticulous minds working at each twist and turn.  so, while certain set pieces capture the series’ true potential on less than an episodic basis — like an unsettling plot 
By DANIEL BARABASI 
scene writer 

i have to say i love Jay-Z before i get into anything else. it’s just a fact that i want to leave as something you can return to after you read this column. if you look at his dis­cography, from “reasonable doubt” to “The black album” and even his newest “magna carta holy grail,” Jay leaves behind a solid set of beats and lyrics with depth about the world around him and his transition from a street-level gangster who wrote lines on the side to a worldwide phe­nomenon. compare him to Kanye and you get matching talent, but Jay-Z actually has a soul to Kanye’s narcissism in and out of the studio. Jay-Z gets me going. 
despite all my approval, the “Jay Z presents: made in america” documentary about Jay-Z’s festival of the same name leaves me stranded about whether i can still look up to this icon of the past two decades. director ron howard shows Jay-Z looking back on his life as shawn carter with his fellow artists at the festival, all while juxtaposing the performers and their escapades with the struggling pennsylvania community. The end of the documentary left me left with a chilling message in my bones. 
There are the artists talking about the humble back­grounds they struggled through to make it big. Then there are the workers at the festival, who talk about how hard it is to get by day-to-day and how they live on with the hope that opportunity will appear to them one day. The mes­sage that should come out of this is that if we tried hard enough, we could also be like Jay-Z or skrillex. instead, point from a one-time character in sunday’s premiere 
— this has caused overarching stories, including every­thing in between these scarcer, punchier moments, to wade in the uninteresting. 
rather than expand upon the desolate, sprawling epic environment that was hinted at in the pilot — one that in­vokes fear from the unknown, sucks away optimism, yet still offers room for an emotional connection with its in­habitants — the show has since devolved (possibly, and if so unfortunately, due to budgetary constraints) to a typi­cal dialog-driven melodrama with a zombie apocalypse backdrop.  and with each more permanent establish­ment of setting, such as the farm or prison, “The walking dead” world shrinks, and the show becomes more about the pedantic squabbles of the people inside it. 
“The walking dead” is best when it looks into the way an apocalypse affects the human condition, philosophy and society.  The show’s premise gives it a unique set of ideas to explore, and the writers should be more in­terested in making the most of this opportunity, like in the third season’s brilliant, isolated “clear.”  instead, the episodes muddle in melodrama far too often.  of course there needs to be a balance between action and dialog, but how little has to happen and how slow does the pace have to get until the limited rewards are not worth the 
ron howard cuts the documentary to say that these art­ists were once like you, but now they’re not, and at the end of the festival they’ll go on to their next venue while you’re at home clipping coupons. 
The documentary opens as a horror-thriller trailer. slowed clips of the crowds cheering at made in america are woven over by Jay-Z prattling on about how he “made it.” The slowed cheers distort to hollow screams. cut to a control room counting down to a live event and back to the concert, this time voices saying that times are chang­ing with the screeching of the crowds still echoing. clips of newscasters praise Jay-Z’s impact. 
The movie trailer-quality only lasts for the first two minutes, fading into Jay-Z rushing onstage spitting “99 problems,” but the feeling of anxiety stays in the subcon­scious. Jay goes on to describe his life as shawn carter, about how he transformed into something past gang vio­lence and poverty. he leads with an inspirational quote, “every human being has genius-level talent. There are no chosen ones.” in multiple shots afterwards, “shawn” goes around hugging local artists and festival staff, all while emanating the same amount of emotion as a politician running for reelection does when kissing babies. 
even in the most intimate scene, in which Jay-Z goes back to his childhood home in brooklyn and describes his teenage years with gangs, guns and drugs, he seems disconnected from his story. as he stumbles through nar­row hallways, Jay’s bodyguards are caught in the periph­eries of the camera, always a few steps ahead, checking for trouble. These bodyguards can be seen everywhere pains of listening to the mindless writing?  a sense of ur­gency would do wonders. 
equally underdeveloped is the background of the show’s cast.  Too many characters exist one-dimen­sionally to be dynamic presences.  The occurrences the characters have could happen to anyone thrown into the show and have the same impact; they are interesting for the sake of what happened, not for the characters that ex­perience them.  for a show that so often capitalizes on the emotional response that comes with killing off its significant characters, it fails to show why viewers should care when one of them dies if they cannot connect with the characters while they are still alive. 
This is all not to say that i dislike the show.  i continue to watch in reoccurring frustration, as i know the potential “The walking dead” has to be an even better show. as to why i still tune in every week, never to miss an episode as it airs?  maybe it’s for big action set pieces that are a little too few and far between.  or maybe it’s because i still hold out hope for even one episode to reach the level of that pilot.  so, i carry on watching with that hope, much like survivors in a zombie apocalypse, as it’s one of the few things that keep a person in either of our situations going. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
in the documentary, the most startling being when they push away fans as Jay-Z watches run-d.m.c.’s perfor­mance from the crowds. 
among the playboy, quasi-humble stars, run-d.m.c. stood out as perhaps the only truly honest perform­er. here you have these hip hop legends, who hit their prime thirty years ago, playing off the rock and roll hype. They’ve faded out of the spotlight, and without the blind­ing stage, they can see what the new america looks like while still being heard. darryl mcdaniels talks about how the gangs of new york city paused from crime to record music warning the youth to not join gangs and to blaze a new trail for the community. hypocritical, yes, and darryl realized this, but you don’t see Jay-Z or Kanye telling anyone their people magazine life is wrong in any way. 
a scene about a stage manager dreaming about op­portunity cuts to one with odd future screwing around with their expensive trailer. a local pennsylvania group laments being cut from made in america, then Jay-Z complains about how he didn’t get signed for his first few years. from here, the message of ron howard emerges: sure, Jay-Z supports local artists and is great for a star, but he’s still a star. should we be setting our standards to a group of people who make front page for a divorce? no, is howard’s answer. at the end of the day, Jay-Z is still rich, and the guy who flipped burgers at the festival has a few extra bills, but he’s still flipping burgers. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY | bosTon 
Boston had no business winning 

Matthew DeFranks 
assistant managing editor 
imagine that you ah about to sit down for Thanksgiving dinnah. The food is all ready and made, it just needs to be brought to the table. 
but then your dog knocks down everything and you are left with nothing but a big ap­petite. That was what sunday was for me and every othah boston-hater out theah. 
i was about to watch boston’s beloved patriots and red sawx both lose on national stages in high-profile games. but both teams still won, despite hav­ing no business even being in those games. 
my Thanksgiving dinnah was ruined and all i was left with was dog food. 
if you actually like boston teams, i have no idea why (unless fah some reason, you ah from theah). This is the city that gave the world paul pierce’s emasculating beahd, Tom brady’s variety of ugly haircuts, manny being manny and the bruins. 
Theah is no reason to like boston teams at all. not even a clam chowdah bread bowl can make up fah bill belichick’s style, although it may come close. 
so, yes, i was slightly irked when brady’s pats pulled out a 30-27 win ovah the saints on sunday. new england should not have even had a chance to win in the final minute. They had both a tuhnovah on downs and an intahception in the last three minutes of the game — and still had a shot to win it. 
if the saints had gotten one first down on thieah final pos­session, they would have won the game. but instead, they lost two yards and weh fohced to punt the football away. 
on the previous posses­sion, they gained just three yahds, used 22 seconds and had to settle for a field goal in­stead of icing the game with a touchdown. 
but if new orleans’ field goal did not close the game, brady’s wicked bad pick on the next play surely did, right? well, the boston fans surely thought so as they headed for the exits. 
i’m positive they weh all just trying to get to the red sawx game, yeah? 
if the patriots did not de­serve to be in the game, the red sawx did not deserve to be in the stadium on sunday. 
but still, boston’s boys eked out a 6-5 win ovah the Tigers in game 2 of the amahican league championship series. The best pitching rotation in baseball had held the sawx scoreless for 14 innings and had only allowed one hit in that timeframe. 
but in the eighth inning, aftah detroit managah Jim leyland yanked 21-game win­nah max scherzer, the sawx came alive. They scored foah runs in the frame to tie the game up at five. in innings one through seven, boston had only foah baserunnahs total. 
but when david ortiz’s grand slam sailed into the bullpen, boston was level and the game was a new one. The very next inning, the Tigers gift-wrapped a run fah boston. 
Jonny gomes reached on an infield single and advanced to second on a throwing errah by the nahmally sure-handed Jose iglesias. on the yeauh, iglesias had only commit­ted three errahs at shortstop but had a costly one sunday evening. 
gomes then advanced to third on a wild pitch by rick porcello. porcello, in 177 in­nings in 2013, only threw six wild pitches but had a costly one sunday evening. 
gomes scored on a single by Jarrod saltalamacchia, who hadn’t had an rbi since game 1 of the amahican league division series against Tampa bay. but he had a big one sunday evening. 
detroit’s starting pitching has dominated the sawx but heads home with the series deadlocked at 1-1. 
neither of boston’s squads should have been in a position to win sunday but both weh. 
if that does not get yah an­gry, theiah accent should. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 

belles battle comets 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 

The belles begin a series of miaa matches Tuesday at home against olivet that will decide who makes the conference tournament. 
saint mary’s (8-12, 6-5 miaa) is in third place in the miaa, behind nation­ally ranked no. 1 calvin and no. 2 hope. The top four teams make the tour­nament, held nov. 8-9. 
five of the belles’ fi­nal seven regular season matches are against con­ference opponents, and belles coach Toni elyea said her team is looking forward to the upcoming competition and opportu­nities to secure its tourna­ment spot. 
“we have lost to three conference teams in five [sets] this season by two points,” elyea said. “we are looking forward to playing two of those teams again and have the opportunity to solidify our spot in the tournament.” 
saint mary’s first has to tackle olivet (8-14, 5-6) on Tuesday. The belles last played the comets on sept. 11 in an away match that saint mary’s won 3-1. Junior outside hitter Kati schneider’s attacking spurred the belles to vic­tory. schneider recorded 31 kills, the most of any belles player in a four-set match this season. 
“Kati schneider had a breakout performance the last time we played olivet,” elyea said. “we are looking for our team to play stel­lar defense and attack well around a strong blocking team.” 
olivet’s leading attacker is junior middle hitter emma brann. brann has pounded 202 kills on the season for an average of 
2.93 per game. sophomore marissa guile adds depth at the middle hitter posi­tion for the comets. guile has 86 kills on the season. 
“both of the middles for 
olivet are good,” elyea said. “our middles will need to do a great job of fronting them and setting up early for our defenders. we are looking forward to the challenge.” 
Junior middle hitter melanie Kuczek leads saint mary’s with 49 blocks. Junior middle hitter Taylor etzell has 30 blocks and schneider has gone up for 22. 
The belles are completely focused on playing olivet, despite the many matches ahead that will have impli­cations on the conference tournament and the team’s long-term goals, elyea said. 
“we are focused on our match with olivet at the moment,” elyea said. “when that match is com­plete, we will focus on what is next.” 
saint mary’s takes on olivet at home Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

hoosiers seek consistency 
Associated Press 

indiana tight end Ted bolser and receiver shane wynn understand that if things are going to change for the hoosiers, it starts at practice. 
They need to start with more energy, pay more atten­tion to details and need to apply the same attitude after wins and losses. They know it’s the only way they’re go­ing to start winning games consistently in the big Ten. 
“it’s something we need to work on,” bolser said monday. “beating penn state was great. but we need to come out and practice well, by doing the things we need to do to win. i didn’t think we practiced as well last week.” 
The result was a 42-28 loss at michigan state. 

FOR RENT 

Small 1+ bedroom for rent. Prime location next to campus/Eddy St. Available now through May 2014. email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for more information 
TICKETS 

USC 4 tix for sale. Call 6 09 -471-9511 
clearly, the hoosiers (3-3, 1-1) have figured out what it takes to be competitive in this rugged conference. 
at the midway point of the season, indiana is one win away from matching last sea­son’s victory total, two wins away from doubling coach Kevin wilson’s victory total from his first two seasons in bloomington and three wins away from being bowl eli­gible for the first time since 2007 and only the second time since 1995. 
but indiana fans still see some of the same old problems. 
while the offense contin­ues to play fast and is scoring 42 points per game, the de­fense is allowing an alarm­ing 216.5 yards rushing and an audacious 32.8 points. 
on saturday, michigan state exploited indiana’s weaknesses by running 47 times for 238 yards, 5.1 per carry, and four scores. defensive coordinator doug mallory explained many of the problems stemmed from 18 missed tackles and giving up 130 yards rushing on just three carries. 
“you get a breakdown here or there and those are the things we continue to harp on and try to correct,” mallory said. 
if the hoosiers have a re­peat this weekend against angry michigan, it could be even worse. 
The wolverines (5-1, 1-1) have two runners, devin gardner and fitzgerald Toussaint, ranked in the league’s top 10 and are av­eraging 173.2 yards on the ground. They’re also coming off a four-overtime loss on the road. 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Pumpin Blood” -NONONO “Hey ho, on the road again/ Moving on,forward/ Stick and stones want break our bones/ We´re in the car, on the highway/ Its so magical,feeling like no one´s got a hold/ You´re a catalyst to your own happiness you know/ Cause its your heart, its alive, its pumpin blood/ Its your heart,its alive, its pumpin blood/ And the whole wide world is whisteling/ Hey ho on the run again/ Drive is strong, onwards/ Stick and stones want take its course/ You got the part, in the front seat” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
This day in History... 
-On this day in 1989,  Canadian ice hock­ey great Wayne Gretzky breaks Gordie Howe’s National Hockey League ca­reer scoring record of 1,850 points. 
-On this day in 1991, the U.S. Senate votes 52 to 48 to confirm Clarence Thomas to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
-On this day in 2007, the comedian and actor Drew Carey takes over host­ing duties on The Price is Right 



SMC GOLF | 2nd ouT of 9 

belles end fall season with second-place finish 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
The belles wrapped up their fall season with a second-place finish at the miaa end-of-season weekend Jamboree on friday and saturday in battle creek, mich. 
The combined scores from the four miaa jamborees and the weekend’s two-round tournament, in which the belles shot a 665 total and 327 on saturday, gave saint mary’s the overall second-place award in the conference for the season. olivet won both the weekend tournament, with a score of 642, and the miaa championship. 
“overall, i think we did well,” belles coach Kim moore said. “The second round, we had our best team score of the fall season, so i definitely can’t complain about that. i felt there were definitely some strokes out there that we kind of left there, but that’s golf. you’re always going to have a bad hole or two.” 
Junior Janice heffernan led the way for the belles, posting a two-day score of 162 to finish in a tie for fifth place individu­ally. heffernan’s card includ­ed a 75 in the second round, the lowest round for any belles golfer this season and the best score in the field saturday. 

“i was so excited for her,” moore said. “i thought she played a great round. she even had a few bad shots in there, too, so she could’ve made it even lower. she really re­sponded and turned it around from her first round [score of 87], so i was really excited for her.” 
senior captain paige pollak finished second for saint mary’s and seventh over­all with her score of 163, and freshman ali mahoney took ninth with a 166. sophomore sammie averill tied for 24th, shooting a 177, and senior cap­tain alexi bown rounded out the belles’ scoring with her 178 for 26th place. 
bown also won the miaa sportsmanship award, de­termined by the conference’s nine head coaches. bown be­came the second belles golfer to earn the distinction. 
“it says a lot about her as a person,” she said. “The sportsmanship award goes towards somebody’s accom­plishments as a person, and in life, that’s what it’s about. golf is just a game, and there’s so much more to [life], and i 
paid adverTisemenT 
think it really speaks volumes to how her peers look at her. it’s a great accomplishment to have.” 
pollak and heffernan earned spots on the all-mi­aa first Team for their play throughout all six conference rounds, and mahoney was named to the second team. 
with its fall season com­plete, saint mary’s heads into a break until its spring sea­son begins in march. ncaa rules prohibit the team from officially practicing until that time, but moore said she thinks her golfers will keep their practice routines going while getting some much-needed rest. 
“i definitely think these girls are competitive, so i’m sure they’ll do some stuff on their own,” she said. “hopefully, they’ll really utilize this time to get caught up with their studies and really focus academically.” 
with a second-place confer­ence finish in the books, the belles will take a break and hit the links again when their spring schedule begins in march. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF | 8Th ouT of 14 

Irish place eighth after first day 


By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
The irish ended in eighth place out of fifteen teams with two golfers in the top 25 after one day of play at the crooked stick intercollegiate tournament at the par-72 crooked stick golf club in carmel, ind. 
The irish endured a tough course at the crooked stick, which will host them to­day for the final day of the tournament.  
“The entire field strug­gled today,” irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “i be­lieve the field average was nearly 77. The day got off to a cold, breezy start. with firm greens running at 12 or 13, very difficult hole lo­cations and the tees set at 7300 yards, i thought it was nearly as tough as merion (us open site in June) this morning for all players.” 
The irish notched a col­lective score of 610 after two rounds. no. 8 georgia is leading with a collective score of 585, and the second placed team, no. 15 florida state, recorded a collective score of 588. 
“we made some high num­bers on a few holes, which certainly hurt us overall,” Kubunski said. “at the same time, those numbers were less about decisions and course management than they were caused by a bad swing at the wrong time. our guys seemed to hit 85 percent of their shots as good or better than the field but those few misses we had were bad misses.” 
sophomore cory sciupider, the no. 3 golfer for the irish, is currently tied for 19th place, with an overall score of 150. sciupider golfed a five-over 77 for his first round, and a one-over 73 for his second round. 
“cory did a tremendous job of putting a double bo­gey and triple bogey in his first six holes of the day be­hind him and go on to play his last 30 holes in plus 1,” Kubinski said. “That showed maturity and pa­tience in himself.” 
freshman liam cox is also in the top 25, tied for 24th, with an overall  score of 151. cox golfed a first­rounf 7, and shot a 76 for his second round. 
“we just need to take ad­vantage of our short iron opportunities and get those short chips up and down,” Kubinski said. “we hit enough excellent shots to know we’re talented. it’s time to convert on the sim­pler shots.” 
only six shots out of the top-five, the irish will tee off today starting at 
8:30 a.m. for their final round in the crooked stick intercollegiate in carmel, ind. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Pasquerilla East clinches postseason berth 
Pangborn and Ryan battle to tie; Chicks top Frogs; Lyons rolls past Farley; Whirlwinds shutout Babes 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
pasquerilla east beat cavanaugh 28-6 sunday with an outstanding defensive perfor­mance, ensuring the pyros a spot in the playoffs. 
pasquerilla east (4-1) shut down the usually potent offense of the chaos (3-2), which averaged near­ly 23 points per game through its first four contests. The only cavanaugh touchdown came late in the fourth quarter, after the pyros secured their lead. 
The pyros’ defensive effort featured four sacks as well as three interceptions by freshman maddie mcgovern. mcgovern returned one of those picks for a touchdown in the fourth quarter to seal the win. 
pasquerilla east’s offense capi­talized on the field position and turnovers its defense provided. pyros junior quarterback macy mulhall threw three touchdown passes, one early to senior run­ning back Kiah schaefbauer and two to junior receiver nicole ameli later in the game. 
“i am overjoyed with how well we played,” pyros senior captain and defensive lineman caroline Kuse said. “we came out and we were ready for them. This game really got our spirits up, and i think that will really help us in the postseason.” 
with its playoff spot secured, pasquerilla east will take on badin on nov. 3 in its final regu­lar-season game, while the chaos play farley the same day. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
Pangborn 7, Ryan 7 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
in the battle of unbeatens, neither pangborn nor ryan cap­tured the victory in their matchup sunday, finishing in a 7-7 tie. 
The phoxes (4-0-1) and wildcats (4-0-1) both brought strong of­fenses and defenses, which made for a competitive and intense game. ryan struck first with a long touchdown pass, while pangborn responded in the second half with a touchdown of its own on a pass from junior quarterback liz Quinn to freshman receiver anne arnason. 
pangborn senior captain and defensive lineman mary Kate veselik said her team played well despite not having its full roster. 
“we made great adjustments during the game, such as keep­ing strong on the offensive line,” veselik said. “Though we were missing some of our key girls on offense, everyone stepped up their game and did what they could to help the team out, which i think made a huge difference.” 
veselik said sophomore receiver and defensive lineman gracie gallagher was impressive on both sides of the ball for the phoxes. 
“she’s such a playmaker,” veselik said. “almost every huge stop on defense and any big gain on offense was because of her.” 
ryan senior captain and offen­sive lineman andrea carlson said she was happy with the way the wildcats looked on sunday, re­gardless of the results. 
“we went through the drives on offense and really stayed calm on defense, which was what we were focusing on in practice all last week,” carlson said. 
carlson said freshman defen­sive lineman shawn hall’s per­formance stood out, as she had multiple sacks and consistent pressure on Quinn. 
with neither team securing a win sunday, pangborn and ryan will use a three-week break to prepare for their next opponents. The phoxes play mcglinn on nov. 3rd, while the wildcats clash with welsh family on the same day. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 
Lewis 19, Badin 6 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
an interception on the third play of the game by lewis soph­omore defensive back Katie higgins set the tone, as the chicks defeated badin 19-6 sunday. 
on the following play, lewis freshman quarterback elaine schmidt connected with fresh­man receiver ana grandinetti for a touchdown to give the chicks (2­
3) a lead they never conceded. 
another higgins interception stymied a drive by badin (0-5) midway through the second quar­ter, but it was her third pick late in the first half that pushed lewis closer to victory. after the ball was deflected, higgins picked the ball out of the air and returned it over 50 yards for the touchdown, put­ting the chicks up 13-0 on the last play of the half. 
“our defense did a really good job, especially the defensive line as they put some good pressure on the quarterback,” higgins said. 
badin’s offense, led by ju­nior quarterback brianna leon, reached the red zone on a few oc­casions in the second half, and finally got to the end zone in the fourth quarter. leon, who also had two interceptions defen­sively, led the bullfrogs down the field, connecting with freshman melange gavin to cut the lead to 13-6, before a late schmidt touch­down pass sealed the deal for lewis. 
“it was really exciting for us, as it was the first time we scored a touchdown since our first game,” leon said. “it was our first time playing the whole game, and we had a lot of fun today.” 

both lewis and badin are off until after fall break, when the chicks take on pasquerilla west and the bullfrogs face pasquerilla east on nov. 3. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
Lyons 19, Farley 7 
By MATTHEW GARCIA 
sports writer 

in a battle of two struggling teams looking for an offensive spark, big plays were key for a 19-7 lyons win over farley on sunday. 
lions freshman receiver Taylor sears began the scoring with a 60-yard touchdown in the sec­ond quarter. Just before half­time, sophomore receiver alexa lodenquai added a 25-yard re­ception to set up a touchdown for lyons (3-3). 
while big offensive plays helped the lions reach the .500 mark, it was the defense that stepped up and showed improvement this week, senior captain and receiver christina bramanti said. 
“our defense did a whole lot better,” bramanti said. “we were on top of it today.” 
adding to her big day on offense, sears added a late interception to help seal the win for the lions. 
“Taylor is a really solid player,” bramanti said. “she is definitely living up to our expectations for her.” 
The finest (1-4) could not capi­talize on their jet-sweep option offense. despite her team’s short­comings, senior receiver maria massa said she focused on the positive side of the game for farley. 
“we had a pick six, and our run­ning game was working for us,” massa said. “we have a big game coming up. we’ve been saving up some trick plays for cavanaugh.” 
farley will put some of those trick plays on display when it takes on cavanaugh on nov. 3, while the lions finished their regular sea­son with sunday’s victory. 
Contact Matthew Garcia at mgarci15@nd.edu 
Howard 20, McGlinn 14 
By ALEXANDRA LANE 
sports writer 

howard emerged victorious in a close 20-14 game against mcglinn on sunday. 
The ducks (4-2) and the shamrocks (2-3) were tied 7-7 at halftime, but the second half of the game proved to be crucial, as multiple lead changes occurred. 
early in the second half, howard senior quarterback and captain clare robinson scored a 20-yard run that gave the ducks the lead. 
but the shamrocks fought back quickly. senior Kaitlyn Keelin made a key interception, which resulted in a 60-yard touchdown run for mcglinn. 
howard answered at the end of the fourth quarter with a touch­down pass from robinson to sophomore stephanie peterson to regain the lead. strong defense by the ducks allowed them to run out the clock on their final posses­sion and solidify their victory. 
mcglinn senior receiver Tara crown said the shamrocks were disappointed with the results. 
“i think we could have beaten them but it just didn’t happen,” crown said. “it’s hard to go into this long break with a loss.” 
crown said the team will try to boost its determination and drive during the break. 
“we have all the talent, we just need people to want it more,” crown said. 
howard senior center amelia vojt said the ducks were proud of the game they played. 
“we played really well today,” vojt said. “we started out a little slow but once we got moving we all really came together.” 
both teams will take the next two weeks off but will return to action with mcglinn playing pangborn on nov. 3 and howard will likely earn a spot in the playoffs. 
Contact Alexandra Lane at alane2@nd.edu 
Welsh Family 19, Breen-Phillips 6 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
in spite of a late breen-phillips offensive surge, welsh family was able to hold on to its lead for a 19-6 victory sunday. 
The whirlwinds (2-3) scored on their first possession of the game on a long fourth-down pass from junior quarterback alisha anderson to junior receiver natalie branch. This was the first of the pair’s two touchdown con­nections on the day. 
defensively, welsh family forced multiple incompletions and shut out the babes (0-5) in the first half. 
in the second half, breen­phillips caught fire offensively with a strong rushing attack led by freshmen dual-threat quarter­back emily affinito and running back andrea rodriguez. 
breen-phillips’s only score came off a 32-yard rush by rodriguez. 
“our run game today was much better than before especially be­cause of andrea’s impact today,” babes senior captain and line­backer molly mcnerney said. “we’re looking to play a complete game offensively [as our season progresses].” 
The babes began to orches­trate a comeback, after forcing the whirlwinds to go three-and­out in the fourth quarter, but they were stopped at the goal line on their following drive by welsh family’s stifling defense. with a strong defense, anderson said welsh family is going to continue working on its passing attack in order to push its playoff hopes. 
“we can improve on complet­ing our passes and making sure our routes are run well,” anderson said. 
The babes, still looking to their first win of the season, play their next game against walsh on nov. 3, while the whirlwinds continue to play for a playoff spot against ryan on the same day. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



M Interhall 
conTinued from page 14 
stanford’s receivers in check on de­fense. patin said that he could not have had this type of performance without his teammates. 
“it starts with practice and then our line’s performance today,” patin said. “we controlled both lines and we ran our routes our routes effec­tively. we had a great game.” 
a shorthanded stanford (0-3-0) team fought until the last second but mistakes held the griffins back. senior captain and lineman ruben carrion said he was proud of his team’s effort and that they never gave up. 
“we have a tough team,” carrion said. “we had a few injuries and players that had never played in the positions they were in, but we kept fighting and i’m proud of that.” 
Keough will play o’neill on november 3rd, the same day stanford will face Keenan. 
Contact José Fernández at jfernan9@nd.edu 
Carroll  21, Sorin 13 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
in a must win game for both teams, carroll outlasted sorin 21-13 to improve its playoff hopes. 
The vermin (2-0-1) were led by se­nior quarterback robert dorman, who completed 11 of 14 passes for 166 yards and three total touch­downs. he opened the scoring on a five-yard quarterback keeper on carroll’s first offensive drive. on the ensuing vermin possession, dorman found senior tight end Jack gardner for a 10-yard touchdown that gave them a 14-0 lead. 
“it’s really easy to get open when you have a quarterback that is as mobile as [dorman] is,” gardner said. 
after sorin closed the gap to one touchdown, dorman hit fresh­man receiver anthony vallera for a 55-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
after moving the ball to carroll’s 40-yard line, sorin’s hopes were dashed when carroll senior cor­nerback Jack hefferon intercepted a pass from sorin junior quarterback patrick power. 
The otters (1-1-1) were paced by power, who completed 10 of 12 passes for 148 yards and two touch­downs. after a quiet first half, power threw touchdowns to freshman re­ceiver Tyler metcalf and sophomore receiver Jake yurek on back-to-back possessions. 
“This was my first game, but i really liked the way i clicked with some of our receivers,” power said. 
both teams will complete their regular seasons november 3, with carroll facing Zahm and sorin tak­ing on st. edward’s. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER | sainT mary’s 1, KalamaZoo 0 
belles beat hornets in oT for fourth straight win 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 

saint mary’s continued its longest winning streak of the season saturday, notch­ing its fourth consecutive victory with a 1-0 overtime win over Kalamazoo. 
The belles (6-4-3, 4-2-3 miaa) outshot the hornets (5-8-0, 4-6-0) 17-11 through the first 93 minutes, but the scoreboard remained at zero, until senior forward Jordan diffenderfer deflect­ed an attempted clear by hornets sophomore goal­keeper lucy mailing. with the ball trickling toward the goal, diffenderfer sprinted past mailing to tap in the game-winner, securing the belles second consecutive overtime victory. 
early in the game Kalamazoo dominated possession and had the belles defense on its heels. Junior goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum was tested ear­ly, as she recorded four of her five saves in the first half as the hornets outshot the belles 7-4. 
“chanler has been one of the most important assets to our defense all year,” junior defender and captain mary Kate hussey said. “we trust her completely and know when we make mistakes she has our back.” 
saint mary’s pushed the offensive tempo and controlled possession throughout the second half, outshooting Kalamazoo 13-4. in the 75th minute, belles sophomore mid­fielder Kathryn lueking’s volley looked like it was go­ing to break the goal line — and the scoreless tie — but mailing saved it just before it went over the line. Junior midfielder erin mishu nar­rowly missed in the 86th minute from just a few yards out, sending the game into overtime 
“at this point in the year, having played six overtime games, we are used to the pressure and intensity of go­ing into an overtime game,” hussey said. “To us, now it’s an advantage where we know we’re in better shape and that much more pre­pared than the opponent.” 
The victory moved the belles, who haven’t lost since sept. 14, into fifth place in the miaa, with seven games to play. The top four teams make the postseason tour­nament, but hussey said the team has its sights set high­er than simply making the conference tournament. 
“it feels amazing to finally be playing with the heart, skill, and chemistry we felt our team has had since day one,” hussey said. “This win is just one more step to our final goal, to make the ncaa tournament.” 
The belles look to con­tinue their winning streak wednesday, when they take on alma at 4 p.m. at home. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Interhall second victory after fall break on 
Folston 
nov. 3 against Knott. 
conTinued from page 16 conTinued from page 16 
back of all ages have eased 

The green wave added two more Contact Evan Anderson that learning process, 
touchdowns later in the game for eander11@nd.edu folston said. all three old-
insurance. er backs have helped him 
Junior captain and lineback-Keenan 6, Dillon 0 along through camp and 
er matthew nagy said he was 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
the season, giving out their 

very pleased with his team’s sports writer experience freely, he said. 
performance. and while bryant is out in­
“i am delighted that we were in a hard-fought battle for play-definitely with what irish 
able to end our regular season so off berths, Keenan held on for a coach brian Kelly called 
strongly,” nagy said. “i hope we 6-0 win over dillon on sunday patellar tendinitis, folston 
can continue our great form in the afternoon. said having another back to 
playoffs.” after playing a stalemate for al­go through freshman year 
despite the strong performance, most three quarters, a bad snap on with has made the adjust­
nagy said the green wave must re-a punt by dillon (2-2) gave Keenan ments that much smoother. 
main level headed. (3-0) the ball at the dillon 11-yard “[greg and i], we’re like 
“our main priority in to stay line. on the first play of the fourth best friends,” he said. “on 
fit and healthy as we don’t have quarter, Knights sophomore quar­the football field we work 
another game for the next three terback patrick corry took the together, we help each oth­
weeks” nagy said. “if our players snap, scrambled to the right, and er… we’re really close.” 
can stay strong, i am confident we dove towards the pylon for the folston’s hard work has 
will perform in the playoffs” only score of the game. paid off, as he quickly made 
The Zahmbies (0-3) failed to get The Knights’ defense continued inroads in the irish back-freshman took a handoff to folston said. “i just try to 
any offensive momentum going its dominance this season, inter-field. after coming into the his left and ran parallel to stay focused every day, and 
for the whole game. cepting dillon sophomore quar­season buried in the depth the line of scrimmage for take the opportunities that 
senior captain and offen-terback colin cunningham three chart, he has been one of nearly 20 yards. he finally i do get in the game and try 
sive lineman Joseph rice said he times in the game. freshman the five “co-starters” listed found his hole as he neared to make something happen 
thought the poor performance cornerback michael Koller had at running back for the past the sideline, and with one with them.” 
was due to a lack of preparation. the first pick, sophomore safety several weeks. folston has hard plant step turned 90 carries are still hard to 
“we were not very well prepared seamus ronan grabbed one in the earned 11 carries so far this degrees upfield, dashing come by in the irish back-
and they threw a lot of things at us end zone, and then senior corner-season but has made the 36 yards to the oklahoma field, and folston is now the 
that we just could not deal with,” back sean healey sealed the game most of them, amassing 69 3-yard line. notre dame lone freshman among notre 
rice said. “Their defensive ends with a pick in the final minute of yards and a team-best aver-punched the ball in two dame’s four healthy backs. 
were just too strong, so we ran out the game. age of 6.3 yards per carry. plays later, stopping the but if folston can continue 
of ideas on offense.” “[The defense] were the differ-much of that total came bleeding with its first score to run like he did against 
fisher ended its season with ence maker,” senior receiver and on the biggest run of of the game. oklahoma, he’ll ensure that 
the victory and now can set its captain Jeremy riche said. “we’ve folston’s young career, with “a long run like that al-he isn’t left out in the cold. 
sights on the playoffs, while Zahm just got to get the ball out and into the irish down 14-0 and ways builds confidence, 
will look to pick up a win against our playmakers’ hands and give reeling against oklahoma. but after…you’ve just got Contact Jack Hefferon at 
carroll after fall break. them some space to work with [on out of the shotgun, the to focus on the next play,” wheffero@nd.edu 
offense].” 

Contact Cornelius McGrath at after finishing the season with 
Cmcgrat2@nd.edu a 2-2 record, dillon will hope for a 
wild card berth into the playoffs. 

Alumni 7, Morrissey 0 “This was our best effort to date,” 
M Soccer 
big red captain and senior defen­
conTinued from page 16 
By EVAN ANDERSON 

sive lineman nathaniel steele said. calistri, the reigning big 
sports writer 

“if we do get a wild card bid then Ten freshman of the year. 
alumni rode its stalwart de-this is the team we need to be go­calistri has scored four 
fense to an undefeated regular ing forward.” goals so far this season, and 
season and a division title with while dillon awaits their fate, was named national play-
a 7-0 victory over morrissey on Keenan will take on stanford in er of the week by college 
sunday. the battle for the chapel after the soccer news in mid-sep-
The dawgs (4-0-0) turned the off-week for fall break. tember. clark, however, 
ball over twice and failed to con-said the irish don’t have any 
vert on fourth down twice, but Contact  Zach Klonsinski at special plans for shutting 
relied on their dominant defen-zklonsin@nd.edu down the sophomore. 
sive effort to a fourth consecu­“we just know that he’s a 
tive win. senior defensive end al Keough 20, Stanford 0 very good player. but they 
harding recorded two sacks and 
By JOSÉ FERNÁNDEZ 
have a lot of good players; 

three tackles for a loss, while se-sports writer he’s not the only one,” clark 
nior defensive back and captain said. “They have so many 
Jeffrey Kraemer notched an in-after struggling offensively in good players. if we spent all 
terception and three pass break-their previous contest, Keough of our time worrying about 
ups in the secondary. stormed out of the gates in a 20-0 one, we would be leaving 
harding said the defense, win over stanford. someone else. They don’t 
which gave up just seven points The offensive woes of the have many weak links, if 
on the year, was crucial to the Kangaroos (2-1-0) were dimin­any, on their team.” 
team’s success all season long. ished, as long drives kept mo-generally speaking, clark 
“it all starts with the linebacker mentum on their side. senior said he doesn’t send his 
corps, and with [Kraemer] roam-captain and quarterback seamus team onto the field with a 
ing in the back, ” harding said. donegan, who totaled three pass-specific game plan, pre­
“it makes it really easy on us ing touchdowns, said he was ferring to prepare them to 
up front, each unit does its job thrilled with the way his entire react to any situation they 
and i think we’re pretty strong team performed. might encounter on the 
altogether.” “we executed really well,” pitch. 
morrissey junior offensive donegan said. “we are a speedy “There’s no timeouts in 
lineman and captain patrick team on both sides of the ball and soccer, so they’ve got to rec­
valencia said he was proud of the we controlled both lines so that al­ognize what’s happening dame is one of just four re-at notre dame in 2006 and 
manor (1-2-0) despite the loss. lowed us to move the ball and be and they’ve got to adjust,” maining undefeated teams 2007. 
“we played a tough game to-successful.” clark said. “it’s not like we in division i men’s soccer. The irish aim to remain in 
day… with only 13 players,” donegan’s success was aided by can call them in. you don’t The irish are joined by no. the ranks of the unbeaten 
valencia said. “we know we have the strong performance of sopho­see them for 45 minutes 1 california (7-0-2) and no. as they face off against the 
the talent. hopefully we will be more receiver and safety mitch until halftime, so you need 24 wisconsin-milwaukee wildcats at 7 p.m. tonight at 
able to claim a wild card spot at patin. patin dominated both sides leaders on your team, and (9-0-1) as well as no. 3 alumni stadium. 
the end of the season.” of the ball as he racked up seven they need to sort things out washington (8-0-3), which 
The dawgs have a bye in the catches, two touchdowns and kept if necessary.” is coached by clark’s son Contact Vicky Jacobsen at 
regular season’s final week, while as of monday night, notre Jamie, who was an assistant vjacobse @nd.edu 
the manor will be seeking its see m inTerhall PAGE 13 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaforTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: stacy Keibler, 34; usher, 35; natalie maines, 39; roger moore, 86. 
Happy Birthday: offer your finer qualities and you will feel good, be able to boost your confidence, and find a way to reach your goals. your ability to play fair coupled with loyalty and compassion will win you respect and favors from those in high places. put everything in place and make your dreams come true. love is in the stars. your numbers are 7, 11, 13, 22, 24, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): be a leader and take the creative license you need to reach your goals. your ability to get others to pitch in and help is your forte and will help you gain respect, popularity and admiration. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): forget your troubles and stop worrying about what everyone else thinks or does. relax and enjoy an important relationship along with the things you enjoy doing most. ease your stress and improve your outlook. good fortune will come from an unusual source.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): romance is on the rise and you should enjoy the company of someone special. don’t make changes at home or at work based on hearsay. Question anyone trying to push you in a direction you aren’t sure you want to go. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): be social and entertaining and you will feed your imagination and your ability to turn some of your ideas and skills into a viable source of income or enjoyment. children and elders will impact your life. look for unusual outlets and answers. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): emotions will surface regarding domestic and relation­ship issues. stay calm and don’t let anyone goad you into an argument that serves no purpose. concentrate on the people and the things you enjoy the most and make the changes that improve your life. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): when it comes to financial and health matters, pro­tect your interests. don’t allow anyone to take control or lead you astray. be the one to make the suggestions and to follow through. emotional manipula­tion is apparent.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): socialize, but don’t overspend or take responsibility for someone who makes a mistake or tries to play on your sympathy. protect your interests and be prepared to do whatever is required to avoid conflict. a little romance will brighten your day.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t share personal concerns until you figure out how to rectify the problem. make a decision based on facts. if you step back from the situation, you will get a broader view of what really happened.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put some thought into emotional situations and how you can make improvements. The connection you have with a friend, relative or lover may be lacking if you haven’t been expressing your feelings honestly. you cannot fix something that you are avoiding. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): embrace responsibility and show everyone how well you take care of matters. good opportunities will help you improve your home life and your reputation. an interesting encounter with someone may tempt you to do something out of character. Keep your guard up. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): choose your friends wisely and put greater emphasis on what’s expected of you at work and at home. be the proactive one in a relationship and flush out any uncertainties with direct questions and answers. love looks promising.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): honesty will be a factor. if you cannot determine how you should handle a difficult situation based on what’s right and wrong, you may want to take a timeout and begin working on self-improvements.  



Birthday Baby: you are friendly but aggressive. you have a magical personal­ity. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 

Learning curve 
Folston adjusts to weather, running game, college life with support of teammates 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
from picking up blitzes to memorizing plays and learning time management skills, freshmen can face any number of challenges during their transition to college football. 
but on an october day with highs in the low 70’s, cocoa, fla., native Tarean folston complained that his toughest challenge thus far was the chilly south bend weather. 
“it’s gotten cold a few times; it’s kind of scary,” folston said. “i know there’s a lot colder weather com­ing along. i’m preparing myself.” 
folston might not enjoy notre dame’s usual long, frigid winter, but that doesn’t mean he’s not up for a chal­lenge. Just a few months into his notre dame career, the freshman running back has powered through most of those early transitions, and has succeeded in making an impact in a crowded back­field. folston sits with fellow freshman greg bryant be­hind veteran juniors george atkinson, cam mcdaniel and amir carlisle, and has had to work hard to see any action at all this season. 
but for folston, his time as an understudy has given him the opportunity to ad­just and grow outside of the spot light. 
“i have a couple great run­ning backs in front of me. it’s not about coming in right away and playing,” folston said. “you have to come in and prepare yourself for a college football life. it’s a whole different lifestyle. it’s a whole different way of go­ing about the game of foot­ball. There’s a lot to learn.” 
his competitors at running 
see folsTon PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish take on Wildcats 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
when notre dame moved to the acc, conventional wisdom suggested that the irish would be chal­lenged as they joined one of the nation’s top soccer conferences. 
but the no. 2 irish (7-0-4, 4-0-3 acc) aren’t just liv­ing for the weekends. notre dame has already notched two regular-season vic­tories against big Ten op­ponents on school nights, beating regional-rival michigan on sept. 17 and defending national cham­pion indiana on oct. 2. 
notre dame will see if the trend continues tonight when no. 14 northwestern, a squad that irish coach bobby clark describes as “one of the strongest teams in the country,” pays a visit to alumni stadium. 
“i think they’re a very well organized team,” clark said. “They’re a team that they’re very difficult to break down. They’ve obvi­ously got some very good players, also.” 
The wildcats (8-3-1, 1-1­0 big Ten) won their last meeting with the irish, beating notre dame 2-1 in evanston, ill., on oct. 12, 2012. The loss was one of just four defeats handed to the irish over the course of the season. 

“obviously i think we’ll have to defend very well tomorrow, because they counter very quickly,” clark said. “i hope that our fin­ishers are very sharp, be­cause they’re not an easy team to break down. 

“we’ve got to take the charges at one end and ob­viously we’ve got to do that a little better than we did last weekend, and we’re going to have to prevent them getting opportunities. That’s important.” 
The wildcat attack is led—at least statistically— by sophomore forward Joey 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Knott dominates duncan for first win 
By MEGAN WINKEL 
sports writer
 Knott emerged victorious in a battle against duncan on sunday 26-0, with a strong offense and a stronger defense that brought in two interceptions and shut out duncan’s offense. 
“it feels great to get our first win of the season,” Knott senior cap­tain James hodgens said. “if we keep playing like we did today, at that intensity, i think we’ll put our­selves in a good position to keep winning this season.” 
hodgens said he was most excit­ed about how the offense played. 
“scoring 26 points means you have to be doing something right,” hodgens said. “our offensive line played really well. we didn’t turn the ball over once, which was a big part of our success to­day. [sophomore] receiver griffin carroll had a few touchdowns that were great passes and great runs. overall, offense played really well.” 
Knott (1-2) and duncan (0-3) headed into the game in similar positions, both having lost its prior two games. duncan junior cap­tain alan Keck said the team will focus on defense in practice. 
“defense gave up way too many yards this past game and way too many points,” Keck said. “we’re going to go over specific plays for the defense in practices and work on tackling and who covers who.” 
duncan will have a chance for its defense to prove itself when it faces siegfried on november 3rd, and Knott hopes to continue its successes against morrissey the same day. 
Contact Megan Winkel at mwinkel@nd.edu 
Fisher 28, Zahm 0 
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
sports writer 
in a crucial game for both sides it was fisher who got the best of Zahm, winning 28-0 on sunday. 
The green wave (2-0-2) were the superior force from the start, as senior outside linebacker casey morris intercepted the ball on Zahm’s first play from scrimmage and ran the ball back for a touch­down from the 25-yard line. 
fisher’s defense, which record­ed 4 sacks throughout the game, continued to wreak havoc and forced Zahm to punt on their next possession. The change of posses­sion led to another fisher touch­down by senior running back rick neville. 
see m inTerhall PAGE 14 





