THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

VOLUME 47, ISSUE 59 | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Jenkins explains Diversity Committee’s role 
University president reflects on inclusion at Notre Dame, strategies for improving 
By MARISA IATI 
Assistant Managing Editor 

The new President’s Oversight Committee on Diversity and Inclusion aims to ensure campus leaders are striving to create a welcom­ing atmosphere for students, faculty and staff, University President Fr. John Jenkins told The Observer last month. 
“It’s important to realize that there are many good things that have happened [in the realm of diversity and inclusion],” Jenkins said. “We can talk ourselves into being discouraged, and I think we have to avoid that, on one hand. 
“On the other hand, I think there are things we need to work on at various parts of the University. I think in a lot of ways, I want to hold those things in balance. We made progress, but we have more to do.” 
On Sept. 10, Jenkins sent the Notre Dame commu­nity a letter announcing the committee’s formation. The letter, sent via email, stated Jenkins will chair the group. The committee also includes eight other members of the University’s administration. 
Members of the committee work in teams, each of which addresses the concerns of students, of faculty or of staff, Jenkins told The Observer. He said the committee 
see DIVERSITY PAGE 4 


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

University President Fr. John Jenkins delivers the annual Faculty Address in September. This year, Jenkins launched an Oversight Committee on Diversity and Inclusion to discuss the status of these issues on campus. 


Mayor speaks to ND engineers 
By ALEX CAO 
News Writer 

In a lecture Monday morn­ing in DeBartolo Hall, South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg spoke to Notre Dame engi­neering students about how engineers can help to move the city forward. 
Buttigieg said a big part of his job centers around bring­ing South Bend back from its long-dead industrial roots. 
“I’m the mayor, the mayor of my hometown. I grew up here in South Bend,” Buttigieg said. “What’s great about this job is that you have the abil­ity to shape this community [in many ways], including physically. And engineering is a big part of that.” 
Although Notre Dame is a major focal point of the 
see MAYOR PAGE 5 


ND, SMC teams compete in Model U.N. conference 

Photo courtesy of Alex Penler 

A group of 12 Saint Mary’s students and 24 Notre Dame students represent Australia, Serbia and Malawi at a Model United Nations conference in Chicago last month. 
By KELLY KONYA 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
A team of 12 students from Saint Mary’s and 24 from Notre Dame partici­pated in debates and ses­sions about international issues at the American Model United Nations Conference from Nov. 23 to 26. 
Saint Mary’s junior Nicole O’Toole said the conference, held at the Sheraton Hotel in Chicago, was a mock convention for commit­tees and boards of the United Nations. The team of Belles represent­ed Australia, while the Notre Dame contingent represented Serbia and Malawi. 
“We had sessions each day, and on the last day of the conference, the gen­eral plenary votes on all of the passed resolutions within the separate com­mittees,” O’Toole said. “I worked on the first com­mittee for Australia, and we focused on the es­tablishment of a nucle­ar-weapon-free zone in the Middle East and po­tential problems arising from the accumulation of conventional [am­munition] stockpiles in surplus. 
“We came to resolu­tions on both topics after three days and about 20 hours of both formal and informal debates in our formal sessions.” 
see MODEL U.N. PAGE 5 


Events celebrate Advent on campus 
By NICOLE McALEE 
News Writer 
Campus Ministry will cel­ebrate Advent by hosting a variety of events meant to en­courage students to take time off during the pre-finals rush to prepare for Christmas. 
Kate Barrett, assistant di­rector of undergraduate ministry, said she helps co­ordinate Advent events and prayer opportunities around campus that balance the Advent and the Christmas seasons. 
“Unfortunately, we’re never here for the Christmas sea­son, except at the very end of it, when students return to campus after break,” Barrett said. “I try to help figure out ways to celebrate Christmas in the halls that allows 
see ADVENT PAGE 5 


NEWS PAGE 1 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby Hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you want for Christmas? 


Claire Wiley 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla East Hall 

“All I want for Christmas is a Hippopotamus.” 

Justin Wolfington 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
“World peace.” 


Matt Brittan 
senior 
off campus 

“I want an official Red Ryder, two-hundred shot range model air rifle... or a girlfriend.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Patrick McDonough 
sophomore 
Keough Hall 
“Money.” 


Zoey Gyampoh 
sophomore 
Farley Hall 
“An iPhone 5s.” 


Jenny Shan 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla West Hall 

“Sky blue Mustang convertible 2005.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Ann Marie Jakubowski Henry Hilliard Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Katie McCarty Vicky Jacobsen Charlie Ducey Isaac Lorton 
Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Emily Danaher Maddie Daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Hesburgh Lecture Physics Colloquium Hospitality Lunch Conference: TransPose Dance 

Kevin Song Austin Taliaferro 
Mendoza College of Nieuwland Science Hall Geddes Hall Catholics & Mormons Show: “CityBeat” Business 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. McKenna Hall South Dining Hall 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Northwestern Lunch supports St. 5 p.m. Oakroom 
Corrections 
Michael Crant gives Professor Heidi Peter Claver Catholic Discussion of 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 

The Observer regards itself as speech on leadership. Schellman to speak. Workers group. interfaith dialogue. Dance performance. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Four:7 Catholic Grotto Trip Syria: Why It Matters Hockey Holiday Gift Auction 

of journalism at all times. We do, 
Fellowship Bond Hall Hesburgh Center of Compton Family Ice Robinson Community 

however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall 10 p.m.-11 p.m. International Studies Arena Learning Center 

mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
8:15p.m.-9:30 p.m. Asian American 7:30 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Christian worship Association leads trip. Talk on crisis in Syria Game against Raffle to support 
we can correct our error. 
service. and possible responses. Massachusetts. children in community. 



SMC alumna delivers ‘Life After Music Degree’ lecture 
By RACHEL RAHAL 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Department of Music hosted the final lec­ture in the “Life After a Music Degree” series Monday, bring­ing a College alumna in to speak on “How the Path Might Redirect Over Time.” 
Patricia Doyle, director of cor­porate and foundation relations for the College, said she has al­ways been passionate about mu­sic and her career path began long before her time as a music major at Saint Mary’s. 
“My involvement in music started when I was eight years old,” Doyle said. “A piano was delivered to our house, and my mother told me I would begin lessons tomorrow.” 
Doyle said she studied piano all through high school and entered the convent at Saint Mary’s after her high school graduation, where she declared a major in music. 
During her time at the College, Doyle said she was interested in music theory, history, and form analysis. 
“I like to see how things fit to­gether, whether it be crossword puzzles or scheduling,” Doyle said. 
Doyle said she graduated with a degree in music but left the convent between her ju­
“Here I am today, writing grants for organizations, and we are doing very well. I had no idea I would end up back at Saint Mary’s” 
Patricia Doyle 
director of corporate and 
foundation relations 
nior and senior year. During her senior year, she volun­teered at a Children’s Hospital in South Bend, designing mu­sic programs for developmen­tally disabled children. Doyle took two classes about Special Eeducation that year, which she said made her career in music start to veer in that direction. 



“I found out about a field called music therapy,” Doyle said. 
At the time, Doyle said, there were only five programs in the United States that offered music therapy programs. She attended the University of Kansas, where she received a second Bachelor’s degree in Music Therapy. 
“I went in there gung-ho, to make a career for children. That was my goal in life,” Doyle said. “At age 24, I felt I knew what I wanted to do in life.” She then moved to Minnesota, where she worked at a large psychiatric hospital as supervisor of music therapy. Doyle said at the start, she has four music therapists working for her. This number in­creased to 14 by the time she left. 
“People saw I had the skills,” she said. “Whether I did or not, I was going to try.” 
An opportunity came up for work in California but fell through shortly after Doyle moved there, she said. At that point, she said she knew “some­thing will come up.” 
Doyle said she then encoun­tered a school for struggling adolescents on a mountain in California, which  involved a two-year program that used music to create a better self-out­look for each child. She worked there for 19 years, running the school the last six years she was there. 
In 2003, Doyle moved back to South Bend, where she began a career of writing grants for vari­ous institutions. 
“My experience changed again, but what I kept going through always involved mu­sic,” Doyle said. 
“If you have a laptop and in­ternet access, you can write a grant.” 
Doyle said she ran her own business of writing grants un­til 2012, when she spoke with a friend working in the devel­opmental department of Saint Mary’s. 
A grant writing position then opened up at the College, and Doyle applied for and accepted a job offer. 
“Here I am today, writing grants for organizations, and we are doing very well,” Doyle said. “I had no idea I would end up back at Saint Mary’s.” 
Doyle said throughout her career, connections with oth­er people were crucial to en­countering new careers and opportunities. 
“If you can find someone you trust, they are a diamond, even if you don’t have a skill set,” she said. “The curious mind is also a diamond. It is a wonderful thing. If you have one, take it on.” 
Contact Rachel Rahal at rrahal01@saintmarys.edu 
Panelists discuss local LgBTQ social issues 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
News Writer 
A panel of professors dis­cussed the different cur­rent events, issues and policies in the LgBTQ community on Monday at Saint Mary’s. 
The panel was organized by Eileen Cullina, the President of Saint Mary’s College Straight and gay Alliance (SAgA). 
Patrick Pierce, professor of political science, pro­posed ways for gay rights policies to change over time in favor of the LgBTQ community. The public is very involved in these poli­cies and change will hap­pen more and more with generation replacement and awareness to the prob­lem of redistricting, he said. 
“Older, more cultur­ally conservative people leave the population, [and] younger, more cul­turally liberal folks enter the political population,” he said. “Nobody will tell you in the media that a big problem has to do with redistricting. 
“Republicans who are go­ing to hold more culturally conservative positions, more restrictive positions with gay rights policies — they have been controlling state legislatures. They can redraw the district lines for state legislative districts.” 
Following Pierce, Justice Education professor Adrienne Lyles Chockley said the LgBTQ commu­nity had great successes in the courts in 2013, and even more major issues are being discussed in the state-level courts right now. 
“Perhaps the biggest suc­cess is the movement in gay marriage,” she said. “Here are the main areas [in which] there is some ma­jor stuff happening: family law, association and civil participation, equal ben­efits, public education and crime and punishment.” 
Catherine Pittman, clini­cal psychologist and psy­chology professor, said there are ways to make change on the city level, raising awareness to rights that LgBTQ individuals.
 “The truth is, there are a lot of older people who think it’s already against the law to do things that hurt the LgBT commu­nity,” she said. “There is an organization called the South Bend Human Rights Commission … [that is] empowered to fight dis­crimination on the basis of race, religion, color and family status. 
“They are not empowered against discrimination against gay or transgender people.” 
Pittman said the possibil­ity for change exists in the local community, and the South Bend LgBTQ com­munity needed civil rights but struggled to prove that there was a local problem with discrimination. 
“The opposition would say that people are looking for special rights, and there is no evidence that there’s even a problem,” she said. “After about eight years, we finally got the South Bend City Council to pass a law that says if a person is dis­criminated against on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, they are allowed to go to the human rights commission and ask for help if it has to do with employment, public ac­commodations, education and housing.” 
Communication Studies professor Marne Austin, said interpersonal com­munication  and taking a holistic approach to work­ing through all perspec­tives articulated is crucial to making shifts in culture. 
“The jargon and the rhet­oric of “coming out” is de­cades old now, but this idea of coming out of the closet is so grounded in hetero­normativity,” she said. “I and several scholars have tried to reclaim the term of ‘coming out’ to ‘inviting in.
 “We can have interper­sonal instances of social justice just by talking to people. we can actually make changes in their lives.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 



THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Diversity 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
considers diversity of race, ethnicity, nation of origin, socioeconomic class, gender and sexual orientation. 
“I think that we have made progress. The creation of the gLBTQ group [Prism-ND] is a big step forward, and I hope that’s successful,” Jenkins said. “But there are other ar­eas of the University where maybe we need to think about, for instance, how to incorporate international students. … They bring great gifts, but perhaps we need to make sure that they’re fully included. … Sometimes in­dividuals from underrepre­sented minorities … feel that Notre Dame could be more welcoming.” 
Jenkins said diversity ac­cords with a sense of fair­ness — that everyone should have access to a Notre Dame education, regardless of his or her background. He said the University’s Catholic mission and its intention to create a positive atmosphere on campus also inform its commitment to promoting diversity. 
“A more diverse and inclu­sive campus is a better educa­tional environment,” Jenkins said. “I think we learn, stu­dents and faculty and every­one on campus learns, not only in formal classes from teachers, but from one an­other. And insofar as we can have a broader array of per­spectives on matters, I think it’s a better education.” 
Jenkins said he charged committee members with identifying areas in which the University could be more diverse or inclusive. 
“I’ve asked them to just look at the landscape, ana­lyze where we are, what’s going on, what can we im­prove on and then to for­mulate various plans,” he said. “How can we get better? What can we do to continue to make progress, to address the issues that need to be addressed?” 
During the group’s first meeting in October, mem­bers shared the initiatives each team is working on and the challenges they face, Jenkins said. 
“Then on a second meet­ing, we sort of got into a level of somewhat greater detail,” he said. 
The committee is meant to hold administrators ac­countable for working on issues of diversity and inclu­sion, Jenkins said. 
“One of the challenges of this is that everyone has so much on their plate. … But diversity and inclusion goes across all areas,” Jenkins said. “People can fail to keep focus on that. … If you have to go to a meeting, and the president’s there, you’ve got to be able to say something [about your progress in these areas]. 
“I think my role, our role in this committee, one of its roles, is to just make sure that we’re not losing focus, that we’re keeping our eye on the ball.” 
The teams will work to­gether to address issues that bridge students, faculty and staff, Jenkins said. He said at one of the committee’s pre­vious meetings, Matt Storin, senior project specialist for Student Affairs, mentioned students told him some class­mates make comments that are unintentionally hurtful or marginalizing. 
“That was very helpful, for Matt to say that, because the people who work with the faculty can begin to think about, How can we make the classroom environment less marginalizing, more in­clusive for people?” Jenkins said. 
The committee will meet at least quarterly, Ann Firth, the group’s vice chair and chief of staff in the Office of the President, said. She said the next meeting is sched­uled for January. 
Jenkins said the group does not meet more frequently be­cause the committee “sees that things are done, rather than does them.” 
“That’s the point of over­sight,” he said. “What we have to do is meet and say, ‘Okay, here’s our plan, here’s our challenges.’ And then ev­erybody goes and works on them and then comes back and says, ‘Here’s the prog­ress we’ve made.’” 
The oversight group plans to communicate its prog­ress in various ways, includ­ing town hall meetings with staff, similar meetings with students and the president’s annual address to the facul­ty, Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said the committee seeks to implement concrete changes on campus, but no­ticeable progress will not oc­cur overnight. 
“If we don’t change any­thing, we wasted our time. But … it’s probably hard, steady work,” Jenkins said. “I think there’s sometimes a feeling that if you can do one thing, one dramatic thing, you can fix the problem. I don’t expect that to happen. I think it’s a hundred, may­be a thousand, small things that we just have to keep do­ing. And if one thing doesn’t work, we try another thing, and that’s how we’ll make progress. 
“We will not solve all the problems in the next few weeks, but it needs to be a campuswide effort to make the whole campus com­munity more diverse and inclusive.” 
Associate News Editor Tori Roeck contributed to this report. 
Contact Marisa Iati at           miati@nd.edu 
CLC task forces deliver progress updates 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
News Writer 
At the Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting Monday, student gov­ernment members, rec­tors, professors and staff members from the Office of Student Affairs shared progress updates from CLC’s three task force committees. According to the Task Force Agenda for 2013-2014, the first com­mittee works on safety and mental health, the second on community building and the third on holistic development. 
Student Body President Alex Coccia said the first task force continues to aid student government’s campaign for sexual as­sault prevention. 
Student government hosted a Student-Led Discussion about sexu­al assault on Nov. 20 in Coleman-Morse Center, Coccia said further plans to address sexual assault are in progress 
“We’re really going to make [sexual assault pre­vention] an issue cam­paign with door-to-door pledges.” he said. 
The task force hopes to work closely with fresh­men and sophomores because “they will be in­fluencing the freshmen and sophomores in future years,” Coccia said. 
Student Body Vice President Nancy Joyce said the second taskforce, 
“We’re really going to make [sexual assault prevention] an issue campaign with door-to-door pledges.” 
Alex Coccia 
student body president 
is refinine interview ques­tions for focus groups in residence halls where rector turnover has been most common. 
Joyce said the group wants to see “what is successful in transition and maintaining dorm community.” 
The group is also work­ing with Campus Ministry to see how liturgical life correlates with a dorm’s 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
sense of community, Joyce said. 
Sociology professor Rich Williams said the third task force is researching office hour trends among universities across the country. 
“Universities across the country complain that students don’t come to of­fice hours,” Williams said. 
The task force will ex­plore ways to encourage students to come to office hours more frequently in order to encourage stu­dent and teacher relation­ships, Williams said. 
Keenan Hall Rector Noel Terranova said faculty should conduct research and mentor students.
 “The emphasis is be­ing given to faculty for advancing research,” he said. “Advancing research isn’t mutually exclusive to relationships with students.” 
Anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom said Notre Dame is  founded on an egalitarian process of research and undergradu­ate relationships.” 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzigm@nd.edu 




Model U.N. 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
Saint Mary’s political science professor Marc Belanger said the confer­ence taught the students about world affairs and how to negotiate effec­tively in front of a room full of people. 
“Our students served on six different [United Nations] committees and councils. And sitting in on those sessions, seeing how the rules work in practice, what makes for effective and ineffective action and how difficult it really is to get almost 100 countries on the same page, even in a ‘mock’ setting, was re­ally valuable,” Belanger said. “The students this year have been pioneers, and their hard work will make this even better for those who attend future conferences. 
“[And] apart from the skills students can learn, I think the [United 
Mayor 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
city today, Buttigieg said South Bend’s history does not revolve around the University.“South Bend didn’t grow up from educa­tion. It grew up from indus­try, ... so it had this industrial phase when the Big Three was actually the Big Four, and the fourth was Studebaker,” he said. “Studebaker closed its doors exactly 50 years ago, actually, exactly this week, [in] 1963, ... and what has followed wasn’t exactly post-industrial but what was actually an economically post-traumatic phase. 
“The week that I entered my mayoral race, actually, there was a headline about Nations’] mission and role in the world is not well understood, especially in this country in which many people, even educat­ed people, hold inaccurate and even conspiratorial understandings of what the [United Nations] does and how much power it has.” 

O’Toole said she thought the conference provided a realistic view of how large a role the United Nations plays in international affairs. 
“It was interesting to sit through each session and get into the nitty-gritty of each topic,” O’Toole said. “Now, I have much more respect for the en­tire process of interna­tional debate, and I also understand how much power each individual country has in the [United Nations].” 
Saint Mary’s senior Alex Penler, co-president of Notre Dame’s Model United Nations club and 
South Bend being one of America’s dying cities.” 
Buttigieg said he is bring­ing the city back from that phase by utilizing modern technology and using inge­nuity to repurpose many of the resources South Bend al­ready has. 
“The strategy for mak­ing South Bend able to find its own way and move for­ward mostly has to do with a principle expressed in a lot of different ways. That principle is that you take what you have and reimag­ine its value in a new way,” he said. “For example, this was Ignition Park. It used to be acres and acres of crum­bling Studebaker factory infrastructure, ... but what we found that had the most president of the Saint Mary’s club, said this marked the first year the College attended the con­ference as its own school, 
“It was a really great way to represent the College and show the world what Saint Mary’s women can do. We were the only female delegation in a heavily male conference.” 
Alex Penler 
president 
Saint Mary’s Model U.N. 
instead of having a few students join the Notre Dame team. 
She said more members of the Notre Dame club attended this conference than any other conference 
demand for that area was an industry that didn’t exist when I was born, and that’s DataAanalytics andDdata support.”
 South Bend’s cold weather and abundance of railways that could be repurposed to fit fiber optics make it a great location for the data analytics and data support industry, Buttigieg said.
   “As we ask ourselves this question, “What kind of city is South Bend going to be in the next 50 years?” we mark our 150th anniversary this year,” Buttigieg said. “It boils down to a handful of priorities we have to ad­dress. One of them is safe­ty, ... another is what the economy in downtown looks like,,... and lastly, making io the past 10 years. 
“We worked very hard this year to recruit on both campuses, and we had a great mix of students from all majors with different levels of experience and understanding of interna­tional relations,” Penler said. “I was beyond proud of how well Saint Mary’s did, since it was our first year. 
“It was a really great way to represent the College and show the world what Saint Mary’s women can do. We were the only fe­male delegation in a heav­ily male conference.” 
Penler said the group will attend the Harvard National Model United Nations Conference in February, one of the most competitive conferences in the world. This confer­ence includes students from institutions on six continents. 
Contact Kelly Konya at          kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
sure our government is more efficient, more modern.” 
After his talk, Buttigiegg answered questions about internship and service op­portunities for prospective engineers in his office or for the city of South Bend. 
Buttigieg told The Observer after the talk that his ultimate vision for South Bend is broad in scope. 
“The goal we’re driving to­ward is a city that feels more like a city, a city that has a reputation of being one of America’s greatest univer­sity towns, and a city with the benefits of a larger city [and] the benefits of a small­er town,” he said. 
Contact Alex Cao at          acao@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Advent 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
students to enjoy all the warmth of Christmas while still respecting the beauty and enormity of the Advent season itself.” 
Barrett said a highlight of the scheduled events is Lessons and Carols next Sunday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Folk Choir, Liturgical Choir and Basilica Schola will perform Advent music, which will be supplemented by Scripture readings. 
“Lessons and Carols is a must-do event,” Barrett said. “[It] has a long tradition in the Church and at Notre Dame, so it’s long been an Advent tradition.” 
Other Advent events on campus include an RCIA Rite of Welcome at the 11:45 a.m. Basilica Mass on Sunday, a celebration of the Feast of Our Lady of guadalupe in the Basilica on Dec. 12 at 5:15 
p.m. and Advent Vespers in the Basilica’s Lady Chapel on Dec. 15 at 7 p.m. 
One-time events that cel­ebrate the season are most effective on a busy college campus, Barrett said. 
“It’s meant to be a peaceful, reflective season, anyway, so there’s no need to add a lot of action and events,” Barrett said. “One great way to cel­ebrate Advent is just to spend some quiet time each day with the daily gospel read­ings. We have a little resource called the Little Blue Book that has daily reflections for Advent in it.” 
The Little Blue Book is available in the Campus Ministry office in Coleman-Morse Center, and Barrett said more prayer and reflec­
tion resources  are  available  
on  the  Campus  Ministry  
website.  

Barrett said taking time to celebrate Advent is impor­tant, especially in the midst of final exams.
 “When you think you’re too stressed to stop and pray, you should stop and pray,” Barrett said. 
“So many forces encourage us to jump right to Christmas, but Advent offers us the op­portunity to slow down, to reflect on how we prepare our hearts for anything, but in this case, specifically for the coming of Christ into our worl, 
“Advent also helps us keep Christmas in perspective by reminding us that – as Jesus did – what we really have to offer each other is ourselves, not all the stuff that the stores and websites want us to buy.” 
Information about events occurring during Advent is available on the Campus Ministry website, as well as its Twitter feed, Facebook page and app. 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcale@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
The joys of freedom 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Merry Christmas 
Annemarie Loessberg 
News Writer 

We are now officially in the Christmas season! It’s usually one of my favorite times of year, but the past couple of years have been stressful. Ever since my parents split freshman year, handling the holidays has been nerve-wracking and emotional. But this year is going to be different. 
I have already started enjoying this holiday, starting midnight after Thanksgiving. I have made the decision to not work over the two weeks that I will be home. And I already have plans to make my brothers’ lives miserable, in the most loving sense possible. 
Christmas music and movies are essential to this time of year. Spotify, Pandora, 8tracks and even my own lim­ited Christmas music supply have kept me happy. I even formulated a study Christmas playlist, ready for finals. White Christmas and How the grinch Stole Christmas got me ready to begin the last two weeks of class, and more movies wait for me at home. 
It’s not going to be a big gift-giving year for me. My bank account just won’t allow it. But my decision to not work over break is not going to come back to haunt me. My on-campus job keeps me afloat. going to school far from home has its advantages, but there are also disadvantages like missing out on everyone growing up. But now I won’t miss any opportunity to hang out with my niece and nephew when they aren’t at their other grandparents, and I won’t miss any chance to hang out with my younger brothers and cousins. 
I worked hard all summer, and I worked even harder during the semes­ter. I’m going to go ice skating with the little kids, enjoy a drink with my best friend (we haven’t had a chance to cel­ebrate together since we both turned 21 in October) and bake cookies with my younger, not-so-little anymore, brothers. 
In my family, it’s become about the little things, especially around holidays 
— making sure we are putting effort into our relationships and spending time with each other. And since I’m gone most of the year, those are little things that I can do to let them know that I still care and enjoy every moment I get to spend with them. Making a meal for my mom, surprising my dad at work with lunch, and getting my brothers out of the house are just a few things I have planned. 
Holidays are only stressful if you make them that way. going home with a good attitude and a smile on my face are a good start to making this particu­lar holiday as relaxing as possible. 
Merry Christmas! 
Contact Annemarie Loessberg at aloess01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Connor Roth 
Think. It’s Not Illegal Yet 
If you are tired of partisan politics and the many frustrating aspects of our na­tion’s two-party-dominated system, I’d encourage you to google “libertarianism.” I’ve found the philosophy refreshing from the left-right paradigm because instead of placing people into groups, libertarian­ism focuses on each individual person as a human being. I came across the follow­ing essay not too long ago and have been convinced to delve into these ideas further. Maybe you’ll be persuaded, too. The au­thor, David Boaz, eloquently describes “the joys of freedom” in a much more succinct manner than I could put into words. 
The following is an excerpt from the Cato Institute’s Policy Report of January/ February 2011. This essay is titled “The Joys of Freedom”: 
“It’s not easy to define freedom. Leonard Read said, “Freedom is the absence of man-concocted restraints against the release of creative energy.” Friedrich Hayek referred to “a state in which each can use his knowl­edge for his own purposes.” Tom g. Palmer is partial to this description from John Locke: 
“The end of Law is not to abolish or restrain, but to preserve and enlarge Freedom: For in all the states of created beings capable of Laws, where there is no Law, there is no Freedom. For Liberty is to be free from restraint and violence from others which cannot be, where there is no Law: But Freedom is not, as we are told, A Liberty for every Man to do what he lists: (For who could be free, when every other Man’s Humour might domineer over him?) But a Liberty to dispose, and order, as he lists, his Persons, Actions, Possessions and his whole Property, within the Allowance of those Laws under which he is; and therein not to be subject to the arbitrary Will of another, but freely follow his own. (Second Treatise on government, sec. 57; discussed in Palmer, Realizing Freedom.) 
“That is, a free person is not “subject to the arbitrary will of another” and is free to do as he chooses with his own person and property. But you can only have those free­doms when the law protects your freedom and everyone else’s. 
“However we define freedom, we can certainly recognize aspects of it. Freedom means respecting the moral autonomy of each person, seeing each person as the owner of his or her own life, and each free to make the important decisions about his life. 
“Freedom gives meaning to our lives, indeed, it allows us to define our own meaning, to define what’s important to us. Justice Antonin Scalia mocked his col­league Anthony Kennedy for writing, “At the heart of liberty is the right to define one’s own concept of existence, of mean­ing, of the universe and the mystery of hu­man life.” But surely (whatever its relevance to constitutional jurisprudence) that is a part of freedom. 
“And thus each of us should be free to think, to speak, to write, to create, to marry, to eat and drink and smoke, to start and run a business and to associate with others as we choose. Freedom is the foundation of our ability to construct our lives as we see fit. The social consequences of freedom are equally desirable. Freedom leads to social harmony. We have less conflict when we have fewer specific rules about how we should live — in terms of class or caste, religion, dress, lifestyle or schools. 
“Economic freedom means that people are free to produce and to exchange with others. Freely negotiated and agreed-upon prices carry information throughout the economy about what people want and what can be done more efficiently. As Henry Hazlitt put it, for an economic order to function, prices must be free to tell the truth. A free economy gives people incen­tives to invent, innovate and produce more goods and services for the whole society. That means more satisfaction of more wants, a higher standard of living for every­one and more economic growth. 
“And that process has taken us in barely 250 years of economic freedom from the back-breaking labor and short life expec­tancy that were the natural lot of mankind since time immemorial to the abundance we see around us today in more and more parts of the world (though not yet enough of the world). 
“The country singer Brad Paisley’s video, “Welcome to the Future,” captures a lot of this. It’s an ode to commerce, technology, achievement, social change and cultural diversity. (The video makes that clearer than the song itself. And also check out his “American Saturday Night,” a celebration of trade and immigration.) 
“Ancient man was just as smart as we are. So what’s changed? Freedom. A political system of liberty gives us the opportunity to use our talents and to cooperate with others to create and produce, with the help of a few simple institutions that protect our rights. And those simple institutions 
— property rights, the rule of law, a prohibi­tion on the initiation of force — make pos­sible invention, innovation, and progress in commerce, technology and styles of living. When libertarians defend limited govern­ment, we are defending freedom and the progress it brings.” 
Connor Roth is a junior studying economics and constitutional studies. He lives in Duncan Hall, hails from Cleveland, Ohio, and is currently par­ticipating in the London abroad pro­gram through Notre Dame. He can be contacted at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Celebrating green events 
Christian Nofziger 
Ask the greenMan 
Fellow Tree Huggers, 

As the semester winds down and campus starts to focus on exams and the excitement of the Christmas sea­son, I would like to change my focus a bit. I write a lot of articles in this column encouraging you all to change your habits, to live green and to wear ugly sweaters. Don’t get me wrong — I like bossing you all around and all, but I think you deserve a break! During this stressful and busy time, I would like to thank you for listening and making an effort during this semes­ter. At this point in the Dorm Energy Championship, we have saved almost 125,000 kilowatt hours. This energy could power 11 households for a whole year and is no small achievement! 
Please keep it up and remember, it’s for the red pandas (look them up, and if you’re not motivated, you don’t have a soul). 
I would also like to applaud the in­creasing number of green-certified events taking place on campus. These green events are certified through the Office of Sustainability and include environmentally conscious menus, waste disposal and materials. The checklist process is easy, and many campus organizations are coming up with creative ways to go green with their events. The green framework even inspired a few new events around campus. This past semester, Keough Hall certified a pig roast and two pancake dinners with Welsh Family Hall. Consequently, even though they were able to knock my dorm out of the interhall football tournament, I owe the Kangaroos a big shout-out for certifying more green events than any other dorm this semester. Ryan Hall was hot on Keough’s tail, certifying both a Premier League watch with Duncan and a new, green Thanksgiving dinner. Notre Dame’s engineering department certified its Engineers Without Borders talk, show­ing that the academic departments are getting creative, as well. All in all, 15 events achieved green Certification this semester, and while I don’t have the space to highlight every event, I would like to thank everyone involved. green Events demonstrate that re­sponsible living can be exciting and engaging. 
Speaking of fun, my favorite event was Lights Out Volleyball, hosted by Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West. Imagine playing volleyball with a glow-in-the dark ball. … Yeah, you feel left out. Now, I know I said I wouldn’t preach, but I lied. Traditions are com­monplace at Notre Dame, and suc­cessful events can become a treasured tradition in a few short years. Events like Lights Out Volleyball and green Thanksgiving dinner are exciting because they have a shot at becom­ing campus traditions like the Fischer Regatta or the Keenan Revue. Imagine a campus bike race for transporta­tion awareness or a trip to the Lake Michigan dunes for a nature walk, followed by a day on the beach. New green events can help us incorporate green living into our daily lives. So go out there, get creative and start a sus­tainable legacy. 
Christian Nofziger can be reached at cnofzige@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Be loud and be proud! 
Almost a year after graduating, I attended my first away game. It was a pleasant experience. granted, it was at Stanford, where no one cares about football. I tailgated with friends and eventually found myself in a very pleasant state of mind. It was in this state of mind that I at­tended the actual football game. Unfortunately, it was a very rough game. This is when my frustrations gradually become more and more tangible, as I let out expletive upon expletive. Now, let me preface the following by saying I am a very proud alumnus of the University and have only but good intentions when it comes to cheering on the football team. However, this unwavering passion often leads to less than savory verbiage when the opposing team performs well, especially when their successes are the result of our team’s potentially avoidable mishaps. As such, I became the recipient of a barrage of criticisms from various el­derly alumni for my choice of language. Rather than concentrating their attacks on the opposing team, they decided to focus their scoldings in my direction because of my choice of words. I am the proud product of four years of student-section upbringing, where no botched play goes uncriticized. Our university’s student section is relentless when it comes to letting the opposing team know when they have messed up. This is all in the good-natured spirit of supporting our university’s football team. I would encourage the elderly members of our alumni community to embrace this outlook, rather than to criticize it. We may have different ways of expressing our frustrations, but that does not mean the younger generations’ methodologies should be admonished for their frank and bold approach. This type of reprimanding makes for an unfulfilling experience when sitting in the alumni section. Rather than squabbling amongst ourselves on the subject of unsavory jargon, the alumni of Notre Dame should cooperate and join hands in cheering on the football team while allowing individuals to unabashedly express their frustra­tions toward the opposing team. 
Jia Hua Juszczak 
alumnus class of 2012 Dec. 3 
No more door alarms 
Office of Student Affairs and rectors, 
As a student who attended all the regular-season home games this year, I feel qualified to say that the new dorm alarm system is flawed. In fact, I would go so far as to say that it undermines security in our residence halls. 
Last year, the policy on dorm security during game days was to only have one door open to swipe access by students. This makes sense, primarily be­cause visitors to our dorms are entering through one location, likely the most central or visible of the entrances, which makes suspicious activity, like theft, less likely. This year, a new element was added — residents and visitors may only exit the same main door, or else an alarm will go off. While the intentions of this measure are admirable, it is clear that it does not work in practice. 
Students and visitors are busy during game days. They don’t want to take the time to walk to the main door to exit the dorm. Rather, they prefer to set off the alarm and leave it to those remaining in the building to turn off the noise. This would not be an issue if it happened once or twice a game day, but that is not the case. The alarms in the dorms are being set off hundreds of times on each game day, to the point where walking around campus on game days some­times includes a veritable chorus of alarms coming from various dorms. 
Alarms are intended for a specific purpose — to alert residents to an urgent situation. Door alarms are intended to alert residents when a door has been propped open and the building is not secure. With this new policy, alarms have become so common that they are completely ignored. Residents do not concern themselves with whether a door is being held open or if someone simply exited the wrong door. Instead, they quickly disable the alarm before everyone in the hall screams of frustration at the incessant noise. Moreover, I worry that eventually, the alarm could be a fire alarm, not a door alarm, and students may ignore it. 
Both of these cases present a serious threat to security in our residence halls. I ask that our rectors and the Office of Student Affairs seriously recon­sider this policy before it leads to an outcome our community will regret. 
Daniel Sehlhorst 
sophomore Zahm House Dec. 3 





THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Erin McAuliffe 
Scene Writer 

The days of Team Edward and Team Jacob have (thankfully) passed, but there is a new love triangle on the rise. gone is the useless, melancholy character we had in Bella. Katniss, a headstrong, insurgent protagonist has taken over. (This also means we have ridded the red carpets of Kristen Stewart’s grimace and replaced it with J-Law’s hilarious banter — woop woop!) 
Although I was thoroughly Team Jacob during my brief stint with the “Twilight” series, I have switched allegiance from the tall, dark and handsome. I admit Peeta is short, pale and not Hemsworth Hot, but that doesn’t hold him back. Bella, a de­pendent, sad protagonist, needed the lively, relatively carefree counterpart found in Jacob. Katniss, however, is an independent woman who, realistically, doesn’t even need a man. However, there are two guys fighting over her, and they provide a good distraction from her otherwise dismal world, so she’s like, “Okay, I guess I’ll go for it.” Peeta is the man she doesn’t necessarily need but should accept, since he is there and stuff. 
Peeta has experienced the Hunger games, so he can empathize with her —some­thing gale will never be able to do. gale is super needy. He’s all, “Katniss, I never see you! Love me!” and she’s all, “gale, I was forced to go kill people, so I did that. And then Peeta was there, and we formed a friendship to save our lives. And you’re like totes needy, back off.” Then he just kisses her where people can see, which is romantic-ish, except President Snow has some creepy cameras lurking all around. So Snow is all, “Aha! She never loved Peeta!” and gale just selfishly ruins everything they worked so hard for. But Peeta is chill. 
Peeta does not push for Katniss to love him. He acknowledges the presence of gale in her life and stays in the shadows when they are home. He allows Katniss to confide in him but doesn’t ever guilt-trip her into loving him. However, he does know when to make his affections known. For example, in the middle of the Hunger games, he finds a pearl in an oyster and gives it to Katniss. Too presh. Peeta, you are the shiny, sensitive pearl in the middle of the ugly oyster that is the Hunger games. 
Peeta is so sensitive and emotional, just like me at the “Catching Fire” premiere. I was literally in tears from the moment Peeta and Katniss visited District 11 and honored Rue and Thresh, until the superb Coldplay song in the final credits finished. Peeta exhibited just that much emotion during the time when the tributes could impress the judges, painting a beautiful portrait of Rue in defiance of the Capitol. 
Also, can we take a minute to remember that Katniss might not even have sur­vived the Hunger games if Peeta hadn’t pulled the bread move? Somehow, the act of him throwing bread to starving, young Katniss as if she were a swine became forever known as one of the most romantic acts in recent Young Adult novel his­tory. Classic Peeta. 
Oh, and their couple name would be pretty epic. (You can figure that one out for yourself.) 
If you still have reservations about joining Team Peeta, think about this: gale legit just ended his engagement to Miley Cyrus. Um hello, Miley and Katniss are total opposites. You cannot try to tell me that someone could love people so different and still be genuine. I mean, one twerks for a living, while one fights every day to stay alive. So stick your tongue out at that Team gale. Pass the hummus — Team Peeta for the win! 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Daniel Barabasi 
Scene Writer 
Ever since the emergence of some accursed movie about sparkling vampires, we di­vide movie fandoms into teams. Team Edward versus Team Jacob. Team Harry versus Team Ron. Team gwen Stacy versus Team Mary Jane Watson. With the arrival of the second installment of the “Hunger games” trilogy, “Catching Fire,” I’m here to tell you there’s only one team. Team gale. 
All right. The first logical question is who will help Panem more in the long run. gale is idealistic, and he has the guts and perseverance to back it up. Katniss gives him the chance to run off and live with her forever and ever, but he tells her to screw off, as he’s only leaving when he takes all of District 12 with him (insert, then delete voyeurism joke). What’s Peeta doing in the meantime? Tending to a drunk Haymitch so he can forget that the last time he got any was right after his true love tried to poison him. 
gale is a visionary. He sees the cracks in Panem. When the Peacekeepers begin ha­rassing District 12, he straight up tackles the Head Peacekeeper, then takes the whip­pings like a man. Then, when fire begins raining from the sky, gale gets 800 citizens out and feeds them with only his bow until District 13 hovercrafts show up. Screw Katniss and the mockingbird. gale should be the face of the revolution. 
Let’s face some more facts. Peeta got shoved out of Katniss’s life the moment they got back to the 12th. gale keeps sneaking off with Katniss into the woods to “hunt game.” Peeta is a living testament to the time Katniss killed children for entertainment. gale is the throwback to the times before she had to feed a boy to the dogs.
 But but but, you say, Peeta and Katniss share a bond that gale could never under­stand. If Katniss gets those PTSD nightmares, Peeta can’t do anything, because he’ll be screaming right next to her. Truly the foundations of a strong relationship, pretty much what my first marriage was based on. 
Being a straight male, I personally cannot make a strong argument about why gale is more attractive. Thankfully, there’s a professional opinion on this matter from Peter K. Rosenthal, head film critic for The Onion. 
“gale is super hot,” Rosenthal said in his highly acclaimed review of “Catching Fire.” “Peeta would be like her cute friend that she could hook up with sometimes, but gale should totally be her boyfriend.” 
The odds are pretty even thus far, only tilting majorly to gale. Not enough, you say? Fine. To settle the score, we turn to that great text bestowed upon us by Broseidon of the Brocean, Nabrolean, Teddy Broosevelt, and Broce Springsteen for the Brotection of the Bros. 
I am, of course, speaking of the “Bro Code,” which Brotally does not exist (don’t worry bros, it does). Turning to Article 62, we read, “In the event that two Bros lock on to the same target, the Bro who calls dibs first has dibs.” Now, any bro could see that gale had dibs by the mere fact he had met Katniss before Peeta did. 
The punishment for Peeta is described at the end of the Code, as “fines up to $250,000 or, in some cases, permanent dis-Broment.” Now, yes, there is the corollary that a non-willing violation, as in the case of Peeta getting with Katniss in order to survive, the punishment would be less severe, but once the imminent danger is over, Peeta must relinquish his Brotection of Katniss. This is the decision of the Bro-court, and as all rulings, it is final until an amendment is made to the Bro Code. 
If anyone can truly be Team Peeta after all of this, I’m ashamed. There is no Team Peeta; you were deceived. The only way you could be more wrong is if you were Team Finnick. I mean, the guy’s a fish. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By SARAH DIECKMAN 
Scene Writer 

After seeing “Frozen” with my young­er cousins at the start of Thanksgiving break, I opted for something with a little more depth and fewer talking animals for my last night home. I have “Love Actually” on a loop during December, so I hoped its creators would work their magic in their new film “About Time.” Though I expect­ed a standard romantic comedy when I walked into the theater, I was pleasantly surprised by the film. Director Richard Curtis avoided most of the stereotypi­cal pitfalls that most films in this genre experience. He dismantled the rom-com formula in favor of a sentimental, un­conventional love story. While the film succeeded with its quirky, relatable char­acters, it fell flat with its occasional slips into trite and cliché territory. 
Domhnall gleeson stars as Tim Lake, who, upon turning 21, learns he has the ability to travel back in time, like all the other men in his family. At first hesi­tant to accept his father’s secret as truth, Tim eventually takes his advice by lock­ing himself in a dark room, imagining a 
Erin Thomassen 
Scene Writer 

We’ve all heard the run-of-the-mill ad­vice on how to fend off the Freshman 15: eat your veggies, don’t snack on Snickers and run some laps around the lakes. I fol­lowed these tips and patted myself on the back throughout the first few months of college, but come Thanksgiving break, my scale had disastrous news for me. I had gained 14 pounds. 
My mom tried to tell me it was muscle. Unconvincing, since I can barely do a push-up. Nevertheless, I still had a chance to redeem myself. I had not gained the entire Freshman 15 yet. So, I came up with some reasonable rules on how to keep off the persistent pounds. 
Rule #1: Kick my friends to the curb. I love my friends, but whenever I’m with them, I end up baking brownies or eating an en­tire $5 foot-long. If I didn’t have friends, I wouldn’t have anyone to go to the dining hall with, and I’m too insecure to go by myself. If I don’t make plans with people, I can spend my time sprinting around South Quad by myself. At football games, I can do my own push-ups instead of having my friends push me up. At Swing Club, I can be my own partner and get twice the workout. And who needs friends on Saturday night? 
moment he wishes to do over. A second passes, and he can hear The Killers’ “Mr. Brightside” echoing throughout the hall­ways, leading him to understand that he has successfully returned to the New Year’s Eve party from the previous night. As an awkward, cautious young adult, Tim sees this gift as an incredible opportunity to amend the mistakes he made in the past and create a better future. gleeson gave a raw performance and had the au­dience rooting for his happiness from the beginning. From his courtship of Mary to his close relationship with his father, his perseverance and determination toward a happier future for himself and his family were admirable and much needed in the film, especially during the reoccurring gloomy scenes. 
As a new lawyer trying to find his way in London, Tim meets Mary at “Dans Le Noir,” a restaurant in which the guests are served their meal in complete darkness. Although only her voice is heard, Rachel McAdams quickly captivates the audience through the small snippets of conversa­tion. Rachel McAdams has been in her fair share of romantic comedies during her career, and, although I think this was her 
I would rather snuggle with my Build-A-Bear. So, though it’s sad, I will have to lose my friends to lose these 14 pounds. 
Rule #2: Lie about my birthday. Even if I do not have friends, people may pity me on my birthday and buy me a cake. Though I could invent an imaginary aller­gy to icing, it would be better to avoid the situation entirely and set my birthday back two months ago anytime someone asks me. That way, it’s too late to have a belated birthday celebration and too early to plan a half-birthday bash. Since the code to get in the side door of PE is my birthday, I will have to use the main door to make sure no one finds out my real birthday, even when it’s snowing, raining or hailing. If someone finds out my real birthday and flies all the way to Boston to trap me with a cake on June 28, (crud, now everyone knows), I will simply have to carry around banana peels so I can throw one down and make the cake-bearer slip and drop the cake. My purse may smell like rotten bananas and the eager acquaintance may break an arm, but it’s a small sacrifice to make to avoid eating one slice of cake. 
Rule #3: Miss Mass. This one is the toughest, since Mass is my way of calm­ing down and connecting with god. However, most Masses on the Notre Dame campus come with nachos, milkshakes or other tempting treats. Even if they are not best performance, she was sadly unde­rused throughout the course of the film. She previously starred in “The Notebook” (which seems to be on ABC Family every other week) and “The Vow” (which was the most-hyped, least-liked movie), but here we see her as a mature woman with grown-up problems, rather than a love­struck teenager. McAdams must have a thing for time travelers, as she also was the lead in “Time Traveler’s Wife,” which was much more disjointed and had less substance than “About Time.” Her pres­ence is sorely missed when not on screen, however, as the love story seems very one-sided at times because the focus is on Tim and his feelings. Yet, McAdams’s charac­ter’s obsession with Kate Moss and her love of colorful frocks make her eccentric and endearing — someone we would all want to befriend. 
Although the romantic leads play their roles well, Tim’s father, played by Bill Nighy, ended up being my favorite char­acter. Between his commentary during table tennis matches with Tim to his sin­cere advice regarding time travel, Nighy brought heart to this film, which was nec­essary due to the heavy subject matter 
specifically food-themed, it is still too risky to go, since the group may attack me with surprise snacks at the end. They always insist on ladies first, so I have no chance of having the food run out before it’s my turn. I could dress up as a guy and pretend to be gentlemanly by letting the other girls eat all the food first, but No-Shave November is over, so they might be suspicious of my mustache and rip it off. Then, I would be embarrassed in front of all the people who are no longer my friends. So, no Mass for me anymore. 
Rule #4: Be disowned by my mother. The first time I got a package, I ripped it open with glee, hungry for food that was not doused in salt, oil and sugar. Under the boxes of Oreos and Chips Ahoy, I found one packet of oatmeal. Not exactly the cornucopia I was hoping for. On the phone, I tried to subtly suggest the kind of food I would like in the future: “I LOVED the oatmeal,” and “I’m CRAVINg Special K.” Week after week, though, the bags of Reese’s kept on coming. So, to avoid be­ing tempted by the treats my mom insists on sending, I will have to do something so egregious that she will disown me and stop sending her love in the form of fudge. I was sorely disappointed with wiki­How’s advice on “How to get Back at Your Parents,” which suggested locking my mom out of my room with a “No Bullies that ranged from unhealthy relationships to flaky friends. Although his words of wisdom were sometimes cliché and the overall message of “live life to the fullest” hit you over the head, they are words that can never be repeated too often. 
The movie does tend to drag; its run­ning time exceeds two hours. It tries to cover too much ground and too many relationships without giving the appro­priate amount of time to each. However, the characters and the humor that arise in trying times are what make the film and its message worthwhile. 
Contact Sarah Dieckman at sdieckma@nd.edu 
“About Time” 
Working Title Films 
Director: Richard Curtis 
Starring: Domhnall Gleeson, Rachel McAdams Genre: Romantic Comedy 

Allowed” sign and blasting “Do You Like Waffles” from my iPod speakers. So, I came up with more mature tactics, such as chopping my mom’s hair off in her sleep and sabotaging her room with shaving cream and maple syrup to create a literal Parent Trap. I know this method will work, because my mom will not send goodies to a bad girl. 
These rules may seem extreme, but I must follow them if I want to fit in my jeans by January. I may no longer have friends, but imaginary friends are better because they don’t talk back. I may not tell the truth, but lying gives me a warm and fuzzy feeling inside. I may not go to church and worship the One who gives me every­thing and loves me unconditionally, but I will be able to rock a crop top. My mother may not love me anymore, but she’s only the person who carried me around for nine months and took care of me for 18 years. Though these things sound im­portant, they’re not the highest priority. Fending off the Freshman 15, on the other hand, is deservedly the most important thing in my life. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Cure for SEC fatigue 

Vicky Jacobsen 
Sports Writer 
Depending on when you read this, it’s been approximately 60 hours since Auburn’s Chris Davis returned Alabama’s missed field goal attempt for the most exciting and improbable game-winning touchdown in recent memory. It’s now safe to declare Davis the most popular student at Auburn University. His picture is front and center on the university’s homepage, and I somehow doubt he will ever have to pay for a meal in any city outside of Tuscaloosa, Alabamba. 
But Davis’s fantastic run should not earn him an auto­matic trip to the BCS National Championship game. 
Maybe I just have a wicked awful case of SEC-fatigue. But as long as No. 1 Florida State and No. 2 Ohio State remain unbeaten, there is absolutely no reason for a one-loss team to play for a national championship, even if that team does play in the vaunted SEC. 
As soon as this week’s BCS rankings were released Sunday night, the talking heads at ESPN began looking for ways to get Alabama, Auburn or even Missouri into the title game. They seem to think losing in the SEC is more of an accomplish­ment than winning against any other competition. 
Well, I, for one, am done kow­towing to the SEC. For one thing, their claims to football superior­ity are vastly overrated. The way some Southern coaches talk, you would think Ohio State pads the schedule with middle school squads while LSU and georgia host NFL teams. The Buckeyes certainly tossed around San Diego State as if the Aztecs were a Pop Warner team, but I doubt Chattanooga was a much bigger challenge for Alabama. 
Even the teams within the SEC are not quite as dominant as residents south of the Mason-Dixon line would have you think. I don’t deny that the best teams in the Southeastern Conference are awfully good. I don’t even deny that it is probably harder to go undefeated in the SEC than in any other conference. But let’s stop pretending it’s a bottom-feeder-free zone. Arkansas (3-9) lost to Rutgers. Kentucky (2-10) lost to just about everyone. Florida (4-8) even found a way to lose to georgia Southern. Does this really sound like the vicious, any-given-Saturday barrage coaches yap about? 
But when we come down to it, one-loss teams like Auburn and Alabama shouldn’t be allowed to leapfrog undefeated squads, even if they have to compete against a murderer’s row of competitors. It’s fine to judge dog shows on beauty and pedigree, but in foot­ball, it’s winning on the field that matters. Frankly, I don’t care how impressive someone’s schedule or depth chart is. It doesn’t mat­ter where the running backs were ranked as high school recruits or how much the offensive line outweighs the national average. To quote former New York Jets coach Herm Edwards, you play to win the game — not to pass “the eye test.” 
Yes, it’s unfair that teams in the most talented conferences (at this moment, the SEC) face the hardest road to the national title game and will have a harder time getting into the four-team playoff when that comes to fruition next season. But the same is true of conference championships and professional playoffs. Yet, no one in SEC Land is suggesting that Alabama take Missouri’s spot as the Eastern Conference represen­tative in the SEC Championship game because the Crimson Tide could probably beat the Tigers in a head-to head matchup. 
We should recognize how un­fair it is to overlook undefeated teams that aren’t in the glamor-conference of the moment. How is it fair that athletes from Florida State and Ohio State play their hearts out and give their fans an essentially perfect season, win­ning every game, often by dozens of points, and still are told they aren’t as good as teams that did slip up? If an undefeated season isn’t enough to earn some re­spect, what is the point of playing football? 
Thankfully, it is unlikely that Auburn will be able to pass Ohio State if both win their conference championship games, because there are enough people like me with the wild notion that unde­feated teams should be rewarded above one-loss outfits. Wins from both the Seminoles and Buckeyes should guarantee the first non-SEC champion since Texas won in 2006. That would be a welcome sight. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Michigan State remains first in rankings  
Associated Press 
Michigan State stays No. 1 for a third straight week in The Associated Press’ college basketball poll, re­ceiving all but two of the first-place votes. 
Arizona moved from fourth to second Monday, drawing the other No. 1 votes from the 65-member national media panel. 
Kentucky remains third while Syracuse jumps from eighth to fourth. Ohio State moves up two spots to fifth and is followed by Kansas, which had been second. Completing the top 10 are Louisville, Wisconsin, Oklahoma State and Duke, which drops four spots after losing to Arizona in the NIT Season Tip-Off. 
Villanova beat Kansas and Iowa to win the Battle 4 Atlantis and goes from unranked to No. 14. The other newcomers are No. 24 San Diego State and No. 25 Dayton. They replace North Carolina, Creighton and Marquette. 
Dayton’s entry into the rankings makes for a broth­er pairing that could be a first. Archie Miller, who coaches the Flyers, is the younger brother of Arizona coach Sean Miller. It is be­lieved to be the first time brothers have had teams ranked in the Top 25 at the same time. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hoosiers forced back to defensive drawing board 
Associated Press 
Kevin Wilson spent most of the season trying to defend the indefensible. 
It’s time to find solutions. 
Moments after Wilson’s Hoosiers completed their season by winning the Old Oaken Bucket and setting a dubious Big Ten record for yards allowed, the Indiana coach made it clear he ex­pects changes. 
“When you’re not doing things the way you need to do them, you need to make improvement,” Wilson said after Saturday’s 56-36 vic­tory over Purdue. “So the first change we’ll do is me reflecting in the next couple of weeks in recruiting where we’re at and what’s correct­able, what we can fix.” 
For Wilson and the Hoosiers (5-7, 3-5 Big Ten), there’s no hiding the obvious. 
Indiana has finished last in the league in scoring defense and yards allowed per game during each of Wilson’s three seasons in Bloomington. Indiana has gotten progres­sively worse in the yardage department, too, going from 458.7 in 2011 to 463.5 in 2012 to 527.9 this season. This year, they gave up so many yards in league play they shattered Northwestern’s record-setting mark (524.7) from 1981 by allowing 560.2 yards in eight league games. 
Some fans want Wilson to fire defensive coordina­tor Doug Mallory, the son of Indiana winningest coach Bill Mallory. 
“The first thing I will ad­dress is me and what I can do first,” Wilson said before hit­ting the road for two weeks of recruiting. “I’m going to point more thumbs at me than fingers at people, and then from there we’ll start looking at what we need to do.” 

Poor defense has become part of Indiana’s identity. 
The Hoosiers have allowed more than 400 yards and 31 points per game six straight seasons, finishing in the conference’s bottom three in both categories all six times. Even in 2007, the last time Indiana was bowl eligible, it still gave up 417.7 yards per game, eighth in the then 11­team league, and 32.8 points, ninth in the conference. 
And this year, when Wilson was asked about making mid-season changes, Oklahoma’s former offensive coordinator typically answered by saying the offense had to do more. But Wilson has some differ­ent ideas heading into an offseason that could create a philosophical shift. 
“One of my comments on the field (Saturday) was that some of our guys aren’t big enough in body weight.,” Wilson said in a press confer­ence. “We have to keep work­ing on getting bigger. One of my comments again, we need more speed. Can we recruit it? Do we look at offensive players on defense?” 
Those inside the locker room believe things will change — if fans, boosters and administrators remain patient. 
Players and coaches point out that only one defensive starter, safety greg Heban, is graduating and that five of Saturday’s starters still have at least two or three more years of remaining eligibil­ity. Experience, they insist, will help as will the founda­tion laid by the 21 players who are graduating. 
“We’ve just been working so hard at making this team accountable for their ac­tions,” senior receiver Kofi Hughes said. “I know that the wins and losses don’t really show the production in how far this team has come, but I think behind the scenes, these seniors really set the standard really, really high and I’m going to be excited to see how this team does next season.” 
Both of this season’s starting quarterbacks, Tre Roberson and Nate Sudfeld, return, though the third quarterback, Cam Coffman, is expected to transfer. All five linemen who started Saturday’s season finale should return, too, along with starting running back Tevin Coleman. The Hoosiers will have another deep cadre of receivers, though junior Cody Latimer may leave early for the NFL. 
If the Hoosiers are going to make a bowl game next sea­son, Wilson acknowledges the defense must improve. 
“Our goal is not to be com­petitive, our goal is to win and we weren’t quite good enough this year,” Wilson said. “It’s my job to look at the whole picture of what we can do, and not make ex­cuses, not point fingers any­thing but keep pushing to win games.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



SMC BASKETBALL | DEFIANCE 77, SMC 71 
Yellow Jackets defy Belles’ best efforts 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
Sports Writer 
In a game full of back­and-forth runs and seven second-half lead changes, Saint Mary’s ultimately couldn’t hold off Defiance and fell, 77-71, Saturday. 
Down 64-55 with 6:30 left on the clock, it looked like the Belles (2-4) might be able to come up with one last run against a stingy Yellow Jackets defense, cut­ting the lead to one when senior guard Shanlynn Bias sank a jumper from the top of the key with just under three minutes remaining to make it 65-64. The Belles went 2-6 after the Bias jump­er, though, which Belles’ coach Jenn Henley credited to the Yellow Jackets’ zone defense. 
“They switched to that zone in the second half, which gave us a lot of trouble,” Henley said. “Especially down the stretch, we got passive and didn’t attack as well as we could have.” 
The Belles shot just 33 percent in the second half against the Yellow Jackets’ zone. 
Early, it looked like the Belles might run the Yellow Jackets (2-2) out of the gym, jumping out to a 10-0 lead in run, scoring seven unan­the first 3:16. After Defiance swered points. But, as if on made a three pointer to cut schedule, the Yellow Jackets the lead to 17-11, the Belles went on a 10-2 run of their came back with another own, following it minutes 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



later with a 9-2 run to close out the half with the Belles leading 34-32. 
The first 10 minutes of the second half featured more back-and-forth action, as the lead changed seven times. But while trailing 52­49, the Yellow Jackets went on a 9-0 run to go up 58-52 and take the lead for good with just over eight minutes remaining. 
“I thought the biggest problem for us was we just didn’t get to the [free-throw] line, especially in the sec­ond half” Henley said. “We needed to get to the line like we did in our win against Anderson, and we couldn’t against their defense.” 
Despite allowing the Yellow Jackets to shoot 49 percent from the field in the second half, Henley said she wasn’t too disappointed in the Belles’ defense. 
“It was a matter of them getting hot,” Henley said. “We gave up a few easy looks in transition, but they just had the momentum down the stretch.” 
Four of the five Belles starters scored in double figures, as sophomore for­ward Krista Knapke paced the Belles with 24 points and 17 rebounds, both ca­reer-highs for the sopho­more forward. 
“I thought Krista had a great game,” Henley said. “We are always looking to get paint points, and I think her teammates did a good job of finding her there. She was always around on the offensive boards and was able to convert a lot of those rebounds into points.” 
Junior forward Ariana Paul added 15 points and eight boards for the Belles, while sophomore forward Eleni Shea and Bias pitched in 11 and 10 points, respectively. 
The Belles open the MIAA season at Adrian on Wednesday. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND VOLLEYBALL | ND 3, BC 1; SYRACUSE 3, ND 1 
Irish top Eagles, drop season finale to ’Cuse 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
senior day. 
“It feels like a dream,” McHugh said. “I can’t believe the season is over. It was a huge blessing to have my fam­ily on either side of me when I was walking out because they have supported and encour­aged me throughout my entire career.” 
McHugh said despite the loss on senior day, the Irish had fun playing together this final weekend. 
“While the season didn’t end the way we wanted, I am truly honored and so blessed to be able to wear an Irish jer­sey,” McHugh said. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish wrapped up their season by splitting the week­end, taking a 3-1 victory over Boston College on Friday be­fore falling 3-1 to Syracuse on Saturday for senior day. 
On Friday, Notre Dame (13­18, 7-13 ACC) dominated the first set, snatching a quick 25­15 victory over Boston College (9-23, 1-19 ACC). 
The second set presented more of a challenge for the Irish, who battled through six tied scores and three lead changes to claim the 25-23 win and pull ahead 2-0. 
Senior libero Andrea McHugh said the most diffi­cult part of the game against the Eagles was the defense. 
“Boston College is a very scrappy team,” McHugh said. “It was hard for our hitters to be successful. But our hitters found the open areas, and [se­nior setter] Maggie Brindock did a great job of moving the offense around.” 
The third set was another challenge, as the Irish went back and forth with Boston College. Nine ties, four lead changes, and even junior outside hitter Toni Alugbue reaching 1,000 career kills couldn’t bring the Irish the victory as they lost the third set 23-25. 
The Irish bounced back in the fourth set and pulled away late to take a 25-20 win and end the game 3-1. 
McHugh said she’s proud of the way her team played Saturday at senior day against Syracuse (16-16, 11-9 ACC). 
“We were all really focused and determined to have a strong start,” McHugh said. 
The Irish struggled to score against the Syracuse defense. A good blocking team, the Orange took control early and dominated the first set 25-16. The Irish had a tough time getting started and only hit .138 before bouncing back and taking control of the second set. The second-set victory was hard won, with 17 ties and seven lead changes before the Irish finally won, 26-24. 
The 1-1 tie was the last stand for the Irish, as they didn’t score more than 20 points in either of the following two sets. They lost the two sets 25­17 and 25-20, respectively. 
McHugh, right side Sammie Brown and outside hitter Nicole Smith were honored in a pre-match ceremony for 



M Basketball 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 16 
for Jackson, who previously came off the bench. Jackson’s 27 minutes of action was a career-high. 
“It was definitely very cool to hear my name, finally,” Jackson said. “It’s one of my goals I’ve been working towards, and I’ve been really busting my butt to get there where I’m good enough to start.” 
The Irish had a slow start against Cornell, opening 2-for­10 from the floor and falling be­hind 8-0 before taking a 41-32 lead into halftime. Notre Dame exploded in the second half, which included a 17-2 Irish run to push the Notre Dame lead to 81-56 with 6:26 remaining. 
The 101 points is the most for the Irish since Notre Dame’s five-overtime 104-101 victory over Louisville last season and the most in a non-overtime game since a 106-65 win over Sacred Heart on Dec. 19, 2011. The Irish finished Sunday’s game with 28 assists and only five turnovers. 
“With the new starting lineup we have, we can score a lot more points and have the fast break available a lot more,” grant said. “Defensively, it helps us in being able to press full court a little bit and rebounding won’t be a problem.” 
Up next for the Irish is a trip to No. 23 Iowa tonight. The game will be Notre Dame’s first road contest of the season and the squad’s inaugural appearance in the Big Ten/ACC Challenge. 
Iowa (7-1) is led by senior 



W Basketball 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 16 
rebounds to notch her first double-double of the season and lead the Irish past the Dukes (5-3). 
“I don’t think [Achonwa’s] 100 percent yet, but she’s playing really well,” Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. “We’re pleased with where she is, and I think she’s just 
going  to  continue  to  get  
better.”  
Mcgraw  said  she  was  

pleased to give Achonwa, the first international player in Notre Dame history, a chance to experience a homecoming. 
“She’s done so much for our program and really for all of Canada basketball, being the youngest member of [the 2012 Canadian Olympic women’s basketball team],” Mcgraw said of Achonwa. “She’s very well known in Toronto, and it was just great that her fam­ily, friends, teammates could all come out and see her play. We were just so happy to be able to do that for her.” 
Achonwa’s post presence helped spark the Irish to an early lead against Duquesne. Notre Dame opened the game on a 14-2 run and jumped out to a 47-22 lead at halftime against the Dukes. A 17-4 run to start the second half helped seal the victory for the Irish. 
Notre Dame senior guard Kayla McBride led the Irish with 22 points. Sophomore guard Jewell Loyd scored 16 points, while fellow sopho­more guard Michaela Mabrey added 12 points off the bench. 
As a team, Notre Dame shot 
60.9 percent from the field and held Duquesne to an 11.1 percent mark from 3-point range. 
The Irish did not have it quite as easy against DePaul on Tuesday night, as they struggled to fend off the Blue Demons in a close first half. After DePaul tied the game at 19 with 11:33 to play in the first half, Notre Dame went ahead on a jumper by Mabrey and carried a four-point lead into halftime. 
Notre Dame went on a 19-5 run at the start of the second half to build its lead to 18 en route to a 16-point victory. 
Mcgraw said she was proud of the way her team faced the challenge from the Blue Demons. 
“I was really pleased with how we handled [the game],” she said. “I thought defen­sively in the first half, we could have done a lot better. We came out in the second half and established a defen­sive tone, and I thought defi­nitely played more like we wanted to.” 
McBride notched 16 points and six rebounds against DePaul, while freshman for­ward Taya Reimer added 15 points and 14 rebounds off the bench. 
Despite holding the Blue Demons to 30.3 percent shooting from the field in the second half, the Irish need to work on defense, Mcgraw said. 
“I think we can continue to get better in that area,” she said. 
Notre Dame will now en­ter one of the more daunting parts of its non-conference schedule, as the Irish will take on No. 10 Penn State, UCLA and Michigan in its next three contests. 
Mcgraw said road contests against the Nittany Lions (5-1) and Wolverines (5-3) pose tough challenges for the Irish. 
“It will be really difficult because we’re on the road for two out of three, and we’re still finding our identity and trying to improve defensive­ly,” Mcgraw said. “We have a real challenge with all three teams, but certainly on the road at Penn State, a top-15 team, to start us off, we need to play well.” 
Notre Dame will face Penn State on Wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. at the Bryce Jordan Center in University Park, Pa. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

guard Roy Devyn Marble and junior forward Aaron White, who were named third team All-Big Ten last season by the coaches and media, respectively. 
The Hawkeyes started the season 7-0 before they fell to Villanova 88-83 in overtime Saturday in the championship of the Battle 4 Atlantis tourna­ment in the Bahamas. Iowa had a 25-13 record last season but 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
was 18-2 at home. 
“It’s going to take a lot [to beat the Hawkeyes],” grant said. “Iowa is a great team, and we’ve been watching them the last few days, and we’ll be ready to play them. The guys are excited for a road challenge like this.” 
The Irish and Hawkeyes tip off in Iowa City at 9:15 tonight. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 





Hockey 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 16 
The Irish and Huskies will meet again in Compton on Jan. 24 and 25 for a pair of Hockey East contests. Saturday’s game, as part of the tournament, was not an official conference game. 
Northeastern tied Western Michigan (6-5-3) in its semi­final game Friday before it advanced by winning the shootout, but Notre Dame won its semifinal game out­right 5-2 over the Chargers (0-14-0). The Irish stormed to a 3-0 lead in the first peri­od, an outburst that includ­ed goals by Tynan and Johns just 23 seconds apart. 
Chargers junior for­ward Jeff Vanderlugt put Alabama-Huntsville on the board with less than a min­ute left in the first period and later cut the deficit to 3-2 in the second period with his second goal of the game. But goals from sophomore forward Mario Lucia and junior defenseman Robbie Russo later in the period provided the Irish the final three-goal margin. 
Irish freshman netminder Chad Katunar made his sec­ond collegiate start against the Chargers and needed to make just 13 saves. 
In addition to his goal, Tynan added two assists against the Chargers to go along with an assist on Taker’s goal against the Huskies for four points on the weekend. He was named the tournament’s most out­standing player. 
The Irish will also face Alabama-Huntsville again in a two-game home series later this season on Jan. 10 and 11. 
Notre Dame returns to the ice Friday and Saturday when it hosts Massachusetts in a two-game conference series. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


M Soccer 
CONTINUED FROM PAgE 16 
ball deflected off of Wake Forest senior defender Tolani Ibikunle into the back of the net for an own goal and a 2-1 Irish lead heading into half. 
“That [goal] comes from Evan Panken pressuring,” Clark said. “He gets in, pressures and gets it back again. That’s how goals go. So I would give him that goal just for the work he did to get in there. [The Demon Deacons] first goal was pressure from them. Somebody slipped, but it came from a pass. Pressure. Boom. Boom. And it was [them] taking advantage of us making a bad decision fielding on a dif­ficult surface.” 
Ibikunle redeemed his own goal in the 62nd minute, when he headed the ball in off of a corner taken by gamble to tie the game at 2-2. 
But Notre Dame was not fin­ished. With 20:15 remaining on the clock, Irish senior defender and captain Andrew O’Malley collected a partially cleared ball in the midfield and chipped it to a streaking Panken, who found himself unmanned on the left side of the pitch behind the Wake Forest defense. Panken settled the pass and placed it low past Harris into the right corner for the 3-2 lead and the game-winner. 
“[The Demon Deacons pres­sured very hard and very high,” Clark said. “That pressure makes it difficult for us to play. But at the same time, when they press, they leave space behind, and we can penetrate. When we handle the pressure, we can get behind them, and I felt we were able to do that.” 
For insurance purposes, senior forward and captain Harrison Shipp netted his 12th goal on the season less than four minutes later off a cross from Lachowecki to put the game out of reach at 4-2. 
The Demon Deacons led the game in shots with 14, com­pared to nine for Notre Dame. They also led in corners, with seven to Notre Dame’s three. 
“I thought we looked very, very dangerous every time we got into their half,” Clark said. 
“In a funny way, I think we looked more dangerous than [Wake Forest] did.” 
The Irish then locked down on defense and held on to ad­vance to the Elite Eight, where they will face No. 11 Michigan State. Notre Dame beat the Spartans (14-5-3) by a score of 2-0 in East Lansing, Mich., on Nov. 5. 
The Irish look to continue their championship run against Michigan State on Saturday at 7 
p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | HILLARY MANgIAFORTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM gROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUgENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kieran Culkin, 31; Lacey Chabert, 31; Marion Cotillard, 38; Jenna Elfman, 42. 
Happy Birthday: Stay focused on what’s most important to you. Use your knowl­edge and expertise to protect your environment, community and beliefs. Don’t let the past hold you back or lead you in a direction that doesn’t encourage progress. Keep your life simple and within your budget. A different means of income is likely. An innovative approach to life will help. Your numbers are 7, 9, 20, 13, 35, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Follow your heart and your dreams. Your ambitious attitude will contribute to connecting with people heading in a similar direction. Form a unique group of hand-picked individuals and everything else will fall into place. Think big and take positive action. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don’t share your thoughts if you think they will upset someone. The people you are dealing with aren’t likely to have the same intentions or direction as you. A difficult decision may be necessary. Satisfy your needs first and foremost.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Follow through with promises you make and everyone will be happy. Finding solutions for others will turn you into the go-to person, but when trying to solve personal problems, you are likely to be emotionally self-decep­tive. Home improvement will pay off.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don’t overspend on items you don’t need. Being gener­ous will not buy love, respect or loyalty. Eliminate your problem by addressing issues head-on. Emotional encounters should be geared toward passion, not aggression, jealousy or revenge.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don’t say yes to everyone. Being too generous will get you into trouble. Offer wisdom in a caring manner and you will make a difference. If you exhibit a pushy attitude, you will be accused of interfering.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your mind on whatever you are doing. Address responsibilities head-on, offering diverse, smart solutions, but don’t fight someone else’s battles. False information will lead to someone taking advantage of you. Do your homework. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Re-evaluate what isn’t working for you and make adjust­ments. Participate in an event that you feel passionate about and it will lead to meeting new people. This is not the time to spend money, but offering your time will make a difference. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Jealousy will lead to loss. Consider why you feel the way you do and make the changes required. Strive to reach success regardless of what others do and you will feel satisfied in the end. Romance is highlighted. Make love, not war.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put greater emphasis on taking action. Talking about what you want to do will no longer impress those waiting for you to deliver the goods. Make a difference by taking charge and following through. You can prog­ress if you start with self-improvement.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t be afraid to take a different route or explore avenues and alternatives that require you to rely on someone else. Explore a change of location or do the research that will help put your mind at ease. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Some people are better off avoided. Don’t be a glutton for punishment. If something isn’t working, move on. Focus on what and who can and will make a difference to your life and your future. Pick and choose what works for you.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take advantage of any and every opportunity. Share what you have to offer and you will persuade others to use your service, talent or knowledge in diverse ways. A partnership may be suggested, but it might not be in your best interest.  

Birthday Baby: You are observant and proactive. You are truly fearless and adapt easily 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 
City State Zip 


THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’S SOCCER | ND 4, WAKE FOREST 2 
Irish move on to Elite Eight 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Irish were not the first to strike, but they struck more often in a 4-2 victory over No. 14 Wake Forest in the NCAA Championship round­of-16 matchup Sunday night at Alumni Stadium. 
The Demon Deacons (10-6-5) brought the pressure early and often in their first time playing at Notre Dame (14-1-6). 
“This really was like a Final Four game,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “It was two re­ally good teams and a quality game. It was like a professional game with the speed and the pace. It takes two teams to do that. It was one of the best col­lege games I’ve seen. It was a very clean game and very well played. Obviously, we came out on the right side of it, but it could have gone either way.” 
Wake Forest took advantage of a break in the 12th minute of play. A Notre Dame player slipped on the icy surface while defending Wake Forest junior forward Sean Okoli. Okoli used the space to send in a low cross to sophomore forward Michael gamble, who one-timed the ball past sprawling Irish senior goalkeeper Patrick Wall to give the Demon Deacons a 1-0 lead. 
Notre Dame was quick to re­spond and knotted the game at 1-1 two minutes later. Irish sophomore midfielder Patrick Hodan dribbled the ball in along the touchline and elected to take a chance near post rath­er than to cross it in. The choice paid off, as the ball snuck by Wake Forest sophomore goal­keeper Andrew Harris. The goal was Hodan’s eighth goal on the season and his fourth goal in as many games. 
The game then went back and forth until the Irish caught a break of their own with four minutes left in the first half. The ball was bouncing around Wake Forest’s box and came to Irish sophomore Evan Panken, who whipped in a cross. The 
see M SOCCER PAGE 14 
HOCKEY | SECOND PLACE, SHILLELAgH TOURNAMENT 
Team falls to Huskies in finals 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
No. 13 Notre Dame won its semifinal game of the Shillelagh Tournament 5-2 over Alabama-Huntsville on Friday but blew a third-period lead in the champi­onship to lose 3-2 to No. 19 Northeastern on Saturday in the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
The Irish (9-6-1) led the Huskies (9-5-1) 2-1 after 40 minutes, but allowed two goals in the final 9:59 of the game. Northeastern se­nior forward Braden Pimm scored a power-play goal to knot the game at 2-2 and later fed a pass from be­hind the net to freshman forward Dalen Hedges for the go-ahead goal with 2:42 remaining. 
“I can’t remember the last time we gave up a lead in the third and lost in regula­tion, which is unacceptable, especially in a champion­ship environment,” Irish se­nior center T.J. Tynan said. “That one stings.” 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead at the 13:34 mark of the first period when se­nior defenseman Shayne Taker’s shot from the point snuck past Northeastern ju­nior goaltender Clay Witt. 
Notre Dame extended its lead to 2-0 midway through the second period, when se­nior defenseman Stephen Johns buried a rebound from his own shot to score a shorthanded goal. 
“Obviously, any time I can help out in the offensive as­pect of the game, it’s a huge benefit for me and for my team,” Johns said. “I try to give my team any kind of boost, whether it’s a goal or hit or a nice pass or any­thing, so it’s been nice, but I obviously need to do a little bit more of that to get some wins here.” 
After Johns’s goal, the Huskies pulled within one heading into the third period thanks to a goal from junior forward Torin Snydeman, who found him­self alone in front of the net and fired a shot past the glove of Irish senior goal­tender Steven Summerhays. 
“We were playing pret­ty well,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “In the sec­ond period we were all over them, and that changed with penalties. It just changed the momentum of the game. … I thought we got comfortable after a 2-0 lead.” 
see HOCKEY PAGE 14 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 101, CORNELL 67 
grant hits 1,000th point in win 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame topped the cen­tury mark for the first time in regulation since 2011, as the Irish dominated Cornell at Purcell Pavilion en route to a 101-67 win Sunday. 
Freshman guard Demetrius Jackson scored 11 points to go along with four assists in his first career start for Notre Dame (5-1), and Irish senior guard Jerian grant’s 20 points gave him 1,000 for his career. grant became the 55th player in Irish history to reach 1,000 career points. He joined senior cap­tain and guard Eric Atkins, who accomplished the feat in Notre Dame’s 83-70 loss to Indiana State on Nov. 17. 
“It means a lot to me,” grant said. “It’s a select group of guys, 50-something players out of all the players that have played at Notre Dame, and to be named with those 50-something play­ers is exciting for me.” 

Irish coach Mike Brey em­ployed a smaller starting lineup than typical against the Big Red (0-9), utilizing Jackson, grant, Atkins and junior captain and guard Pat Connaughton alongside senior center garrick Sherman. 
“I think we stay with what we have here,” Brey said about the lineup. “I think we’re going to keep playing this way. I feel we need to stay the course with this and ride this for a while and see what we get out of it.” 
That will mean another start 
see M BASKETBALL PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 92, DEPAUL 76; ND 100, DUQUESNE 61 
ND wins two over break 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
No. 4 Notre Dame used a balanced offensive at­tack to extend its season-opening winning streak to six games, as the Irish de­feated then-No. 25 DePaul, 92-76, at Purcell Pavilion on Tuesday and overpowered Duquesne, 100-61, at the Mattamy Athletic Centre in Toronto on Sunday. 
Notre Dame senior for­ward Natalie Achonwa played a central role in both wins for the Irish (6­0), as she led the team with 17 points and added eight rebounds against DePaul (3-2). Playing for the first time collegiately in her home province Sunday, the guelph, Ontario, na­tive posted 11 points and 10 
see W BASKETBALL PAGE 13 





