The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 115 | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Health restored, greeter plans for May return 
John Ritschard, five-year South Dining Hall greeter, checks into hospital after bout of pneumonia 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
editor in chief 
like many in the notre dame community, south dining hall greeter lila ritschard started her easter morning with a prayer. 
it was the only way she felt could make a difference. The previous night, her hus­band John ritschard stopped breathing on his own and was wheeled into the intensive care unit at st. Joseph’s regional medical center. 
“it’s the only thing i can do,” she said. “it comforts us to start every morning with a prayer.” 
John ritschard, 82, regretted missing any time at his week­day job swiping cards during dinnertime at south dining hall over the past five years. so much that he spent the last two months at his post shaking hands, handing out candy bars and telling jokes to students while a severe case of pneumo­nia and a bacterial infection built up in his lungs. 
doctors told lila most peo­ple at his age have a 25 per­cent survival rate, but all John wanted to do was return to south dining hall. 
“he told me, ‘you just tell [the students] i’ll be back in a couple of weeks.’ and i [told] him that he won’t,” lila said. “But he said, ‘i’ve got to get back to see my kids.’ … They’re his life. he really loves being out here and he misses it.” 
lila said her husband’s health began to wane in January, when he came down with the flu. he started expe­riencing back pain, which they wrote off as a pulled muscle. still, his lingering flu gradu­ally turned into pneumonia 
see greeTer PAGE 4 


Observer File Photo 

South Dining Hall greeter, John Ritschard, has delighted students with his riddles for the past five years. 


Francis asks for focus on love, peace 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 
rome — pope Francis, the first south american pope in catholic church history, cel­ebrated his first holy week last week by challenging the faithful to serve one another and calling for global peace. 
on holy Thursday, cardinal Jorge mario Bergoglio, former archbish­op of Buenos aires, washed the feet of 12 young detain­ees in the casal del marmo, one of rome’s juvenile pris­ons, according to the BBc. 
“help one another. This is what Jesus teaches us,” the pope said Thursday, accord­ing to the BBc. “i do this with my heart because it is my duty, as a priest and bishop i must be at your service. But it is a duty that comes from my heart and a duty i love.“ 
“i love doing it because this is what the lord has taught me.” 
pope Francis led a good Friday service in saint peter’s Basilica and the stations of the cross at the coliseum. he read aloud meditations com­posed by young lebanese members of the church, calling for peace in a region “torn apart by injustice and conflicts,” according to the BBc. 
pope Francis has brought a new sense of simplicity to the vatican, according to BBc’s david willey in rome. he wears plain vestments and 
see pope PAGE 4 



shades of ebony honors coeducation 
already planning a celebration of women on campus when they learned this year is the university’s 40th anniversary of coeducation. 
“it originally started out as a program we were in called ‘high heels, higher standards,’” Jeter said. “we just wanted it to be a celebration of women and all that we do here on campus and then we realized that it was 40 
see eBony PAGE 6 


program directs students to felicity 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
students learned how to manufacture personal happi­ness at happiness intervention, an event hosted by the office of alcohol and drug education (oade) on wednesday. 
The program, led by university counseling center staff psychol­ogist megan Brown,  was the lat­est installment to the wellness wednesday series, an initiative started last semester. 
oade health educator Bridget hoffman said wellness wednesdays was started in an effort to create holistic wellness programs for students. 
“The hope was to establish more programs that are ho­listically based on wellness,” hoffman said. “They cover vari­ous topics from stress reduction to fun exercise activities to cook­ing on a college budget.” 
oade developed the concept for this week’s program after screening ‘The happy movie’ on the united nations’ 
see wellness PAGE 6 


By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
The women of shades of ebony are preparing to celebrate coeducation at notre dame with their event ‘40 years and counting,’ which will take place monday through wednesday celebrating the contributions of women on campus. 
senior ally Jeter, outgo­ing vice president of shades of ebony, said the group was 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 BaseBall PAGE 19 men’s lacrosse PAGE 19 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What do you like most about this weather? 

Julia Hermann 
sophomore 
lewis hall 

“Quad games and studying on the quad is my favorite part of college.” 
Kerry Walsh 
Freshman 
howard hall 
“it’s very mild.” 
Kirsten Fernandez 
sophomore 
Badin hall 
“all of the people out on the quad.” 


Steven Tomasko 
sophomore 
morrissey hall 
“nice to leave morrissey without five layers of clothes on.” 
Mia Womack 
Freshman 
howard hall 
“This is the only place where i would think 55 is warm and everyone is happy.” 
John Brems 
Junior 
morrissey hall 
“The sun.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

christian myers alex wilcox Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca o’neil isaac lorton evelyn huang sam gans 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Brandon Keelean miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Relay for Life Blood Hawaii Club Sunday Mass Film: “Sun Come Up” Men’s Baseball 
John ning laura rosas 

Drive Presents: Lu’au 2013 Basilica of the Sacred LaFortune Student Eck Baseball Stadium Grace Hall Stepan Center Heart Center, Montgomery 5:35 p.m.-7:35 p.m. 9 a.m.-4 p.m. 5 p.m.-8 p.m. 10 a.m.-11 a.m. Auditorium Game vs. Michigan 
Corrections 

All donors receive a Food, music, dance Music by the Notre 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as free ND T-shirt. and entertainment. Dame Liturgical Choir. Discussion to follow. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Tennis Softball Opening Reception: Aase Berg Reading Film: “Switch Energy 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Eck Tennis Pavilion Melissa Cook Stadium BFA and MFA Student Eck Visitors Center Project” 
however, recognize that we will make 
4 p.m.-6 p.m. 12 p.m.-4 p.m. Thesis Exhibition 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Match vs. SMU. Doubleheader vs. Snite Museum of Art Hear Berg read 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Villanova. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. selections from her Explores world’s
we can correct our error. 

Awards at 3 p.m. poetry. leading energy sites. 

ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | The oBserver 

Belles study leadership, cultural inclusion 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
The saint mary’s college intercultural leadership (il) offers students with an inter­est in social responsibility the opportunity to develop their leadership abilities and learn more about cultural diversity. 
The il program is a two to three year co-curricular pro­gram that combines leader­ship development with study of diversity and intercultural inclusion. 
intercultural studies program director mana derakhshani said the pro­gram aims to teach students about leadership and acting for the common good. 
“The main goal of the il pro­gram is to provide ... opportu­nities for students, whether they are involved in formal, traditional leadership roles or not, to recognize their lead­ership style and develop the skills and knowledge neces­sary to be an agent of change for the good,” derakhshani said. 
The program requires stu­dents to attend monthly meet­ings as well as a number of retreats, according to the pro­gram’s commitment form. 
senior ambreen ahmad said the retreats are important to the leadership development aspect of the program. 
“The retreats are an op­portunity to see who you are as a leader, to recognize your values and to know what you stand up for,” ahmad said. 
senior maeya alexander said, for her, the retreats are 
“The retreats are an opportunity to see who you are as a leader, to recognize your values and know what you stand up for.” 
Ambreen Ahmad 
senior 
the most enjoyable compo­nent of the il program. 
“[my favorite part is] go­ing on the retreats,” said alexander. “getting to hang out with people who are your peers ... really [challenges] the way we collectively live as leaders. it’s really tough, but that’s what makes it fun. you really get to bond with a lot of the girls.” 
participants must also complete 50 hours of community-based learning and nine credit hours in in­tercultural leadership top­ics, in addition to leading an inclusive leadership project, in order to complete the il program. 
alexander said il partici­pants are instructed to design their projects so other stu­dents can continue their proj­ects after they graduate. 
“one of the things that we’re supposed to accomplish by the end is to create a leader­ship project that can be repli­cated and continued at saint mary’s,” she said. 
alexander said past lead­ership projects have ranged from data comparisons of the status of women in south Bend to the nationwide sta­tus of women to comprehen­sive informative booklets and programs designed to prepare students for study abroad. 
derakhshani said the com­ponents of the program help students develop six profi­ciencies: recognize the leader within, articulate your ethical and spiritual center, engage and value diversity, dialogue on power and privilege, create inclusive and equitable com­munities and make your dif­ference in the world. 
The choice of service placement, individual leader­ship project and where to study abroad are different ways that students can tailor the pro­gram to match their personal interests, derakhshani said. 
she said all of the students benefit from the bonds formed through spending time with like-minded peers.
 “i think different students appreciate different com­ponents of the program, but everyone agrees that an un­expected benefit is belonging 
“There is immense value in being a woman and being collaborative and inclusive.” 
Ambreen Ahmad 
senior 
to a cohort of like-minded in­dividuals,” derakhshani said. “That bond remains strong 
throughout  their  career  at  
saint  mary’s  and  hopefully  
beyond.”  

derakhshani also said the program challenges students to be more effective in a di­verse world and stands out on a resume to employers who understand the importance of intercultural awareness. 
ahmad said she has learned a lot about collaboration and being a woman through the il program 
“one big thing that i’ve taken away is that there is im­mense value in being a wom­an, and being collaborative and inclusive,” said ahmad. “it’s been a really great expe­rience. i’ve learned a lot about myself through it.” 
alexander said she would recommend all interested stu­dents apply to the program. 
“i would definitely recom­mend it for anyone, not only to meet people, but to talk about the issues in our world that people don’t always see,” alexander said. “it’s given me a lot of confidence to do things that i wouldn’t have thought i could do.” 
derakhshani said the pro­gram is open to rising sopho­more and junior students from any discipline. derakhshani said the application process opens each spring, and this year applications will be ac­cepted through monday. she said around 10 new students are accepted into the program each year. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



SMC to welcome Zimmer as commencement speaker 

By KELLY RICE 
news writer 
social entrepreneur Kyle Zimmer will be the com­mencement speaker for the saint mary’s college class of 2013. 
according to a saint mary’s college press release, Zimmer, a 1986 graduate of the george washington school of law, is the presi-

dent and ceo of First Book, a non-profit organization that provides books to children in need. she founded and be­came president of First Book in 1995, and the organiza­tion, under her leadership, has distributed over 100 mil­lion books to children nation­wide, according to the press release. 
senior silvia cuevas, senior 
Greeter 
conTinued From page 1 
and the couple discovered the persistent back pain turned out to be the result of a lung infection. 
on march 21, lila said she noticed a slight change in her husband’s demeanor, which prompted her to request a day off of work for John. 
“he wasn’t happy with me about that but he didn’t have a choice,” she said. 
That afternoon, she said John collapsed in the couple’s mishawaka home. 
“i wouldn’t have been there a half hour later, but thank god i was there,” lila said. “so i called the ambulance and they got him stabilized and took him to the emer­gency room. They did a caT scan and his whole chest cav­ity was full of fluid. … [They found out] the bacteria en­cased the lung and it was hard for him to breath. so they had to go in and scrap the lung. They peeled it like an orange.” 
in the following weeks, John’s health became even more complicated, lila said. doctors drained over six li­ters of fluid from his lungs and chest cavity and diag­nosed him with congestive heart failure, which led to kidney failure. meanwhile, his blood-thinning medi­cation eventually led to hemorrhaging. 
yet when her husband came out of surgery, lila said class president, said she is looking forward to Zimmer’s address. cuevas said she ex­pects the commencement ad­dress to be memorable due to Zimmer’s accomplishments. 

“The excitement beams from my face when i think of commencement, and what’s to come after saint mary’s,” cuevas said. “Kyle Zimmer speaking during our commencement will be ex­traordinary, i am excited to listen about her path to leave a positive mark on the world and become a pioneer for change.” 
cuevas said Zimmer’s suc­cess in business and inspira­tional career will inspire the class of 2013 to bring about change. 
“my peers and i are hoping to be in her shoes someday, as women who know their potential to create something for the greater good of all,” she said. “The college made an excellent choice, the class of 2013 will be itching to go out and be the change our­selves after we hear Zimmer speak.” 
she noticed the same John she had known in 13 years of marriage. 
“They were trying to settle him down in the icu. They try to roll him over and he is telling them riddles. That tells me he’s okay,” she said. “ he keeps them in stitches up there [at the hospital]. he seems to be the hit of most of the nurses who take care of him.” 
John began walking on his own wednesday and is ex­pected to start rehabilitation by the end of next week. lila said she hopes her husband will be home to celebrate their 14th anniversary on april 17. 
“[The doctors] are all amazed at how he has recov­ered so quickly,” lila said. “he has been in the hospital only three times in his life, all before he turned 70. This was a lot. it did scare him though.” 
despite the scare, lila said the students he cares about at the university continue to one of her husband’s greatest concerns during his hospital stay. 
“he always asks, ‘did you see so-and-so? are they okay? nobody’s telling them jokes,’” she said. “even as sick as he’s been, he’s been very concerned with getting back there.” 
lila spent 14-hour days at the hospital in the first week of John’s stay, but returned to south dining hall last week at his request when his condi­tion began to improve. 
“he’s got a couple more weeks to go at least,” she said. 
senior dani haydell said she expects Zimmer’s speech to be inspiring because of her career as a woman working for change. 
“i am excited for Zimmer to speak at commencement because she is a good exam­ple of what women can ac­complish when they put their time, effort, and heart into something,” haydell said. “also, the fact that the com­pany she is president of is working to make the lives of others better is a good exam­ple that women definitely are responsible for a huge part in changing the world and mak­ing it better.” 
in 2007, Kyle Zimmer was named the united states’ outstanding social entrepreneur of the year by 
the  geneva-based  schwab  
Foundation  for  social  
entrepreneurship.  

according to the press re­lease, Zimmer will receive an honorary doctor of humani­ties degree from the college. 
Contact Kelly Rice at krice02@saintmarys.edu 
“he’ll be [at the hospital] the rest of this week and prob­ably into next week. if any­body wants to go see him or send anything to him they are more than welcome to. he’s in room 5510 on the fifth floor. 
“he would be so apprecia­tive. it would cheer him up so much.” 
if John continues to im­prove, lila said she would schedule him to return to south dining hall for the last week of school. 
“oh yeah, he always looks forward to it every day,” she said. “he always enjoyed be­ing around young people. he just relates to them. he’s always got a great sense of humor and never gets up­set or angry or anything. he would probably do it even if he wasn’t paid. he just enjoys it so much.” 
To the ritschards, the sup­port on campus “means the whole world,” as a few stu­dents have already visited John during the hospital’s daytime hours. But what does one give the man in room 5510 who gives so much and asks for nothing but a smile in return? 
“we don’t do it for [money],” lila said. “we do it because of the blessings. students are a blessing and we love them. we have been extremely grateful for all the prayers. we always keep all of the students here in our prayers and we’re so thankful for theirs.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Holy Week 
conTinued From page 1 
has not taken up residence in the lavish papal apartments. 
saturday night was the easter vigil held in saint peter’s Basilica. capuchin fri­ar Fr. raniero cantalamessa delivered the homily, ref­erencing Franz Kafka’s “an imperial message” to illus­trate the difficulty of spread­ing the word of christ to the worldly, according to the BBc. 
“we must do everything to prevent the church from be­coming Kafka’s castle, where it is impossible for the mes­senger to get word out to the world,” cantalamessa said. “so, we must have the cour­age to knock them down and return the building to the simplicity and linearity of its origins.” 
pope Francis delivered his “urbi et orbi” message to the city of rome and to the world after the mass. he empha­sized the importance of love and peace for communities that are needy and war-torn. 
“what a joy it is for me to an­nounce this message: christ is risen! i would like it to go out to every house and every family, especially where the suffering is greatest, in hos­pitals, in prisons,” the pope said, according to the english translation offered by the holy see press office. 
The pontiff said Jesus christ’s triumph over death should transform christians’ lives. 
“what does it mean that Jesus is risen? it means that the love of god is stronger than evil and death itself,” he said. “it means that the love of god can transform our lives and let those desert places in our hearts bloom.” 
pope Francis invited ev­eryone to “accept the grace of christ’s resurrection” and “become agents of this mercy.” he prayed specifi­cally that the conflicts in the middle east, iraq, syria, nigeria, the congo, central africa and Korea would be resolved. 
“peace in the whole world, still divided by greed look­ing for easy gain, wounded by 
“The love of God can transform our lives and let those desert places in our hearts bloom.” 
Pope Francis 
Bishop of Rome 
the selfishness which threat­ens human life and family, selfishness that continues in human trafficking, the most extensive form of slavery in this twenty-first century,” he said. “peace to the whole world, torn apart by violence linked to drug trafficking and by the iniquitous exploitation of natural resources!” 
To conclude his address, pope Francis quoted a pas­sage from psalm 117:1-2. 
“dear brothers and sisters, to all of you who are listen­ing to me, from rome and from all over … the world, i address the invitation of the psalm: ‘give thanks to the lord for he is good; for his steadfast love endures for­ever,” he said. “let israel say: ‘his steadfast love endures for ever.’” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Wellness 
conTinued From page 1 
international day of happiness a few weeks ago, hoffman said. designing follow up sessions fo­cusing on how students could ef­fectively increase their positive emotion level would hopefully improve student happiness, she said. 
Brown led the group of attend­ees through multiple exercises, which ranged from measuring positive emotion and life satis­faction on the subjective happi­ness scale to writing down three things they are grateful for hav­ing in their lives 
“we talked about how that [gratitude] felt — that was the first intervention,” Brown said. “gratitude has been studied in the field of positive psychology as one intervention that helps a lot of people feel more positive.” 
Brown also shared several studies that demonstrate the benefits of feeling gratitude, in­cluding one that asked partici­pants to list five things they were grateful for on a weekly or daily basis. 
“[The studies] found rather consistently that people felt bet­ter about their lives as a whole, they were more optimistic about the future, they reported fewer health complaints,” Brown said. “The gratitude group also spent more time exercising, 1.5 more hours per week.” 
it is important, however, to dis­tinguish positive emotions like gratitude from happiness, Brown said. 
“gratitude is a positive feel­ing but you might not be happy,” she said. “Things might be go­ing badly in your life, but having gratitude, that positive emotion, still lights up the same area of the brain that happiness does.” 
Joy, compassion and other positive emotions serve the same purpose, Brown said. 
Brown concluded the session by having attendees form a hap­piness plan for them to move for­ward. she said students focused on what they could do to improve not only their positive emotions, but also the positive emotions of others. 
“The benefits of happiness, of positive emotion in general, are that people are healthier, they live longer and they’re more re­silient in the face of things that go wrong,” Brown said. “not only are they okay after a tragedy, but they are flourishing. They are better off than if the tragedy nev­er happened.” 
The happiness intervention aimed to increase the overall happiness of students on cam­pus, hoffman said. 
“students here are set to such high academic standards, which is awesome, but they tend to be­come anxious and stressed out,” hoffman said. “we were able to just bring the whole idea of being grateful for something different every day rather than just focus­ing on, ‘what are the tasks that i need to accomplish today.’” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Ebony 
conTinued From page 1 
years of women specifically this year, so we wanted to incorporate that and capital­ize on that and make it even grander. it’s … a celebra­tion of women in the past, here in the present and also women in the future at notre dame, and all of our accom­plishments  and  what we’ve contributed to the university.” 
Freshman chizo ekechukwu, historian and diversity council represen­tative for shades of ebony, said the group’s events will begin monday afternoon with a service event. 
“we have our service event on monday at saint margaret’s house for us to give back to the commu­will be an opportunity for group members and faculty from various departments to gather for dinner and engage in discussion at the Joyce center’s club naimoli on Tuesday night. she said they will discuss important topics for women in american society during the dinner. 
nity  [and]  we  have  an  ice  
cream  social  with  them,”  
ekechukwu said.  
ekechukwu  said  there  


“The dinner is with 75 women,” ekechukwu said. “we have nine different tables and nine dif­ferent topics and we’ll talk about different issues, from the representa­tion of women to women in sports and things like that.” 
on wednesday, a prayer service in ryan hall and a ‘girls’ night in’ in the coleman-morse center lounge will close out the ‘40 years and counting’ celebra­tion, Jeter said. 
Jeter said the prayer service is open to anyone, but the ‘girl’s night in’ is restricted to women. 
“[The prayer service] is open to everyone on campus. it will just be reflecting on the role of spirituality and being a woman here on campus,” Jeter said. “‘girls’ night in’ is specifically for women, just to have a place to go in fellow­ship after the prayer service.” 
according to the group’s website, shades of ebony was officially recognized by the university in 2002 as a group for african american women on campus to discuss their experiences, foster sister­hood and perform service. 
Freshman ray’von Jones, shades of ebony presi­dent-elect for the 2013-14 academic year, said the group’s goal is to help women on campus develop a positive 
self-image.  
“we’re  basically  trying  
to  help  promote  positive  
self-image between  african  

american and other women on campus,” said Jones. 
Jeter said the organization has transformed from just a group for discussion into one that fosters service alongside dialogue. 
“it started in the basement of walsh hall as a place for discussion … and then it became more of a service-based and discussion-oriented initiative,” she said. 
The group meets every other wednesday at 7 p.m. in the south lounge of walsh hall. ekechukwu said all women are welcome to join the group’s dialogue and service. 
“we are open to everyone. i think a common misconcep­tion with shades is that it’s only for black women, and it’s not. it would be nice to see women of all races and sexualities,” ekechukwu said. 
Contact Nicole McAlee nmcalee@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


INSIDE COLUMN 

my notre dame bucket list 

Ankur Chawla 
scene writer 

with the school year and my last semester here quickly (i’m sure you’ll all agree too quickly) reaching its end, more and more nights have been spent reminisc­ing about the past four years: the things we’ve done and the things we hope to do before we leave. here’s a snapshot of a few things on my bucket list i’ve either been lucky enough to check off or hope to in the next month and a half. 
10. make a bucket list. it ’s self-explanatory to say one needs to make a bucket list before trying to check things off of it… 
9. win a Bookstore Basketball game. while this may come easy to most of the athletic popula­tion on campus, my 5 -foot-6 self would be better suited for a bookstore tennis match. my last shot is this Friday at 5:30. 
8. study on every floor of the li­brary. Though you may be partial to the renovated fishbowl or the tables on the second floor, make the hike up to each floor and dis­cover something new about me ­dieval history or corporate law. 
7. spend time abroad. whether it ’s a full semester, summer or even spring break in mexico, take the time to see the world and immerse yourself in a differ­ent culture. 
6. do a csc seminar. Few things are more rewarding than spending a fall or spring break in appalachia making close friends and helping others. 
5. eat a quarter-dog 

4. regret eating a quarter-dog 
3. meet a notre dame celebrity. 
on the list: Father hesburgh, regis philbin, austin swift… 
2. start a tradition. make crepes for your friends on sunday afternoons, they ’ll love you for it. or drink white wine on wednesdays solely for the al­literation. start something for yourself and your friends and you’ll feel like you’ve added to the already rich traditions of this univer sit y. 
1. graduate. while i’m dread­ing the day as much as everyone else, it is a testament to our time here and the culmination of the nights spent in the library and the Backer alike. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

For nearly 45 years, the commonwealth of virginia lured tourists through an iconic slogan, “virginia is for lovers.” The brainchild of richmond advertising company martin and woltz, the slogan launched in 1969 for the virginia state Travel office and has been copied in various iterations by oth­er tourist organizations. part of the slogan’s allure is the toler­ant and accommodating feeling one derives when associating virginia with tourism. unfortunately, the gop state legisla­ture and governor have tarnished that imagery of brilliant openness in virginia with another new legislative intrusion — this time permitting campus organizations to discriminate.
 Two weeks ago, notre dame alumnus and republican virginia governor Bob mcdonnell (‘76) signed the so-called student group protection act into law. The measure main­tains funding for student organizations that limit member­ship based on religion, sexual orientation or personal beliefs. in an attempt to apparently protect a campus group’s ability to discriminate, virginia’s reactionary initiative is a direct response against and attempt to reverse a 2010 u.s. supreme court decision, christian legal society (cls) v. martinez. The high court affirmed that requiring college student groups to adopt an “all-comers” policy is not a violation of that group’s First amendment rights. The cls at the university of california had sought to limit its membership based on a requirement that its members subscribe to a statement of beliefs as well as refrain from practicing behavior outside the statement. members were further prohibited from advocat­ing beliefs considered contrary to the statement, and in this case, restricted those who merely supported a gay rights cam­pus group. 
while it is disheartening that a notre dame alumnus elect­ed to a high statewide office can support such a narrow-mind­ed policy of exclusion, in this instance it is not surprising. when mcdonnell worked on his joint law and public policy degree from the christian Broadcasting network university (currently regent university), his 1989 thesis reveals the roots of his restrictive thinking. entitled, “The republican party’s vision for the Family: The compelling issue of The decade,” mcdonnell wrote that “government policy should favor mar­ried couples over cohabitators, homosexuals or fornicators.” he additionally characterized feminists and career women as detrimental to the family structure. 
mcdonnell also responded to a 1965 supreme court deci­sion that legalized the use of contraceptives. he said that “man’s basic nature is inclined towards evil, and when the exercise of liberty takes the shape of pornography, drug abuse or homosexuality, the government must restrain, punish and deter.” like any slick politician, mcdonnell has brushed off his past academic thoughts by saying virginians will judge him on his nearly 20-year record of public service rather than on his academic exercise. however, his record is not one of inclusion for virginians. 
last year mcdonnell virtually eliminated himself from gop vice presidential consideration with his awkward initial support of a legislative proposal mandating every woman in virginia considering an abortion must submit to a vagi­nal ultrasound examination. in another obvious attempt to circumvent the current law of the land decided by the u.s. supreme court decision in roe v. wade four decades ago, mcdonnell asserts a severely hard pro-life stance since he does not support the standard abortion exceptions for cases of rape or incest. paradoxically, while he openly supports babies, he virulently executes convicts — most notably the september 2010 execution of Teresa lewis, judged to have an iQ of 72 (u.s. law prohibits the execution of persons with a 70 iQ or less) who was the first woman in nearly a century executed in virginia. appeals had come to mcdonnell’s desk where only he, as governor, could have commuted her execu­tion. he refused to be pro-life with lewis who prayed and held hands with her chaplain and lawyer during her final mo­ments before her execution. at the time, mcdonnell’s decision had many question whether he was among those who truly stand for life in all situations including capital punishment and unnecessary war deaths. 
during the past few years, the gop agenda in virginia is but one of many examples how out-of-touch and selectively exclusive statewide republicans have attempted to overturn current law. Time and again, political conservatives pick and choose how the government should “protect” certain narrow group thought over the expansive freedoms granted in our constitution. Their candidates avoid revealing their true socially restrictive thinking during a campaign in order to win office, and then, while in office, rear an ugly prohibi­tive stance against those who may think differently. it is no wonder the gop was handily rejected in the last presidential election. 
anybody can get elected at least once, especially if the opposing party nominates a country bumpkin with lesser communications skills and considerably less political savvy. mcdonnell never signaled his restrictive nature during his run for governor in 2009 but stressed jobs and economic is­sues. This year, his hopeful gop successor will have no such stealth advantage. For now, anyway, we can sadly say, “yes, virginia, there is a separation clause.” 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
a love letter to baseball 
Jack Rooney 
The liberal medium 

Though you might not be able to tell by the weather, the return of major league Baseball this past sunday night unequivocally heralds the ar­rival of summer. indeed, the “boys of summer” have returned and they will eventually bring the warm weather with them. aside from the knowledge that summer is on the way, opening day also gives life to english poet alexander pope’s words that “hope springs eternal.” even hopelessly dejected fans in houston, miami and even the north side of chicago can find some solace in the unparal­leled hope offered by opening day and a fresh start (full disclosure: my allegiance lies on the south side of chicago with my beloved white sox). But more than hope and the imminent arrival of warm weather and sunshine, baseball remains one of the few things in my life that never fails to amaze and inspire me. 
The simplicity and beauty of the game, whether played in a beat-up backyard on a warm summer night or under the bright lights of a big league sta­dium, is still enough to take my breath away. it has been six years since i have played organized base­ball, but my love for the game remains as strong and passionate as it was the day i first picked up a base­ball. some say lower impact games like tennis and golf are “lifelong sports,” but i contend that, if you let it, the game of baseball can provide a lifetime of cherished memories and invaluable lessons. 
i cannot help but shake my head when someone says any sport, let alone baseball, is “just a game” because it is so much more than a mere game to so many people. as journalist (and avid baseball fan) george will said, “Baseball, it is said, is only a game. True. and the grand canyon is only a hole in arizona. not all holes, or games, are created equal.” Baseball is one of life’s great learning experiences as it is often one of the first games we learn as chil­dren. it teaches us how nine people need to work to become one team in order to accomplish anything. it teaches us to persevere through whatever obsta­cles may cross our paths. it also teaches us that it is okay to fail. after all, there are few other endeavors in life in which one can fail seven out of ten times and still be considered great. 
For me, baseball has provided innumerable life lessons, but only a few make for good stories. perhaps the best of these stories occurred in the summer of 2001 when a small, seven-year-old Jack rooney got the unexpected invitation to try out for the ridge Beverly little league all-star Team. several days after the tryout, i waited inside on a gorgeous evening waiting for a phone call that i ex­pected to bring good news. when my parents broke the unfortunate news that i did not make the team, my entire, tiny world collapsed in on me. But, after a few tears and plenty of hugs, i found myself back in my backyard, playing baseball with my brothers and neighbors. 
Baseball also taught me to persevere through unexpected challenges, despite the urge to give up. when i was 10 years old and playing catcher for the little league Florida marlins, my head had an unfortunate collision with the ball while warming up the pitcher prior to the start of a playoff game. needless to say, i was not wearing my catcher’s mask and a portion of my forehead ballooned to twice its normal size, all before the start of the game. nevertheless, i proceeded to catch the entire game, which went into extra innings, on a brutally hot early June day, goose egg on my head and all. earlier in that same season, also while catching, i made the bold decision to step in front of the plate as a runner barreled down on me. i refused to let him score, though, and i held on to the ball as we both tumbled to the dirt. when i popped up, ball in hand, i took off my mask to find that one of my teeth was ready to fall out. so, without a second thought, i pulled out the tooth, handed it to my dad on the bench, and proceeded with the rest of the game (which, for the record, we won). 
in life, we experience bumps in the road much more severe than bumps on the head and teeth fall­ing out, but from an early age, baseball conditions us for the greater challenges, none of which we ever expect. and when those bigger challenges do arise, i, for one, know i can always find comfort and re­lease in the simplicity of a game of catch, the awe­some power of the crack of the bat and the sheer, unparalleled beauty of baseball. 
Jack Rooney is a freshman studying political sci­ence.  He can be contacted at jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

I’m not converting 
my host mother is part of the even smaller Kate Winkle 2.2 percent that attends church multiple The rocky mountain collegian times a week. my first day in spain we dis-
i don’t drink, i don’t smoke and i don’t stay out late. more than once in my life people have noticed my rather ascetic life and asked (or told) me: “you’re catholic, right?” 
no, i am not catholic. i choose to be boring according to today’s standards. my definition of “fun” whilst traveling abroad is visiting art museums and touring cathedrals, not party­ing like a rock star. Besides, catholicism is not synonymous with “dreary fun-hater.” 
many of my friends and family wondered if i’d convert to catholicism after four months in spain. after all, spain is a catholic coun­try, they said. 
That’s not exactly true. spain certainly was a catholic country until 37 years ago. From 1936 to 1975, Francisco Franco’s dictatorial regime mandated the morals of the country, emphasizing military involvement, family and faith. effectively, everyone was catholic because they had no choice otherwise 
historically, too, spain has a strong catholic tradition. The reyes católicos, “catholic monarchs” Ferdinand and isabella, besides funding christopher columbus’ voy­age to america, were also responsible for the expulsion of Jews and muslims from spain and the spanish inquisition. 
unsurprisingly, catholicism has rather a bad reputation because of its past abuses of power, as can anything marked by er­ror. despite this history, 73.1 percent of spaniards identify as catholic, according to a 2013 survey by the centro de investigaciones sogiológicas. however, 58.5 percent of those who identify as religious stated they almost never go to church compared to 13.4 percent who said they attend almost every sunday. 
cussed religion and she informed me that although she was raised catholic she now attends an evangelical Baptist church. 
The disparity between those who identify as catholic and those who actively practice catholicism can be attributed partially to a reaction that persists today against the Franco dictatorship, which created an alto­gether more liberal and laid-back society. 
nowadays, catholicism in spain seems more cultural and less life-changingly spiri­tual (although spirituality does exist). There is still a huge emphasis on tradition. semana santa, holy week, is especially culturally rich, and draws many tourists to well-known regions of spain. sevilla’s processionals of large statues depicting scenes from the Bible this year are as likely to draw crowds of sin­cere worshipers as camera-clicking culture seekers. 
The great thing about modern spain, and about life, is a person doesn’t have to be catholic to be a believer. one can be, one has that choice to belong to the catholic church, but a person has the same right to attend a protestant-branch church where the wor­ship-leading guitarist looks a bit like a Beatle. equally, people have the right to not attend church or to not believe anything. 
That is the crux of modern society: choice 
— and accepting that not everyone makes the same choices. 
This column originally ran in the March 30 edition of The Rocky Mountain Collegian, serving Colorado State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
getting serious about unplanned pregnancies 
on Tuesday, the observer ran its traditional satirical edition of the absurder. listed in the classifieds page was a personal ad claiming: “unplanned pregnancy:  you’re going to have to go it alone. This is notre dame, stu­pid.” This poor attempt at humor is very disappointing, considering both the facts of the matter and the observer’s own history in condemning this kind of behavior. 
last september, the observer staff wrote an editorial condemning the jokes that resulted from ndsp’s reporting of “forcible fondling” attacks on students. The staff wrote “For one person on campus, each crime alert wasn’t a joke. it was a reminder of a situation that was probably scary and scarring. and that’s an alliteration that isn’t quite as hilarious.” while the situation is different from a sexual assault, for a woman facing an unplanned pregnancy, a joke in the student newspaper about a lack of support can only deepen anxieties about a situation that is scary and potentially scarring. 
notre dame has gone to great lengths to promote and strengthen its re­sources for unplanned pregnancies. it has stressed that while notre dame is a catholic university that promotes the church’s teachings regarding sexual mo­rality, it will make every effort to help students in unplanned pregnancies with “caring, non-judgmental, professional assistance and support.” The adminis­tration has particularly stressed that you do not have to leave notre dame, that the university will not press disciplinary action and will make every effort to accommodate a students needs with coursework and housing. 
if the editors of the observer really do care about students in unplanned pregnancies, they should seek to promote the resources available for those stu­dents, instead of encouraging false stereotypes. regardless of your opinion of the university’s stance on catholic sexual ethics, we can all agree that women in unplanned pregnancies require the love and support of the entire notre dame community. making a joke out of unplanned pregnancy is not okay. 
To take a page from the editors, “That’s not who we are. That’s not notre dame.” 
Andrew Lynch 
senior off-campus apr. 4 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By JUAN RAMON CANCIO VELA 
scene writer 

as i was waiting for “The lion in winter” to start, i couldn’t help but notice how welcoming the washington hall lab Theatre felt. The lab Theatre is not very big, but it offers a stage that promises to de­liver a very intimate theatrical expe­rience. The stage lights darken and leave me in complete darkness as i am suddenly transported to the King of england’s quarters where he is speaking with his beautiful mistress about the current troubles that his kingdom faces. 
during their conversation the characters happen to provide the audience with a line that ultimate­ly sets the stage for the rest of this wonderful play. alais, the King’s mistress, asks the King if she should ever trust a word of what he says; The King coolly responds “always!...even 
when i lie.” 
The story takes place in 1183 inside King henry ii’s castle as he and his family reunite for christmas. The King has apparently ended up in the arms of his son’s betrothed wife, but he is more consumed by questions about the future of his vast kingdom. The King is ready to do everything in his power to keep his empire from splitting; unfortunately for him, he has three sons and only one throne to pass on. his estranged wife also shows great interest in deciding who is to succeed the King because she sees a chance to finally avenge her betrayal. what better way to avenge herself than to ensure the King’s preferred son does not ascend to the throne? 
The play presents the inner work­ings of a royal family who is at odds with one another, and shows us how seemingly normal their struggles can be. The royal family is host to sibling rivalries and favoritism just like any other, with the one very important difference being that the future of an empire hangs in the balance. This is a story of deceit and how each member of this family plots his or her individ­ual success with little to no regard for anyone who stands in their way. This drama is paralleled by cunning word play that provides the audience with comic relief throughout the play, but also humanizes these charac­ters even further. The petty jibes be­tween a jealous queen and her lustful king are shown on full display, along with how a prince brags to his broth­ers about how he is the favorite and therefore the only logical option for the next king. 

i had the opportunity to meet with the director of “The lion in winter” and saw how anxious she is to show off her work to the rest of the student community. lauren palomino is a senior majoring in political science and she could not help but radiate excitement as she told me about her favorite play. she admitted to me that this was a bitter sweet oppor­tunity because although she was fi­nally getting a chance to direct her favorite play, it would also be the last time she would have the pleasure of directing here at nd. she has done a great job with this interesting po­litical drama, and i am sure any who attend the play will leave the theatre satisfied after an evening of great entertainment. 
This play offers the audience an en­tertaining story of a fight for the line of succession and power, which turns brothers into enemies and husband and wife into competing puppeteers. it will be on tonight at 7:30 p.m. and tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in the washington hall lab Theatre. 
Contact Juan Ramon Cancio Vela at jcancio@nd.edu 

By MARGARET WAICKMAN 
scene writer 
The fifth consecutive se­mester of wvFi’s notre dame’s humans versus Zombies games begins next Tuesday, april 9. humans ver­sus Zombies is an epic, five-day game of tag. “Zombies” attempt to tag all “humans” and turn them into zombies; humans avoid getting tagged and defend themselves using nerf guns and socks, which can stun zombies. 
if nerf guns, zombies, and tag aren’t enough entice­ment for you to sign up, then consider signing up for the opportunity to meet new people. sean Brady, junior, and alexandra amorati, sophomore, joined humans versus Zombies for the fun, but ultimately got a relation­ship out of this large-scale 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 
game of tag. 
sean Brady has been play­ing humans versus Zombies since his freshmen year. he and his roommates have become humans versus Zombies veterans. They go all out for the games. They buy three hundred nerf gun darts, stay away from the dining halls all week, and research nerf gun shooting distances. The walls of their dorm rooms are covered in zombie posters and a map of campus clearly marking the locations of their allies. “we take it seriously,” said Brady. For this quad, playing the game seriously yields in se­rious fun and serious wins. spring semester last year, poseidon and apollo (the hvZ aliases sean and a roommate go by) won humans versus Zombies. 
alexandra amorati is newer to the game. her first serious hvZ was last spring, when poseidon and apollo won. during the game, amorati and her friends got to know poseidon and apollo and their rather extreme tactics. once the game concluded and the boys took home a victory, amorati was deter­mined to beat them in future. amorati and friends attempt­ed to find out as much as pos­sible about these mysterious figures. They were able to un­cover poseidon and apollos’ year and dorm, but were un­able to figure out their real names. 
The pair remained a mys­tery until amorati and her friend spotted poseidon and apollo at reckers late on Friday night. amorati was sure that the two were the infamous poseidon and apollo, because, even though it was weeks after the game, poseidon was still carrying the orange bandana sported by all hvZ players in his jeans pocket. 
Brady recalled, “as i was leaving reckers, i heard people yelling my humans versus Zombies call sign.” amorati and her friend pro­ceeded to relay all the infor­mation they had gathered about poseidon and apollo. They all ended up exchang­ing phone numbers. “within a couple days, he asked me on a coffee date. we started hanging out, and the rest is history,” said amorati. Brady and amorati, now a year lat­er, are still dating. 
when asked why students should get involved in hvZ, amorati said, “definitely for the people. sure, there are people like sean and his friends who take it super seriously, but there are also casual players. chill people who are willing to go out at night carrying nerf guns. people who just don’t care that much what other people think about them. That’s who everyone wants to be friends with.” 
students interested in play­ing tag, acting like a zombie, and making new friends can sign up at wvfi.nd.edu/hvz. registration is open until midnight tonight. The game runs from Tuesday, april 9 to saturday, april 13. 
on the fence about signing up? don’t overthink it. Just do it. Follow sean Brady’s ad­vice, “it’s always fun to play with nerf guns. and, you never know. you might meet someone.” 
Contact Margaret Waickman at mwaickma@nd.edu 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By MADELINE DALY 
scene editor 

wednesday afternoon i nervous­ly walked straight from class into the o’laughlin auditorium at saint mary’s college, excitement filling my stomach as i awaited my interview with my favorite youTube newcomers, cal shapiro and rob “rez” resnick, together known as Timeflies.  i have been following their weekly Timeflies Tuesday videos since the very begin­ning, so finally meeting the guys was no ordinary interview for me. 
as i wandered into the auditorium, empty except for cal and rez’s group­ies starting up sound check, i couldn’t help but audibly squeal and run to the very front row.  i took my seat and casually pretended to play cool, “texting” on my phone when actually sending snapchats of the stage to my incredibly jealous friends.  once cal and rez sauntered onto the stage, my eyes became completely affixed, and i was unaware of anything besides the fact that Timeflies was basically giving me a private concert (well, it was their sound check and i was the only one in the audience but that still counts in my opinion). 
after 30 minutes of running through the beginnings of each song, the band’s manager Jared glick, sporting a vin­tage 80s notre dame jacket, motioned to me and said to meet downstairs. my heart was racing uncontrollably as i stood up and went down to the base­ment, passing dressing rooms labeled sylvia yacoub, the saint mary’s soph­omore from “The voice” who opened for the duo, Timeflies, and Timeflies crew. 
i finally arrived in a cozy room with three couches and a table of every kind of snack food you could ever crave where rez, cal and Jared sat, cal eating beef jerky like he hadn’t eaten in days and rez sipping on a blue gatorade. They stood up when i walked in, shook my hand and introduced themselves (like i don’t already know your names, your birthdays, where you live, where you went to school … should i contin­ue?) as i told them my name, hoping to make a memorable impression.  as we started the interview, i leaned back on the couch and started talking to them like we had already known each other, just four college kids hanging out talk­ing about our love for music. 
after watching countless videos of them goofing around, drinking and partying, i had to ask if they miss col­lege or if they felt like they were still in it. 
“i feel like i’m still in college,” rez said with a smirk, leaning back in his chair. 
“Just yesterday we were in nashville and our friend took us into a dorm room there,” cal said.  “i hadn’t been to a dorm in forever but those were some great memories.  i think i do miss college, it’s a lot of friendship.” 

since they are graduates of Tufts university, the next question i had for them was whether or not they planned a concert at their alma mater on this tour. 
“no,” rez said quickly.  “we did play at Tufts like a year and a half ago.” 
“it was the worst,” cal said.  “Tufts isn’t that fun by itself.  i mean, we had fun but college is what you make it. unless you go to a huge awesome school, college kind of makes you. But even in that situation, it’s up to you.” 
when asked about their hopes for wednesday night’s concert, the guys expressed excitement and curiosity. 
“First of all, awesome shoes,” cal said, referring to my aqua blue Tory Burch flats, my favorite part of the in­terview.  “second of all, i don’t think we do many seated auditoriums, so that should be interesting.  The ones in the past have been awesome, but one time we performed at [Boston college] and they made everybody sit down even when they tried to stand up.  But we are so excited to kick our tour off here. we don’t know much about [saint mary’s], but playing at an all girls school is a lot better than play­ing at an all dude’s school. we did per­form for all guys once, it was a lovely time.” 
after giving me a less-than-enthu­siastic “go irish”, it was time for cal and rez to start prepping for the show, meaning i had to leave their pres­ence to go wait in line for the concert. 
on my way out i tweeted about cal complimenting my shoes and nearly started jumping up and down from ex­citement, thinking that nothing could top those 10 minutes. 
however, only a few hours later Timeflies managed to impress me once again.  with my press pass i was allowed in the very front row, hands on the stage with only inches of air standing between cal and myself. The vibe of the concert was amazing, with hundreds of students scream­ing, dancing and waving glow sticks towards the stage, singing along with cal and staring in amazement dur­ing his freestyles.  he even did a notre dame/saint mary’s freestyle, insert­ing phrases like “domer Fest,” “manti Te’o,” and “go Belles” into his on-the­spot rap. 
i was in a complete state of eupho­ria after the concert ended, flipping through the pictures on my iphone, discovering one of cal reaching for my hand (my absolute favorite part of the concert). Basically, if you were doing anything besides staring at cal and rez last night you seriously missed out.  This duo really knows how to own a stage and work the crowd, and if you ever get the chance to see them live, you definitely should.  and try to get in the front row, because it is an expe­rience you will never forget. 
Contact Madeline Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


                  Andrew Gastelum  
editor in chief 

week Two, but i guarantee you this is no sophomore slump. it’s just too good. 
with my search for new music, the past two weeks have been pretty good to me, which makes this spot pretty competitive. after The strokes’ “comedown machine,” Tyler, the creator’s “wolf” and cold war Kids’ “dear miss lonelyhearts,” there was plenty to choose from. 
But onerepublic’s “native” takes the crown. it’s 14 tracks of pure anthem. it may annoy the hipsters because of how mainstream it is, but nobody can deny a catchy track, let alone a catchy album. 
you may have heard the two incredibly addicting singles off the album: “if i lose myself” and “Feel again.” But if you listen to the entire album, you get 12 more bobbers (my term for any song that just naturally gets you to bob your head). plus, onerepublic has al­ways done a mesmerizing job with using strings. 
The album kicks off with some incredible opening lines from my favorite track: “counting stars.” But it doesn’t diminish from there. it’s top-notch through and through, straight until the end. meanwhile, “preacher” and “Burning Bridges” do the opposite of meat-of-the­order tracks are supposed to do: gets the people going. 

The album covers it all, from airy to ardent and al­ternative to rock. and with that, the group has gone from the dudes that did “apologize” or “good life” to an iconic band with a track record to prove it. with three fantastic al­bums, it’s music that just sounds good. 
That’s all that we can ask for, and that’s all onerepublic gives us. 


“Native” 
Artist: OneRepublic Record Label: Mosley, Interscope Genre:  Pop Rock 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

A fitting end to the Madness 

Mary Green 
sports writer 
as college hoops faithful convene for Final Four festivities, all eyes will be on atlanta this weekend. But while these fans gather around the television in their living rooms, in their favorite sports bars or, if they’re lucky enough, in the georgia dome, they will also celebrate and reflect on the past five months of college basketball. oh, what a season it has been. 
we started out thinking that Kentucky, laden with John calipari’s annual crop of one-and-dones, would actually be good — that was as big a mistake as nerlens noel chose to play for the wildcats over the orange. on the other end of the spectrum, miami, led by apcoach of the year Jim larranaga, started the season unranked, receiving exactly eight votes in the preseason ap poll. it seems like those writers finally got it straight with their bal­loting a few months later. 
and then there was the poll itself once the season began. no team could keep a grip on its ranking for more than a few weeks, and top-five squads dropped like flies each saturday. 
But with all the turbulence that highlighted this season of college basketball, it is only fitting that four teams in particular headed down to the peach state earlier this week. in a season marked by unsteady rank­ings, a five-overtime showdown and overall craziness, it almost appears as if destiny has given michigan, syracuse, louisville and wichita state the opportunity to play for their “one shining moment.” 
Take a look at the wolverines. what better team to play in the Final Four than one that appeared in one of the most bizarre cham­pionship games of all time? The last time michigan made it to the final matchup, it essentially lost the title on a timeout — or lack thereof — as chris webber was called for a technical after request­ing a timeout when none remained. ironically, that loss and the rest of the wolverines’ 1992-1993 season was erased from their history when ncaa investigators discovered webber received payments from michigan boosters while he was a student. guess money really can’t buy time. 
and what about the current group of wolverines? They’re definitely one of the most interesting teams in the country. They start three freshmen, sophomore applayer of the year Trey Burke and junior Tim hardaway, Jr., son of former nBa all-star Tim hardaway. plus, they don a rather sunny shade of maize that makes them look like highlight­ers running up and down the court, so you can’t ask for much more fashion-wise. 
Turn to their opponent, syracuse. has any team been more contro­versial year after year in the past decade? ncaa investigators must have purchased some land in beautiful central new york because it seems like they’re there every winter with new accusations. Jim Boeheim’s squad has faced allega­tions of players competing while academically ineligible and had players accused of sexual assault and failed drug tests, along with the Bernie Fine abuse controversy. But while the orange are consistently under fire, they also consistently win, making their storyline head­ing to atlanta one of the most attention-grabbing. 
To juice up the orange’s plot even more, this year marks the 10th an­niversary of the team’s only cham­pionship. and who is currently the hottest player in the nBa? carmelo anthony, the once-freshman who led that squad. call it fate, call it coincidence, call it what you may, but there’s no doubt that syracuse has an intriguing backstory entering this weekend. 
on the other side of the bracket lies louisville. as the no. 1 overall seed, it had the best prospects of making it to the Final Four. But the cardinals, too, had an interesting run this year. in their two most notable games, they squandered an eight-point lead with less than a minute remaining against notre dame before falling to the irish in five overtimes, and then overcame a 16-point second-half deficit against syracuse to claim the Big east championship a month later. 
But the cardinals really captured america’s attention last sunday, when sophomore guard Kevin ware broke his leg on a freak play against duke in the elite eight. millions of fans watched the teams’ players and coaches fall in shock at the horrific injury, which quickly became one of the most popular conversation topics across america. as with syracuse, louisville has a curiosity-piquing storyline that plays out with each day leading up to the semifinal. 
last but not least is wichita state. what more is there to say about why they embody the madness of not only march but of this year’s season as a whole? The no. 9 seed shockers busted enough brackets when they won their second-round game against pittsburgh, let along by making it to the Final Four. They weren’t expected to win a single game, but here they are. enough said. 
so there you have it, four teams who enter the final weekend of college basketball with ever-so­captivating plots that live up to the craziness of this season. But while these teams have shown the game is unpredictable to say the least, one thing is certain: we’ll all be there saturday, watching every minute of this madness unfold. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

rutgers players defend fired coach 
Associated Press 

Two rutgers basketball play­ers on mike rice’s team say the fired coach wasn’t the abusive ty­rant he appears to be on a widely viewed video that ultimately cost him his job. 
“you can’t let those individual moments define what he was,” junior forward wally Judge said during a telephone inter­view Thursday. “in my past two years, me being an older guy and being under other coaches, i have grown from the moment i stepped in these doors, not only as a player but also as a person be­cause of how he has treated me.” 
sophomore forward austin Johnson agreed. 
“he did a lot for us off the court, academically, socially,” he said during a separate telephone con­versation. “i have to say i enjoyed my time, even it was an emotion­al rollercoaster.” 
rice was fired wednesday, the day after a video aired on espn showing him shoving, grabbing and throwing balls at players in practice and using gay slurs. 
“i feel if people had a chance to see the other portions of prac­tice, or had been at practice, their judgment would not be as severe,” Johnson said. “i am not saying what he did wasn’t wrong, because i do believe it was wrong. But it is also tough because it was a highlight reel of his worst moments. 
“i never expected for this to es­calate as fast as it did,” Johnson said. “we have to deal with this and it’s new for a lot of the young­er guys.” 
Judge believes some of those moments come across worse on camera than they really were. 
“honestly, a lot of the things that have been seen have been taken out of context. a lot of things that aren’t seen are when we grab him and kid around,” Judge said. “like i said before, when people ask me why did i play for him, i told them ‘he’s a players’ coach.’ 
“mike was almost like a big brother. he would get on the floor with us and go through drills with us. he made it fun. when you have a big brother-type of figure, you know you can play around 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

like that. i have grabbed mike and put him in a headlock and we joke around and kid. That was the type of relationship he built with his players.” 
eric murdock, former direc­tor of player development at rutgers, put together the video that showed clips of several dif­ferent practices over three years. in november, he showed it to athletic director Tim pernetti. The following month, rice was suspended three games for im­proper conduct, fined $75,000 and required to take anger man­agement classes. 
like the two rutgers players, pitt guard Travon woodall also defended rice, who recruited him when he was an assistant coach there. 
“They are going at my man mike rice too hard,” woodall tweeted. “he’s the reason i came to pitt.” 
woodall later added rice is “not the only coach to put his hands on a player, or talk the way he did.” 
murdock played in the nBa and was viewed in the program as someone who could men­tor players. his contract was not renewed. 
“i have a lot of respect for him. when he was here, he was some­body i would talk to because he knew of my aspirations for play­ing at the next level and he was a guy who had done it,” Judge said. 
“he was a great guy to talk to. as far as this situation goes, i under­stand everything that is going on; i can’t necessarily be mad at him, but it’s been blown out of propor­tion. There are certain ways of go­ing about things and this wasn’t the way.” 
rice left pitt to coach at robert morris before landing at rutgers, where his record was 44-51 over three seasons. he posted a 16-38 mark in the Big east, after going 73-31 in three seasons at robert morris. The scarlet Knights went 15-16 this season and 5-13 in the league. 
rice’s assistant, Jimmy martelli, who was with him at robert morris, resigned Thursday. 
Judge, meantime, insisted rice wasn’t a “villain.” 
“he wasn’t a guy we hated or despised,” Judge said. “after practice, we would all go in the locker room and laugh. it was never a sad face or a hung head. what he did was he separated the court and he separated life. when we were on the court, we were on the court and locked in. That’s why you see so many in­tense moments because he was so locked in on turning this pro­gram around. when we got in the locker room we were a family. we laughed.” 
Johnson hopes rutgers’ next coach can bring success to a program that hasn’t been to the ncaa tournament since 1991. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Because We Can” by Bon Jovi but I’m here to take a stand 
because we can I don’t wanna be an­other wave in the ocean Eatin’ takeout on a coffee table 
I am a rock, not just anoth-Paper dishes, pour a glass of wine er grain of sand (that’s right) 
Turn down the sound I wanna be the one you run and move a little closer to when you need a shoulder 
And for the moment everything is I ain’t a soldier alright. 

ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | The oBserver 

SMC TENNIS | smc 9, oliveT 0 

Saint Mary’s sweeps Olivet 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 
saint mary’s dominat­ed visiting olivet, 9-0, on Thursday to remain unde­feated in conference play. saint mary’s (5-4, 2-0 miaa) got off to a great start early with the no. 2 doubles pair of sophomores audrey Kiefer and Jackie Kjolhede, who won 8-0 against the comets (0-8, 0-4). The no. 2 doubles Belle victory was quickly fol­lowed by an 8-1 win by soph­omore shannon elliott and freshman margaret Faller at no. 3 doubles. The Belles’ confidence grew as the day continued after junior mary catherine Faller and sopho­more Kayle sexton also won in doubles to give the Belles a 3-0 advantage heading into singles play. 
overall, the comets did not win more than two games in any set in singles, and the Belles won in quick succession in one of their quickest victories of the season. 
“we took care of business, and we stayed patient and did what we had to do to win the points, although some of the opponents did not have a lot of pace,” Belles coach dale campbell said. 
The Belles hope to build on a three-match winning streak and grow their con­fidence against non-confer­ence foe Judson on Friday. 
saint mary’s will try to breeze through the eagles (2-6) just as they handled olivet. Judson has been struggling through a six-match losing streak and five of their losses have come on the road. 
campbell said the Belles would make no significant adjustments for the match against Judson because their recent performances indicate the team is doing just fine. 
“we’ll continue to play more aggressive in doubles, but no major adjustments, just play our games the best we can,” campbell said. 
The match against Judson will be the second in as many days for saint mary’s and provides a break from miaa play. 
“The team should be fit enough to handle back-to back matches and with it be­ing non-conference, we al­ways want the win, but it is another opportunity to get better,” campbell said. 
The Belles face Judson at home Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL | anderson 7, nd 2; anderson 6, nd 5 
Belles drop doubleheader but look to bounce back 
By MERI KELLY 
sports writer 

after a win last week, saint mary’s dropped both games of a doubleheader to anderson on Thursday, los­ing 7-2 in the first game and 6-5 in nine innings in the second. 
“we definitely had more confidence and i think are 
“Emily Sherwood had one of the best doubleheaders of her career.She was solid on the field, but really stepped up at the plate and put the team on her shoulders.” 
Erin Sullivan 
Irish coach 

really starting to play better together as a team,” Belles coach erin sullivan said. “although we didn’t get the outcome we had hoped for, we played well.” 
senior captain emily sherwood had a great per­formance, scoring both saint mary’s runs in the first game and batting 3-for­3 against the ravens (10-8). 
“emily sherwood had one of the best doubleheaders of her career,” sullivan said. “she was solid on the field, but really stepped up at the plate and put the team on her shoulders.” 
Junior callie selner, who was named miaa pitcher of the week, endured a loss in the circle in the first game. selner allowed seven earned runs on 12 hits with seven strikeouts and a walk. 
sullivan said looking back on the game, there are many areas ripe for improvement. 
“we didn’t execute fun­damental plays at times,” sullivan said. “we need to be better at putting down bunts and adjusting to the pitcher sooner. we also can’t dig holes too early on.” 
sullivan also said almost all anderson runs were scored off saint mary’s errors. 
“it is tough to stomach two losses when we gave the games away rather than anderson earning the wins,” sullivan said. 
The Belles will now look to rebound against albion 
— their first miaa oppo­nent of the season — on saturday. 
“i think we are ready to play the games that really matter now,” sullivan said. “we are excited and ready to show everyone how hard we have been working and the adjustments we have 
“It is tough to stomach two losses when we gave the games away rather than Anderson earning the wins.” 
Erin Sullivan 
Irish coach 
made to put us into a good spot to be very competitive in our conference.” 
The Belles’ home-field advantage may also have a positive impact against the Britons (0-16, 0-2 miaa). 
“we are 2-0 at home and i think our fans really help,” sullivan said. “we have a goal to go undefeated at home this year, so i think that is a positive motivator for us, as well.” 
First pitch between the Belles and Britons is sched­uled for 1 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Meri Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish face challenging end to regular season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The no. 31 irish return home to take on no. 65 smu, south Florida and Butler this week­end. The next three matches provide the irish with their last opportunity to play at home in the regular season. 
“These matches will be a lot of fun because it’s senior day and coach [Bobby] Bayliss’ last regular season home match,” freshman Quentin monaghan said. “i think all of us are really looking forward to this weekend.” 
The irish (12-7) enter the weekend coming off back-to­back wins against william & mary and Ball state. 
“leading up to the william & mary match was the start of long preparation for these coming matches and the Big east,” monaghan said. 
The mustangs (7-7) enter the weekend riding a four-match winning streak against marquette, oklahoma state, idaho and illinois-chicago. They stand strong in doubles play, going 22-14 this season. smu carries the no. 75 pair of sophomore arturs Kazijevs and junior mischa nowicki. 
“in particular doubles has been a focus because we’ve been struggling a little in that area, but besides that it has been some of the basic ag­gressive tactics we have been developing throughout the year,” monaghan said. 
in singles, the mustangs bring no. 124 Kazijevs to face off with notre dame’s no. 109 junior greg andrews. Kazijevs has led the squad through­out the season on the no. 1 court, going 10-4 this season, including wins in the last six matches. 
The squads share little his­tory coming from different regions, but both have taken wins over marquette this sea­son. The irish won 7-0 while the mustangs won 6-1 against the golden eagles. 
south Florida (7-8) is com­ing off a 5-2 loss to no. 57 unc-wilmington last Friday. no. 59 sophomore oliver pramming and freshman ignacio gonzalez-muniz lead south Florida in doubles play. 
Butler has a three-match losing streak that the irish will seek to stretch to four this weekend. 
Both squads have faced no. 5 ohio state, iupui and Ball state this season. Butler (8­
10) and notre dame suffered 7-0 losses to ohio state. The irish beat iupui 7-0 and the Bulldogs won 4-3. Both teams ended with a 5-2 score against Ball state, but Butler came out on the losing side. 
“They are all going to be challenging,” monaghan said. “smu is the best rank­ing wise, but then again we haven’t beaten usF in over a year.” 
The irish will begin dou­bles play at 4 p.m. against smu this afternoon in the eck Tennis pavilion. The ac­tion will continue saturday afternoon with notre dame against south Florida at 1 
p.m. and Butler at 6 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish look to continue streak 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
ashley armstrong has taken her game to another level this spring, and it’s elevating her team to new heights, too, as the no. 23 irish head to dallas for the dac/smu invitational this weekend. 
armstrong has won two tournaments in a row and set a new personal best score of one-under-par at the insperity lady Jaguar intercollegiate Tournament from march 15­
17. after winning the Briar’s creek invitational last week, the sophomore was named the women’s national golfer of the week by golfweek magazine. in her two wins, armstrong has defeated eight top-50 op­ponents and climbed to no. 76 nationally. 
“ashley’s been doing every­thing well lately,” irish coach susan holt said. “she’s in a good place where everything is coming together. she’s been driving well and putting well.” 
The irish as a team have been on a roll lately as well. after fin­ishing third and beating then-no. 22 Texas at the insperity lady Jaguar intercollegiate, the irish claimed their first team victory since 2011 at the Briar’s creek invitational on march 26. This weekend, the squad will try to keep the momentum up and upset no. 3 oklahoma and no. 22 oklahoma state, both of whom have beaten the irish in tournaments this year. 

“Based on the rankings, we should get third,” holt said. “But the girls really want to beat oklahoma and oklahoma state and … our confidence is high and our practice round to­day was very good.” 
however, holt said she wants her team to remain focused on playing within themselves and not get too caught up in trying to beat other squads. 
“The team that plays the course best is the team that wins,” holt said. “we need to focus on our game and take care of ourselves.” 
holt said while the course was wet and soft, conditions look to be ideal over the week­end, with temperatures reach­ing the upper 70s, and only moderate wind. in addition, freshman Talia campbell, a dallas native, has played this course before, giving the irish a little extra knowledge. 
overall, holt said the team is excited to end the regular sea­son strong and enter the post­season on a high note. 
“Things are going well right now,” holt said. “we’ll see what the weekend brings.” 
The irish compete through­out this weekend at the dac/ smu invitational in dallas before beginning postseason play at the Big east conference championship april 21. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

notre dame readies for the Big east tournament 

By D.H. KIM 
sports writer   

after battling back to finish fifth last week at the c&F Bank intercollegiate, the irish will head to Kannapolis, n.c., to partici­pate in the irish creek collegiate on saturday and sunday. 
Freshman cory sciupider earned co-medalist honors Tuesday following his strong performance during the c&F Bank intercollegiate. sciupider’s round of 67 tied eastern michigan’s casey olsen for first place and irish junior andrew lane also turned in a solid per­formance, finishing in third place by firing a two-under par 68 to anchor the irish at an impressive fifth place overall. 
irish coach Jim Kubinski said the irish were pleased with their comeback effort after a slow start and are looking for week-by-week improvement. 
“we feel good about our per­formance and bounce back in virginia, but our goal this spring is to improve each week,” Kubinski said. 
heading into their last two tournaments before the Big east championship, the irish are looking to get hot as the weather warms. Kubinski said the irish need west coast natives ju­nior niall platt and senior paul mcnamara iii, who did not fare as well as sciupider and lane last week in virginia, to improve their play as the schedule goes on and the temperature rises. 
“we improved in virginia, es­pecially looking at both cory sciupider and andrew lane post­ing their collegiate best rounds to date,” Kubinski said. “This week we need cory and andrew to con­tinue their growth and get both paul and niall going again.” 
For the irish to build off the momentum established at the intercollegiate, Kubinski said a to­tal team effort will be necessary. 
“we had two players do a nice job … last time out, and i think the big things for us to get four and, ideally, five guys playing well,” Kubinski said. 
The irish tee off saturday at the irish creek collegiate in Kannapolis, n.c., and return to the course for sunday’s second round. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
TRACK & FIELD 

Athletes travel to Michigan for meet 
named an overall winner of the in cincinnati. odegard and 
By LAURA COLETTI 

sports writer meet. giesting said this pro-glasnow will also compete 
vides a chance for the meet to again this weekend. 

The irish, off a success-be more focused on individual giesting said the men are hop­ful easter weekend at the competition. ing to use this weekend for some stanford invitational, will turn “This meet is more informal athletes to achieve qualifying their attention to the spartan than a conference meet,” he times, and for some to continue invitational in east lansing, said. “it’s more about the indi-recovery from injuries earlier in mich., this weekend. vidual events.” the season. 
although only a handful of last weekend, three individu-“our men’s team has been notre dame athletes will be als had first-place finishes, and coming together, in the sprints competing this weekend, the the men’s 4x400-meter relay especially, and i know we are meet will be key for the team to team also finished first. at the getting a few guys healthy from keep progressing and improv-stanford invitational, senior the distance team that are start­ing. it will also be a chance for thrower madeline casanova ing to come around as well,” he some of the younger competi-placed first in the discus and said. “we are looking to have tors to put up strong numbers senior middle distance runner some guys qualify this weekend and times. rebecca Tracy took first in the for the conference meet in the 
“This meet is a great meet for 800-meter. at the oliver nikoloff hurdles and middle distance some of the younger, less expe-open in cincinnati, sophomore area.” rienced people on the team to carly loeffel won the heptath-he also said the women’s side first meet of the outdoor season, on technique and for competing compete and put up qualifying lon. loeffel will compete once has been performing at high lev-junior sprinter megan yanik was against some Big Ten talent.” marks for [the Big east champi-again this weekend. els and looks to continue doing awarded the Big east athlete of events are slated to begin onships],” sophomore sprinter on the men’s side, seniors so this weekend. the week, and last week there at 2 p.m. Friday and 9:30 a.m. chris giesting said. dean odegard and Ted glasnow “our women’s team is com-were several great performances saturday. 
The meet will not be scored, and freshman Brent swanberg peting great, as well, and are off from the women’s throwers and which means nothing will be placed third, fourth and sixth, to a great start for the outdoor distance runners. This week-Contact Laura Coletti at totaled and no team will be respectively, in the decathlon season,” giesting said. “in the end’s meet is great for working lcoletti@nd.edu 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

SMC GOLF 

Belles enthused for competition in Saint Louis 

By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
after a sixth-place finish at the george Fox phoenix invitational from march 14­16, saint mary’s will look to improve this weekend at the washington university-st. louis invitational. 
The invitational will be a new experience for the Belles because they did not participate in the inaugural tournament last year. 
Belles coach Jason Kolean said the team’s focus is sim­ply on getting better, es­pecially this early in the season. 
“we’re looking to improve on our previous scores,” he said. “we have continued to put in quality time and ef­fort and hope to see positive results.” 
Though the Belles fin­ished last at the phoenix invitational after digging themselves a hole they could not climb out of after the first day, they managed to cut 24 strokes on day two. Junior paige pollak had the strongest showing, shooting 83 and 77, the lowest rounds each day for the Belles. all six golfers cut strokes off their scores from day one to day two. 
The Belles’ stiffest compe­tition this weekend will like­ly come from the tournament hosts, no. 2 washington university. The Bears fin­ished second at the phoenix invitational, 35 shots clear of the Belles. however, the teams shot an identical 322 on the second day of the event. no. 5 depauw will also present a strong chal­lenge for the Belles. 
despite the strong compe­tition the team will face this weekend, Kolean said the team is not discouraged. 
“we have a group of highly motivated girls, who are ex­cited to play against the top teams in the nation,” he said. 
The two-day tournament starts saturday at gateway national golf links in madison, ill. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

irish host memphis 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 

memphis compiled a per­fect record at home in 2013, but the irish will try and trip up the Tigers when they travel to south Bend for a sunday matinee. 
The no. 36 Tigers (15-4) have won eight matches in a row, and haven’t dropped a point since their 6-1 victory over ucF on march 8. They have won all 14 matches at home this spring, includ­ing a 5-2 victory over no. 16 virginia, sophomore molly o’Koniewski’s former pro­gram. all four of their losses have come to teams ranked in the top-25. 
“memphis is a very tal­ented team, and they have a lot of top players on their team, so it’s definitely go­ing to be a tough match that we have to be ready for,” se­nior chrissie mcgaffigan said. “These past two matches (against Tulsa and marquette) have been pret­ty good in preparing us for it, and i think we want to really go out with a bang in our last match at home this year.” 
while the Tigers haven’t experienced much losing this season, this level of success is still new to the program. Their win over virginia in February was the first over a top-20 oppo­nent in school history. Their 
ranking peaked at  no. 22  
(another  program  record)  
earlier this season.  

The no. 16 irish (12-7) are coming off a 6-1 win over marquette on Tuesday. 
sunday’s tilt will be mcgaffigan’s final regular season home match. 
“chrissie has been my teammate all three of the years i’ve been here and it is sad to think she won’t be here next year,” junior Britney sanders said. “i don’t know college without (her), i’m going to miss her so much. 
mcgaffigan said the cere­mony before the match will be bittersweet for her. 
“i’m really, really excited. it’s going to be a time for me to look back and really be able to enjoy all the experi­ences i’ve had,” mcgaffigan said. “i’ve just had a won­derful four years here and i’ve met so many wonderful people. my teammates and my coaches and even the people who work the front desk have really made this time absolutely amazing for me. 
“it’s kind of sad for me, but at the same time i have no reason to be sad, because i just had the best four years of my life here.” 
so far this season, chilly weather has forced the irish to play all of their home matches indoors in eck Tennis pavilion, but the team might get the chance to play in the sun this weekend. 
“we’re planning on play­ing outside, but it’s weather permitting,” sanders said. “Temperature wise it should be good, but i think it’s look­ing like it’s going to rain, so it may be inside.” 
The irish have only two more matches before the Big east tournament, which will be held in Tampa beginning april 18. 
The irish will celebrate se­nior day by hosting memphis at the courtney Tennis center at 1 p.m. sunday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

ND SOFTBALL 

Irish hope to protect top spot in Big East 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish, fresh off the pro­gram’s 1000th all-time win, re­turn home to face villanova in a three-game weekend series be­ginning saturday. 
notre dame (24-8, 5-0 Big east) racked up wins no. 1000 and 1001 with back-to-back victories over georgetown on wednesday. Junior laura winter allowed only two hits and fanned 12 during the first game, en route to an 8-2 win. senior Brittany o’donnell took the circle in game Two as the irish cruised to a 15-3 vic­tory. o’donnell said it was an honor, particularly for this year’s senior class, to be a part of such a significant irish benchmark. 
“it’s a great honor to be on a team that was able to accom­plish that, both for one another and for [irish coach deanna gumpf] and for the program it­self,” o’donnell said. “it’s such an amazing honor and feeling to put on the notre dame jersey every time we go out on the field. we’re always trying to represent the university as best we can.” 
with their two victories over the hoyas, notre dame moved into sole possession of first place in the Big east. The irish will try to maintain that position in the standings as they welcome the wildcats (12-17, 0-6) this weekend. 
“we know that we have to play our best notre dame softball ev­ery game and not play down to any opponent’s level,” o’donnell said. 
The team has focused on all areas of play at practice this week, keeping its fundamentals sharp and preparing to perform in key situations. 
“we kept working on hitting the ball hard on the ground and playing solid defense,” o’donnell said. “we’ve been working on our fundamentals because we know that that’s go­ing to take us far in the Big east and keep us going. we’ve been working on executing when we need to and coming up clutch in big situations.” 
as the irish continue in the Big east portion of their schedule, the team is focused on making its last season as a member of the conference a special one. 
“we just know that our goal is to leave a mark on the Big east conference by winning it all, so that’s what we keep working to­wards,” o’donnell said. “This is our last year in the Big east, so we work hard every day at practice to do the best we can. we don’t worry so much about the rank­ings, we’re just worried about the end goal of leaving our mark.” 
The  irish  will  open  play  
against  villanova  at  melissa  
cook  stadium  on  saturday  at  
noon.  

Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | The oBserver 



Louisville 
conTinued From page 20 
and be the strongest, they would be one of the front-runners. But i think we’re a lot more poised and smarter, so we’ll match up pretty well.” 
The irish will then travel to the newly-opened sheakley athletics center in cincinnati to meet the Bearcats (5-4, 0-2). notre dame is 4-0 all-time against cincinnati and beat the Bearcats, 22-2, in last year’s meeting. despite the program’s recent success against the Bearcats, shawhan said she expects a tough fight from the Bearcats. 
“every team we’ve played has given us their best game, so we’re expecting that from all the teams we play,” she said. “we always play a nameless, faceless oppo­nent and try to give every team our best as well, so we’ll try to do that sunday.” 
cincinnati junior midfielder Taylor young, senior midfielder Kylie ramsland and sophomore midfielder megan Bell power the Bearcats’ balanced scoring attack. 
notre dame will look to im­prove to 10-0 when it meets louisville on Friday at 5 p.m. and cincinnati on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

Providence 
conTinued From page 20 
team,” corrigan said. “They’ve had some guys kind of grow up on the field the last few years. i think with the new coaching staff, they’ve kind of embraced what they’re doing. They’re a very dangerous team.” 
For the past six seasons, gabrielli guided duke’s defen­sive unit as an assistant coach. while he was there, duke went to six Final Fours and won the 2010 national championship in an overtime victory over the irish. 
This season, the Friars’ sev­en wins are more than they tallied in the previous three seasons combined. in 2012, the Friars won only two games. in 2011, providence won only three, and the Friars were win­less in 2010. Their only Big east win a year ago came in the last game of the season against villanova. 
But this year, under gabrielli, the Friars started the season with five straight wins. providence lost its next three, but bounced back with two more victories. most recently, the Friars dropped a 13-6 deci­sion at no. 16 yale on Tuesday. 
But the success of gabrielli and the Friars is an indica­tion of the growth of the Big east conference as a whole. notre dame, georgetown and syracuse always had strong programs, but re­cently rutgers, st. John’s and villanova have burst onto the scene. and now providence is right there with them, corrigan said. 
“when we started the con­ference, one of the things that we said was that it won’t take long for the programs at the bottom of the conference to be a lot better,” corrigan said. “as part of the formation of the conference, the Big east wanted a certain level of com­mitment. so that was a real boost to some of the programs. so now you see st. John’s and villanova and providence be­ing drastically better over a five-year period. That’s not any surprise to me whatsoever.” 
Junior attack sean wright leads providence’s offense with 30 goals and nine assists. his 2.9 goals per game rank sixth in the country. at 6-foot­7, bigger than any defender on notre dame’s roster, wright will pose a large threat to the irish defense. 
The irish and the Friars face off sunday at 1 p.m. in providence, r.i. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
ROWING 

Irish to race top competition 
Observer Staff Report 
The no. 13 irish will com­pete in columbus, ohio, this saturday, where notre dame will race against no.4 ohio state, no.8 michigan and Tennessee. The race will pose an early challenge for the irish as they progress through their season. 
notre dame is coming off an impressive easter weekend performance against iowa, michigan and michigan state on the grand river in lansing, mich. notre dame’s top two varsi­ty eight boats, as well as the first varsity four and novice eight were each double win­ners on the day. 
The irish novice eight won against both iowa in the morning and michigan state in the afternoon in dominant performances, finishing more than five seconds before their closest competition in each race. 
The irish varsity four also compiled a set of wins against the hawkeyes and spartans. notre dame’s var­sity four beat iowa by more than 15 seconds in their race. This impressive per­formance was enough for the irish to take their second consecutive Big east Boat of the week honors. The irish squad consisted of senior coxswain danni schneider, freshman elizabeth Kelley, sophomore stella willoughby, junior Kiersten dehaven and senior Kelsey murphy. 
The first varsity eight also defeated both iowa and michigan state. notre dame will now try to maintain its momentum developed during easter weekend rac­ing to its upcoming con­tests against the Buckeyes, wolverines and volunteers on saturday. 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

notre dame to engage in weekend contests 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame will host the mexico under-20 team in an in­ternational friendly today in its third match of the 2013 spring season. notre dame will also entertain iowa, ipFw and grand valley state in a four-team event saturday. 
earlier this spring, the irish faced michigan state in a charity match march 23 in Fort wayne, ind., and lost to the chicago red stars 4-1 on wednesday in alumni stadium. 
The red stars, members of the newly formed national women’s soccer league (nwsl), scored twice in the first half off the foot of former irish midfielder and all-american lauren Fowlkes. 
notre dame has history on its side today. The irish have played various permutations of the mexican national team eight times since 2001 but lost only twice. in their most recent match, however, mexico prevailed 4-1 on april 23, 2010. in that game, over 2,700 fans crowded alumni stadium to watch the irish take on their international neighbors. 
irish coach randy waldrum will have a nearly full roster to use against mexico. Though the irish were one of the youngest teams in the nation last season, notre dame loses only two se­niors from last year’s squad. 

Before the irish faced the red stars on wednesday, mexico played haiti’s national team in alumni stadium and beat them 1-0. The same mexican squad lost to nigeria 1-0 in the quar­terfinals of the 2012 FiFa u-20 women’s world cup in Japan last summer. The united states beat germany in the title game to earn the cup. 
Today’s action against mexico begins at 7 p.m. in alumni stadium and saturday’s games begin at 10 a.m. on the notre dame practice field. 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


Pitcher  major leaguer in the parking lot of his former high school.  a lot fewer 6-foot-5 white kids in the nBa compared to 6-5  
conTinued From page 20  “The guy said you have to  pitchers  in  the  mlB,  that’s  
pick at some point, you can’t  just the way it happens to be,”  
time to dwell on disappoint- physically give all your effort  connaughton  said.  “That’s  
ment. connaughton started in  to both sports,” connaughton  partly why i decided not to go  
his season debut against Kent  said. “and obviously i respect  straight to professional base- 
state on march 26 — registering  his opinion. it’s not something  ball after high school. i kind of  
a no decision in an 8-1 irish win  that people think is possible,  wanted to see if i could prove  
— just four days after the bas- but i respectfully disagree be- people wrong with basketball.”  
ketball team exited the ncaa  cause i’ve been doing it and it’s  while playing one division  
tournament with a 76-58 loss to  something that i think i can do  i  sport  is  difficult  enough,  
iowa state in the round of 64.  successfully.”  connaughton is not the only  
There  were  doubters,  of  connaughton gives no in­ two-sport notre dame athlete  
course. There still are.  last  dication he was ever swayed  in recent memory. it is relative- 
summer, after he had already  by  naysayers.  on  the  con­ ly common for football players  
finished one year balancing  trary, he thrives on defying  to run track in the spring, and  
both sports, he struck up a con- expectations.  current  seattle  seahawks re­ 
versation with the father of a  “i’m not a dummy — there’s  ceiver  golden Tate played in  
Villanova  out with the results that you want.”  notre dame sophomore right-handed starters will make  
conTinued From page 20  on  the  heels  of  a  two- their home debuts. on Friday,  
game winning streak itself,  pat connaughton will take the  
ways.”  villanova enters the series af­ mound, and matt Ternowchek  
on the other side of the field  ter picking up close wins over  will get the nod sunday.  in  
lie the  wildcats (8-19, 0-3),  pennsylvania and la salle. in  conjunction  with  saturday’s  
who have yet to pick up a con- the wildcats’ 3-1 victory over  “Fear the Beard” night, senior  
ference  win.  despite  their  la salle on wednesday, sopho­ right-hander  adam  norton  
lackluster  season  thus  far,  more left-hander Jeff courter  will head to the hill with his  
6-0 record and 1.39 era for the  
“It’s like any Big East weekend, I think. You’ve got to make sure that you play well in order to come out  series’ middle game. with the recent turn towards spring weather, aoki said he hopes to see plenty of notre  
with the results that you want.”  dame students at this season’s first home weekend series.  
Mik Aoki Irish coach  “we’d certainly love to fill up the eck,” he said. “[with this  
weekend’s promotions] i think  
aoki said his team will not be  pitched  8.1 innings  of one- it should be a lot of fun.”  
counting them out before the  run baseball in his first career  Following a pregame tail- 
series is over.  start.  another  second-year  gate beginning at 4 p.m., the  
“They’ve struggled a little bit  southpaw  for  the  wildcats,  irish will take the field for  
more than they did last year,  Josh  harris, leads the team  game one of their series with  
but they’ve got a couple of  with a 2.09 era in spite of a 2-4  the wildcats at 5:35 p.m. to- 
good arms,” he said. “it’s like  record.  night at Frank eck stadium.  
any Big east weekend, i think.  Those two will look to match  
you’ve got to make sure that  up with a strong irish rota- Contact Mary Green at  
you play well in order to come  tion this weekend, when two  mgreen8@nd.edu  

the outfield as a freshman and sophomore. Jeff samardzija first made a name for himself as a star receiver for the irish, but now pitches for the chicago cubs. 
“i’ve talked to Jeff samardzija a little bit, but [he and Tate] are different because they did football and baseball,” connaughton said. “They couldn’t play fall baseball, but they’re there for the whole baseball season. with basket­ball, i miss half of the baseball season, but i’m there for fall ball and for the end of it. 
“it’s just something you kind of have to work through. it’s something that even if i was able to talk to someone who did do both sports, i don’t know that their situation would’ve been the same as mine.” 
so far, though, the transi­tion between sports has gone smoothly. 
“i think it worked out as well as we could’ve hoped,” aoki said. “[Basketball coach mike] Brey has been over-the-top gracious in terms of how he’s handled this whole thing. Both coach Brey and pat really make this thing possible. i don’t think it would work out all that well with different personalities.” 
connaughton said staying in shape for both sports hasn’t been particularly difficult. 
“it’s not as hard as a pitcher,” connaughton said. “you pretty much get your arm in shape; it’s just a matter of easing into it. and you only really need to throw twice a week, so i do it on my free time. 
“i usually only need 15 to 30 minutes. i try to throw when the baseball team practices. They usually have them later at night, so that makes it a little bit easier because basketball’s usually in the afternoon.” 
connaughton said he doesn’t mind the extra work in the gym, especially after working for his father’s construction company in massachusetts one summer as a st. John’s prep student. 
“The deal was i was either going to work for him or i was going to work out at this place called athletic evolution back home,” connaughton said. “i was either going to do that from nine to three like a job or i was going to actually have to have a job. and after working with him for that one summer, i definitely did not want to do that [again]. 
“i was so passionate about sports that it was easy for me and it wasn’t even like work. nine to three is a long time in the gym, but you can work on a bunch of different things when you’re there.” 
although the notre dame baseball coaches would’ve liked to see connaughton play in the cape cod league, last summer he played with the south Bend sultans so that he could stay close for the basketball team. The schedule and priority con­flicts between the two sports are unavoidable and likely to increase as he progresses, but for right now, connaughton is taking them as they come. 
“i’ve still got two-and-a-half years left, so we’ll see how that works out,” connaughton said. “obviously right now for the professional level, there’s more baseball scouts knocking on my door than there are basket­ball, but when it comes down to it, i don’t know what i’m going to do.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | The oBserver 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher BrucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &     paTricK cross 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: robert downey Jr., 48; christine lahti, 63; david cross, 49; craig T. nelson, 69 
Happy Birthday: welcome any help that is offered. what you have to give back will far exceed any feeling of guilt or awkwardness. you are used to doing every­thing and expecting nothing, but this year the give-and-take aspect of your life must be put into balance if you wish to be successful. an old partnership should be reconsidered. your numbers are 1, 9, 15, 21, 26, 33, 47, 69. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): offer assistance and good things will happen in return. The joy you spread and the ideas you share will enhance your personal re­lationships. doing things differently and being the instigator of your own destiny will prove to be beneficial. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): refrain from making complaints. an emotional issue must be handled with diplomacy. remain open to suggestions and put greater emphasis on what you can do to help someone going through a difficult time. put safety first. avoid secret encounters. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t lend or borrow money with any expectations. a short trip will add to your knowledge, expertise and ability to make constructive alterations to your personal life, attitude and appearance. love looks promising, but keep your feelings a secret for now. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): your intuition will not lead you astray. you are best not to share sensitive information. Taking responsibility for your actions will bring the results and recognition you desire. protect your physical and financial wellness. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do your thing. getting together with friends or peers could lead to conversation that will encourage you to pursue your dreams. a change of plans, direction or location will enhance your chances of reaching your goals. romance is on the rise. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): listen carefully and make sure that what’s being said is accurate. let your common sense and gut feeling lead you down the right path. a contract should be considered, but only if you negotiate your terms explicitly. embrace change. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a relationship will be enhanced if you are willing to make a compromise. don’t fight change when it’s essential to moving forward. people from different backgrounds will inspire you. love will blossom. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get involved in events that will help you connect with influential people. contributions you make will attract someone who has something to offer you professionally, financially or creatively. don’t allow per­sonal situations to slow you down. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put more energy into your home, family and romance. make a decision that will help you put any misrepresentations or uncertainty to rest. Focus on ways to make your future stable and your lifestyle better suited to your personal goals. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look for common ground before you decide to become closer with someone from your past or present. you want to be aligned with people who contribute, not dictate. ulterior motives may be a factor. let your intuition guide you. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): generosity will draw unique individuals into your life. draw on past experience and consider the changes you want to make in order to improve your future. larger quarters or sharing your space with more people will improve your outlook. romance is in the stars. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): moderation is a must if you don’t want to ruin a good opportunity. Keeping your life and plans simple will bring the best results. let your wisdom come from insight, past experience and a keen sense of practi­cality. 


Birthday Baby: you are outspoken, innovative and curious. you are inventive and trendy. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, APRIL 5, 2013 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
BASEBALL 

Strong rotation leads Irish into weekend 
Notre Dame 


Connaughton prepares for series defies naysayers by 
against Villanova playing two sports 
By MARY GREEN By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer sports writer 
while the professionals have 

some athletes might have just begun their season, no. 
gone out to celebrate, reveling 20 notre dame is entering the 
with the students who stormed heart of its schedule as it pre­
the court after the irish knocked pares to face villanova in a 
off no. 1 syracuse. some might three-game series this week-
have spent the night relaxing end at Frank eck stadium. 
and recovering in the training The irish (17-9, 2-4 Big east) 
room. enter riding a two-game win-
But sophomore guard pat ning streak, collecting victo­
connaughton capped off the ries over illinois-chicago and 
most exciting night of the 2011­valparaiso earlier this week. 
2012 basketball season with a Those momentum-building 
workout. after all, baseball sea-wins came at just the right mo-
son was coming. ment after the team dropped 
“They beat syracuse here last all three games against 
year, and i think 45 minutes lat­louisville in its last Big east 
er we have him throwing long series, irish coach mik aoki 
toss over in loftus,” irish coach said. 
mik aoki said. “pat can move “it was nice to be able to get 
seamlessly from basketball to a couple of wins after obvious-
baseball, literally within min­ly a tough weekend down in 
utes. it’s like he never left.” louisville,” he said. “so it was 
and while that can mean nice to get back on that, feeling 
missing out on a night of cele­good about ourselves and get­
bration, it also means the right-ting back to some winning ALLY DARRAGH | The Observer handed pitcher doesn’t have 
Irish sophomore starter Matt Ternowchek hurls the baseball off the mound in a matchup against Illinois-see villanova PAGE 18 Chicago on Tuesday. Notre Dame broke a three-game losing streak with the 6-2 win. see piTcher PAGE 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Squad takes on Providence 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
after an offensive explosion in a 17-5 win over marquette on Tuesday, no. 4 notre dame travels to providence on sunday for its second Big east road game. 
The irish (7-2, 1-1 Big east) dropped their first Big east matchup to no. 10 st. John’s on saturday after winning their conference opener against rutgers on march 24. 
irish coach Kevin corrigan admitted his team had started to get away from its intended focus. instead, notre dame looked ahead to its opponents too much. 
“i think that the focus needs to stay on us,” corrigan said. “while we’re preparing for other teams, the focus needs to stay on our team a little bit more. That’s my fault for let­ting us get too far away from that.“ 
But against marquette, corrigan was happy with the way his team rebounded and got back to doing what it does best: defending, taking advan­tage of scoring opportunities and avoiding turnovers. 
“starting with marquette, i think we came to a conclusion that we need to recommit our­selves to kind of being the team we want to be,” corrigan said. “That requires doing things a certain way and having certain standards that allow us to form an identity as a team.” 

The Friars (7-4, 1-2) have re­vitalized their program this year under the tutelage of first-year coach chris gabrielli. 
“They’re just a different 
see providence PAGE 17 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

notre dame eyes road trip 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
no. 6 notre dame will look to extend its best start in program history when it travels south to face louisville and cincinnati in a pair of conference games this weekend. 
The irish (8-0, 2-0 Big east) have not played since march 24, when they routed villanova, 14­2, at arlotta stadium. irish junior defense molly shawhan said the team used the extended break to focus on the fundamentals. 
“we’ve just been getting back to the basics, back to our stick work, and have been looking in at our­selves and understanding who we are as a team,” shawhan said. “all the things we’ve had problems with during games are the little things, so we’ve been working on ball handling, ground balls, win­ning the draws, that kind of stuff.” 
notre dame has gotten off to an 8-0 start for the second consecu­tive year under coach christine halfpenny. The irish need two more wins to tie the 2004 squad for the best start in program history. additionally, the team will look to become the first irish team since 2002 to start 4-0 in Big east play. 
The irish will encounter a tough conference foe when they square off with louisville (7-3, 0-2) at the uofl lacrosse stadium on Friday night. notre dame is 4-0 all-time against the cardinals, but the last three meetings have been decid­ed by two goals or less, including a 13-11 irish victory last season. 
The cardinals jumped out to a 7-1 start this season, but dropped games to then-no. 15 loyola and then-no. 9 georgetown at the start of Big east play. louisville junior midfielder nikki Boltja, who has notched 40 points in 10 games this season, and freshman midfielder Kaylin morissette, who has scored 26 goals on the year, have led the cardinal offense. 
“[louisville] is really aggres­sive and scrappy,” shawhan said. “coach [halfpenny] keeps saying that if there was a competition for which team could bench the 
see louisville PAGE 17 





