The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 48 | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
roTC battalions honor veterans 
Students take part in 24-hour vigil, public ceremony to remember former soldiers 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
on sept. 10, 2001, richard evans was a civilian with plans to marry his fiancée later that year. This veterans day, 12 years later, he is an active-du­ty captain in the u.s. army, a survivor of four deployments to iraq and afghanistan and a father of four. 
“it’s an awesome thing when the country gets behind and supports us [on veterans day],” evans said. “i think we’ve learned some really hard les­sons from the past. 
“as a soldier, i’ve felt nothing but gratitude from south bend, mishawaka and notre dame in particular. i’m very thankful for that and the opportunity to be here.” 
since July, evans has served as an assistant professor of military science at notre dame and a member of the reserve officer Training corps (roTc) cadre, or staff. despite his pri­or tours of duty, evans said he does not focus on his own ser­vice on veterans day. 
“it’s a time for me to reflect,” evans said. “i’ve been in the military for 12 years. i’ve de­ployed four times, so i think about all the great men and women i’ve had the opportu­nity to serve with. i think about the sacrifices my family has made to allow me to pursue this career.” 
Tyler Thomas, a senior naval roTc midshipman and tri-military commander of the three notre dame roTc branches, said army and air Force cadets and navy mid­shipmen held a 24-hour vigil at the clarke war memorial foun­tain starting sunday evening in honor of veterans day. 
“we protect the war memorial, which stands for all of the notre dame graduates 
see veTerans PaGe 7 




Sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
The st. Joseph county special victims unit is inves­tigating an alleged rape of a student in a saint mary’s resi­dence hall late saturday, nov. 3 into early sunday, nov. 4, according to gwen o’brien, the college’s director of media relations. 
“The college took immedi­ate actions upon learning of the alleged incident and is cooperating with the investi­gation,” o’brien said. “saint mary’s college has no com­ment at this time due to that ongoing police investigation.” 
vice president for student affairs Karen Johnson said the student body did not receive 
see reporT PaGe 7 


Women’s boxing captains fight for Holy Cross missions 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
on monday night, 78 women will take to the ring to raise money for holy cross missions in uganda in the 11th annual baraka bouts. 
nine captains lead these stu­dents in their boxing training and fundraising efforts while serving as mentors and leaders for the nov­ice boxers. senior captain anna carmack said she joined the wom­en’s boxing team her freshman year at notre dame, not knowing she would love the sport so much. 
“i was very hesitant. i had never done anything like boxing before, but i decided to give a shot,” she said. “i ended up loving it, and i was pretty good at it, as well.” 
Few women join the boxing team with previous boxing experi­ence, so the captains are respon­sible for teaching the basics of the sport, carmack said. 
“we’re doing all the instruction. we have coaches who help us a ton, but a lot of the instruction does come down to us,” she said. “we’re teaching the girls how to stand, how to punch, how to move. 
“The first few weeks are pure­ly workouts and instruction. you’re not going to be in the ring; you aren’t going to be throwing punches [because] you first have to learn how to stand.” 

carmack said the captains help run eight practices per week, and team members must attend at least four of them. 
see baraKa PaGe 7 


students lament football loss 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 

a number of notre dame students made the nearly 400-mile trek to pittsburgh to watch the Fighting irish fall to the pittsburgh panthers in a disappointing loss saturday night. 
sophomore connor hayes, a pittsburgh native, said he trav­eled home for the game, which was the 69th meeting between the two schools. hayes said at­tending the game was a unique opportunity to combine his two homes. 
“it was really kind of awe­some to be able to go to a notre dame game in my hometown,” hayes said. “at the same time, it was really weird because the game took up so much time on saturday that it was like i wasn’t even home.” 
hayes said the game was “overall frustrating” and the ambiance inside heinz Field did not help notre dame. 
“The atmosphere in the sta­dium was flat on the pitt side … but we let pitt take advan­tage of us,” hayes said. 
“at the start of the game, there really wasn’t much of an atmosphere [in the stadium]. The notre dame people didn’t want to be too loud, and the pitt fans weren’t into it. 
“outside of the [pittsburgh] student section, there wasn’t much energy. it was very flat. but that started to change when the tide of the game changed, and pitt fans really came alive.” 
sophomore gabe Jacobs said the game was disappointing because the irish had a good chance of winning. 
“i think we blew it. it was a winnable game and we made a few mistakes that really 
see reacTion PaGe 6 


news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 8 scene PaGe 11 men’s soccer PaGe 16 women’s basKeTball PaGe 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would you do for a Klondike bar? 

Joe Sulentic 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“walk up the steps of main building.” 
Megan Krouse 
junior 
off campus 
“give up my dining hall shopping for one month.” 
Steven Sonson 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“ignore the fact that i’m lactose-intolerant.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Beatrice Brenner 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“i would kill a man.” 
Brian Mukhaya 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“sit on the statue of mary on the dome .” 
Lizzie Pagura 
freshman 
ryan hall 
“run three miles - if it were reese’s.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori roeck Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kelly Konya conor Kelly nicole mcalee mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Veteran’s Day Lecture: This International Taste Gender Studies Meet Film: Shakespeare 
grant Tobin dan brombach 
Ceremony Country is Yours Too! of South Bend & Greet & Eat Behind Bars 
Hesburgh Library Geddes Hall LaFortune Student O’Shaughnessy Hall DeBartolo Performing 5 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. Center 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Arts Center 
Corrections 

Open to the public. Fr. Anthropology lecture 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Major information and 7 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Hesburgh to attend. by Laura Steil. International  cuisine. free pizza. The Tempest in prison. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Basketball Men’s Soccer Theatre: Cabaret Zen Meditation Men’s Hockey 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Purcell Pavilion Alumni Stadium DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center Center Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on ACC quarterfinal 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Michigan State. match. Tony Award-winning Open to students of all The Irish face off 
we can correct our error. 

musical. faiths. against Merrimack. 


Panel discusses ethical issues in ‘Radium Girls’ 
By HALEIGH EMSEN 
news writer 
experts from the saint mary’s and notre dame com­munity contributed to a panel discussion Friday with d.w. gregory, author of the play “radium girls,” which was performed on campus this weekend. 
The talk, titled, “radium girls: opening the door to Justice,” was sponsored by the Justice education department. 
gregory said she was in­spired to write the play, a story about radium poisoning of female factory workers who painted the dials on watch­es in 1920s new Jersey, by a documentary about radium poisoning. 
“i remember watching this documentary, ‘radium city,’ and just feeling like there was so much more to the story,” gregory said. “i wanted to know more about what hap­pened to the women.” 
gregory said she didn’t begin work on the play until about 10 years later when she was scrolling on the internet and discovered an article about a case in new Jersey involving radium poisoning of women. 
“i thought, ‘oh gosh, here’s a play,’” gregory said. 
“my original idea was that i was going to go out and find all this source material. i was going to look through diaries, journals to tell the story of the women in their own words, but i quickly found out that none of that existed in any form that i could have access to.“it be­came clear that if i was going to tell this story, it was going to have to be a fictitious recount.” 
gregory said the culture of compliance in the 1920s contributed to creating vic­tims, and in the specific case of radium, women were often harmed. 
“i knew from the begin­ning that i wanted to take a closer look at what it is that leads these kinds of things to happen,” she said. “For me, it wasn’t so much what hap­pened, as it was why did it happen and why does it keep on happening.“it wasn’t just the story of the women, it was also the story of the men. and it wasn’t just the story of the men and women, but it was the story of the culture of the expectations of the time. it was about commercialization. it was about the period when women were just beginning to find their voices.” 
“radium girls” has been produced more than 300 times in the united states, gregory said, and mostly by educa­tion theater programs in high schools and colleges. 
“There’s a lot in it that gener­ates a lot of interest in a lot of different disciplines,” she said. 
dan graff, a labor historian 
paid adverTisemenT 


and director of undergradu­ate studies in notre dame’s department of history, said unions have traditionally played an important role in creating a safe workplace. 
at the time of the play in the 1920s, most industrial work­ers like the ‘radium girls’ were unprotected by unions, and they had to rely on their em­ployers to provide a safe work­place,” graff said. 
graff said workers, especial­ly female ones, couldn’t advo­cate for themselves in the way unions could have advocated for their rights. 
“‘radium girls’ hints at the workplace realities faced by workers separated by skill and usually by gender as well,” he said. “The main character, grace, is outraged to learn that workers in the lab had screens to prevent their exposure to the radiation, unlike she and her fellow dial painters.” 
barbara Fick, a professor at notre dame law school, said in absence of unions, workers depended on the government to keep the workplaces safe. 
“in terms of government regulation in the 1920s, it was relatively new, and obviously, there were no federal regula­tions, so it was left up to the states,” Fick said. 
unfortunately, Fick said, the regulations that did exist were inadequate. 
“They would identify a spe­cific problem, but then they wouldn’t address anything else. and so the next time somebody would identify a problem, they would pass an­other law,” Fick said. 
Kelly hamilton, associate professor of history at saint mary’s, said many of the wom­en working in the factories who were exposed to the radi­um were young and had their whole lives ahead of them. 
“most of them were young women, in mid-teens to early 20s,” hamilton said. “The ‘20s brought them opportunities, liberation to work outside the home.” women who could produce painted dials more quickly, inserting the paint­brushes into their mouths to keep the bristles together, often were the first to die, hamilton said. 
“Tragically, [this method of working] may have contrib­uted to the most gruesome deaths from radium poison­ing,” she said. 
hamilton said although me­dia at the time often portrayed girls poisoned by radium in a negative light, the young wom­en earned public support. 
“These women were not vic­tims; they fought back and were aided by other women,” hamilton said. 
patricia Fleming, pro­vost, philosophy professor and senior vice president for academics affairs at saint mary’s, said ethics and in­formed consent are impor­tant in judging cases involving radiation. 
“unfortunately, scientists are reluctant to say there is a clear cause and effect relation­ship [between exposure to ra­dium and death of girls], but rather, there is a clear correla­tion,” Fleming said. 
gregory”said the company in the play disregarded the ethical dilemma presented and is completely at fault for putting its workers in such a dangerous position. 
“The company had infor­mation and knew there were issues. There is an issue of cul­pability to anyone that turns a blind eye,” she said. “i don’t have a lot of sympathy for the excuse, ‘i didn’t know,’ because it is your business and it’s your responsibility to know.” 
Contact Haleigh Emsen at hemse01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Professor analyzes translation on Rosetta Stone 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
in a lecture Friday titled “The rosetta stone and the politics of Translation,” ian moyer, as­sociate professor of history at the university of michigan, said comparing the greek and egyptian text on the rosetta stone can illuminate the political situation of ptolemaic egypt in the hellenistic period. 
“[The rosetta stone] has to be one of the leading contenders for most famous, least read his­torical document,” moyer said. “according to the british museum stats, it’s the most visited object, and the british museum is the second most visited art museum in the world.” 
The rosetta stone, which al­lowed scholars to decipher the egyptian language, con­tains a decree honoring egypt’s hellenistic ruler ptolemy v, and its text is written in hieroglyphics, demotic egyptian and greek, in that order, moyer said. The greek was most likely written first and then translated into these two variants of egyptian, he said. 
“several scholars have re-em­phasized the greek form of the decree … and its connections with other decrees that were used by many greek city states to praise their benefactors, includ­ing hellenistic kings in the wider hellenistic world,” moyer said. “rather than representing an egyptianization of the ptolemaic state, the texts are rather seen as a sign that members of the egyptian elite adopted the cul­ture and political language of hellenism and were integrated into the ptolemaic state.” 
The egyptian priests who trans­lated these decrees into greek had definitely adopted some of the habits of their macedonian rulers, moyer said. 
“egyptian priests acted like a greek polis or city-state to praise a macedonian king as if he were an egyptian pharaoh,” moyer said. 
moyer said these egyptian priests were not completely hellenized, and he thinks incon­sistencies in the translations on the rosetta stone and similar de­crees prove they retained some of their previous beliefs. For exam­ple, in the canopus decree where new tribes were established in honor of ptolemy iii, the greek word used to mean “tribe” de­scribes a group of people in a civic context, while the corresponding egyptian term describes a group of people in a religious context. 
“From the earliest period of egyptian history, [‘tribes’] de­noted groups of people who pro­vided part time service to the temples, or in work crews or in mortuary cults, usually in some sort of rotation system,” moyer said. “The difference between the two terms, greek and egyptian, was probably based on perceived structural and functional analo­gies. The greek tribes … served among other purposes as con­stituent groups for the selection of magistrates and officials and also for a rotation of service in the prittanies, the rotating executive council of the city.” 
This difference in language proves the egyptian priests still contextualized these greek-style decrees in egyptian terms, moyer said. 
“The context of this translation … suggests that the egyptian priests adopted it not just as a convenient approximation, but as a term whose political signifi­cance suited their purposes,” he said. 
moyer said these discrepancies in translation reflect the compet­ing cultural influences prevalent in ptolemaic egypt. 
“on the one hand, the priests who practiced this hellenistic political discourse could well have become a community loyal to the ptolemaic state,” he said. “on the other hand, a ramified response to the demands of this hellenistic political discourse is not unlike … ‘sly civility,’ in as much as it was polite in its ad­dress but rather equivocal on ac­cepting the terms of the actual discourse. 
“in the subtle politics of trans­lation, the decrees offer insights into the ways the egyptian priests were making sense of their world and their official communications.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at        vroeck@nd.edu 

saint mary’s offers new abroad programs 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
saint mary’s joined forces with four other holy cross colleges this summer to cre­ate the holy cross global education consortium (hcgec), which will enable the college to broaden its study abroad programs. 
spend the summer studying in peru, east africa, or spain and morocco through Kings college. 
meyer-lee said the con­sortium enables belles to study abroad in programs the college would not have been able to fill by itself. 
“and the holy cross fam­ily is just a very natural one that our students and [faculty] value,” meyer-lee said. “it’s kind of a formalizing of that relationship.” 
saint mary’s evaluated each program put forward by Kings college to make sure the op­tions would fit students’ ex­pectations and to prevent overlap among programs, meyer-lee said. 
“[They] didn’t overlap too much with what we already have and [provided] some­thing sort of unique that would be attractive, so that’s in general why we opted into all three,” she said. 
The summer programs pro­vide another option to stu­dents who have difficulty fitting semester-long pro­grams into their major re­quirements, meyer-lee said. some students who think they aren’t ready to go abroad for a whole semester also opt for the shorter summer pro­grams, she said. 
“For some people, they do one of these at the beginning after their first year of study when they are kind of not sure yet, and often then they do find a way to spend a whole semester abroad because they get a taste of it and find it very compelling,” meyer-lee said. 
saint mary’s faculty mem­bers will be part of the teach­ing staff in the peru and east africa programs through Kings college, meyer-lee said. she said these faculty members can then bring this new knowledge back to their classrooms. 
“a wonderful value of the summer programs is that the faculties get to go, which then keeps them engaged inter­nationally and able to bring those global perspectives to all the classes they teach,” meyer-lee said. 
“It’s really the wave of the future how smaller schools, like us, can provide more quality options for our school and the resources that our faculty have.” 
Elaine Meyer-Lee         
director                             
Center for Women’s 
Intercultural Leadership 
meyer-lee said the consor­tium aligns with saint mary’s mission by encouraging as­sessment and understanding of the challenges of the con­
temporary world that  saint  
mary’s women face.  
“our  mission within  saint  

mary’s is to foster interna­tional competence, which is critical to empowering wom­en, and to make a difference in the world,” meyer-lee said. “all of [the summer study-abroad programs] do that in one way or another. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
elaine meyer-lee, direc­tor of the college’s center for women’s intercultural leadership, said the con­sortium will increase study-abroad opportunities for students. 
“it’s really the wave of the future how smaller schools, like us, can provide more quality options for our school 
paid adverTisemenT 
and the resources that our fac­ulty have,” meyer-lee said. 
The colleges in hcgec include holy cross, Kings college in pennsylvania, stone hill college in massachusetts and saint edwards in Texas, meyer-lee said. in addition to the eight summer-study programs saint mary’s cur­rently offers, belles can now 



The observer | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


mistake-free.” Zielinski said. “There was a lot reaction sophomore nicole Zielinski of disbelief, and then it was just 
conTinued From page 1 
said she stayed on campus to sad.” 

watch the game and her friends Freshman ryan loughran cost us,” Jacobs said. “overall, were incredulous at the loss. said the game was an “utter dis-we didn’t play poorly, but at “i watched the game in appointment” and ended notre the same time, we didn’t play the dorms with my friends,” dame’s hopes of a bcs bowl berth. 
“i can’t even bring myself to write the score on the board out­side my door,” loughran said. 
hayes said notre dame was well represented in pittsburgh, partly because of the relatively short drive from south bend to pittsburgh. 
“at least 30 to 40 percent of the stadium were probably notre dame people,” hayes aid. “There’s such a large notre dame presence in pittsburgh, plus it’s only about a five-and-a­half hour drive.” 
hayes said the city of pittsburgh and the nature of heinz Field added a different feel to the notre dame football experience. 
“i just personally like where heinz Field is,” he said. “it’s in a great location downtown, and it was a cool change of scenery from south bend.” 
hayes said his interaction with pittsburgh fans was simi­lar to that of previous experi­ences, though the loss made it slightly more difficult to deal with opposing fans. 
“before the game, [the inter­action] was not as bad as i’ve 
“I think we blew it. It was a winnable game and we made a few mistakes that really cost us.” 
Gabe Jacobs 
sophomore 
seen in the past,” he said. “There was some minor taunting, but nothing out of the ordinary. Toward the end, it got a little obnoxious.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

ND alumni included in ‘Best American Essays’ 
written] to connect, to tell a story from “notre dame magazine” when we take on those ques-death while embracing the love 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 

news writer that sings of my brother and all were recognized in “The best tions, we reflect notre dame’s that brings ‘summer’ to coun­
brothers and grace and courage american essays.” guiding lights – the moral, ethi-teract the cold feelings of ‘win-
The editors of the 2013 “best and hoops and pain and laughter “‘notre dame magazine’ is cal, spiritual dimensions of all ter.’ it was livatino’s first essay american essays” collection, an and attentiveness and love and not only one of the 10 best in issues.” to be included in “notre dame annual anthology showcasing loss,” doyle said. the nation every year, but it has Temple said his essay, “my life magazine,” he said. exceptional essays by american doyle said he was shocked the superb writing,” doyle said. in clothes,” explores how cloth-livatino said the process of authors, recognized works by selection committee chose his “Kerry Temple is a very fine edi-ing can define people, for better writing is  steeped in emotion three contributors to “notre essay for the collection. tor, indeed. i sometimes wonder or for worse. he said knowing a and centered in communicating dame magazine” in this year’s “you want to be read, you want if notre dame appreciates him reader has appreciated his work life’s important messages. installment. to connect, you want to startle as much as the rest of the world is comforting. “i don’t really set goals when i 
“his last game,” by brian hearts, and i think the essay is does.” “it’s always great to get the af-write,” he said. “i catch a sight of doyle, editor of the university of the coolest most direct, naked Temple said for more than 30 firmation, especially in that ven-something out of the corner of portland’s “portland magazine” and honest form, the one closest years, he has been deeply in-ue,” Temple said. “it’s the 10th my eye, something that intrigues and a 1978 notre dame alumnus, to the speaking voice, closest to volved in the creative process of time something i’ve done has me and that i really want to see will appear in the newest volume how we think inside,” doyle said. “notre dame magazine,” read-been cited among the ‘notable fully, and then i begin writing. of “The best american essays.” as a student at notre dame, ing, writing and reviewing the essays,’ and this was especially That initial shiver of emotion 
“wintry rooms of love,” by doyle said he studied english work of artistic, contemplative fun because it was an offbeat pulls me in.” mel livatino, a longtime writer, and enjoyed hearing and sharing and brilliant minds concerning topic.” doyle said stories have a pow-and “my life in clothes,” by stories.“i had to read lots of voic-subjects from spirituality to sci-livatino said he is also happy erful, communal dimensiot. Kerry Temple, editor of “notre es and sorts and styles of tale-entific breakthroughs. to have his essays recognized, as “The best stories are not about dame magazine” and a 1974 telling and not just reportage,” “our subject matter is as wide-he views each essay as an adven-you. They are about us,” he said. alumnus, will be included in the doyle said. “i also loved history ranging as the conversations ture with an unknown payoff, “ask people about their joys and “notable essays” list. and theater as forms of story-found on a college campus, at not the least of which is the writ-pain and grace and listen care­
doyle said “his last game” telling. english is a great major a university that cares about ing process itself. fully to their stories. stories are depicts two brothers playing a in that it is really story-catching the great questions of the day,” livatino’s essay, “wintry food. stories are holy.” game of pickup basketball and and story-sharing.” Temple said. “That’s one of the rooms of love” explores the going on a drive through familiar doyle said he was not sur-best aspects of ‘notre dame hard-hitting tragedy of losing Contact Charlie Ducey at     neighborhoods. “[The essay was prised two additional essays magazine,’ of working here. and parents and other loved ones to cducey@nd.edu 
SMC Dance Company interprets artwork 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
members of the saint mary’s dance company interpreted paintings through dance in the moreau center for the arts on Friday. 
senior bethany Tabor cho­reographed two dances in re­sponse to “wall to wall,” a piece by ann Tarantino on display in the gallery. Tabor, junior Taylor couillard-rodak, sophomore Jing Zhu, senior catherine cislo and senior alysha Zemanek per­formed the work. 
“i think i’d title it ‘contact,’” Tabor said. “The way the dance moved — it’s sort of formally the same as the paintings on the wall.” 
Tabor, an art history and philosophy major, said she de­signed the compositions with Tarantino’s “lonely figures in unknown landscapes” in mind. The black fireworks of paint Tarantino applied directly on the gallery walls compelled Tabor, also a dance minor, to turn the work she has been doing for her senior composition into a hands-on experience, she said. 
“i am writing my senior comp on dance in the art space,” Tabor said. “a recent trend in art galler­ies is to have dance companies come in and dance among the art work. it’s a new phenom­enon in art right now, and i’m researching that.” 
Tabor said her advisor, art pro­fessor Tiffany bidler, believed Tarantino’s paintings could potentially enhance Tabor’s project. 
“we’re all part of the saint mary’s dance company, and we’re dancing in a piece together for the show in February, and this is loosely based off of what we’ve done in rehearsals for that,” Tabor said. 
senior Katie haemmerle said she enjoyed the piece because it portrayed themes that ap­peal to her particular aesthetic preferences. 
“The artist, on her description, said that it was meant to convey sort of loneliness isolation and then sea life,” haemmerle said. 
“i’m usually drawn to literature, art, poetry, anything with that sort of thing, so i liked it in that sense.” 
beyond the emotional con­notations, haemmerle said she believes dance itself offers an unusual medium to communi­cate ideas. 
“a lot of people will perceive art as being something station­ary on the wall,” haemmerle said. “i think this is a good way to express that art and dance can be combined and integrated to form something that is not just on the wall. it provides move­ment to something stationary.” 
haemmerle said she felt the movement of the dancers re­flected the intended movement of Tarantino’s paintings. 
“i don’t know if i’m interpret­ing the dance correctly, but the way the dancers formed the cluster and then spread out — i thought that was a good way to represent what’s on the wall with the paintings and how they’re spread out,” haemmerle said. “They created white space with movement, which is interesting 
in fiction, but more so in po­etry, white space has purpose. i feel like if you look at the wall, it does the same thing. it creates that isolation, and the dance i thought expressed the exact same thing.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 



veterans 
conTinued From page 1 
who have died in world war ii, Korea and vietnam,” Thomas said. “we pay tribute to the sac­rifice they gave. “ultimately, that’s the ideal service we try to strive for. it may not necessar­ily mean giving our lives in the defense of the country, but they set a great example of how we should be living our lives.” 
Thomas said south bend mayor pete buttigieg will ad­dress roTc students and staff members at a public ceremony monday evening in the carey auditorium of the hesburgh library. 
“[mayor buttigieg] is in the reserves right now, and he’s actually going to be going overseas in February with the navy,” Thomas said. “it’ll be really interesting to hear his perspective, especially in his pre-deployment work up.” 
Thomas said the roTc branches will participate to­gether in veterans day ac­tivities, including a special appearance at the women’s basketball game monday night. 
“we try to make it a tri-mili­tary celebration,” Thomas said. “during the women’s basket­ball game, we’ll be doing a flag unfurling that’s tri-military.” 
chris lillie, senior cadet and battalion commander for army roTc, said the rifle drill team would also make its first pre­sentation in several years at the basketball game. 
“it’s actually the first time in at least five or six years that we’ve had a drill team perfor­mance, so we’re kind of excited that we’re getting that going,” lillie said. 
Thomas said veterans day unites the roTc branches be­yond community-event plan­ning. he said recognizing the service and sacrifice of all mili­tary men and women was the main lesson for midshipmen and cadets in training. 
“we can learn from every ser­vice of the people who went be­fore us, so it’s important to not just recognize navy veterans or army veterans, but celebrate their lives together,” Thomas said. 
lillie said the tri-military events reflect the shared com­mitment of the military divi­sions to protecting the united states. 
“[The roTc branches] don’t represent different things,” he said. “They’re all focused on different things, so seeing them come together shows that it’s one team, one fight.” 
maggie armstrong, senior ca­det and a squadron command­er for air Force roTc, said her family’s military history made her learn and appreciate the significance of all veterans from a young age. 
“it was a family holiday, and i never really understood why until my dad explained to me when i was about 12 that he had lost his entire crew in a plane crash,” armstrong said. “That day was about remem­bering those people and the ones who’d gone before us to make our country free.“To me, veterans day is an opportunity to reflect and remember the brothers and sisters in arms who’ve gone before us. whether they are retired or out of service or reserves or killed in action, it’s an opportunity to remem­ber what this country stands for and that there are people will­ing to fight for it.” 
lillie said the same spirit extends to students at notre dame, even those who have no connections to roTc or to the military in general. 
“with the big ‘god, country, notre dame’ mantra that we have on campus, you’d be hard-pressed to find someone on campus that isn’t big on ser­vice, and that includes service to country,” lillie said. 
“whether or not you’re ac­tually directly involved in the military, veterans day is a big day for everyone because you can go out and support the prin­ciples that you as an american believe in and that the people that are fighting for america are representing directly.” 
evans said veterans day also reminds civilians of the ongo­ing sacrifices that military men and women must make. 
“what i’m afraid of is with the nearly 3,000 Kia [killed in action] and i think somewhere near 8,000 wounded soldiers, that the general populace will start to forget the sacrifice and service that these men and women have made,” evans said. “veterans day is a day a year to remind everybody … [of] what they’ve had to do — leave their homes, leave their families, to bring freedom to a group of people and protect our shores from future attacks.” 
evans said members of the notre dame and south bend communities frequently ap­proach him when he wears his uniform to thank him for his service. he said veterans day would be a chance for civil­ians to continue supporting the armed forces. 
“it gives them an opportunity to be a part of something larger than campus,” he said. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
report 
conTinued From page 1 
an email about the incident because she was confident the alleged assailant was no longer on campus and there was no danger to the campus community. 
“That decision is made by me in consultation with our director of security and the assistant vice president for student affairs,” Johnson said. “There are three levels of notification we use when an incident happens: imme­diate and ongoing threat to the campus community — in that case, we use our early alert system, ongoing but not immediate threat to the cam­pus community - in that case, we send out a safety notice; and no immediate or ongoing 

paid adverTisemenT 
threat to the campus com­munity – in that case, we do a report on the safety website.”
 Johnson said notifications to the student body are deter­mined on a case-by case basis and are based on level of im­mediacy and level of threat. 
“we want our students to have enough information to be safe,” Johnson said. “if we feel there is an ongoing con­cern or threat, we notify.” 
baraka 
conTinued From page 1 
“it would be a lot for us to try to be at all eight, so we can spread it out and at least have four or five of us at each practice,” she said. “we also divide up the big roles, like be­ing in charge of merchandise and programs.’ 
The primary goal of baraka bouts is fundraising for the holy cross missions, carmack said. 
“each girl has to raise $350 to participate because the whole point is to raise money for the holy cross missions in uganda,” she said. “one hundred dollars has to be through ticket sales, and the rest can be personal donation, do­nations from friends or family or ads in the program.” 
senior captain anna heffron said she visited one of the schools supported by a holy cross mission in uganda this summer. 
“i was actually working with a different organization, a palliative care group, but i was quite close to lakeview [secondary school],” she said. “it was amazing, and the kids were so great. They were so friendly and welcoming and enthusiastic.” 
heffron said the funds raised by baraka bouts often pay for tuition for children from poorer families. 
“Fifty dollars will pay for tuition and room and board for an entire semester,” she said. “additionally, at the school i visited, they were having problems with building integrity. They have to build a new dormitory … so a lot of what we raise will go toward supporting that [project].” 
heffron said the baraka bouts captains try to instill the holy cross spirit in their boxers. 
“we teach the mind and the body and the heart,” she said. “There’s a point where the motto ‘strong bodies fight so that weak bodies may be nourished’ clicks, and where the mission of the club clicks.“you have a strong, healthy body, and it’s so easy to raise money through baraka bouts and women’s boxing. it makes such a huge difference. if you get five people to come to the tourna­ment, that’s $50, and that just paid for a kid’s schooling for an entire semester.” 
Junior captain Tori white said she enjoys seeing the girls develop their skills throughout the season. 
“They want to improve, and they want to do well,” she said. “it’s been a lot of fun just watching the growth and the passion that girls develop for it.” 
carmack said she is proud of ev­eryone’s progress. 
“we get these girls who have come so far, and i don’t think they realize all the time, until you stop them,” carmack said. “Then you say, ‘remember, you didn’t even know where your feet went or what to do with your hands. and now you’re going to go in there and be fighting, and you’re going to have people cheering you on.’” 
even after three years on the team, white said she is still ner­vous for the bouts. 
“as captains, we can also be in their corners, too, and coach them through their fights,” white said. “so you can’t really be freaking out about your fight when you are in someone else’s corner. part of be­ing a captain is putting your own worries on the backburner.” 
white said she always tries to keep the fundraising mission of the women’s boxing team in mind. 
“you get to learn a new sport, but you are also doing it for a re­ally good cause,” she said. “girls can get upset about losing, or they don’t think they fought well, but they’ve raised $350, and that’s go­ing to make such a big difference in kids’ lives. 
“That’s the really fulfilling part, and it’s powerful to know that you can make that much of a differ­ence and enjoy doing [it], to.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at    cowers@nd.edu 



note to longboarders John Green 
multimedia 

The sidewalk: a place where a pe­destrian can feel safe from the dan­gers of vehicle traffic. i often embrace my time on the sidewalk by reflecting on my life choices, namely, my fan­tasy football team. what person in his right mind would start Jacquizz rodgers at running back? oh yeah, me. other than that, my walks are quite relaxing. however, notre dame’s sidewalks are not always this way. They are usually crowded with the hustle and bustle of walkers, bik­ers and the worst: longboarders. 
i have a friend who will occasion­ally complain about groups of slow-paced walkers that he gets trapped behind. as i wipe away his tears, i assure him, “it is not the end of the world, michael.” i tend not to run into this problem because of the fast pace at which i walk. bikers do not bother me, either, but they give problems to my stubby-legged friend michael. however, he complains about most things, so i will move on. 
now, let’s move on to the topic of longboarders, the main culprit of sidewalk danger. don’t get me wrong — i know plenty of dudes and dudettes who could board their way to the X-games. but there is one boarder in particular that tainted the longboarder name for all of his bros. i remember it clearly. it was a wednesday. i was in high spirits as i headed toward south dining hall for lunch. Then, out of nowhere, a board slammed into the back of my ankle. doing my best Kobe bryant impres­sion, i gripped my achilles in pain. i turned back to see a chubby young man walking up to me to retrieve his board. i waited for him to speak first, but just like that, he was gone. no apology. i was shocked, to say the least. 
i am trying not to let the minority of inexperienced boarders ruin my view of longboarders as a whole. as for the few rookies, like the chubby young man, either get better at riding that thing, or show some common courtesy. Thank you. 
Contact John Green at jgreen7@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Caleb Cobbin 
viewpoint columnist 
i am usually a pretty private per­son. Therefore, it is hard for me, even with some of my best friends, to say exactly how i am feeling. This story, however, is important enough to tell anyone, despite my private tendencies: 
i went to my south bend home — about 10 minutes away from cam­pus — to visit my family, eat and reluctantly switch out my sum­mer clothes for winter ones. my grandma is a substitute teacher, so she was not at the house that after­noon. This left only my mom and my grandpa. i fixed myself some food and chatted with my mom. Throughout the visit, i kept think­ing, “This house seems different.” The garden and the front yard appeared severely unkempt and neglected, ridden with weeds and fallen leaves. The large mirror in the dining room still had not been put on the wall since we painted the interior walls this summer. There were no children’s voices reverberating up and down the hallways of the house. it felt un­like the home in which i grew up. i quickly buried the feelings as they sprung up in my head. change is a part of life. i had to come to terms with that. 
as i was leaving, i set my bag down and walked up to my grandparents’ room, where my grandpa was sleeping. i watched him for a while. he was much skin­nier than my childhood memories painted in my mind. even dur­ing the two weeks since i had last seen him, the stern, kind man who taught me the importance of my faith, work and education seemed to slowly shrink from my eyes. his gray hair seemed thinner, his bones protruded from his skin and he wasn’t wearing his teeth. i gently woke him up. he smiled at me and began to talk. he made no coherent sentences, just incompre­hensible murmuring and chatter, but he smiled when he saw me and continued to smile and talk until i left. i counted that as an extreme blessing. my grandpa still finds joy when i sit and talk with him. 
alzheimer’s disease and demen­tia currently plague more than 5 million americans, according to the alzheimer’s association website. i realize now that my grandpa’s sickness has a direct correlation to the anxieties and uncertainties i professed earlier. Those simple duties around the house, which he always did with pride and diligence, fall by the wayside. with my twin brother and me in school, and my grandpa slowly fading, the house we knew and loved is simply not the same home. 
This month is alzheimer’s disease awareness month and national caregiver month. This month honors my grandpa and my grandma, respectively, as they fulfill the conjugal marriage vows they professed more than 55 years ago. This disease is the sixth-lead­ing cause of death in the united states. one in three seniors die with this disease or other forms of dementia. my grandpa is one of them, and i am sure we all can think of some friend, loved one or acquaintance that also struggles with this. unfortunately, some alzheimer’s patients have no fam­ily to visit or to take care of them like my grandpa does. some se­niors die and suffer alone. 

To sum up, i write these words not to depress you or to garner sympathy. i say this to raise aware­ness. reach out in a special way to your friends and family who have been touched by the hand of alzheimer’s disease this week. do not forget them. There is an un­imaginable love and beauty found in simple expressions of care and compassion, and to share in one person’s suffering in love is to share in the suffering of humanity. This, friends, is the greatest gift we can give to one another. 
Caleb Cobbin is a senior at the University of Notre Dame. He can be contacted at ccobbin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
leTTer To The edITor 

watching our choice of words 
a disconcerting item showed up in The observer this morning, titled “students celebrate asiatic culture” (nov. 8). overall, the ar­ticle by christian myers is well-written and expresses a positive message about exposing the voices of different cultures at notre dame. however, the problem lies within the title, where the term “asiatic” is used. i don’t want to make too big a deal out of one word, so i’ll try to keep this short. 
From a quick search on internet dictionaries, it is clear that the term “asiatic” is outdated and of­fensive. in addition, the cambridge dictionary defines “asiatic” as “re­lating to asia, especially when con­sidering its geography or its plants and animals, rather than social or cultural matters.” if asians are people and not exotic animals, then we should not be referring to their culture as “asiatic.” 
sure, it’s not uncommon for writers to make careless mistakes, but the fact that this was approved by editors is discomforting. From my experience, most notre dame students are conscientious people who warmly embrace diversity on campus. let’s hope to not see this word used in this way again. 

Gavin Hsu 
junior 
Keenan hall 
nov. 8 




The observer | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Dear patriarchy, I want to be prettier 
Lisa Taylor 
viewpoint columnist 

last week, a good male friend of mine examined my appearance and, completely unsolicited, told me that on a scale of one to 10, i’m a 7.5. That is, after being friends for more than three years — after working through tough times and supporting each other, after sharing our passions and our doubts about the future — apparently, he felt something was missing from our relationship: a number to quantify my desirability. 
i love my friend, but his com­ment evoked an array of ambivalent sentiments on my part. one was confusion. was that supposed to be a compliment? second, frustration. why are we, as humans, so ob­sessed with appearances? Third, in­dignation. no one ever has the right to verbally judge another’s exterior and make her or him feel insecure. Fourth, introspection. how can we combat the objectification and materialism of our culture? when can we move beyond appearance as criteria of character? 
in a new york Times article pub­lished nov. 6, “mannequins give shape to a venezuelan Fantasy,” the author describes how manu­facturers in venezuela are now creating mannequins that mir­ror the supposed ideal body type: huge breasts, toned butts and min­iscule waists. in a country with dramatically rising rates of plastic surgery, women often go to their surgeons saying they want to look like the mannequins in the stores. one woman quoted in the article reported her own plans for future breast implants, even though a pri­vate clinic operation costs the same as three months of basic household expenses — rent, utilities and other living costs. The most shocking part of the article for me was the following quote from osmel sousa, the head of the miss venezuela pageant: “if it [the ‘defect’] can be easily fixed with surgery, then why not do it?  ... i say that inner beauty doesn’t exist. That’s something that unpretty women invented to justify themselves.” 
inner beauty is a justification for unpretty women? what exactly, dear mr. sousa, do these women need to justify? Their existence as human people? in a world of rising materialism, consumerism and the commodification of human beings, we have to stop unacceptable com­ments like this. we have to stop rat­ing each other on a scale of one to 10 as if human beings are products in a store to be bought and later dis­carded. we have to fight for social space for each and every person. while it’s undeniable that we live in a world of bodies where physicality matters, we must stop the associa­tion between being pretty/hand­some and being valuable. 
i know girls at notre dame and in other places who struggle daily with their appearances. i know girls who fight against eating disorders, who skip meals before drinking because they don’t want the extra calories and who stand in front of the mirror and evaluate themselves, asking, “is this skirt short enough for him to notice me?” once, i asked my mom why she thinks women wear makeup and men don’t, and she responded, “i think women 
uWIre 

The Harvard Crimson Editorial Board 
The harvard crimson 

we never thought we would see the day when adults were bemoan­ing the foresight and responsibil­ity of the american youth. but the national anxiety over the decline of the humanities major smacks of ex­actly that sentiment. young adults, some argue — under pressure from their parents and an unforgiving job market — feel they must pursue practical paths. For others, the fact that fewer students are choosing to study things like english and art history is evidence that our soci­ety’s cultural fabric is fraying. 
but we’re not especially sorry to see the english majors go. 
economies change, as does the demand for certain types of expertise and skill. increased mechanization and digitization necessitates an increased number of engineers and programmers. humanities apologists should 
let them eat code 
be able to appreciate this — if Thought catalog and instagram are any indication, they’re fans of the internet, too. it’s true that fewer humanities majors will mean fewer credentialed literary theorists and hermeneutic circles. but the com­plement — an increased number of students pursuing degrees in sci­ence, technology, engineering, and math — will mean a greater proba­bility of breakthroughs in research. we refuse to rue a development that has advances in things like medicine, technological efficiency and environmental sustainability as its natural consequence. 
what is more, the decline of the humanities major need not give us reason to anticipate the decline of the humanities: academics do not have unique access to the instruc­tions for being human. whether they study history and literature, applied math, or organismic and evolutionary biology, people will continue to seek truth in philoso­phy, solace in music and company in the pages of books. 
in fact, we suspect that humani­ties professors’ effective surrender of any claim to objectivity — that is, their admission that they cannot provide authoritative understand­ings of texts on the grounds that no such understandings exist — was the first nail in the humanities’ coffin. why spend four years listen­ing to lecturers warn you that you can never really know anything? or worrying that failing to dissect a text or event along the lines of race, class or gender will result in an ac­cusation of moral and intellectual irresponsibility (or worse, a bad grade)? The disciplines that once could claim to open the mind and free the spirit now seem to endorse a specific, sometimes discourag­ing, type of thinking. 
we are skeptical that those who study math, science and engineer­ing chose their fields because they were enamored with the idea of living problem set to problem set. indeed, if students are choosing need it more.” i know girls who wake up hours early to curl their hair and do their makeup before anyone can see them, who work out compulsively to try to attain that impossible but supposedly ideal body type and who won’t eat for a couple of days before going to the beach. i know girls who won’t walk up to the fro-yo machine in the din­ing hall because they think others are watching them, judging them. The media tells us and shows us ev­ery day what body types are accept­able and how to adapt to that social norm, but this constant social pres­sure to be beautiful is unrealistic and exhausting. 

let’s stop for a moment and ask, “what actually brings us happi­ness?” my intuition is that it’s much more about friendships and com­munity than makeup and the ideal body type. 
Lisa Taylor is a senior studying political science. She can be contacted at ltaylo13@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“rigorous” concentrations not out of a love for objectivity but out of a fear of professional failure, then that is lamentable. still, impracti­cality is not a virtue in and of itself. practical value and intellectual merit are not mutually exclusive, and one does not necessarily dwell where the other is absent. learning to program, or research, or cal­culate can be enjoyable as well as useful. 
Just as wheat and corn survived the decline of the american farmer, our culture, our values and our yearning to understand our ac­quaintances and ourselves will survive the decline of the humani­ties major. To those who are upset with the trend, we say: let them eat code. 
The Harvard Crimson is the independent student newspaper serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


John Darr 
scene writer 

2013 was a year of disappointments for me —i love every band mentioned below but think their albums this year, for some reason or another, received undeserved acclaim. may the unhappy reader have mercy. 
5. “Tomorrow’s harvest” — boards of Canada 
before the release of “Tomorrow’s harvest,” many critics claimed every record in boards of canada’s dis­cography was a classic. The duo of electronic produc­ers pioneered a singular sound with debut “music has the right to children” —atmospheric, lushly textured synths over vocal samples and drifting hip-hop drum beats. sophomore album “geogaddi” polished that sound to create a confounding work of equal eeriness and beauty, and of complex and engaging emotional duality. “The campfire headphase” used acoustic in­struments to push boards of canada’s sonic textures to the next level. “headphase” also shifted the tone to a brighter, friendlier realm the b.o.c. hadn’t yet experi­mented with. 
“Tomorrow’s harvest,” released a full eight years after “campfire,” breaks the pattern. stepping into a near-emotionless space and failing to introduce anything new to the duo’s sound, “harvest” boasts the same amazingly layered atmospheres of its predecessors but lacks any sort of differentiating aspect. it’s a highly in­teresting, pleasurable listen, but it doesn’t deserve the same accolades of the duo’s other albums. “harvest” is a gorgeous and well-built record. but in today’s electronic music scene, those are a dime a dozen; if b.o.c. wants to continue making classics, they need to bring something new to the table. 
4. “monomania” — deerhunter 
For some inexplicable reason, deerhunter decided to take their excellent-as-always songs and cover them in a cloying layer of fuzz. The many melodic layers and awesome bass lines in this record are suppressed to a fatal point — there are so many missed opportunities to grab the listener on this record. it’s the sort of record that could have been huge, that could have spawned a plethora of anthems or summer jams. instead, it’s a frustratingly flat listen that is content to sit in the back­ground. critics called the sound an interesting step for deerhunter and universally stamped it with glowing reviews. The problem is “monomania” just doesn’t glow that much. 
3. “uncanney valley” — The dismemberment Plan 
“you hit the spacebar enough and cocaine comes out/i really like this computer/i’m like a fat man on drugs/drowning in hugs/you know, that i love the lovin’/because of something/some people saw what they saw/and now, no one is saying nothing.” 
yes, these are the first lyrics on “uncanney valley,” and no, they do not get better. 
The dismemberment plan used to say something with their lyrics, something that offset their ever-quirky vocals and challenging song structures. “uncanney valley” sees the disappearance of relevance from the d-plan’s lyrics and the innovation from their music. if it’s on the album, it’s in 4/4 time, and it has a generic verse-chorus song structure. There will be no crazy riffs, there will be no cathartic moments and there will be no unexpected twists or turns. 
every song on “uncanney valley” is essentially a rath­er average pop song with nonsense lyrics. critics didn’t go far enough in declaring this album a mediocre disap­pointment in The dismemberment plan’s catalog — it’s just bad. 
2. “reflektor” — arcade Fire 
a too-long lcd soundsytem record with a few more instruments, different vocalists, and predictable build­ups — which still isn’t bad. oh, and the lyrics aren’t nearly as good. i mean, i’ll follow lead vocalist win butler through “it’s just a reflection of a reflection/of a reflection of a reflection/but i see you on the other side,” but why would you follow that with an irrelevant platitude like “we all got things to hide?” 

warning: sass upcoming 
how about win butler asking us “is anyone as cruel as a normal person?” well, yes, win, i would think that cruel people are. and then this chorus: “here comes the night time/coming on slow/here comes the night time/i know that you know.” doesn’t everyone know when night time is coming? what, exactly, is the value of a lyric like that? 
The fact is, arcade Fire’s lyrics are really lazy on this record. and the sound they’ve crafted — dance-rock with a driving beat — has already been done by lcd soundsystem, and done better with less clutter over less time. “reflektor” isn’t the top-five, best-album-of-the­year material it’s chalked up to be. it’s merely a decent reflection of records that have come before. 
1. “bitter rivals” — sleigh bells 
“bitter rivals” is a mess. The sound effects scattered throughout the record are unnecessary, distracting and even annoying. The guitar riffs are less original, less catchy, less grabbing and often don’t add anything to their respective songs. and then there are the bloodcur­dlingly too-high vocal notes. 
sometimes the songs seem as if the choruses and verses are actually from different songs and have been smashed together unnecessarily (“sing like a wire,” “bitter rivals”). “bitter rivals” loses control of every­thing at sleigh bells disposal — huge hip-hop beats, killer guitar riffs and a fierce female singer. The clutter created by forced-sounding elements like sound effects and additional synthesizers drags the duo’s entrancing sound into a ghastly pit. 
all the sleigh bells fans i know have also felt betrayed and saddened by the release of “bitter rivals.” it’s safe to say that this album, granted consistently positive re­views by critics, is the most overrated album of the year. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
managing editor 

The estonian national symphony orchestra (enso) came to notre dame’s debartolo performing arts center last Thursday. conducted by nikolai alexeev, the orchestra performed “overture no. 2” by veljo Tormis, “concerto in b minor” by antonín dvorák and “symphony no. 5” by pyotr ilyich Tchaikovsky. 
written by one of the greatest living choral compos­ers in estonia, “overture no. 2” is an early, purely or­chestral piece that premiered in 1959. This piece was the first estonian composition played at the warsaw autumn Festival in 1961. 
“with ‘overture no. 2,’ you hear something truly unique,” Jonathan d. Kramer wrote in the program, “Tormis claims that he has ‘never composed pure mu­sic,’ music for music’s sake. even the meaning in the often performed ‘second overture’ is to be found else­where, not in the music itself.” 
listeners certainly felt the strong narrative emerg­ing from the dramatic music. The violins and the cellos played with intense urgency, as if a storm were rolling into the leighton concert hall. 
The best moment was when the bassoons and the trumpets swelled and flowered into gorgeous blooms of harmony. Tormis wove a powerful and fluid story that transported the audience to a different time and place. 
estonian prodigy silver ainomäe starred in the ‘concerto in b minor’ in 1995. ainomäe began playing the cello when he was six years old. he has performed in more than 30 countries, but made his soloist debut with none other than the enso in 2000. 

ainomäe’s operatic performance stunned the crowd. he sat in downstage center in a cobalt silk shirt, bow­ing and turning to the music. every once in a while, he would wrinkle his brow, as if he too saw the increasing danger told in the story of the music. 
The orchestra was conducted by alexeev, winner of the herbert von Karajan competition in 1982. The enso began as a small radio orchestra in 1926 and has toured around the world to attend music festivals in russia, italy, bulgaria and the united states. The enso also played in Turin cathedral as a part of the 20th olympic winter games. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


PITTSBURGH 28, NOTRE DAME 21 | MONDAY NOVEMBER 11, 2013 | NDSMcOBSERvER.cOM 
Picked off 

Irish commit three turnovers as Pittsburgh deals Notre Dame upset loss, ending BCS hopes 
Everything catches up to ND in crucial loss 

Andrew Gastelum 
Editor-in-chief 
PITTSBURGH — It all finally caught up with them. The inju­ries, the BcS expectations, the biting off more than they could chew. 
It has been brewing as long as I have watched Notre Dame football. It took a brief respite against Tulsa and once again for South Florida. And then 12-0 happened and the breaks were going their way. Now they’re stuck at 7-3 with no more honest shot at the BcS. 
But it wasn’t entirely their fault. After all, that was the at­mosphere created around the team by themselves, the fans and the media. 
I’ll be forthright. As a jour­nalist, you’re never rooting for teams. You’re rooting for scenarios, situations, stories. I caught myself hoping for a close game so I could write how even if the Irish beat Stanford to end the year, they wouldn’t belong in the BcS. 
I had all the bowl scenarios laid out, with Alabama and Florida State in the title game, and I showed how Notre Dame wouldn’t be able to top a second SEc team, Oregon, clemson/Miami and maybe even Fresno State for the four at-large spots, let alone wheth­er the Irish would be in the top 14 required to be BcS-eligible. 
Turns out, Notre Dame scooped me, “point-blank, pe­riod.” The team beat me to my own point with what some sad souls call a “primetime game” in Pittsburgh. 
Even in the press box before the game, veteran reporters clamored about the BcS bowl Notre Dame would go to with a win against Stanford. Sugar or Orange, Orange or Sugar, but everything went sour a few hours later. I think every­one (who wasn’t completely deluded) knew this wasn’t a BcS-caliber team. On Saturday night, no doubt was left behind as to who didn’t belong in the BcS curtain call. 
TJ Jones was the only bright spot for the Irish. In the 
see BUSINESS PAGE 3 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — Seeking its fifth-straight win and with a chance to claim the top spot in all-time winning percent­age, Notre Dame came up short against underdog Pittsburgh. But even more damaging was the blow Notre Dame’s BcS hopes took. Hurt by a pair of interceptions, the Irish gave up three second-half touchdowns in a 28-21 loss to the Panthers on Saturday at Heinz Field in Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame (7-3) was driv­ing and threatening to tie the game in the final minutes, but a 4th-and-10 pass attempt to Irish junior receiver Davaris Daniels fell incomplete and Pittsburgh (5-4, 2-3 Acc) ran out the clock to crush Notre Dame’s already-fleeting BcS­bowl hopes. 
“Disappointing, especially disappointing in the way that we played and coached,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “Hats off to Pittsburgh, they deserved to win. 
“The execution on offense was awful. Defensively we kept drives alive — pass-interference penalties, personal fouls. We weren’t alert enough to get on the ball for the fumble. … It’s on everybody. You can’t single out one thing. To a large degree though, the execution was very poor.” 
The first half brought eight combined punts and the open­ing drives of the third quar­ter were no different. With Pittsburgh receiving the ball to start, both teams punted on their respective opening drives 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
RAY VINOPAL PANTHERS REDSHIRT JUNIOR DEFENSIVE BACK 
The ball-hawking defensive back forced three turnovers and tied for the team lead with seven tackles. vinopal stripped TJ Jones inside the 10-yard line, intercepted Tommy Rees in the end zone at the start of the fourth quarter and picked him off again on Rees’ next pass, returning it to the ND 5-yard line to set up the game-winning TD. 
before the Panthers put together a long drive on their second pos­session of the stanza. The 13­play, 69-yard drive concluded with a two-yard touchdown run by Panthers freshman running back James conner and evened the score at 14. 
Notre Dame answered im­mediately, with an 80-yard touchdown pass from Irish se­nior quarterback Rees to senior receiver TJ Jones on the first play following Pitt’s score. The Irish did not hold the 21-14 advantage for long, though, as Pittsburgh responded with a three-play, 75­yard touchdown drive that took only 1:17 off the clock. Panthers redshirt senior quarterback Tom Savage found redshirt senior re­ceiver Devin Street for a 63-yard touchdown strike to pull the Panthers even once again. Irish junior safety Matthias Farley hit Street when he caught the football but could not bring him down, as the wideout broke free and ran another 35 yards for the score. 
Trying to retake the lead, Notre Dame put together an eight-play drive that moved the ball 50 yards to the Pitt 4-yard line. Rolling to his right on sec­ond down, Rees lofted a throw back to his left that was intended for Irish sophomore receiver chris Brown. But Panthers 
see DEFEAT PAGE 2 
Mistakes on both sides of the ball crush Irish 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — Brian Kelly’s Notre Dame had made a living off of playing strong late-sea­son ball. 
The Irish have not always looked perfect over the past four seasons, but they very nearly had been perfect in November games in the same span. 
In Saturday’s 28-21 loss to Pittsburgh, Notre Dame’s turn­overs, defensive lapses and in­ability to execute overwhelmed the team’s attempt to extend its winning streak to five games. The defeat is only the second November loss for the Irish under Kelly, a stretch in which Notre Dame is 12-2. 
“I think what I’m most con­cerned about is the inability to put together a consistent effort tonight, in November, 10 games into the season,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “There’s re­ally, for me, no reason why. And I take full responsibility for it as the head coach. 
“There’s no reason why we don’t execute the level we should in November. And that happened tonight.” 
Key among the many Irish mistakes was a trio of turnovers 
“There’s no reason why we don’t execute the level we should in November.” 
Brian Kelly 
Irish coach 
from veteran starters. Senior receiver TJ Jones fumbled the ball at the end of a 34-yard catch-and-run in the second quarter. Pittsburgh recovered the fumble on its own six-yard line. Rees added two fourth-quarter interceptions, one of which came in the end zone and the other of which came on an overthrown ball down the middle of the field. 
“I just know we made mis­takes and kept making mis­takes,” Jones said. “It’s hard to get momentum going when you make those types of plays.” 
see MISTAKES PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 

Tommy Rees threw two crucial interceptions in the fourth quarter and looked off at other times throughout the night, completing fewer than 50 percent of his passes. He did manage to post 318 yards through the air, but the intercep­tions took away possible Irish points with one turnover and set up Pittsburgh points on the other. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Notre Dame averaged a healthy 5.8 yards per carry on 24 attempts, totaling 138 yards on the ground. But 41 of those yards came from receiver TJ Jones, and, except for a 33-yard scamper from George Atkinson, the Irish running backs were fairly quiet. 
RECEIVERS 

TJ Jones turned in another productive performance, rack­ing up six receptions for 149 yards, highlighted by his 80-yard catch and run in the third quarter. Jones added another 41 yards and a score on the ground. Davaris Dan­iels showed up on the radar again with a touchdown. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Notre Dame did a solid job up front, mostly providing Rees with enough time  to throw. But the line struggled at times to open up running lanes, especially in the second half. The unit did, however, do a strong job neutralizing Panthers defensive tackle Aaron Donald, who had just one tackle. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Sheldon Day was impressive with three tackles for loss, and Louis Nix was active as well. Pittsburgh averaged just 
2.7 yards per carry. The already-thin line, however, took a huge hit when Stephon Tuitt was ejected for targeting at the beginning of the second quarter. 
LINEBACKERS 

Jaylon Smith notched a career-high 11 tackles and Prince Shembo made a terrific strip sack, even though Notre Dame then inexplicably failed to recover the fumble. The linebacking corps helped shut down Pittsburgh’s run game. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Missed tackles and poor coverage dogged the secondary throughout the night and allowed Tom Savage to post solid numbers (22-for-35 for 243 yards, two touchdowns and no interceptions). Right after Jones’ 80-yard touchdown put Notre Dame in front, Devin Street broke free for a 63-yard score to tie it right back up. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

The Irish continued to struggle in kickoff coverage and allowed a 50-yard return, though they did control Pitts­burgh’s punt-return game. George Atkinson had a nice 41-yard return, and Kyle Brindza punted well, though he did miss an ambitious 56-yard field goal. 
COACHING 

With a potential BcS bowl on the line, the Irish came out and played their worst game of the season. Afterward, Brian Kelly took the blame for not having the team ready. Notre Dame abandoned the run game in the second half, rushing just six times. Tarean Folston, last week’s breakout star, carried just four times. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.59 

Notre Dame hand-delivered three turnovers to Pittsburgh and played inconsistently on defense as well. Poor tackling spurred a Devin Street touchdown, and multiple players watched a live ball roll around before realizing they should try to dive on it. In the end, Notre Dame gave away any chance it had of clinching a spot in a BcS bowl. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
RAY VINOPAL’S INTERCEPTION AND 40-YARD RETURN 
The Irish came away unscathed after Rees’ first interception — though they did miss out on points of their own — but could not do the same after vinopal picked off Rees again and brought it back to the 5-yard line, setting up an easy touchdown plunge for the decisive score. 
Defeat 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
redshirt junior defensive back Ray vinopal came down with the interception in the end zone. 
On third down of Pittsburgh’s ensuing drive, Irish senior line­backer Prince Shembo brought down Savage, who fumbled the ball. Believing the play to be dead after an incomplete pass, no player scooped up the free ball and the Panthers eventually fell on it. Pittsburgh punted the next play, but the Irish did not take long to give it right back. Looking for junior tight end Troy Niklas over the middle, Rees overthrew his target and vinopal came down with his second intercep­tion of the night before running deep into the red zone. vinopal also forced a first-quarter fumble from Jones. 
“We can’t turn the ball over like that,” Rees said. “I take ac­countability for that. When you put your defense in compromis­ing situations like that, it’s hard for the defense to make stops. It starts with me and it starts with the senior leaders. We have to come back better. There’s defi­nitely the little things that we didn’t do that you need to win games.” 
vinopal’s 40-yard return placed the ball on the 5-yard line and, two plays later, conner rumbled in from the 1-yard line to put Pittsburgh up 28-21 with 
9:36 left to play. 
The opening drives of the game fit the theme of recent years, if not in terms of out­standing play at least in terms of back-and-forth action. Notre Dame elected to receive to start the game but had to punt the ball away after a three-and-out. After a 49-yard punt by Irish ju­nior Kyle Brindza, Pittsburgh got underway from the 25-yard line and traveled 30 yards on seven plays before having to punt, as well. The Irish defense featured senior defensive lineman Louis Nix, sophomore defensive line­man Sheldon Day and sopho­more safety Elijah Shumate as starters, all of whom had been battling injuries in recent weeks. 


The teams traded punts once more before the Irish strung to­gether the game’s longest drive to that point. Jones came out of the backfield and took a handoff from Rees to deliver the drive’s seminal moment, a 33-yard run. Then, on 4th-and-4 from the 34-yard line, Rees found junior tight end Ben Koyack for a 10­yard gain. Two plays later, Rees lofted a perfect pass to Daniels, who had made space for himself with a slick double move. The first score of the game concluded the nine-play, 83-yard drive and gave Notre Dame a 7-0 lead. 
Early in the second quarter, Notre Dame’s defense suffered a critical loss when junior defen­sive lineman Stephon Tuitt drew a flag for targeting while tackling Savage early in the second quar­ter. Following a video review, the officials upheld Tuitt’s ejection from the game. 
“I tried to get momentum from it, get guys going, but losing Tuitt to the defense is a big difference,” Irish senior cornerback and tri­captain Bennett Jackson said. “It’s a big hole to fill. And we just tried to come together as a de­fense and continue to pull it out.” 
After the penalty Pittsburgh marched into the red zone for the first time of the night and capped off a 10-play, 71-yard scoring drive with a three-yard touch­down pass from Savage to Street. 
With the Irish trying to answer, TJ Jones fumbled the ball at the end of a long catch-and-run from Rees. Pittsburgh gained posses­sion at its own six but could not pick up a first down and quickly punted it back to Notre Dame. With a chance to put Jones’ mis­take further in the rear-view mirror, the Irish did not drag their feet. Rees completed a 38­yard pass to Koyack on the drive’s opening play to put the ball at the half-yard line and Jones ran it in two plays later to give the visit­ing team a one-touchdown lead it would maintain heading into the break. 
In the losing effort, Jones fin­ished with 149 yards receiving and 41 yards. He also scored a rushing touchdown and caught a touchdown pass, giving him a receiving score in each of Notre Dame’s last seven contests. The stellar individual performance was not enough, however. 
“It was frustrating,” he said. “Everyone was mad. No one is happy. You know that you made mistakes that cost you the game. 
“We made mistakes. They didn’t. We didn’t execute. They did. Point blank, period.” 
The Irish enter the bye week following the loss and will return to action in the senior day game against BYU on Nov. 23 in Notre Dame Stadium. What began as a season filled with high expec­tations has devolved into some­thing much bleaker, as the loss dropped the Irish out of the top 
25. Notre Dame still has plenty to play for, though, Jackson said. 
“You know, we play for our­selves, and you always play for yourselves, you play for the uni­versity,” he said. “We are just go­ing to go out and win every game that’s in front of us. Every oppor­tunity we have we are going to go out there and compete, and that’s what we do every week. So if the BcS isn’t there, we just go out there and compete. We are brothers, we are teammates, and we play for the university. 
“You don’t want to lose any games. So we are going to go into the bye week, work our tails off and try to win the ball game.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



Mistakes 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Another glaring miscue came on the defensive end, when Irish senior linebacker Prince Shembo forced a fumble while bringing down Panthers red-shirt senior quarterback Tom Savage for a sack. Several Irish players, including sopho­more defensive end Sheldon Day, were within reach of the bouncing ball but did not pick it up. 
“It was just a lapse,” Kelly said. “A bunch of inexperi­enced guys out there not see­ing that they should have been on the ball.” 
Penalties constituted an­other set of errors for the Irish. Irish junior defensive end Stephon Tuitt drew a flag for targeting in the opening quarter and senior cornerback Bennett Jackson was flagged for pass interference on a 4th­and-5 play in the third quarter. 

Taken together, the array of errors proved to be insur­mountable for the Irish. 
“No big-picture things,” Kelly said. “Not really big, heady stuff. These are just fundamentals of the game of football that were not at­tended to in the manner that they needed to be. Our man­tra is ‘you can’t start winning until you stop losing,’ and we did things tonight that cause losing.” 
The loss drops the Irish firmly out of the hunt for a BcS bowl berth, forcing them to look elsewhere for motivation moving forward. 
“Just go out the best you can,” Jones said. “You don’t want to go out on an 0-3 streak. So you finish up the season the best you can and you take the bowl game that you get.” 
Notre Dame will have an extra week to ruminate on its mistakes and regroup follow­ing the loss, as it heads into a bye week before welcoming in BYU on Nov. 23. 
“We’ll go in Monday and put this behind us, from a film standpoint,” Kelly said. “We won’t put this behind us from an evaluation standpoint. But we will put it behind us in terms of the game itself. We’ll weight-train on Tuesday, and then I’ll make my decision about how we move forward the rest of the games.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
and on and on. 
However, something was different with this one. In past losses, Kelly was still confi­dent, borderline arrogant. Just look at the Tulsa “get used to it” press conference or the ordering of the players to the locker room instead of the alma mater after Oklahoma. 
But then there was this Brian Kelly. Bloodshot eyes, at a loss for words, soft-spoken, not nearly the politician aura he usually carries. I wasn’t there for the national cham­pionship loss, but I have never seen Kelly like this. He accept­ed the blame. He said things needed to change. 
Jones, Rees and Bennett Jackson all took part of the blame. I have never heard the word mistake so much as I did in that 15-minute player availability. 
Something was different with this loss, as if it were Achilles at the moment of his demise. The realization of mortality and fallibility stung cold. 
For once, I’m convinced something will change, or this epic will be played as a trag­edy for the ages. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Turnover-prone ND loses 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Editor-in-chief 
PITTSBURGH — With his 80­yard touchdown reception in the third quarter, Irish receiver TJ Jones has a touchdown catch in each of the last seven games. The streak brings him within one game of Jeff Samardzija (2005) and Golden Tate’s school record of eight straight games. 
Jones also set a career high with 149 receiving yards while recording his fifth 100-yard game of the season and his career. The performance moved Jones into eighth place in school history in career receiving yards with 2,212. 

Close-game streak ends 

Notre Dame’s prowess in the clutch came to a halt as its streak of 10 wins in games de­cided by a touchdown or less was broken. The streak dated back to the 2011 champs Sports Bowl, where the Irish lost 18-14 to Florida State. 
The streak was the longest ac­tive streak in the nation and the third longest since 1980. 
It comes down to turnovers 
In their seven wins this sea­son, the Irish have turned the ball over five times, but in their losses the figure rises to eight. Notre Dame lost the turnover battle 3-0 against Pittsburgh with two Tommy Rees intercep­tions and a Jones fumble in the red zone. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  7  7  0  21  
0  7  14  7  28  

NOTRE DAME 7, PITTSBURGH 0 
Davaris Daniels 10-yard pass from Rees (Brindza kick) 
3:41 remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 83 yards, 3:29 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, PITTSBURGH 7 
Devin Street 3-yard pass from Savage (Blewitt kick) 
10:20 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 71 yards, 5:14 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, PITTSBURGH 7 
TJ Jones 1-yard run (Brindza kick) 
6:34 remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 39 yards, 1:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, PITTSBURGH 14 
James conner 2-yard run (Blewitt kick) 
3:47remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 69 yards, 6:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, PITTSBURGH 21 
Devin Street 63-yard pass from Savage (Blewitt kick) 
2:12 remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 75 yards, 1:17 elapsed 
PITTSBURGH 28, NOTRE DAME 21 
James conner 1-yard run (Blewitt kick) 
9:36remaining 

Drive: Two plays, five yards, 0:50 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
RUSHING YARDS  138 112  
PASSING YARDS  243  318  


Upset 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
process, it looks like he moved up the depth chart to become the go-to running back ahead of Amir carlisle and Tarean Folston, who was given noth­ing near the carries he saw in a breakout game against Navy. Jones was the leading rusher after the first quarter and the only Irish back with a touch­down. Even more baffling is the six total rush attempts in the second half. 
However, Jones can’t throw the ball to himself. Tommy No such option exists, and it is uncomfortable to watch (paging Mr. Kiel). Meanwhile, how many times this year has there been complete indeci­sion on 3rd- or 4th-and-short before a timeout was unnec­essarily burned? 

And not to mention the for­gotten fumble, which Sheldon Day bounced around in his hands while other defenders congratulated the sack, think­ing it was an incomplete pass. And no, as Kelly said, Stephon Tuitt was not the reason Notre Dame lost. I don’t think he would have picked up the 
Something was different with this loss, as if it were Achilles at the moment of his demise. The realization of mortality and fallibility stung cold. 
Rees won’t be able to forget about these game-changing interceptions since the de­fense couldn’t bail him out like they did against Arizona State. At one point, Pittsburgh safety Ray vinopal was third on the Irish in receptions, with two. 
Which leads me to Brian Kelly. In the past, it has been easy for him. When a quarter­back struggles, he has been able to pull the plug and erase mistakes with a viable No. 2 option at quarterback and a refreshing change in pace. 

fumble either, and he certain­ly doesn’t convert touchdowns in the red zone. 
Notre Dame lost because it didn’t respect the season. The team and everyone else were waiting for Stanford. That is where the season ended on the schedule and started in the minds of team, fans, etc., ever since the Oklahoma loss. 
Meanwhile, to Pittsburgh, Notre Dame was its Stanford. But Pittsburgh could have been Navy last week, Arizona State, Purdue, USc last year, BYU last year, Purdue last year 

Time of Possession 
23:27 
PASSING  
Rees  18-39-318  
RUSHING  
Atkinson  6-57  
Jones  3-41  
McDaniel  9-22  
Folston  4-13  
RECEIVING  
Jones  6-149  
Koyack  4-76  
Daniels  3-38  
Onwualu  1-23  
Niklas  3-18  
TACKLES  
Smith  11  
Fox  8  
Hardy  7  
Jackson  6  
Day  5  
Shembo  5  
Nix  5  

TACKLES FOR LOSS 
Day 3 Schmidt, Smith, Shembo 1 

Time of Possession 
36:33 
Savage  22-35-243  
Bennett  17-57  
Conner  10-35  
Savage  8-11  
Boyd  1-8  
Boyd  8-85  
Street  7-76  
Garner  2-23  
Conner  2-20  
Bennett  2-17  
Pitts  7  
Hendricks  7  
Gordon  7  
Vinopal  7  
Thomas  3  
Coles  3  
Durham  3  

Pitts 1 Gordon, Vinopal 1 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY NOVEMBER 11, 2013 | NDSMcOBSERvER.cOM 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish sophomore defensive end Sheldon Day tries to take down Panthers junior running back Isaac Bennett during Pittsburgh’s 28-21 victory over Notre Dame on Saturday night at Heinz Field in Pittsburgh. Day led Notre Dame with three tackles for loss. 
Pittsburgh defeated Notre Dame, 28-21, on Saturday at Heinz Field. 
The Irish, who fell to 7-3 and essentially watched any hope of a BCS bowl wither away, turned it over three times — twice when they 
PANTHERS PULL 
were knocking on the door to score and another time that led to Pittsburgh’s game-winning touchdown. Notre Dame now has a bye 
OFF UPSET 
week before facing BYU and Stanford to close the regular season. 





The observer | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

on Friday, nasim pedrad from “saturday night live” came to legends, courtesy of the student union board, to perform a stand-up comedy show. The set was definitely a far cry from pedrad’s usu­al snl performances, as the small-crowd setting gave her a chance to focus on herself and her quirks, instead of the zany characters she typically portrays on nbc’s long-running sketch comedy show. pedrad quickly engaged the audience by opening the show with a series of jokes about notre dame, calling it the “whitest place she’s ever been to” and worrying about how she still has not seen “rudy.” she swiftly changed the focus of the jokes from the school to herself and her upbringing by iranian parents in los angeles. a number of the comments centered on her awkward personality and how this affected the way she grew up, including references to her tae­kwondo lessons and shaving her unibrow. pedrad’s awkwardness has definitely continued into the present day, however, and she was not afraid to make note of this fact during the show. pedrad referenced her first encounter with Kim Karadashian after making fun of her on snl and how unemotional Kardashian was. pedrad finished the show with a quick Q&a session, and she surprised the crowd by advising them that they absolutely should not go into the entertainment industry unless absolutely nothing else makes them happy because it’s such a brutal industry to be in. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
This week, The Observer talked with Nasim Pedrad, currently the longest tenured woman on “Saturday Night Live” (SNL), after her stand-up set at Legends on Friday. The event was presented by the Student Union Board. Scene writer Jimmy Kemper talked with Pedrad about stand-up comedy, SNL and her future plans. 
Jimmy Kemper: Thank you for doing this in­terview. So first, I was hoping to ask about your stand-up. How often do you get to get away from “Saturday Night Live” and do this? 
nasim pedrad: i usually do college shows when­ever i get a chance, and it only ends up being on hi­atus weeks from snl. and we usually have — every 3 or 4 weeks at snl, we’ll usually have 1 to 3 weeks off. so sometimes we’ll be on for 2, off for 2, on for 1, off for 1. Those are a lot of weeks off. and it’s a fun way to visit places that i haven’t been, like i’ve never been to indiana before. so yeah, whenever i’m off from snl. 
JK: How is doing stand-up routines at colleges, compared to at comedy clubs? 
np: what i love doing about college shows and the thing that keeps it fresh and interesting for me is that i try to find out a little bit about the college before i come, because i remember being in col­lege and loving it when a performer came and had learned a little bit about the school.because when you’re a student, you don’t necessarily know that they’re going to be knowing some of the specifics that maybe the people at that school joke about. it’s a real fun payoff when you can kind of make fun of that specific school for the same reasons that the students make fun of it or laugh about it or refer to a thing on campus, like Touchdown Jesus or what­ever. every school has their own unique little spe­cifics, but i try to do that just so the show is always different. Then my act, depending on what school i’m going to, i might pick one thing over another. i always try to mix it up to keep things interesting. 
JK: Very cool. How is SNL going for you now that you’re now the longest tenured woman on the show and there are so many new cast members? 
np: i am having so much fun. i think the longer you’re there, the more you understand how the show works. it’s my fifth season, and when it’s your fifth season, a lot of times you get to bring in a writ­er you’ve worked with, so this year they hired my friend mikey day, who i have done comedy with for a long time. 
it’s been great having him there because we al­ready have the shorthand that exists from years of working together. so that’s been fun, having a writ­er who i work well with. in terms of the new people, they are just the loveliest, funniest people, and i just try to be there for them in any way i can. but honestly, they’re all such pros that i’m like “oh, you guys got this.” it does feel weird to be the longest tenured woman on the show because it’s so new and i feel like i just got there. what i mean by “so new” is that every week is so different that some­times i’m like, “Jude law, was he my first season or third season?” it all kind of blends together. 
JK: And is the show different with all these other longtime SNL members like Bill Hader and Fred Arimsen gone now? 
yeah, i think so. i miss them very much. but lorne [michaels] knows how to run it in a way that it’s interesting. There’s so many casts that come and go that people are like, “oh, the show’s going to be screwed if these people leave.” it’s such a well-oiled machine that i feel like he’s been doing it for so long now that he knows how to keep it go­ing even when we lose really big stars like that. it’s always evolving, and there’s always going to be new casts. maybe there’s a little bit of a new adjustment period. but honestly, this year i feel like it’s going to take time for people to get to know everyone who’s on the show because there’s so many of them. it’ll take time, but they’re already starting to under­stand their function. 

JK: So what’s the day-to-day SNL process for you? 
np: so monday we meet the host and we pitch them ideas. sometimes we’ll stay after that and start thinking of things we’re actually going to write. Then Tuesday is our writing night, and we’re there from 1 p.m. to as late as you want to be. sometimes i don’t leave till wednesday morning. we’ll table-read wednesday night, where we read all 40 sketches that were written the night before. 
and then after the table-read, we find out which sketches got picked, and we go home and sleep a lot. like, we sit in our offices and drink wine, and they’ll basically show us what’s called “picks,” and it’s the rundown where they circle the sketches that got picked. Then Thursday and Friday, we rehearse. Then saturday we rehearse all day. Thursday and Friday we’re blocking for camera. saturday we have dress rehearsal at 8 p.m. and then the show at 11:30. Then sunday we usually wake up in the middle of the day and shove chinese food down our throats in bed and then do it again on monday. 
JK: Can you tell us about any horror stories from the set? 
np: i’ve definitely seen sets like almost fall over because you’re moving in those sets so fast in such a small space. but we have the most amazing crew, so even that time i saw it almost fall over, there were three guys that ran immediately to catch it. 
JK: Wow, that’s crazy. What about your favorite moment? 
np: i guess the one that sticks out is the very first time that i got to say “live from new york, it’s saturday night” in a cold open where i played as a translator. it was just an out-of-body experience. i was like “oh my god, i’m saying it.” you can almost feel the camera lens zoom in on your face. That was the most exciting. and then there’s nothing more terrifying then the snl audition itself. so after the snl audition you’re like, “i can do anything now.” nothing will ever be as scary as that. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


sPorTs auThorITy 

don’t blame incognito alone 

Greg Hadley 
sports writer 
assigning blame can be a tricky thing, but accepting it can be even harder. 
That’s all i could think as i read about Jonathan martin and richie incognito this weekend. 
who is to blame for what happened? is it incognito, his teammates, coach Joe philbin, the dolphins organization, or the culture of the nFl in general? 
or did all of these people collectively fail to recognize that martin is a troubled young man who never should have had to deal with what he did? Trips to las vegas, mandatory strip club meet­ings, cafeteria confrontations, threatening text messages and racist epithets should not be part of any young player’s experience. it is no wonder martin could not take it any­more. any healthy, happy person would be pushed to the limit by such harassment. 
nobody, not even incognito, is disputing what happened. even so, there has been a groundswell of support for him from the dolphins locker room with the underlying implication that martin over­reacted. general manager Jeff ireland even went so far as to say that martin should have dealt with his problems by punching incognito instead of looking to others for support. when martin turned over the threatening texts and voice­mails to the nFl, many said martin was dealing with his problems in a cowardly way. 
incognito himself said in an interview with Fox sports that although he regretted his use of vulgarities and racial slurs, he considers martin a friend. he also said that within the culture of the locker room, such behavior is normal. he added that martin even sent him a threatening text mes­sage in the past as a joke. 
when it comes to assign­ing blame, it is not at all clear that incognito is the only one at fault. certainly, his actions were reprehensible. still, the problem goes beyond him. 
if his teammates support him so strongly, it is obvious they do not think his actions were all that bad. and if ex­ecutives say martin should have handled his problems in-house, they must not want to be bothered by player com­plaints. The entire culture of the dolphins franchise, from the locker room to the board room, deserves as much scru­tiny as incognito has faced. 
when it comes to accepting blame, no one involved is in­terested in taking full respon­sibility. incognito apologized for using vulgarity but cred­ited it to the locker room’s atmosphere. philbin said he is responsible for that atmo­sphere but apparently had no idea what martin was endur­ing. dolphins players blamed martin for not taking care of his problems, without admit­ting that maybe, just maybe, they are the problem. 
martin himself apparently never went to philbin to com­plain before he finally broke down. now he has started an nFl investigation that could possibly end a teammate’s career and embroil a fran­chise in scandal. according to incognito, martin sent him a text message saying he did not blame his teammates but instead, the culture. 
The bottom line is that whatever happens, incognito is the perfect scapegoat. There is incriminating, shocking evidence against him. his character witnesses are other nFl players. you know, the ones that voted him the dirtiest player in the nFl in 2009. and now it is coming to light that in 2012, incognito was accused of harass­ing and molesting a female dolphins employee at a golf tournament. 
in the end, incognito will probably be suspended for a season or two at least. beyond that, ireland might lose his job for his punching sugges­tion. martin might return to play football, and the media hoopla will die down. but things won’t change, because the dolphins and the nFl will blame the system, the cul­ture and the atmosphere, but never actually admit that they make that culture. 
when teammates and ex­ecutives say it would have been better for martin to confront incognito, they perpetuate a locker-room culture where people who are afraid of speaking out never will. martin suffered abuse for a year and a half before he finally broke free. while philbin wonders why martin never came to complain, perhaps he should instead wonder how accessible and in charge he really is. 
so, in the end, richie incognito will probably be assigned all of the blame and accept most of it. if only oth­ers would do the same. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nFl 

Ravens claim overtime victory over Bengals 
Associated Press 
balTimore — Their season hanging in the balance after having victory snatched away on a final desperate play of reg­ulation, the baltimore ravens responded like champions. 
victimized by a despera­tion 51-yard touchdown pass to force overtime, the defend­ing super bowl winners edged cincinnati 20-17 on Justin Tucker’s 46-yard field goal with 
5:27 left in oT sunday. 
“it’s disappointment,” coach John harbaugh said of a.J. green’s catch as the clocked ran out in the fourth quarter. “but you don’t get disheart­ened. you still have a chance to win the game, still.” 
and so they did, after blow­ing a 17-0 halftime lead. 
bidding to end a three-game skid and remain relevant in the playoff hunt, the ravens committed three turnovers and managed only 189 yards of offense. 
“we’re not playing great right now,” baltimore quarterback Joe Flacco conceded, “but we’re doing the best we can to win.” 
The tense win thrust the ravens (4-5) into a second-place tie in the aFc north, just one game behind cincinnati (6-4) in the loss column. it was baltimore’s first victory since oct. 6. 
Four of the ravens’ five loss­es have come by a combined 14 points. it seemed like this one was headed in that direction after andy dalton forced over­time with that heave to green to end the fourth quarter. 
“i looked back and saw green with the ball in his hands and i couldn’t believe it,” ravens cor­nerback corey graham said. 
but baltimore persevered. 
“The thing is i’m most proud of is the heart of our guys,” harbaugh said. “They showed the heart of champions. where this will lead us, we’ll find out.” 
who knows if the ravens can rebound from their poor start to make the postseason for a sixth straight year? This much is certain: it would have been much tougher if they were 3-6 and tied for last place with pittsburgh. 
“Thank you, lord!” shouted James ihedigbo shouted as he left the field. 
Flacco threw two intercep­tions and lost a fumble, and ray rice gained a mere 30 yards on 18 carries. and still, the ravens prevailed. 
“sometimes you have to win by any means necessary,” rice said. “winning heals a lot. now we’ve got to get on a roll to get back where we want to be.” 


despite their comeback, the bengals lost their second straight overtime game. dalton went 24 for 51 for 274 yards and three interceptions and was sacked five times as the bengals lost to baltimore for the fifth time in six games. 
and now it’s their turn to la­ment a run of narrow defeats. 
“we’ve got to do whatever we can to make one more play, put ourselves in a better position where we can score and have a chance to not let the other team have it,” dalton said. “again, it didn’t happen today.” 
almost, but not quite. on the last-second throw in regula­tion, green positioned himself behind the pack and caught the deflection after it flicked off the hand of ihedigbo, who earlier had the first two interceptions of his career. 
“i was just looking for some­one to tap the ball so i could catch it,” green said. 
The bengals won the toss be­fore overtime and moved to the baltimore 33 before giovani bernard caught a short pass, reversed field and was tackled for an 11-yard loss on fourth down. 
baltimore then got a pair of first downs before Tucker kicked the winner. 
detroit 21, Chicago 19 

chicago — calvin Johnson saw the defensive coverage. same for matthew stafford, and they knew exactly what to do. 
The result was a franchise record for one of the nFl’s best wide receivers, and a big win for the detroit lions. 
Johnson caught a 14-yard touchdown pass from stafford with 2:22 to go, helping the lions edge Jay cutler and the chicago bears 21-19 on sunday in a key matchup of nFc north rivals. 
“i knew immediately that one of us on the outside was go­ing to get it,” Johnson said. “so i just wanted to work, be patient and he threw a great ball.” 
Johnson also had a tie-breaking Td reception in the third quarter and reggie bush rushed for 105 yards as detroit (6-3) swept the season series against chicago (5-4) for the first time since the 2007 season. 
when green bay lost 27-13 to philadelphia, the lions were all alone in first in the division for the first time since the end of week 5 of the 2005 season, ac­cording to sTaTs. 
“we came out with a victory on the road against a really tough team,” detroit coach Jim schwartz said. “it was a hard-fought win. proud of the play­ers, but that’s the only thing that means (anything) today. 
“i mean first place, you don’t get any prizes for first place there nine games into the season.” 
Johnson’s ninth touchdown grab of the season was the 63rd of his career, breaking a tie with herman moore for the detroit record. moore still leads with 670 career recep­tions for the lions, but Johnson might take that record down at some point, too. 
“To be a part of history for the lions, that’s a big deal,” Johnson said. 
cutler threw for 250 yards and a touchdown in his first ac­tion since he injured his groin last month. he injured his left ankle in the second quarter and looked progressively worse as the game wore on. 
coach marc Trestman finally decided to put in Josh mccown before the bears’ final drive. 
“i didn’t want to take him out unless he felt he couldn’t do the job,” Trestman said. “it was, i thought, a very courageous performance throughout. Then at the end i took him out because i knew he would have to run around in the two-min­ute drill and that’s when we de­cided to put Josh in the game.” 
mccown drove the bears down the field, throwing an 11-yard touchdown pass to brandon marshall with 40 sec­onds left. 
after a roughing penalty on willie young gave the bears another chance at the ty­ing 2-point conversion, nick Fairley threw matt Forte down in the backfield to preserve the win for detroit. 
“i just figured it would be a run or a play-action pass,” Fairley said. “i just scouted out the ball real good and it was just happy i made the play.” 
stafford threw for 219 yards for detroit, which has won two in a row for the first time since the end of september. Johnson had six catches for 83 yards. 
The lions were clinging to a 14-10 lead when chris conte intercepted an overthrown ball by stafford and returned it 35 yards to the detroit 9. 
Forte then had a touchdown run negated by a holding pen­alty on left guard matt slauson and an apparent scoring pass to alshon Jeffery was over­turned when a replay showed he lost control of the ball when he hit the ground. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


nd volleyball | noTre dame 3, bosTon college 2 
irish rally from two games down to top eagles 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
in a comeback victory, notre dame rallied from two games down to win three in a row and take the 3-2 win over boston college on saturday. 
The irish (11-14, 5-9 acc) lagged behind early, strug­gling to score as they fell 18­25 and 17-25 in the first two games. irish coach debbie brown said something clicked after those first two losses. 
“our passing got a little better,” brown said. “we were able to slow down their offense a little. we just got into a better rhythm in the last three games. once we 
paid adverTisemenT 


got the momentum and the confidence, we just built on that.” 
The irish controlled the third game, pulling ahead early and controlling the game until the 25-18 victo­ry. The fourth set was more of a battle, with 17 ties and eight lead changes. The irish fought for every point before an error by boston college and an ace by senior setter maggie brindock closed out the game. 
The final game of the match featured eight ties and three lead changes. The eagles pulled ahead 13-11 before notre dame took con­trol. with the irish up 16-15, a kill by junior middle block­er Jeni houser gave the irish victory of the game and the match. 
brown said the tough­est part of battling boston college was the strength of their outside hitters. 
“early on we had a tough time stopping their outside hitters,” brown said. “we did a much better job of that as the match went on, so that was the biggest challenge for us.” 
The irish posted some im­pressive stats throughout the match. senior outside hitter nicole smith led the team with 14 kills, followed closely by junior outside hit­ter Toni alugbue and houser, each with 11 kills. brindock had 33 assists and six digs. 
despite these stellar indi­vidual performances, brown said she thought the win was a product of the entire team working together. 
“we played everyone on the roster who was there,” brown said. “at certain times, whoever we called on came in and did the job that needed to be done.” 
with their fifth acc win under their belts, the irish will head to coral gables, Fla., to take on miami on Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



The observer | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
summerhays’s 17 saves in the open­ing period allowed the irish to enter the first break with a 0-0 tie. according to sophomore left wing sam herr, the goalie’s performance allowed the irish time to build confidence. 
“we kind of struggled in the first 10 minutes, and they were taking it to us,” herr said. “[summerhays] got us through the first 10 minutes. we just bared down on defense, and after we realized we could create oppor­tunities from defense to transition, that’s when we started taking over the game.” 
herr, notre dame’s leading goal scorer, also played well, adding his sixth goal of the season. senior for­ward bryan rust opened the scor­ing in the second period, driving unassisted to the net and maneu­vering around gophers sophomore goalie adam wilcox to put the shot home. minnesota quickly respond­ed when junior defenseman ben marshall knocked home a one-timer from junior forward sam warning. 
The game would remain tied un­til, on the irish power play, herr took a pass from freshman center vince hinostroza and forced it between the legs of wilcox for the goal with 3:06 left in the second period. after some re­cent struggles in man-up situations, herr said the two powerplay goals were exactly what the irish needed. 
“That’s a confidence booster,” herr said. “That’s been our problem, even last year. Tonight, to put in two, … everyone on the ice now is a little bit more confident, and we’ll be able to make more plays.” 
The irish would add two more goals in the third. Junior right wing garrett peterson scored his first of the season before senior left wing Jeff costello put home an empty netter in the final seconds. after claiming the 4-1 victory, Jackson credited the crowd for ener­gizing the irish. 
“it was just a great crowd, so they want to do well,” Jackson said. “our student section, when they’re all there like that, it’s such a difference. They were our sixth man tonight.” 
The irish were unable to sustain the same defensive effort the follow­ing night, falling 5-4 to the gophers. minnesota came out aggressively early, notching a 2-0 lead in the first 10 minutes. 
gophers freshman forward Taylor cammarata started things off by squeezing the puck between summerhays and the post on the power play for his third goal of the season. gophers freshman forward hudson Fasching added another for the visiting team shortly thereafter, converting an irish turnover into an unassisted goal. 
The irish made it 2-1 when hinostroza hit senior defenseman shayne Taker to set up a slapshot that made it past wilcox’s glove side, but gophers freshman forward Justin Kloos scored only three minutes later to extend the minnesota lead to two. Jackson said he knew the gophers would come out firing after putting only one goal on the board Friday. 
“i expected [minnesota] to be better, and i didn’t think we were as good,” Jackson said. “and that com­bination, obviously, is not a good one. [summerhays] wasn’t as sharp as [Friday night]. it’s tough to play two great games in a row. i thought it was the result of a lot of mistakes in front of him, too, so i don’t put that on him.” 
irish sophomore left wing mario lucia put a goal on the board with 17 seconds remaining in the first period to pull the irish within one before the break. The irish added two more goals in the second stanza, one from lucia and one from senior defenseman stephen Johns. hinostroza assisted on both of lucia’s goals, giving him three assists on the night and a team-best nine on the season, but he left the game with a lower body injury and did not return. 
lucia, whose father don lucia played at notre dame and is now head coach of the gophers, said his two goals topped off a special weekend for him. 
“it was nice having my dad here for parents’ weekend. it was pretty special for him to come on the ice for that. i enjoyed the experience, but it would have been a little better if we would have swept. i could have rubbed it in a bit more.” 
Fasching notched his second goal of the night early in the second period to put minnesota up 4-2 before notre dame strung together the goals from lucia and Johns to even the score. The back-and-forth contest ended when minnesota freshman defenseman Jake bischoff put home a shot 8:57 into the third period, and the irish failed to respond. even with the loss, Jackson said his team showed the country its potential this weekend. 
“we didn’t play our a game to­night, and we still had a chance to win,” Jackson said. “at least we know when everybody is going that we can compete with the best teams in the country.” 
The irish return to play next week­end with a pair of home games against merrimack. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 

nd Women’s sWImmInG and dIvInG | nd 193, piTTsburgh 107; nd 162, va Tech 138 
Swimmers take two in Pa. 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish made quite a splash at their inaugural acc tri-meet. 
The irish (2-3) tallied 10 wins out of 16 events against acc competitors pitt (2-2) and virginia Tech (7-4) at Tree pools in pittsburgh, pa., on saturday. notre dame beat the panthers 193-107 and the hokies 162-138 to secure two victories. 
“we performed well, and what i like about this team is we perform better every time,” irish head coach brian barnes said. “we performed better than against purdue and better against purdue than at our first meet of the year. … That’s a good trend to have.” 
irish sophomore catherine galletti said the results were a direct result of an attention to detail honed in practice. 
“we’ve been focusing on improving the details in our races — getting off the blocks quicker, having faster turns, closing in on finish­es,” galleti said. “The meet showed this.” 
in a meet that featured im­provement across the whole team, senior Kelly ryan had the standout perfor­mance. ryan swept the short distance freestyle events, taking wins in the 50, 100 and 200. 

“Kelly was a great contri­bution to the team today,” barnes said. 
ryan also anchored the 200-medley relay team of freshman catherine mulquin, senior emma reaney and galletti. The re­lay team out-swam its com­petitors and touched the pad first to give the irish the vic­tory in the opening race of the meet, putting the team in a great position to domi­nate the following races. 
“it’s always fun to win the 200-medley relay because it’s the first event of the meet,” galletti said. “it sets an exciting, competitive at­mosphere for the rest of the day.” 
improvement was no­ticeable in the medley re­lay as well, specifically by mulquin. 
“catherine stepped up and really contributed to the re­lay,” galletti said. “every leg of the relay continued to in­crease our lead throughout the race, resulting in a clear v ictor y.” 
in addition to the re­lay victory, reaney, junior bridget casey and freshman Katie miller also boasted in­dividual wins. reany won 
paid adverTisemenT 
the 200 im and took both breaststroke events in ncaa b-cut times. she advanced her season individual event record to 8-1. casey won the 200 fly, which marked the first time she won the event this season. 
miller claimed two indi­vidual victories in the 100 back and 500 freestyle, and she finished second in the 1000 free. 
“i was really happy to see Katie win the 100 back and 500 freestyle,” barnes said. “That was a huge contribu­tion to the team from her.” 
Following miller and her runner-up finish in the ,000, junior courtney whyte fin­ishedpsecond in the 100 fly, and mulquin claimed a runner-up finish in the 100 back. 
sophomore lindsey streepey took a second-place finish in the 1-meter dive. 
“overall, i was happy with our race habits, and we are beginning to clean up well,” barnes said. 
The irish return to the pool to compete against valparaiso on Friday at 5 
p.m. and against wisconsin on saturday at 11 a.m. at rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 




men’s TennIs | harris deF. andrews 2-6, 7-5, 6-3 
andrews falls at indoor championships in ny 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
senior greg andrews’s run to­ward a national championship came to an end in the round of 16 Friday, as he fell 2-6, 7-5, 6-3 to oklahoma freshman andrew harris in the usTa/iTanational indoor championships at the usTa billie Jean King national Tennis center in Flushing, n.y. 
andrews got off to a strong start in the match, as he took the first set, 6-2. 
“[harris] started off by mak­ing a few errors, and i was re­ally able to capitalize,” andrews said. 
harris rebounded to claim a 7-5 victory in the next set and followed it up with a 6-3 victory in the third to seal the victory. 
“starting in the second set, harris really started to serve well, and i wasn’t getting as many returns,” andrews said. “he also made some big returns off some of my serves. i don’t think my level of play dropped. he elevated his game, and he just got even better as the match went on.” 
although he is only in his first year of college ten­nis, harris, who won the doubles titles at the Junior wimbledon championships and roland garros Junior French championships in 2012, showed his experience on the big stage, andrews said. 
“he’s a great player, and he’ll do really well for oklahoma this year,” he said of harris. “he’s very experienced at playing big matches at a very high level.” 
after defeating andrews, harris lost in Friday’s quarterfi­nal round to no. 8 seed illinois sophomore Jared hiltzik. no. 6 seed ucla junior clay Thompson took home the na­tional title after he defeated hiltzik in sunday’s champion­ship match. 
with the loss, andrews concluded a fall season that saw him advance to the championship match of the usTa/iTa midwest regional championships on oct. 21 and compete in last month’s iTa all­american championships. 
andrews also earned a vic­tory over no. 4 seed georgia 
sophomore  austin  smith  
in  Thursday’s  first  round  
of  the  national  indoor  
championships.  

“playing the all-american championships earlier showed me that i could compete with anyone,” andrews said. “This tournament reaffirmed my confidence, since i beat a top seed and had competitive matchups with great players. The biggest takeaway [from the tournament] would be that i could include myself in this top 


paid adverTisemenT 
group of players.” 
andrews and the rest of the irish will not compete again until Jan. 17, when they be­gin their spring season with a match against william & mary. notre dame will start acc play when it hosts virginia Tech on Feb. 28. 
“our main goal is to stay con­fident,” andrews said. “we want to focus on results but also re­ally focus on the process, on getting better every day and continuing to improve.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



The observer | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Fight night 
conTinued From page 20 
at the same time, the boxers only have two months to get ready to fight. To make sure everyone is prepared, all fighters must spar at least three times to fight in the bouts. 
“it’s definitely an accelerated program,” carmack said. “we try to get them in the ring as soon as possible. The best way to prepare is just to spar as much as you can.” 
carmack and garvin are both experienced fighters who have participated in the bouts for sev­eral years. along with other veter­ans, they help to mentor the newer fighters throughout the training process. 
“we expect the novices to be at point zero [to start],” carmack said. “when a veteran is sparring with a novice, we’ll have them take it a little easier. it’s a teaching mo­ment, and we’re all teammates. … besides, you would be surprised how quickly girls improve once they get in the ring.” 
Women’s boxInG 

baraka bouts prize service 

By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The women who fight in baraka bouts are on a mission. 
it’s a mission to become bet­ter boxers and stronger people. it’s also a mission to benefit holy cross mission work in uganda. and the captains make sure the boxers know what is at stake. 
“we focus on the improvement of the whole club, and always in the back of my mind is the missions,” senior baraka bouts co-captain liz garvin said. “it re­ally is the mission of holy cross in uganda that keeps the girls uni­fied and focused throughout the season.” 
The money the boxers raise and the proceeds from fight-night ticket sales benefit lakeview secondary school and st. Joseph’s hill secondary school in uganda. 
The boxers’ performances on fight night are important, but ev­erything pales in comparison to the cause, garvin said. 
“we always have Fr. [leonard] olobo, who is one of the priests who is involved in the mission,” garvin said. “every year, we take a practice for him to talk through the mission so we can better un­derstand who we’re helping. we talk it up in practice. we’re not only an athletic club, and we talk it up in practice so they know ser­vice is the most important part.” 
over the years, several boxers have participated in the mission work by traveling to uganda, of­ten in conjunction with a study-abroad program. 
This summer, two captains traveled to uganda to do service work and academic projects. Fifth-year architecture student and baraka bouts co-captain Jennifer Fitzpatrick explored the construction of schools and how to solve problems with one building’s foundation. senior co-captain anna heffron conducted research for her thesis on pallia­tive care. 
Fitzpatrick and heffron shared their experiences with the team, and senior co-captain anna carmack said the constant dia­logue keeps everyone aware of the mission. 
The boxers also participate in several fundraisers, such as the power 24 hour in which the box­ers exercise for donations from 8 a.m. to 3 a.m. in front of south dining hall. The team raised 
This year, many of these inex­perienced boxers are seniors com­ing out to fulfill a longtime college goal, carmack said. 
“it’s kind of a bucket list item for a lot of them,” garvin said. “we start every year with a lot of new faces. … every year the program gets stronger, and more people hear about it and build up the courage to do it. it’s going to be a great year. we have some great matchups. we’ve already sold over 1,400 tick­ets, so there will be a great crowd” 
all of it comes to a climax 
almost $1,700 during the event in 2012. 
each boxer must individually raise money as well, which re­inforces the meaning of baraka bouts, carmack said. 
“To participate, they are re­quired to fundraise a lot of mon­ey,” carmack said. “Talking about it pretty often makes it very ap­parent in everything we’re doing.” 
garvin added that while the boxers work to benefit the mis­sions, they also grow personally. 
“They’re not only improv­ing their physical strength, but also for the majority of the girls, it’s learning a whole new sport,” garvin said. “it’s really fulfilling for me to watch the girls improve. most of them have never thrown a punch in their life, and it comes to fruition in our fight night. we get to see their strengths.” 
The boxers put in a lot of time and grueling work at practice to get to fight night. although box­ing is a tough sport, it is reward­ing, carmack said. 
“most come from zero boxing [backgrounds],” carmack said. “what we’re looking for is that they’ll put in the time. They have to attend at least four two-hour practices every week. it’s not go­ing to be easy, but they do a great job of getting in there. i know i had never boxed before coming to notre dame. it’s a big first step, and they’re always happy that they did it.” 
garvin said her favorite mo­ment comes when a boxer steps into the ring for the first time. 
“my favorite part is seeing all of the surprises,” garvin said. “There’s something about fight night because you can see a girl spar, but when she gets in the ring under the lights, she just trans­forms. it happens every year for a few girls. you take advantage of your one time to shine.” 
baraka bouts begin monday at 6 p.m. in the Joyce center Field house. admission is $10 at the door. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
monday night in the ring. The winners from the first round of fights advance to the final round Thursday. 
both garvin and carmack de­scribed the fight-night experience as slightly terrifying, intense and exhilarating. 
“your adrenaline is pump­ing and you can’t see anyone or hear anything outside the fight,” garvin said. “it’s such a great, fun opportunity.” 
“right before you go out there in your robe, the priest gives you a final blessing,” carmack said. “it feels like you’re walking to your death. … if you can get a group of friends there chanting your name, it’s intense.” 
The opening round of the 11th­annual baraka bouts takes place monday night, starting at 6 p.m. in the Joyce center. Tickets will be sold at the door for $10 and ben­efit the holy cross charities in east africa. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 




men’s sWImmInG | nd162, piTT 138; vT 181, nd 119 
irish split against acc opponents 
Observer Staff Report 
bolstered by six individual first-place finishes, the irish left their first acccompetition saturday afternoon with a split decision in a tri-meet against pittsburgh  and virginia Tech. notre dame (2-4) beat the panthers (2-2) 162-138, and fell to the hokies (8-1) 181-119 at the Trees pool in pittsburgh. 
Though this was notre dame’s first meet against acc opponents since joining the conference last summer, such meets are not commonplace in the irish’s schedule. unlike most col­legiate sports, scheduling for swim­ming and diving meets is not tied to conference affiliation until the championships at the end of the sea­son. in fact, notre dame will not face another acc member until they play louisville on Jan. 24. 
on saturday, senior all-american Frank dyer set the pace for the irish, finishing first in both the 200-yard and 500-yard freestyle races, with times of 1:37.84 and 4:26.77. dyer’s 500-yard freestyle marked a ten sec­ond improvement from his previous best time this season. 
Joining dyer’s first-place total for notre dame was junior Zach stephens, also an all- american, who won the 200-yard individual breast­stroke, clocking in at 2:01.14. stephens also finished first with a season-best 
1:49.36 in the 200-yard individual medley. stephens rounded out his af­ternoon with a third place 20.54 in the 50-meter freestyle. 
senior colin babcock added an­other first-place finish for the irish, setting the pace in the 100-yard breaststroke. The co-captain swam a 
55.76 in the event, and complimented stephen’s gold medal mark with a second place finish in the 200- yard individual medley. 
on the diving boards, freshman Joseph coumos continued his rookie-season success, finishing first in the 3-meter boards with a score of 345.35. coumos also took second place in the 5-meter board. irish junior diver nick nemetz finished second and fourth in the 5- meter and 3-meter, scoring 
321.00 and 320.25, respectively. 
The irish will host their final home meet until January this weekend, when they will welcome big-10 foes michigan state for a duel meet on Friday and wisconsin for a duel meet saturday at the rolfs aquatic center. 
nd Wbb 
conTinued From page 20 
out her afternoon. 
“defensively, she was our stopper last year, and now she’s really chal­lenging people. she did a good job without fouling, and i thought [she] was in the right spots most of the game. i was pleased with her offense, but defensively, i thought she played a really complete game.” 
notre dame held unc wilmington scoreless for several minutes at a time on multiple occa­sions, with the longest stretch com­ing in the second half for more than five minutes. The irish did not allow the seahawks to reach double digits in points until past the 10-minute mark in the first half. 
offensively, the squad shot 62.9 percent from the field, its best mark since Jan. 17, 2012, against pittsburgh. 
Freshman forward Taya reimer took charge on the glass, snatching 12 of the team’s 54 rebounds. nine of reimer’s boards came in the first half after she earned a starting spot with senior forward natalie achonwa on the bench, out for six weeks after a knee scope. 
“[it was] a great start for a fresh­man,” mcgraw said. “we were anx­ious to get natalie achonwa back in the lineup, but until then, i think Taya’s doing a fabulous job inside.” 
Fresh off the victory, the irish have a quick turnaround and will face no. 20 michigan state on monday. 
The spartans (0-0) head into the matchup coming off lopsided ex­hibition wins over Ferris state and grand valley state. Freshman guard Tori Jankoska led the team with 27 points off the bench against Ferris state, and junior forward becca mills scored 18 points with five rebounds and two blocks against grand valley state. 

“what a great team,” mcgraw said of michigan state. “They are so tal­ented. This is maybe their best team ever. They’ve got great athletic wings. They’re big at every position. Their point guard [junior Kiana Johnson] is experienced and savvy. They’ve got a terrific game inside, and becca mills is playing well. 
“They’re deep and really, really long. They can really guard, and i think that’s something they take a lot of pride in. and they can score, too, so i think they’re going to be a formi­dable opponent for us.” 
mcgraw said her team needs to make some adjustments down low and on defensive to prepare for the contest with the spartans, a much larger and longer team than unc-wilmington. 

“i was disappointed early on that we didn’t score on the block more, even with the guards [against the seahawks],” mcgraw said. “i just thought we could have gone inside a lot more. 
“i saw a lot of problems [on de­fense against unc-wilmington], so that’s good, so we can fix those. i don’t know that we’ll fix them all [in sunday’s practice], but we have some defensive weaknesses that we really need to address, and hopefully we’ll be able to fix those getting on into december and certainly by the acc season.” 
notre dame takes on michigan state tonight at 7 p.m. in the purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


four of grant’s first five baskets. 
men’s soccer 
basketball 
“guys are telling me to come out 
conTinued From page 20 
conTinued From page 20 
aggressive and that’s what i’m do­ing,” grant said. “when our point 

so notre dame felt a lot pressure starter needed to play more than 27 guard tells [me] he’s going to get me 
throughout the match, clark minutes. open to shoot the ball, that gives me 
said. “what i was really happy about a lot of confidence.” 
“when the second goal came, this afternoon was that our older The irish came out of the game 
that was a nice relief because guys got off to such a good start,” firing and opened a 26-10 lead with 
we knew we had to win it to win irish coach mike brey said. “it al-8:53 to play in the first half, but the 
the league,” clark said. “There’s lowed me to play our younger guys redhawks (0-1) responded strongly 
a fair bit of emotion, a little bit long minutes and together in a game to cut their deficit to seven points, 39­
of anxiety i would say because situation, which is just a great expe-32, at the break. 
although we dominated play … rience for them. and the young guys “The way it starts out, you think 
until we scored the second goal, played the way we play. i loved how it’s going to be maybe like the ex-
there was always a chance they they played together. hibition games,” brey said. “and 
could maybe get something on “so it was a good day for us, early they make a run, which is what col-
the counterattack.” in the season, trying to figure out our lege basketball is all about, and you 
in the 38th minute, a young guys. we know who our older can’t really get away from them, and 
pittsburgh penalty in the box guys are.” there’s some game pressure on you. i 
handed shipp a penalty kick, irish graduate student center love that it wasn’t easy for us.” 
which he drove into the upper garrick sherman bounced back burgett, who played just 60 min-
left corner of the goal to give from a slow start Friday to pour in 15 utes over 18 games as a freshman, 
notre dame a 1-0 lead. shipp points sunday. senior guard Jerian played 24 minutes Friday — more 
leads the irish with eight goals grant tied for the team lead with 15 than both Knight and sherman 
on the season. in coming.” to six in the first 20 minutes. The of his own. — and finished with seven points. 
cicciarelli scored his fifth goal notre dame spread the field panthers, however, could not notre dame stormed out to a 17-3 notre dame’s other big man, 
of the season from the left side in with sweeping passes to prevent overcome the irish. lead, powered by a pair of threes auguste, was limited to just eight 
the 81st minute off an assist from a pittsburgh counterattack. The shipp said notre dame proved from junior guard/forward pat minutes after he sat out both exhibi­
senior forward leon brown. panthers managed only three it could compete in the acc. connaughton and one from grant. tion games due to injury. 
notre dame controlled pos-shots in the first half, and senior “i think we were picked fourth but the hatters came back on an “i thought austin burgett was a 
session in the first period with goalkeeper patrick wall didn’t or fifth coming into the year to 8-0 run, only to see notre dame ex-key tonight, because it was hard to 
sharp passing that kept the ball have to make his first save until finish and our coach was the tend it back to 28-14 with 8:16 to play play two big guys, and he gave us a 
around pittsburgh’s goal. in the the 34th minute. only one to vote us on top of the in the first half. The irish opened defensive guy on a smaller forward 
first half alone, the irish record-senior defender luke mishu acc, so i think coming in our shooting 5-for-7 from 3-point range … and he helped us move,” brey 
ed 17 shots. aggressively opened the second first year it’s pretty impressive to after hitting 10 of 21 long-range tries said. 
despite creating so many half for notre dame with a shot deal with the schedule of travel on Friday. both sherman and Knight 
chances, notre dame took a that flew high over the net 17 every weekend,” shipp said. “To From there, notre dame kept brought down four rebounds apiece 
long time to score, but clark said seconds into the period. be on top of the acc is some-pouring it on, going on a 13-4 run on the night after combining for only 
the irish refused to let up. The irish kept the heat up in thing that we really wanted to to extend the advantage to 41-18, one rebound after 20 minutes, as the 
“i think it was patience and the 55th minute. brown broke get coming into the year.” thanks to unselfish passing and ef-6-foot-2 atkins was notre dame’s 
persistence,” clark said. “i think away and wailed a shot over next up for the irish are the ficient scoring. The irish nailed 15 of leader at halftime with four and the 
two p’s, patience and persis-the goal in a one-on-one versus acc quarterfinals Tuesday. their first 25 shots and assisted on 12 6-foot-5 connaughton ended the 
tence. i thought we had a lot of panthers sophomore goalkeeper notre dame will host duke at a of the buckets. night on top with seven. 
the ball, and we moved the ball dan lynd. time to be determined. Freshman guard demetrius “i need to rebound better. … 
very well, but between good The pittsburgh offense Jackson mixed power with touch to That’s not okay,” Knight said. “i need 
goalkeeping and some last-ditch pushed harder in the second pe-Contact Samantha Zuba at close the first half, driving strongly to focus more on the rebounding 
saves, the goals took a long while riod and doubled its total shots szuba@nd.edu to the hoop for two and coming right side, and i think it will definitely be 
paid adverTisemenT 

back to bury a three, as notre dame something we focus on in practice.” went into the halftime break leading after the game, brey an­51-21. in total, Jackson tallied nine nounced sophomore forward cam points, three rebounds and three biedscheid would redshirt this assists. season, following a path taken by 
“i think the key is attacking,” grant and Knight and former irish brey said. “he was a little sheep-all-big east forward Tim abromaitis. ish the other night, but we talked to brey said the decision will allow him yesterday and i talked to him biedscheid to spend more time in this morning and i said ‘would you the weight room and focus a lot on just attack? would you just go?’ … i development in practice, rather thought he took a big step forward than worrying about impressing the attacking. i also thought he was coaching staff for playing time. more solid defensively.” “we’ve made a decision on a five­
notre dame was able to dip into year program,” brey said. “he and i the bench early and often through-have talked about it for about a week out the afternoon and often had its [and] methodically have come to five backups — freshman forward that decision that i think it’s just best 
v.J. beachem, freshman guards for him all the way around in his demetrius Jackson and steve development.” vasturia and sophomore forwards biedscheid said he asked grant, Zach auguste and austin burgett — who sat out as a freshman, for advice playing together. when making the decision. 
“we’re really getting the system “i talked to him for a pretty long down and playing well together,” time one weekend, and he was burgett said. “so we just did what we just telling me how [sitting out] did in practice and didn’t get out of really helped him and how it re-character.” ally benefitted his game and his 
The second half began slowly, academics,” biedscheid said. “so it as each team plodded along. notre definitely pushed me towards mak­dame outscored stetson 14-13 in ing the decision. the first 12:15 of the second half, and “Taking this year off will benefit the play went back and forth the rest me strength-wise, skill-wise and ac-of the way with the irish lead never ademic-wise, and i need growth in shrinking below 27 points. all those areas.” 
on Friday night, grant led the way The irish return to purcell for notre dame, as he notched a ca-pavilion on sunday to square off reer-high 26 points on 9-for-14 shoot-with indiana state. ing while hitting five of eight shots from 3-point range. grant made his Contact Sam Gans at first five field goals attempts includ-sgans@nd.edu and ing four from downtown. senior Mike Monaco at point guard eric atkins assisted on jmonaco@nd.edu 



CrossWord | will shorTZ 




hIGhly PunlIkely | chrisTopher brucKer 
ConTrolled Chaos | hillary mangiaForTe 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoku | The mepham group 


horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: miranda lambert, 30; ellen pompeo, 44; Tracy morgan, 45; michael Jai white, 46. 
Happy Birthday: your ability to pick and choose what’s good and what’s not will help you jump into opportunities that promise to bring you high returns. making interesting alterations at home will result in higher productivity and the chance to follow a personal dream that can help you raise your income and set a standard for future endeavors. your numbers are 6, 13, 18, 21, 32, 37, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stand up to anyone trying to bully you. use your intel­ligence and speed to outmaneuver a confrontation. re-evaluate your personal and professional positions. make whatever improvements are required to reach positive goals. Take responsibility and build a better future. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotional deception must not come between you and your hard-earned cash. a short trip or researching what you need to know in order to make a personal decision will pay off in the savings you earn by being diligent. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you may feel restless and in need of a change, but whatever you decide to spend your money on must not be frivolous. invest in your skills, talents or a service you can offer. Turn what you have to offer into something tangible. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): let your true feelings show. if you don’t ask for things or answers, you will never know where you stand. you are in for a surprise that will lead to positive change. a nudge can be a good thing.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): protect your heart, your cash and your reputation. problems at work will escalate if you aren’t creative in the way you handle sensitive issues. Take a day trip somewhere that is conducive to clearing your head and figuring out your next move. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): start your year-end preparations early and you will put your mind at ease. Knowing what you have in the bank and what your disposable income is will help you make better choices. a personal partnership will improve if you are affectionate. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): stick close to home and don’t take emotional, physical or financial risks. play it safe and avoid being sorry. don’t let the unexpected changes others make alarm or confuse you. stick to your plans and you’ll reach your goal. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): let your past be your teacher. dig up creative ideas you shelved and put them back into motion. Keep your distance from anyone showing signs of emotional instability. you need a little time to follow your heart and your dreams. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can sell what you have to offer and advance, but don’t promise something you have no intention doing. it’s important to keep the peace, but even more important to tell the truth. deal with unwanted situations and move on. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a leisurely break and you’ll come up with some ideas that will please the people you care about most. plans for home improvements or discussing your next vacation or family project will win you favors and affection in return.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have trouble making good decisions if you let your emotions interfere. revisit mistakes you’ve made in the past and it will help you make better choices now. learn from the past, live in the moment and improve the future. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): personal contracts and making a promise to someone you care for will help you feel better about the future. Knowing which way you are heading and the commitment you are prepared to make will open up all sorts of opportunities. 


Birthday Baby: you are expressive, proactive and imaginative. you are persuasive and passionate. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | monday, november 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

men’s soCCer | noTre dame 2, piTTsburgh 0 
Seniors go out on top of ACC 
Irish capture share of regular-season ACC title with shutout win over Pittsburgh 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
no. 1 notre dame honored its senior class with a 2-0 victory over pittsburgh and a share of the acc crown Friday on senior night at alumni stadium. 
notre dame (11-1-5, 7-1-3) en­tered the night tied for first place in the acc with maryland. The Terrapins (10-3-5, 7-1-3) also won Friday, so they will share the acc title with notre dame. 
irish coach bobby clark praised the irish for securing the regular-season capstone. 
“it’s the best league in the country,” clark said. “with 11 games, six of them on the road, it’s a terrific accomplishment to be proud of. This is a great start. we always talk about the travel: winning the league and then winning your conference tour­nament and winning the ncaas. This is our first step towards the travel.” 
goals by senior forward harrison shipp and junior for­ward vince cicciarelli propelled the irish to the win. 
cicciarelli’s insurance goal didn’t come until the 81st minute, 
see men’s soccer PaGe 18 

hoCkey | nd 4, minnesoTa 1; minnesoTa 5, nd 4 Women’s baskeTball | noTre dame 99, unc wilmingTon 50 
notre dame splits series with gophers 
Team rolls in home opener 

By CASEY KARNES 
sportswriter 
no. 4 notre dame earned a split against no. 1 minnesota in front of a raucous home crowd at the compton Family ice arena, prevailing 4-1 in game one before falling 5-4 in the second matchup. 
The irish (7-3, 1-1 hockey east) opened the weekend in front of a sellout crowd Friday night but were unable to jump on the gophers (6-1­
1) right out of the gates. minnesota used speed and aggression to put early pressure on the irish defense, outshooting notre dame 17-11 in the first period. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said there is always an adjustment period when the irish play a no. 1 team, regardless of their degree of preparation. 
“it was everything we expected,” Jackson said. “it was a high-tempo, high-paced game. i think we played a little tight in the early stages of the game. i think our guys were a little nervous in the first 10 minutes.” 
enabling the irish to stay in the game was the strong play of senior goaltender stephen summerhays, who had 31 saves on the night. 
see hocKey PaGe 14 
Women’s boxInG 

Baraka Bouts fight night arrives 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
Tonight, after two months of training, conditioning and spar­ring, 72 women will step into the ring with pride on the line and kick off the 11th annual baraka bouts. 
“Fight night is our chance to show all that we’ve been work­ing on,” senior captain liz garvin said. “when you’re under the lights, you have to step it up a notch and show your friends and 
family  everything  you’ve  been  
working toward.”  
one  hundred  seventy-five  

boxers registered in september, setting a club record. over the following two months, the num­ber of participants dropped as the intense time commitment and training took their toll. boxers are expected to attend at least eight hours of practice a week, which, for many, includes learning how to box for the first time. 
“we take it slow at first in in­struction,” senior captain anna carmack said. “The first week is just basic position, which foot goes in front of the other, and from there we progress. after two or three weeks we get into the ring and start shadowboxing with a partner to show them how to react.” 
see FighT nighT PaGe 16 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
michaela mabrey was the first player off the bench for no. 6 notre dame and came up big as the irish cruised to a 99-50 win over unc wilmington in sunday’s season opener. 
The sophomore guard had a career-high 19 points and doled out six assists, spending much of her team-high 27 minutes on the court at point guard for the irish (1-0). 
“it’s huge for us, especially right now, when we’re still searching for the next sub coming off the bench,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “so i’ve really been happy with michaela all year. she came back in great shape, she’s playing well, she’s shooting well. we want her to keep shooting threes. she’s talking more, she’s communicating more and she’s running the team as much as she can when she doesn’t have the ball.” 

mabrey also showed her skills on the defensive side of the ball, pester­ing seahawks junior guard Kelva atkins throughout the game, and limiting atkins to six of 15 shooting on the night and two of eight shoot­ing behind the arc. 
“defensive-wise, i tried to pres­sure the ball as much as i could, and i got a few steals and little tips,” mabrey said. “That’s what i’m really trying to work on, so i thought that aspect i got better at today.” 
notre dame performed well as a team defensively and used the matchup with uncwilmington (0­
1) to work out the early-season kinks in its man-to-man defense, 2-3 zone and full-court press while claiming its 19th-consecutive season-open­ing victory. 
sophomore guard Jewell loyd also stood out on both sides of the ball, finishing with her second ca­reer double-double with 19 points and 11 rebounds in just 21 minutes. loyd added a career-high three blocks and a pair of assists to round 
see nd wbb PaGe 17 

men’s baskeTball | noTre dame 74, miami (oh) 62; noTre dame 80, sTeTson 49 
pair of victories begins season 
By SAM GANS  and MIKE MONACO 
sports writer and sports editor 
no. 21 notre dame opened up its season with a pair of victo­ries over the weekend, defeating miami (ohio), 74-62, on Friday night and dominating stetson, 80­49, on sunday afternoon at purcell pavilion. 
The irish (2-0) opened up a 30-point lead by halftime sunday and never looked back in defeat­ing the hatters (0-2). Ten players saw time for notre dame, and all logged at least 12 minutes, as no starter needed to play more than 27 minutes. 
“what i was really happy about 
see basKeTballPaGe 18 






