The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 84 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Judicial council adjusts election rules 
Write-in candidates will be permitted, runoff procedure in place for Wednesday’s student body vote 
it actually happen. if some-to last year’s. The council 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer one said they wanted to [vote announced six election tick-for a write-in candidate], ets Jan. 28, and campaigning 
This year’s student body we would have had a lot of began the following day at 11 president and vice president issues.” a.m. election will proceed very This year, the Judicial “There are not many re-similarly to last year’s election council switched to a differ-strictions on campaigning in terms of rules and regula-ent server and ticket ballot other than certain rules re­tions, vice president of elec-that would enable students to garding where they place tions Katie hennessy said. write in a candidate’s name if posters, et cetera,” hennessy 

The only major change in-necessary. said. volved write-in candidates, The Judicial council also additionally, hennessy she said. write-in nomina-made changes to how write-said she and the election tions have technically always in candidates are approved, committee must approve any been allowed, but the old hennessy said. The major campaign-related poster, web-based voting system did effect of the new regulations website or social media post its primary goals for a pro-immediately. not allow students to actu-posits that write-in nomina-prior to publication. rule vio-spective student government “with six tickets we will ally vote for them during the tions must be approved at lations have delayed election administration. likely have a run-off election elections. least four calendar days prior results in the past. voting will take place to-since, in order not to, some­
“we haven’t had any write-to the election. The student body presiden-day from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. one has to win a majority,” in candidates,” hennessy outside of those chang-tial and vice presidential de-through an email sent out she said. said. “it was something es to write-in candidates, bate took place monday night by the Judicial council, but in the case of a runoff, the that was allowed for, but we hennessy said today’s elec-in lafortune student center, hennessy said the results didn’t have means to make tion will function similarly where each ticket outlined are not likely to be finalized see elecTion PAGE 6 




board of Trustees re-elects chair 
Observer Staff Report 
The board of Trustees re­elected its chair, richard c. notebaert, to a new three-

year term at the group’s friday meeting, according to a university statement re­leased monday. 
an alumnus of the university of wisconsin, notebaert has been a member of the board since 1997, and has led it since 2007. he is a university fellow and former 
see chair PAGE 5 



Mayor connects politics, ethics to experience 
By VICKY MORENO 
news writer 

in a time when politics is more often a punch line in a comedy sketch than the act of governing constitu­ents, south bend mayor pete buttigieg’s lecture about ethics and politics sent a timely, relevant mes­sage to the notre dame community. 
a south bend native, harvard alumnus and rhodes scholar, buttigieg talked to students Tuesday afternoon as a part of the mendoza college of business’s 2013 ethics week lecture series and provided perspective on the intersec­tion of politics and ethics. a poll released Jan. 8 by “There seems to be a 
“i fear that sometimes public policy polling that disconnect between the the word ‘politics’ is spo-revealed people preferred ethical and the political,” ken and the last thing on colonoscopies, nfl re-buttigieg said. people’s mind is ethics,” placement referees and in order to bridge that buttigieg said. nickelback to congress, fundamental gap, buttigieg 
The mayor spoke candidly though the u.s. legislative said, politicians must frame about the nation’s low pub-branch ranked ahead of the their public life and action lic opinion of politicians, ebola virus, fidel castro citing and lindsay lohan. see eThics PAGE 5 



beers faces criminal charges 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 
The st. Joseph country prosecutor’s office has filed three misdemeanor charges against a notre dame hockey player who allegedly hit a fe­male manager at a local bar sunday night. 
Junior Jared beers, 22, was charged monday with one count each of criminal tres­pass, battery and resisting law enforcement. all charges are class a misdemeanors. 
irish hockey coach Jeff Jackson announced Tuesday in a statement that beers, a defenseman, has been sus­pended from the team indefi­nitely due to this incident. 
“The university is aware of this incident and is confident 
see charges PAGE 5 


day of man PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 puppy bowl PAGE 10 noTre dame 59, villanova 52 PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your dream job? 

Allie Forlenza 
freshman farley hall 
“president of the usa.” 
Anna Coppola 
freshman welsh family hall 
“scuba diver.” 
Daniel Forney 
sophomore dillon hall 
“physician’s assistant.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Doug Marzan 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“astronaut.” 
Erin Peterson 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“doctor in a developing country.” 
Evan Escobedo 
sophomore 
fisher hall 
“Teacher.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kristen durbin Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: christian myers laura coletti catherine owers casey Karnes 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jacqueline o’neill maria fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

Interview Workshop Ethics Week Lecture Bach Concert Vigil Mass Exhibit Reception 
sarah o’connor dan brombach 
114 Flanner Hall Mendoza College of DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred and Gallery Talk 12 p.m.-1 p.m Business Arts Center Heart Snite Museum of Art Interview tips. 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 12:10 p.m.-1 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 
Corrections 

Jack Colwell, South Informal concert by Catholic Mass. Photos by Jennifer 
The observer regards itself as Bend Tribune Department of Music. Trausch. a professional publication and 
columnist. 

strives for the highest standards 
Ethics Week Lecture Film Screening Hockey Game Men’s Basketball Basilica Concert 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Mendoza College of 129 DeBartolo Hall Compton Family Ice Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Business 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Arena 9 p.m.-11 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. “American Meat” 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. Game vs. Louisville. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Indiana Sen. Joe discusses the national Game vs. Michigan. Music by Basilica 
we can correct our error. 

Zakas. farming industry. choirs. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | The observer 

SMC office calls attention to relationship violence 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
The saint mary’s belles against violence office (bavo) will sponsor several events and activities to com­memorate national dating violence awareness month and continue the conversa­tion about dating violence is­sues beyond february. 
“a primary purpose for these events is to encourage continued discussion to raise awareness and ultimately reduce the incidence and impact of violence,” bavo di­rector connie adams said. 
To kick off the office’s spon­sored events, adams said stu­dents, faculty and staff can watch and discuss a recorded lecture by anne munch, a con­sultant for the united states military. The lecture focuses on the intricacies of some sex­ual assault cases in america on feb. 11. 
since sexual assault and dating violence are related is­sues, adams said munch’s lec­ture is especially pertinent. 
“according to national stud­ies, the majority of sexual as­saults ... occur within known relationships,” adams said. “The topic of sexual assault is relevant when discussing dat­ing violence.” 

during the week prior to valentine’s day, adams said bavo will host a valentines against violence fundraiser by selling cards to support the family Justice center’s sos, a 
“According to national studies, the majority of sexual assaults ... occur within known relationships.” 
Connie Adams 
director 
BAVO 

local nonprofit service helping survivors of sexual assault and relationship violence. 
such fundraising events can make a real difference with widespread participation, adams said. 
“each person can partici­pate and support [bavo’s] mission,” she said. “whether that means starting to fol­low bavo smc on Twitter or buying a valentine or attend­ing one program, each action is important. our individual actions matter and, when viewed collectively, promote change.” 
in an event co-sponsored 
paid adverTisemenT 

by women’s health and the student nurse association, saint mary’s will welcome francine henley, coordinator of the sexual assault nurse examiner (sane) program at st. Joseph regional medical center, to campus to discuss “myths and facts associated with forensic and medical ex­ams following physical and sexual assaults,” adams said. 
Throughout the month of february, adams said bavo smc facebook and Twitter ac­counts will share facts and sta­tistics about dating violence and healthy relationships. 
other events planned in­clude a green dot video con­test, which calls for student teams to create and submit a video promoting the green dot campaign, a program fo­cused on bystander interven­tion and violence prevention. 
adams said submissions are due by 5 p.m. feb. 22. contest prizes include an aeropress coffee maker for the best in­dividual entry, and desserts and conversation with saint mary’s president carol ann mooney for the winning video. 
for more information about the green dot campaign, visit www. livethegreendot.com. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
day of man raises awareness, funds 

By MICHAEL FERNANDES 
news writer 

while most notre dame stu­dents scramble for their hats and scarves on snowy south bend mornings, the men of siegfried hall will break out their summer wardrobes once again during today’s seventh annual day of man. 
The ramblers will sport shorts, flip-flops and pink T-shirts to raise awareness of homelessness and fundraise for the south bend center for the homeless. 
senior andrew ritter, a co-commissioner of the event, said the day of man is a unique and rewarding op­portunity for students to experience solidarity with people who lack basic living necessities. 
“we are more than glad to be cold one day for those who are cold everyday,” he said. “it is our way of standing in soli­darity with them and bring­ing awareness to the fact that a lot of people are not prop­erly clothed and are having to live outside in this south bend winter.” 
historically, ritter said the event has been highly successful in terms of both student participation and fundraising, as well as in di­rect donations to the center for the homeless. last year’s day of man brought in more than $5,000. 
“siegfried usually has about 175 out of the 240 men in the hall participate, and their efforts go along way in raising money,” ritter said. “Truthfully, though, we hope to increase [donations] this year in order to contribute more to the center.” 
Junior co-commissioner Johnny dang said aside from the tangible benefits the fun­draiser provides for the center for the homeless, the event has an equally important ef­fect on student participants. 
“[participants] come to understand that during this time of year a lot of people who are homeless are strug­gling to find warmth,” he said. “This is one day where they will learn to appreciate the things that they have … and how fortunate they are.” 
sophomore Taylor roberts said he was initially hesi­
“We are more than glad to be cold one day for those who are cold everyday.” 
Andrew Ritter 
co-commissioner 
Day of Man 

tant about participating in the day of man, but he was ultimately satisfied with the experience. 
“you always question your­self when your cup is empty and you’re walking out in the cold,” he said. “but once you get your first couple of dol­lars, it really sinks in that you’re doing a good thing.” 
despite the event’s benefits, roberts said it is limited in terms of addressing the com­plexity of homelessness in a holistic manner. 
“i admit that i don’t think you can feel the full effect [of homelessness],” he said. “There are so many other factors including the lack of food, the lack of shelter dur­ing even harsher conditions and often mental and physi­cal illness.” 
Though the day of man may not be an authentic proxy ex­perience for homelessness, roberts said it provides stu­dents with a new perspective on a real issue. 
“The event does signify a big step forward in realizing some of the hardships that the homeless do experience while also extending a hand and making a difference,” he said. 
Contact Michael Fernandes mferna11@nd.edu 



Conference connects students, professionals 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
This weekend, the undergraduate women in business (uwib) club will host its fifth annual women’s professional development conference to connect female students with representa­tives from a range of top-tier companies. 
The conference, titled “catalysts of change: women Transforming the marketplace,” features a key­note address by notre dame alumna Kimberly farrell, who serves as president and ceo of unlimited performance Training, inc. 
conference chair Kristina hamilton said this weekend will “allow undergraduate women to network and build relationships with successful businesswomen” by learning about the diverse experiences of women in business. 
with representatives from a wide variety of companies in attendance, including accenture, deloitte, ernst and young, general mills, grant Thornton, pricewaterhouse coopers and procter and gamble, hamilton said the conference presents an excel­lent opportunity for under­graduate women to explore their career and leadership options. 
“The purpose [of the confer­ence] is to provide students with an opportunity to have a more intimate experience with companies and engage students with current topics or issues relevant to their fu­tures as business profession­als,” hamilton said. 
Though the conference is an annual occurrence, hamilton said uwib sponsors on-campus networking events throughout the school year, including meetings with em­ployers like abercrombie and fitch, Kpmg, houlihan lokey and bank of america. 
“we encourage anyone that is still looking for a job, intern­ship, leadership opportunity or looking to hone their pro­fessional skills to attend,” she said. “many company reps are notre dame alums and come back annually to our confer­ence, so it has been a great op­portunity for our members to build relationships with wom­en in various companies.” 
To help younger students learn about the opportuni­ties for women in business, 

hamilton said uwib started a mentorship program with­
“The best way to figure out what you want for your future is to talk with someone who has been in your shoes and hear why they chose to pursue their career.” 
Kristina Hamilton 
conference chair 
UWIB 
in the club, pairing senior members with freshmen and sophomores. 
“The best way to figure out what you want for your future is to talk with someone who has been in your shoes and hear why they chose to pur­sue their career,” she said. “i think our conference is a per­fect way to do just that, and i hope that our attendees leave with at least one new contact that they can develop a rela­tionship with, regardless of their interest in the particular company.” 

conference events will take place friday from 5 to 8 p.m. at innovation park and saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the mendoza college of business atrium. notre dame undergraduate and mba stu­dents are eligible to register for the free conference on the uwib website. 
Contact Charitha Isanka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | The observer 





SIBC unveils new internship program 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
as notre dame’s largest student-run organization, the student international business council (sibc) will institute a program to give students a new kind of on-campus job as early as this semester, senior brett hummel said. 
hummel, who is the vice president of domestic intern­ships for sibc, said the council will pair students with fortune 500 companies, start-ups and small businesses for intern­ships during the academic year. depending on the compa­nies’ employment needs, engi­neering, science and arts and letters students could team with business students to do real work for major corpora­tions for the duration of at least a semester, he said. 
“while you’re on campus, during your academic year, in­stead of working at the huddle or dining hall, you’d get the opportunity to work for com­panies like [general electric] for 10 to 20 hours per week,” hummel said. “and you’d be paid for that, and they’d be the highest-paid jobs on campus.” 
The internships will be open from students of classes rang­ing from second-semester sophomores to graduate stu­dents. hummel said sibc will broaden its reach and help stu­dents in all fields find valuable work experience with a new program for facilitating domes­tic internship opportunities. 
“[sibc] members are always drawn more from the mendoza students, and so the whole goal now is to try to broaden that,” hummel said. “students who are not necessarily busi­ness majors who want experi­ence have the opportunity now to actually get that on their resumes.” 
hummel said the domestic internship idea came from the “disconnect” he saw between the demands of employers for veteran workers and the strug­gle for undergraduates to gain meaningful work experience in the south bend area. he worked with faculty advisors and asso­ciate vice president for career and professional development lee svete. 

“There is a degree of respon­sibility because it is actual, real work,” hummel said. “The company’s going to take your work and give it to clients.” 
after completing an appli­cation and interview process modeled on that of the Kellogg institute for international studies, hummel said students will then be assigned individu­al and team projects for a spe­cific company. Team meetings and skype calls with the com­pany will ensure each student is making progress, he said. 
The new program will com­plement the sibc’s existing international program, which currently consists of five posi­tions in locations as far-reach­ing as Thailand and ecuador. 
sophomore pedro suarez, sibc vice president of inter­national internships, said the domestic program could even­tually begin to incorporate in­ternational elements. 
“hopefully, one day for the people who are looking for a global career, … it could sud­denly become something where a company in brazil could out­source their work to us,” suarez said. 
suarez said past internship experience does not necessarily make an applicant competitive. 
“i think more than experi­ence, it’s someone who’s pas­sionate about something, someone who can really learn and grow,” suarez said. 
The new internship program will build invaluable skills for the future careers of students involved, hummel said. 
“[The companies] can teach you all the stuff you need to learn, but they want to make sure that you are able to be taught and that you have those kinds of qualities to be a leader going forward,” hummel said. 

an information session dis­cussing both domestic and international internships will be held today at 7 p.m. in 155 debartolo hall. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
the tension politicians expe-strides for voting rights. 
scene, the report stated. he 
Ethics Charges 

rience between representing “when something as had left his wallet at brothers, 
conTinued from page 1 conTinued from page 1 

the wishes of their constitu-meaningful as voting rights 
however, and the south bend ents and leading their con-for america is on the line, is 
police department contacted within two questions: “who stituents based on what they it worth it to play the game?” 
that it will be handled in him to pick it up at the station am i?” and “why am i here?” believe to be in the people’s buttigieg said. 
a prompt and professional later that night. The officer “now, i don’t mean, ‘who best interests. when the conversation 
manner through the criminal am i’ in the philosophical “you want to be faithful to shifted to address the sec-
justice system,” university 
“The University 

sense,” he said. “you need your voters, but at the same ond question of, the mayor 
spokesman dennis brown to understand who you are time you can’t lead by stand-emphasized the importance 
is aware of this 
said Tuesday. 

in the sense of what role you ing still,” said buttigieg. of job as a means to achieve capt. phil Trent, pub-
incident and is 

play, in what capacity you in this vein, buttigieg men-one’s goals instead of view­lic information officer 
confident that it 

are making a decision.” tioned president lyndon b. ing a job as the ultimate goal. 
with the south bend police 
will be handled 
The mayor said he per­

“if the job is your goal, then 
department, said beers had sonally answered that first 
in a prompt and 

as soon as you get the job, 
been at brothers bar and 
“Life brings into 
question while visiting the 

you have finished your pur­
grill at eddy street commons 
professional confrontation 
site of a child homicide in 

poseful journey,” buttigieg 
on sunday night just before 
manner through the conflicts and said. 

south bend to “get a feel for midnight when other patrons 

the criminal 
the place” that had been the 

tensions between although his academic 
complained he was steal-site of a tragedy. however, 
justice system.” 

pursuits took him all over 
ing beer from their tables. 
our roles and 
his public role as mayor co-

the globe, buttigieg said he 
when bar security asked him 
Dennis Brown 
our purpose, but 
incided with his personal 

returned to his hometown to 
to leave, beers allegedly be-
University Spokesman 
feelings on the situation as 

in the end, the make a difference where he 
came belligerent, Trent said. he noticed the mother of the 
way in which knew he could and where it 
as security tried to remove on duty arrested beers when victim. 
would matter most. 
beers from the bar, he pushed he arrived at the department 
we resolve those 
“i almost didn’t go speak 

“life brings into confron­
one security guard to the in the early hours of monday 
tensions is what 
with her because i was so 

tation the conflicts and ten-
ground, Trent said. The police morning, Trent said. he con-anxious,” buttigieg said. 
we are made of.” sions between our roles and 
report stated that a female tinued to resist law enforce­“but it meant so much that 
our purpose, but in the end, 
manager then approached ment by kicking and yelling 
Pete Buttigieg 
i talked to her, and it wasn’t 

the way in which we resolve 
him, and he punched her in as he was transported to the 
mayor 
because of anything i said. it 

those tensions is what we are 
the face. he allegedly then jail, where he was booked at 
South Bend 
was because i was the mayor, made of.” 

stepped on her face and jaw 2:44 a.m. monday. and it meant something that Johnson as a leader who was 
and grabbed her hair. beers spent most of monday the city cared.” “very politically devious” but Contact Vicky Moreno at 
a security video captured at the st. Joseph county Jail The mayor also addressed who ultimately made great vmoreno@nd.edu 
part of the incident, Trent before he was released upon 
said. The police report did posting bail at $300 just af­
not specify if the female ter 5 p.m., according to jail 
corp. who had shown unqualified manager received treatment records. 
Chair 

in the release, university dedication to serving notre at a hospital for her injuries. 
conTinued from page 1 

president fr. John Jenkins dame. i look forward to con-
when witnesses called the Contact Megan Doyle at praised notebaert’s com-tinuing to work with him 
police, beers ran from the mdoyle11@nd.edu chairman of the university mitment to notre dame’s and benefit from his wise relations committee. mission. counsel.” 
prior to attaining his “we are blessed with The board of Trustees position at notre dame, trustees of great talent and has been a governing body notebaert was chair-accomplishment who are of the university since the man and ceo of Qwest deeply dedicated to notre congregation of holy cross c om m u n i c a t i on s dame,” Jenkins stated in the transferred governance in international inc., and had release. “for six years, dick 1967. it currently has 47 ac-previously served as ceo of notebaert has been a tre-tive members and 47 emeri-Tellabs inc. and ameritech mendous chair of the board tus trustees. 



Congress considers curtailing drone strikes 
d-n.J., and the panel’s top killed in a separate strike on a 
Associated Press 

republican, sen. bob corker suspected al-Qaida den. Khan 
washingTon — of Tennessee, both have qui-was an al-Qaida propagandist. uncomfortable with the etly expressed concerns about white house spokesman Jay obama administration’s use the deadly operations. and carney, echoing comments of deadly drones, a growing earlier this week, a group of 11 brennan made in a speech number in congress is looking democratic and republican last april, called the strikes le­to limit america’s authority to senators urged president gal, ethical and wise and said kill suspected terrorists, even barack obama to release a they are covered by a law that 
u.s. citizens. The democratic-classified Justice department congress approved allowing led outcry was emboldened legal opinion justifying when the use of military force against by the revelation in a newly u.s. counterterror missions, al-Qaida. surfaced Justice department including drone strikes, can be “and certainly, under that memo that shows drones can used to kill american citizens authority, the president acts strike against a wider range abroad. in the united states’ interest of threats, with less evidence, without those documents, to protect the united states than previously believed. it’s impossible for congress and and its citizens from al-Qaida,” 
The drone program, which the public to decide “whether carney said Tuesday. has been used from pakistan this authority has been prop-“it is a matter of fact that across the middle east and into erly defined, and whether the congress authorized the use north africa to find and kill an president’s power to deliber-of military force against al­unknown number of suspected ately kill americans is sub-Qaida,” carney said. “it is a terrorists, is expected to be a ject to appropriate limitations matter of fact that al-Qaida is number of affiliates and allied diplomacy between the u.s. top topic of debate when the and safeguards,” the senators in a state of war against us and sympathizers. That means the and the nations where the senate intelligence committee wrote. that senior leaders, operational current laws could allow mili-strikes are carried out, as ci­grills John brennan, the white it was a repeated request af-leaders of al-Qaida are con-tary force against thousands of vilians have been killed along­house’s pick for cia chief, at a ter receiving last June an un-tinually plotting to attack the extremists across the mideast side the targeted terrorists, hearing Thursday. classified Justice department united states, plotting to kill and north africa who have even though most nations have 
The white house on Tuesday memo, which fell short of giv-american citizens as they did limited or no ability to strike given washington at least tac­defended its lethal drone pro-ing the senators all the infor-most horrifically on september the united states. it agreement to carry out the gram by citing the very laws mation they requested. 11th of 2001.” currently, both the cia and attacks. that some in congress once first detailed publicly by Three days after 9/11, the u.s. military are autho-a middle eastern diplomat believed were appropriate in nbc news late monday, the congress approved a law au-rized to remotely pilot un-said that in yemen, for ex-the years immediately after the memo for the first time out-thorizing the military to use manned, missile-carrying ample, an uptick of u.s. drone sept. 11 attacks but now think lines the obama administra-“all necessary and appropri-drones against terror suspects. strikes last month have killed may be too broad. tion’s decision to kill al-Qaida ate force” against al-Qaida it’s unknown exactly how dozens of people and upset 
“it has to be in the agenda terror suspects without any ev-and other groups believed to many strikes have been carried the local public, leading some of this congress to reconsider idence that specific and immi-be helping or harboring the out, but experts say that drone leaders in sanaa to reconsider the scope of action of drones nent plots are being planned global terror network, includ-attacks in pakistan are con-how often they should be used. and use of deadly force by the against the united states. ing the use of drone strikes. in ducted by the cia, while those The diplomat spoke Tuesday united states around the world “The threat posed by al-Qa-the decade since the attacks, in yemen and somalia, for ex-on condition of anonymity to because the original authori-ida and its associated forces u.s. intelligence officials say, ample, are by military forces. avoid political retribution from zation of use of force, i think, demands a broader concept of al-Qaida has splintered into a The drones have strained the obama administration. is being strained to its limits,” imminence in judging when a 
paid adverTisemenT 

sen. chris coons, d-del., said person continually planning in a recent interview. terror attacks presents an im­
rep. steny hoyer of minent threat,” concluded the maryland, the no. 2 democrat document. in the house, said Tuesday that The memo was immediately “it deserves a serious look at decried by civil liberties groups how we make the decisions in as “flawed” and “profoundly government to take out, kill, disturbing” — especially in eliminate, whatever word you light of 2011 u.s. drone strikes want to use, not just american in yemen that killed three citizens but other citizens as american citizens: anwar al­well.” awlaki, his 16-year-old-son 
hoyer added: “we ought to and samir Khan. al-awlaki was carefully review our policies as linked to the planning and exe­a country.” cution of several attacks target-
The senate foreign relations ing u.s. and western interests, committee likely will hold including the attempt to down hearings on u.s. drone poli-a detroit-bound airliner in cy, an aide said Tuesday, and 2009 and the plot to bomb car-chairman robert menendez, go planes in 2010. his son was 
election likely resulted from 
Election 
last year’s atypical single­
conTinued from page 1 

ticket race, hennessy said. two tickets with the highest “we tried to do whatever number of votes would par-we could to publicize the ticipate in a debate sunday running to get more tickets,” night, hennessy said, and the she said. “last year, a lot of runoff election would take people were upset about it … place monday. The voting so i think more people were process would be the same interested in [running] now.” monday as it is today. 
The high number of tick-Contact Mel Flanagan at ets running in this year’s mflanag3@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | The observer 

Third party to investigate super bowl blackout 
Associated Press 
neworleans —concerned the superdome might not be able to handle the energy need­ed for its first super bowl since hurricane Katrina, officials spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on upgrades to de­cayed utility lines, according to documents obtained by The associated press. 
The improvements appar­ently weren’t enough, however, to prevent an embarrassing and puzzling 34-minute power out­age during the third quarter of the game between the baltimore ravens and san francisco 49ers on sunday. 
Two days later, officials still had not pinpointed the cause of the outage. The superdome’s management company, smg, and the utility that supplies the stadium, entergy new orleans, that we will exchange records,” the superdome’s engineering announced Tuesday that they Thornton said. “we were meter-staff “had concerns regarding would hire outside experts to ing the power. They were doing the reliability of the dome ser­investigate. the same on their side. we need vice from entergy’s connection 

“we wanted to leave no stone to figure out what the root cause point to the dome.” unturned,” entergy spokesman of this is and fix it.” The memo was prepared chanel lagarde told the ap. he documents obtained monday for the louisiana stadium said the two companies had through a records request by & exposition district, the not been able to reach a conclu-The associated press show that state body responsible for the sion on the cause and wanted a superdome officials worried superdome. third-party analysis. months ago about losing power authorities subsequently 
“we thought it was important during the nfl championship. authorized spending nearly to get another party looking at Tests on the electrical feeders $1 million on superdome im­this to make sure we were look-that connect incoming power provements, including more ing at everything that we need from utility lines to the stadium than $600,000 for upgrading the to examine,” lagarde said. showed decay and “a chance of dome’s electrical feeder cable 
smg vice president doug failure,” state officials warned system, work that was done in Thornton told a news confer-in a memo dated oct. 15. The december. ence at city hall later Tuesday documents, obtained by the ap “as discussed in previous that the hiring of a third party through a records request, also board meetings, this enhance-does not signify a disagreement show that entergy expressed ment is necessary to maintain between smg and entergy. concern about the reliability both the superdome and the 
“it’s important for us to have of the service before the super new orleans arena as top tier total transparency and we bowl. facilities, and to ensure that we have agreed among ourselves The memo said entergy and do not experience any electrical 
paid adverTisemenT 

issues during the super bowl,” said an lsed document dated dec. 19. 
superdome commission re­cords show a $513,250 contract to replace feeder cables was awarded to allstar electric, a company based in suburban new orleans. 
arthur westbrook, allstar’s project manager for the job, re­ferred all questions about pos­sible causes of the outage to the management company. 
a lawyer for the lsed, larry roedel, said monday a pre­liminary investigation found the replacement work done in december did not appear to have caused sunday’s outage. 
eric grubman, nfl executive vice president of business op­erations, told the ap on Tuesday that the league was aware of the city’s pre-game upgrades to the utility lines, “which we un­derstood to be important and beneficial.” 
“smg and others kept us ap­prised and those reports gave us no real cause for concern,” grubman said. “it is natural and understandable for energy suppliers to be concerned prior to a huge event. if an engineer is asked whether something is 100 percent failsafe, an engineer will normally say, ‘no, there is always a risk of failure.’” 
both entergy and smg said sunday that an “abnormality” occurred where stadium equip­ment intersects with an entergy electric feed, causing a breaker to create the outage. it remained unclear monday exactly what the abnormality was or why it occurred. 
The lights-out championship game proved an embarrassment for new orleans just when it was hoping to show the rest of the world how far it has come since hurricane Katrina in 2005. but many fans were forgiving, and officials expressed confidence that the episode wouldn’t hurt the city’s hopes of hosting the championship again. 
To new orleans’ relief, nfl commissioner roger goodell said the city did a “terrific” job hosting its first pro-football championship in the post-Ka­trina era. 
“i fully expect that we will be back here for super bowls,” he said, noting a backup power system was poised to kick in but wasn’t needed once the lights came back. 
mayor mitch landrieu told a news conference Tuesday that the outage won’t hurt the city’s chances of hosting another super bowl and he joked that the game got better after the blackout. 
“That 34 minutes is not go­ing to cast a shadow over the accomplishments of the city,” landrieu said, calling the event “as near-perfect a super bowl as the country has ever seen.” he added that officials estimate the game brought $432 million into the city. 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The power of nutella 

Suzanna Pratt 
photo editor 

february is the absolute worst month. Just look at this week. it has been snow­ing for days on end. i’ve had the words “get your life together” written on the back of my hand in sharpie for more than 200 hours and i still haven’t gotten anything together. valentine’s day is a mere eight days away and i hate romance and the color pink. everyone else has a job offer and i’m still waiting for gradu­ate school admissions to determine whether i have a future or if i need to find a cardboard box to live in next year. despite all this, feb. 5 was a great day. 
in case you missed it, yesterday was world nutella day. i had no idea this was a real holiday — isn’t every day nutella day? — until i checked my Twitter dur­ing class and realized i had missed out on roughly 10 hours of global nutella appreciation. when class finished, i bee­lined to lafortune and managed to snag the very last jar of nutella in the huddle. sorry i’m not sorry about that one – i got to enjoy nutella the way it should be eaten: with a spoon, straight from the jar until it’s all gone. while i couldn’t allow myself to finish the entire jar, i made a sizeable dent in my nutella nonetheless. i’m not sorry about that either. it was the highlight of my week. 
fortunately, for those of you who missed out on eating spoonfuls of heav­en on world nutella day, there are other ways to get your fix. 
nutelladay.com features an archive of over 700 recipes incorporating nutella, and every single one of them sounds sinful and delicious. if you check out the site, be warned if you click on the recipe links there are food porn pictures that will make you drool on your keyboard. from butternut squash with nutella sauce to nutella champagne shooters, salted caramel nutella fudge to nutella crème brulee, and nutella-coated bacon to molten nutella chocolate cake, every­thing on the list is worth trying. i will give up vegetarianism for 10 minutes if it means sampling chicken enchiladas with nutella or nutella-marinated steak. my post-graduation life may still be up in the air, but i know for certain what i am doing this weekend. i will be in the kitchen, testing as many recipes from the archive as possible. 
so don’t let february get you down. world nutella day may be over, but nutella never fails to make even the worst days a little bit better. when the permacloud, wind tunnel and icy side­walks get to be too much, or you just can’t bring yourself to finish the read­ing for your philosophy class, grab a spoon and hope the huddle restocks the nutella shelf. 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 

one of the most compelling bibli­cal stories depicts the fall of man in the garden of eden. as the lives of adam and eve unfold, they are living in a perfect world when the serpent coerces them to eat the forbid­den fruit of the Tree of Knowledge. These acts of free will result in their disobeying of god’s orders, caus­ing adam and eve’s fall from their perfect state of grace and union with god. The fruit of the Tree of Knowledge is most commonly refer­enced as being an apple. perhaps this story tells us more than the biblical origin of original sin. in fact, it seems to describe the current predicament of our world and the struggles we face. 
we, people of the 21st century, have bitten into an apple as well: the apple of technology. The apple com­pany logo depicts this familiar im­age, an apple with a bite taken into it. when adam and eve took a bite into the forbidden fruit, they disobeyed god and with their bite gained the knowledge of right and wrong. with this knowledge, they became respon­sible for doing what was right over what was wrong. adam and eve were unprepared for this responsibility and thus sin, evil and all other bad things were allowed to run rampant in our world. we inherited this re­sponsibility, and it is a responsibility we have struggled with throughout the ages to maintain, observing the many injustices occurring in our world and society. 
we have taken a bite into the tech­nology surrounding us in the 21st century. This technology has afford­ed us an array of tools and resources that have helped us progress as a people. but with the good has also come the bad. There are many ways we can use technology to subject, use, abuse, cheat, objectify, hoax, kill and manipulate other people. like adam and eve, we were unprepared for the responsibility that would be given to us when we acquired the fruit from which we ate. This unpre­paredness is evident in many atroci­ties surrounding us in this world. 
look at the recent shooting in newtown, conn. a man did not use the technology of a gun responsibly, and he hurtfully took more than 20 innocent lives in an elementary school. even if it is meant to be a positive tool, technology can cause chaos in our lives. it is increasingly popular for high schools and now some elementary schools to require ipads, tablets or laptops during school and for homework. yet, many students have been using these de­vices for games and movies rather than schoolwork. not only do their gpas suffer, but they are also devel­oping serious addictions to this tech­nological empire. 
more importantly, millions of innocent lives have been taken since the introduction of easy and inexpensive ways to abort babies developed in the last several de­cades. modern day genetic testing technology allows for people to know what chances their child has of getting a disease before birth, and people are using this information to decide whether to abort the child. what has happened to our social responsibility? 

The internet can be a great tool for communicating, researching in­formation, conducting business and shopping, yet there are many horrific circumstances this new invention has made available to the world. some examples include online bank­ing fraud, identity theft, pornogra­phy, slander via social media and online stalking. Just ask manti Te’o how he feels about online dating. 
i am not against technology. i would not be able to type this article, travel home for the holidays, keep in touch with friends or have the amazing opportunities we all take for granted every day without it. i do, however, suggest we must instill morals and values in our society so technology does not impede our social conscience anymore. at this point, technological advancement is inevitable. There is no turning back. we have entered onto a one-way road with no easy turnaround. The world needs technology. There is no way around that. but as a society, we need to figure out how to ensure technology will be utilized prudently and safely for the betterment our world. 
Carter Boyd is a freshman studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Suzanna Pratt at spratt2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The politics of dying: part two 
Adam Newman 
elephant in the room 

in my last article, i wrote on a pretty heavy subject: end-of-life care. end­of-life care in america is very expen­sive and threatens our nation’s future solvency. not only that, the exorbitant amount we spend on health care does not produce better outcomes due to a lack of coordination and due to incen­tives to perform unnecessary tests and procedures. This usually leads the patient to die in a hospital, instead of dying at home surrounded by loved ones. 
The politics of death is very com­plicated, and the 24-hour news cycle filled with 30-second sound bites has done an atrocious job of explaining it to people. even though our health care system is expensive and confusing, people are used to it, and as a result are very sensitive to reform, especially coming from the government. 
for example, there was a minor pro­vision in the affordable care act that allowed medicare to reimburse physi­cians for providing end-of-life coun­seling to seniors. This counseling was intended to allow seniors to discuss and plan end-of-life treatment with their physicians. 
most were not familiar with this provision within the health care bill as described. many know it by a differ­ent name: “death panels.” indeed, this small provision meant to tackle one of the most important health care prob­lems we face was given this title, even though it is similar to calling a butter knife a “weapon of mass destruction.” however, this did not stop former alaska gov. sarah palin from writing on her facebook wall in august 2009, “The america i know and love is not one in which my parents or my baby with down syndrome will have to stand in front of obama’s ‘death panel’ so his bureaucrats can decide, based on a subjective judgment of their ‘level of productivity in society,’ whether they are worthy of health care. such a system is downright evil.” 
The term “death panels” quickly swept across america and was used by many others to oppose reform. even sensible republicans stooped to palin’s level. The end-of-life reim­bursement provision was removed from the health care bill, but its memory still lives on: The death pan­els were the non-partisan fact checker politifact’s “lie of the year” in 2009. 
Quotes like sarah palin’s are the reason why controlling health care spending is so difficult, because it requires an adult conversation and a stable political climate. as mark Twain once said, “a lie can get half way round the world while the truth is still tying its shoes”. 
The politics of health care affects seniors the most. seniors are a very important voting group because they benefit more than any other group from government services 
— social security for their pension and medicare and medicaid for their health care. unfortunately, seniors are more easily scared and fooled by political ads. republicans and democrats are both guilty of at­tempting to scare seniors into voting for them. The republicans became known for promoting democratic ini­tiatives as death panels and rationing. democrats used paul ryan’s plan to privatize medicare to scare seniors by suggesting, “medicare would be ended as we know it.” probably the lowest point was a one-minute commercial created by a democratic group, show­ing a tall man in a suit with black hair whose face is not revealed — but who is obviously supposed to be paul ryan — pushing an elderly woman in a wheelchair along a trail through a forest. upon arriving at the edge of a cliff, the man proceeds to push the senior off. The commercial then ends with an appeal against privatizing medicare. 
one would think the principles of both parties would make them more responsive to the end-of-life crisis. republicans favor a smaller government, so they should want to do everything they can to ensure unnec­essary end-of-life care does not gobble up the federal budget. Thus, while sarah palin may believe in a smaller government, her “death panel” com­ment killed an opportunity to lower unnecessary government spending. democrats are known as the party that protects the elderly, and thus should prove it by working to curb un­needed medical care and by providing a better alternative to lowering health care costs than paul ryan’s medicare plan. This does not make for good political sound bites but does make for good policy. 

The end-of-life care challenge we face is a uniquely american challenge: reforming a system so it provides bet­ter and cheaper care for those at the end of life, while steering american families, businesses and the govern­ment away from bankruptcy. but if we are going to accomplish this, there have to be changes to how we talk about end-of-life care. otherwise, the terms “death” and “taxes” may well become synonymous. 
Adam Newman is a senior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

If gun control is futile, what isn’t? 
i found mr. roth’s characterization of the impracticality of gun control very compelling [“no such thing as gun con­trol,” feb. 4]. for the first time, i real­ized, “wow, the american government really is powerless. it can pass laws and statutes left and right to restrict people’s rights, it can impose fines and penalties to try to change behavior it deems contrary to the public interest, but in the end, people are going to do what they want to do regardless of what the law dictates.” 
and then i continued along this line of reasoning and wondered, “why do we bother posting speed limits on high­ways? or requiring driver’s licenses, for that matter? what’s really going to stop someone without a license, or a basic regard for other people’s safety, from getting behind the wheel and going 80 in a 45?” 
finally, i brought this rhetoric to its logical conclusion and asked myself why the united states has a stand­ing government at all. clearly there’s nothing we can really do to control the population except to “shoot people who resist,” as “popular blogger” stefan molyneux put it. 
Through the lens of mr. roth’s logic, expanding gun control legislation really does appear futile. but so does basically every other government activity imag­inable: enforcing speed limits, regulat­ing pharmaceutical sales or collecting taxes. The truth is, every law will have opponents, and every law will face non­compliance. does that mean our soci­ety should abandon all legal attempts to ensure public safety and protect the common interest of citizens? 
i find it especially ironic that such a cynical view of our government’s effec­tiveness at maintaining law and order would be articulated by a constitutional studies minor. but then again, i’m a theology major, and i must have missed the day in class when we learned about our “right to defend ourselves … not given by congress, but by god,” which must have been mentioned somewhere in the bible between “Thou shalt not kill” and “he who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.” 

Emily Conron 
senior 
breen-phillips hall 
feb. 4 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
husky. 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 

beyond the on-the-field excitement, just as much 
fanfare surrounded the puppy bowl as the super 
This past sunday, we all witnessed one of the bowl.  with heavy sponsorship from “despicable greatest games in sporting history — puppy bowl me 2,” the minions from the movie had better iX.  airing on animal planet, this annual compe-commercials than budweiser and samsung.  The tition of cuteness beats out any super bowl black-cheerleader hedgehogs and kitten halftime show out, overly sexual godaddy commercial and dare were adorable, but not much could compete with i say even the beyonce and destiny’s child half-the live-tweeting bird meep (@meepThebird) and time performance. in its ninth consecutive year, the blimp steered by a hamster. the puppy all-stars played their hearts out on the while all of the pups we saw this year will not field while winning their way into our hearts on make a return to the big game next february, there gameday. will without a doubt be another group of precious 
while not exactly dividing the puppies into pups battling out on the gridiron in the puppy teams, the game was extremely competitive with bowl X.  Tune in next time to not miss out on the much “intentional growling” and at times some guaranteed cuteness. “unnecessary ruff-ness.” Touchdowns were scored when a puppy would bring a chew toy into Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu the end zone.  i must say the coaching of the pups left much to be desired, with most of the athletes uninterested in ball but rather playing with each other.  however, that is pretty understandable, as every puppy is under four months old. 
still, there were a few standouts that not only got the game but flat out dominated from start to fin­ish.  crowned mvp (most valuable pup) after the game, marta was a little scrapper who, despite be­ing bullied in the middle of the field, would sneak­ily grab the ball and take it in for the score.  while not the most valuable on the field, the cutest was aurora, the siberian husky/retriever mix.  some of the other puppies may have been making fun of her weight, but in my opinion she was just a little 
scene writer 


JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By  COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

a chair, a belt, a cell phone and sunglasses. 
There was nothing else on the small stage in geddes hall on monday night when new york-based playwright and actor Josh rivedal stepped up to perform his one-man show “The gospel according to Josh.” 
The show is an autobiographical account of the time leading up to rivedal’s father’s sui­cide, a subject he approaches with both humor and sincerity. 
put on by the notre dame chapter of the national alliance for mental illness (nami­nd) and the office of alcohol and drug education, the performance was meant to ed­ucate about mental illness. it did so in a much Josh on how to sing a song about obedience. Josh described his upbringing as an almost cult-like religious environment. 
punishments for even small mistakes at the rivedal household were extreme, hence the belt on stage, he said, and rivedal’s perfor­mance showed he knew he was being treated unjustly. 
Through his time at church, however, rivedal said he discovered how much he en­joyed singing. 
his father was also a passionate singer who was very active in the church, but once rivedal began to audition for plays, he said his father was discouraging. 
he got through middle school and high school by ignoring his father’s request that he play football and trying out for as many plays Tuesday. 
a self-proclaimed workaholic, rivedal worked so much that he said he completely gave up on auditioning for shows until one day he was invited to audition for “maury.” he landed the gig and was briefly famous for his stint portraying a white trash version of himself. 
it was pithy anecdotes like these about the acting world that made the audience forget this performance was supposed to be about suicide until rivedal’s parents get divorced. 
his father entered a downward spiral and rivedal said he did his best to visit him despite his current acting success. Then one day, he received a call from his mother with the bad news. 
The end of the play was remarkably differ-coping with the loss of his father as well as a way of raising awareness about the circum­stances that often surround suicides, he said. 

at the end of the show, rivedal stayed and answered questions from the audience. he cited statistics on the issues he had presented in his performance, stating that approximate­ly 90 percent of those who commit suicide have an untreated mental illness at the time of death. 
Through his performance, rivedal re­minded his audience to be attentive to those in their own communities who might need help with mental illness or who could be struggling alone. for the small audience in geddes on monday night, he got his message across. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
more enjoyable and clever way than expected, as possible instead. when he was onstage, he ent from the charming beginning because in but the show never trivialized the painful re-said his whole world disappeared and he felt many ways it was so much more raw. rivedal 
“The Gospel According 
sults that can occur if difficult illnesses are left an incredible sense of relief. showed very clearly how an event like this can 
to Josh” 
unattended. after graduating high school, rivedal take a person’s entire world and bring every­rivedal brought to life at least 20 different moved to new york and began auditioning for thing to a crashing halt. 
Writer and performer: Josh Rivedal 
characters from his past to fill out the context broadway shows. while Josh knew his father was having a dif-
Director: Josh Gaboian 
for his life and his relationship with his father. after a summer tour in pennsylvania per-ficult time with the divorce, he said he didn’t The show began with rivedal portraying forming “footloose,” he moved to new Jersey see this coming. a sunday school teacher instructing a young and began working at denny’s and ruby The performance is both rivedal’s way of 


its newest studio album “heartthrob” and “icouldn’t be your friend,” though it at times messed up/sick inside/wondering where 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 

scene writer have emerged yet again with a new sound. sounds alarmingly similar to Katy perry’s you’re leaving your makeup.” 
“heartthrob” is upbeat, synth-heavy and “The one That got away.” The difference is, Though it may be difficult for fans like me to 
when Tegan and sara fans press play on surprisingly danceable. suddenly, the sisters however, that the lyrics are more complex grapple with the idea of Tegan and sara as an one of their tracks, they might have trouble have dropped the guitars entirely and moved and sung more sincerely than in Katy perry’s electro-pop band, “heartthrob” is beginning describing the group’s sound to anyone else. full-time behind their keyboards, offering hit. i will hand it to the duo — they may have to grow on me. at first listen, i thought of the The duo has been called folk-rock in the past their take on the electronic sound that has be-crossed genres, but their powerful voices and power ballads and synth-filled hooks as “sell­with guitar-driven songs making up their come so salient in today’s music. perfect harmonies have remained. ing out” or at least changing for the worse, but first few albums, and they were undisputedly The thing is, i’m not so sure how i feel about “heartthrob” also features slowed-down upon giving it a few more listens, i appreciate thought of as an “indie rock” outlet. listen for this change. while the album, which was ballads that evoke an almost r&b quality. “i the band’s ability to somehow blend their per-their sad, indie ballad “where does The good released Jan. 29, has generally been a critical was a fool,” the third track on the album, is a sonality and stories of heartbreak with a com-go” on a particularly depressing episode of success, it was difficult for me, a long-time fan sad song about heartbreak that sounds noth-pletely new upbeat sound. “grey’s anatomy.” This kind of music was of the group, to process this electro-pop pro-ing like the Tegan and sara we’ve ever heard how Tegan and sara got their start and how i duction. if someone had told me in 2006 that before. “now i’m all messed up” sounds like Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu came to know them. Tegan and sara would release an album that a cross between vitamin c’s “graduation” 
Then came their 2004 album release “so sounds like gwen stefani’s solo work, i would and sinéad o’connor’s version of “nothing Jealous” and its single “walking with a ghost,” have laughed and said something snarky be-compares 2u.” 
“Heartthrob” 
and a turning point in their song-writing style cause i was 13 years old. Though the songs are almost overwhelm-
Tegan and Sara 
— the band was sounding poppy. Tegan and The standout song on the album is indis-ingly poppy and strangely familiar at times, sara continued to release “alt-pop” records putably “closer,” which brings the group’s Tegan and sara set themselves apart with 
Label: Vapor Records 
like  2007’s “The con” and with it their insanely songwriting abilities together with an unex-their lyrics. “heartthrob” as a whole explores 
Tracks: “Closer,” “I Couldn’t Be Your 
catchy, aptly titled single “back in your head,” pected electro-sound. The song’s chorus is themes of young love, infatuation and heart-
Friend” and “I Was a Fool” 
as well as 2009’s “sainthood.” suddenly, Tegan classic Tegan and sara — racy and catchy and break, and though the songs may at first ap­and sara seemed a little more radio-friendly easy to sing along with — and the track is des-pear cheesy or dated, upon closer inspection, 
If you like: Eisley, Metric and The Twigs but still were no natasha bedingfield. tined to land in the ipods of many a student they are genuine, often melancholy lyrics set 
four years later, however, everyone’s favor-here. to upbeat anthems. in a particularly personal ite canadian twin sister band has released The next best song on the album is probably and somber lyric, Tegan sings, “now i’m all 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Sport in its purest form 

Issac Lorton 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is eighth in a 10-part series discussing the best event in sports. In this installment, Issac Lorton argues for the Olympics. 
There is only one true sporting event, and it is absolutely, un­equivocally, hands down, bar none, you-get the-picture certain — the olympics. 
for the sake of space i will speak only of the summer olympics, be­cause it is the original granddaddy of them all (please, the rose bowl?). 
The summer olympics is more than just a sporting event. it is a global event that grasps the world’s attention for two weeks in the spirit of competition. it is not a competi­tion for money, it is not for con­tract extensions, it is not for being drafted; the olympics are for pride, for nationalism and for the love of the game. The olympics are the es­sence of what sports should be. 
Thousands of athletes in 28 dif­ferent sports train their whole lives for one chance on a global stage to show the world that they are truly the best in their respective sport. 
what other sporting event boasts swimming, track and field, gym­nastics, soccer and much more at one venue, at one time and with the whole world watching? exactly. no other sporting event but the olympics does this. 
Then there is the pageantry. when people tune in to the opening ceremonies, the host country has the opportunity to display itself to the world, and the world gets to know the host country. i did not understand what was being said or sung at the 2008 opening ceremony of the beijing olympics, but it was beautiful nonetheless. 
The olympics transcend sports and capture human nature in a way no other sporting event can. in a growing global community, the olympics do what politicians and world leaders cannot. for two weeks, the world comes together and is a bit more peaceful with people cheering on their athletes and their nation. 
it does not matter what sport is being played — people cheer for their countrymen. i don’t know about you, but i was yelling at the Tv when the united states badmin­ton team was playing. 
The olympics give sports that usually do not get airtime the chance to be seen for once (albeit every four years), and the athletes who are not recognized on a daily basis have the chance to showcase their truly incredible talents. 
The olympics are the most inclusive of all sporting events. it does not discriminate. it was one of the first sporting events to allow women to compete. after begin­ning in 1896, the modern olympiad allowed women to compete just four years later in 1900. all of the athletes are there at one time. how can an event be the best in sports if it is not all-inclusive? and how would misty may-Treanor and Kerri walsh have won three gold medals without the olympics, or how would we express our apathy without the “mcKayla maroney is not impressed” meme? 
furthermore, the olympics break down barriers and bring the world closer. in the 1936 berlin olympics, when racism was preva­lent and hitler was championing an ideal aryan race, african-american track athlete Jesse owens stood atop the podium, not once, but four times. in 1968 after the 200-meter dash, gold medalist Tommie smith and bronze medalist John carlos, raised their fists clad in black gloves and bowed their heads in solidarity with the civil rights movement. 
The stories do not get any larger than at the olympics. Jim Thorpe winning two gold medals in the pentathlon and decathlon in stockholm in 1912, ethiopian marathoner abebe bikila’s barefoot run in rome in 1960 to become the first black african athlete to win a gold, 14-year-old romanian gym­nast nadia comaneci’s flawless performances on her way to three golds, a silver and a bronze in 1976 in montreal, runner Kirani James winning grenada’s first gold medal ever in the 2012 london olympics, michael phelps winning eight in beijing in 2008 — the list goes on. 
and if the emotions and stories are not enough to convince that the olympics are the greatest sporting event, here are some numbers for the heartless people out there. in the 2008 beijing olympics, nielson media research estimated 4.7 bil­lion people tuned into the games over the course of two weeks. That’s nearly 70 percent of the world’s population. hypothetically, if we watched the super bowl every day over the course of the 16-day olympiad (using super bowl Xlv, the most watched event in u.s. history with 111 million viewers), it falls nearly 3 billion viewers short of the beijing olympics. The 2006 fifa world cup in south africa, over 30 days, had a total of 715 mil­lion viewers, according to fifa. The world cup, which was held twice in the time span between olympic games, has 6.5 times less viewer­ship than the olympics. even the opening ceremonies of the 2008 olympics beat all 30 days of the world cup by 269 million viewers. 
so there you have it. 
by tradition, by emotions, by the numbers and by the essence of sports, the olympics are the one­and-only true sporting event. 
Contact Issac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Huskies win in rout 

Associated Press 
sTorrs, conn. — Kaleena mosqueda-lewis scored 24 points and bria hartley added 20 to lead no. 3 connecticut to a 94-37 rout of marquette on Tuesday night. 
mosqueda-lewis hit her first eight shots and her first five 3-point attempts, while hartley tied a career high with five 3-pointers. six huskies scored in double fig­ures, including all five start­ers. caroline doty added 12 points, going 4-of-4 from be­hind the arc for the huskies (21-1, 8-1 big east), who were coming off a lackluster six-point win at st. John’s. brookly pumroy had 11 points to lead marquette (11-11, 3-6), which has never beaten uconn in nine attempts. marquette opened the game with a 3-point basket from chelsie butler, but that was the only lead the golden eagles would enjoy. 
uconn responded with a 19-0 run, capped by doty’s third 3-pointer of the game. a pair of free throws from Kelly faris gave the huskies their first 30-point lead at 38-8 midway through the first half 


FOR SALE 
Move in ready townhome near ND. $75K. 574-532-5961 
and the rout was on. 

coach geno auriemma had criticized mosqueda-lewis recently for not looking for her shot as much as she should. she responded by hitting all seven of her attempts in the first half Tuesday, includ­ing five from behind the arc. mosqueda-lewis now leads the nation with 67 3-point­ers. she came into the game ranked second in accuracy from behind the arc hitting just under 50 percent of her attempts. 
marquette, meanwhile, made just six baskets as a team in the first half, shooting 20 percent from the floor. They went into the locker room trailing 62-17 at halftime. 
uconn did not let up much in the second half, leading by as many as 58 points. The huskies were 15 of 23 from 3-point range and shot 55 per­cent from the floor. 
hartley, who was 0 for 7 from 3-point range saturday, hit 5-of-7 against the golden eagles. 
stefanie dolson returned to the lineup after missing the st. John’s game with a stomach bug and chipped in with 15 points. with the junior center on the bench, the red storm matched the huskies, scoring 26 points in the paint. uconn had 30 inside points Tuesday, to just 14 for marquette. 
Katherine plouffe, marquette’s leading scorer, was held to just four points. she didn’t score in the teams’ first meeting this season, an 85-51 uconn win on Jan. 12. 
The game was the first in a three-game road trip for marquette, which heads to villanova and cincinnati be­fore going home to host no. 2 notre dame on feb. 17. 
uconn played without backup point guard brianna banks, who will miss the re­mainder of the season with a torn anterior cruciate liga­ment in her right leg. 
banks suffered the injury during the first half of the huskies’ 71-65 victory over st. John’s on saturday. The school released the diagnosis on monday and said surgery would be scheduled in the coming weeks. The sopho­more from newnan, ga. had been averaging 7.3 points and 1.7 assists in just over 17 minutes per game. she was shooting 47.9 percent from the field. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
support or assistance, please call Ann 
PERSONAL 

Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? at 1-5550. For more information, visit Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many ND’s website at: http://pregnancysup­resources in place to assist you. If you port@nd.edu or someone you love needs confidential 


MLB 

Cardinals’ Carpenter to miss season 
radical surgery that included removal of a rib, and it worked 
— he pitched three games down the stretch to help st. louis earn the final nl wild card spot. he beat washington in the division series but was 0-2 in the nl championship series against eventual world series winner san francisco, the velocity and command not up to his normal standard. 
“i don’t know if i’ve ever 
paid adverTisemenT 

witnessed a better competitor than chris, and also leader,” said matheny, a former catcher and teammate of carpenter’s before his current role as manager. 
mozeliak agreed. 

“when he was healthy he was one of the best,” mozeliak said. “he was blessed with talent but he also worked ex­tremely hard. when i think back over the last 10 to 15 years here in st. louis he was one of those guys who just helped create the model of success. he left nothing to chance.” 
carpenter’s contract calls for a $12.5 million salary this year, of which $2 million is de­ferred without interest and is to be paid in $200,000 install­ments each July 1 from 2017-26. 
as recently as the cardinals’ annual fan gathering in mid-January, carpenter was say­ing he was healthy and eager to pitch in 2013. mozeliak said carpenter tried throwing from a mound perhaps three times before calling him, emotion­ally saying he didn’t think he could pitch. 
“he felt to some degree he was letting us down,” mozeliak said. “i assured him nothing was further from the truth.” 
still, matheny called the news “a kick in the gut” and the cardinals have been through this before, too. adam wainwright had Tommy John surgery after hurting his elbow in 2011 and missed the entire season. 
Associated Press 
sT. louis — chris carpenter, one of the best clutch pitchers in the sto­ried history of the st. louis cardinals, may have thrown his final pitch. 
general manager John mozeliak and manager mike matheny announced Tuesday that carpenter almost cer­tainly won’t pitch in 2013 and that his star-crossed career is probably over after a recur­rence of a nerve injury that cost him most of last season. carpenter did not attend, and mozeliak said the emotions for the 37-year-old are still too raw. 
retirement isn’t official yet. carpenter plans to seek fur­ther medical evaluation. but mozeliak seemed resigned to losing him. 
“he’s leaving the door slight­ly open, but it’s unlikely,” mozeliak said of carpenter’s return. 
carpenter’s career numbers don’t reflect his value to the team. he is 144-94 with a 3.76 era in a career that began in Toronto in 1997. he spent six seasons with the blue Jays and nine in st. louis. he won the 2005 nl cy young award, go­ing 21-5 with a 2.83 era, and was second in 2009 after going 17-4 with a 2.24 era. 
more telling are his 

paid adverTisemenT 

postseason results, includ­ing a 10-4 record and 3.00 era in 18 starts. There were the eight innings of three-hit shutout baseball in a game 3 world series win over detroit in 2006, a series the cardinals won in five games; a 1-0 shut­out to beat roy halladay in philadelphia in the deciding game of the 2011 nl division series; and the gutty game 7 world series-clinching win over Texas on three days’ rest in 2011. 
his career is all the more remarkable considering the amount of time he spent on the disabled list due to various shoulder, elbow and nerve in­juries. he missed most of 2002, all of 2003, most of 2007 and 2008, and then last year’s sea­son that was limited to three regular-season starts. 
carpenter phoned mozeliak on friday and told him that af­ter trying to throw off a mound, the nerve injury was back, this time including numbness in his right arm, even bruising on his shoulder and hand. 
“after speaking with him on the phone you certainly get a sense that he’s more con­cerned about life after base­ball,” mozeliak said. 
The stunning news spread quickly. Third baseman david freese tweeted: “carp. 1 of the best teammates around. heck of a competitor, impeccable leader. passion for the game & to win, cant top. (hash)ace.” 
carpenter was a clubhouse force, a no-nonsense presence who set an example of grit and toughness. consider 2012: he was written off as lost for the season after the nerve injury first emerged during spring training. 
but in July, carpenter had 



SKIING 

Vonn severely injured in championship crash 
Associated Press 
schladming, austria — all it took was a moment. lindsey vonn landed hard and tumbled face first with a piercing shriek. 
Just like that, the star american skier was on the ground with two torn ligaments in her right knee and a broken bone in her lower leg. 
The cascading fall down the slope during the super-g at the world championships Tuesday knocked out the four-time world cup champion for the rest of the season, the latest and most serious in a string of injuries for vonn at skiing’s biggest events. 
The u.s. team said in a state­ment it expects her back for the next world cup season and the 2014 sochi olympics, which start a year from this week. 
The harrowing accident came after vonn was lifted into the air off a jump in the opening race at the championships. as she hit the ground, her right leg gave way and she spun down face first, throwing an arm out to pro­tect herself. she ended up on her back as she smashed through a gate. 
on the television feed, vonn was clearly heard screaming an expletive as she landed, then a despairing “yes, yes,” when someone asked, “are you hurt?” 
race leader and eventual champion Tina maze watched with her mouth agape. The con­cern also was obvious on the face of vonn’s sister, laura Kildow, who has been traveling with her full time this season. 
for 12 minutes, vonn lay on the snow getting medical treatment before being airlifted by helicop­ter to a hospital in schladming. 
vonn tore her anterior cruciate ligament and medial collateral ligament in her right knee, u.s. ski team medical director Kyle wilkens said in a statement. The broken bone was described as a “lateral tibial plateau fracture.” 
christian Kaulfersch, the assistant medical director at the worlds, said vonn left the schladming hospital on Tuesday afternoon and will have surgery in another hospital. “she first wanted to go back to the team hotel to mentally deal with all what has happened,” Kaulfersch said. 
vonn’s father, alan Kildow, spoke with her by phone and said that she’s, “mad at the way things turned out.” his daughter told him that she landed in a clump of sugar snow, or ice crystals, that caused her to fall forward, he said. 
“she’s a tough character. a very determined and tough charac­ter,” Kildow told The associated press in a phone interview. “she will be back.” 
Kildow said that surgery could take place as soon as this week­end, likely at the steadman clinic, in vail, colo. recovery time varies, according to dr. 
Tom hackett, an orthopedic sur­geon at the clinic and the team physician for the u.s. snowboard squad. 
but vonn could be looking at six-to-eight months before she’s back on skis. 
“it’s not like at six months you say, ‘oK, you can get back on a super-g course,” hackett said. “There’s a progression to getting back on skis, getting back to tak­ing some easy runs, getting back to some gates, and working your way back to some steeper ter­rain. There’s a whole return to snow progression that we’ve de­veloped over many years.” 
Time enough to get back for sochi? 
“i think so,” hackett said. “i would be very optimistic she could come back strong. she’s a fierce competitor. she’s a fighter and chances are that she will — i would think — essentially take all of that athletic energy and put it into her rehabilitation. There’s a really good chance she could come back as strong as ever.” 
comebacks are nothing new for vonn, who has also been af­flicted by injuries at her last six major championships — from a thumb she sliced on a cham­pagne bottle at the 2009 worlds in val d’isere, france, to a bruised shin that she cured with austrian cheese at the vancouver olympics. 
This one, however, could prove the biggest test yet for the 28-year-old who won the downhill at the 2010 vancouver olympics. 
vonn took a month off this season after being hospital­ized for an intestinal illness in november, and had just re­gained her form with two wins last month. 
That was evident at the start of her Tuesday’s run. she led maze by 0.04 seconds at the first check­point and was just 0.12 back at the second interval and seem­ingly on her way to a medal, if not victory. 

exactly what went wrong was debated by competitors and of­ficials at the championships. 
The start of the race was delayed by three-and-a-half hours because of fog hanging over the course and it began in waning light at 2:30 p.m local time. even before vonn’s crash, a course worker fell and also had to be airlifted. he was reported to have broken his nose. 

all the delays made for what 
paid adverTisemenT 

skiers call flat light — overcast and dreary conditions — when vonn raced. 
“lindsey did a great job on top and lindsey has won a lot of rac­es in flat light so the flat light was definitely not a problem,” u.s. alpine director patrick riml told the ap. 


paid adverTisemenT 




NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

arkansas tops rival gators 
Associated Press 
fayeTTeville, ark. — florida ran into an arkansas team lying in wait Tuesday night, one that started quickly and nev­er let up in an 80-69 win over the second-ranked gators. 
The loss snapped a 10-game winning streak for florida (18-3, 8-1 southeastern conference), which had ascended to the no. 2 spot in the ap Top 25 one day earlier. 
arkansas opened the game 15 of 20 from the field. michael Qualls and marshawn powell had 11 points each and 11 players scored for the razorbacks (14-8, 5-4) in their first win over a top 10 team since early in 2008-09. 
mike rosario led florida with 15 points, while scottie wilbekin added 14, michael frazier 11 and Kennny boynton 10. The gators hit just 4 of their first 15 shots, 7 of 24 in the first half, and never recovered in suffering their first loss since a 67-61 setback at Kansas state on dec. 22. 
That loss was also the most points florida had allowed in a game this season before Tuesday night. 
“clearly we did not play the level of defense that we had played,” florida coach billy donovan said. “a combination of i didn’t think we did a very good job and a combination of i thought they did do a very good job. 
“They made some shots there early in the game and got them­selves going.” 
The razorbacks gave second-year coach mike anderson the signature win had he been look­ing for in an electric bud walton arena. 
bJ young led three players in double figures with 13 points as arkansas opened quickly and never let up, fueled by a raucous crowd of 13,816. it was an ener­gy-filled arena that reminded anderson of the arkansas of old 
— when he was an assistant to former coach nolan richardson when the razorbacks were among the nation’s best, winning the 1994 national championship. 
The win improves the razorbacks to 14-1 at home this season. 
“if i gave two game balls to­night, one would certainly go to our fans,” anderson said. “This place was lively tonight. it brought back a lot of memories for myself, especially sitting on that bench and seeing our fans so engaged in the game.” 
after trailing by as many as 23 points in the first half, the gators cut the lead to 43-26 at halftime. 
The razorbacks didn’t give florida a chance to come up for air to open the second half, forc­ing turnovers on two straight possessions to open the second half and extending the lead 49­26 following a jumper by Qualls. 
florida had one final run in it — responding with an 11-2 stretch to cut the deficit to 51-37 after an inside basket by frazier. 
The gators did close the lead to 11 points, but by then it was too late against an arkansas team in desperate need of a signature win, one that hasn’t reached the ncaa tournament since 2008. The razorbacks were then coached by current florida assistant coach John pelphrey, who entered bud walton arena to handshakes and hugs Tuesday night before walking off the court with a stunning loss in his second return to his former home. 
“They had that lead and we just kept trying to chip away, but they kept coming at us and eventually time just ran out,” florida’s erik murphy said. 
The win was arkansas’ first over a team ranked in the top 10 since victories over no. 4 oklahoma and no. 7 Texas early in 2008-09, pelphrey’s second season. 
anderson took over last sea­son, and his previous best win was over then-no. 15 mississippi state. Tuesday’s game was the third in six days for the razorbacks, who have yet to win a game away from home this season. 
“They were ready to play,” anderson said. “and i don’t think it was just one game. hopefully, i think, they want to continue to build on what’s been taking place with this team.” 
hunter mickelson responded to florida’s second-half run with a putback for the razorbacks, beginning a 16-3 run that opened the lead to 67-40 and put the game well out of reach. coty clarke closed out the run in em­phatic fashion for arkansas, fly­ing high on the fast break to put down a one-handed dunk off an alley-oop pass from Ky madden. 
arkansas, whose only home loss this season was to no. 9 syracuse, owned the first half. The razorbacks entered the game 12th in the sec in 3-point shooting at 29.8 percent, but they opened the game 5 of 6 from behind the arc and built a 36-13 lead midway through the half. 
mardracus wade and young hit 3-pointers in the half for arkansas, which easily sent florida to its largest deficit of the season at 36-13. The most the gators had trailed before Tuesday was 11 points in the first half of the loss to Kansas state. 
florida’s winning streak was the school’s longest since 2008­
09. That included four straight sec road games, and the gators were attempting to win five straight conference games away from home for the first time in a season. 
NHL 

Sestito’s goal lifts Flyers 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — Tom sestito scored his first two goals in three years to lead the philadelphia flyers over the Tampa bay lightning 2-1 on Tuesday night. 
ilya bryzgalov made 21 saves, shutting down the nhl’s highest-scoring team to help the flyers win their second straight game and improve to 4-6. 
The lightning, who entered averaging 4.9 goals per game, had dominated the series, win­ning seven of the previous nine meetings. 
benoit pouliot scored for Tampa bay. steven stamkos was held without a point for the first time this season as the lightning (6-3) lost their sec­ond consecutive game. 
less than 2 minutes after pouliot tied it in the third peri­od, sestito scored the go-ahead goal on a nearly identical move. 
sestito skated down the cen­ter on a break, took a pass from ruslan fedotenko and slipped a backhander under andres lindback’s pads for a 2-1 lead with 8:49 left. 
sestito gave the flyers a 1-0 lead 4:25 into the second pe­riod. he took a crossing pass from Jake voracek, skated in from the right circle and niftily went to his backhand to beat lindback. 


before that, sestito’s last nhl goal was on dec. 23, 2010, for columbus against vancouver. 
bryzgalov was sent crashing to the ice after stopping cory conacher’s shot in the third period. he got up slowly and earned a loud ovation from the crowd. 
but shortly afterward, pouliot lifted a shot over bryzgalov’s right shoulder to tie it. 
bryzgalov, who had an up-and-down first season in philadelphia after signing a 
paid adverTisemenT 
$51 million contract, has been excellent this year. he lowered his 2.40 goals-against average and improved his .920 save percentage. 
bryzgalov made an out­standing save on stamkos, sliding post-to-post to keep the game scoreless late in the first. 
philadelphia’s Zac rinaldo decked b.J. crombeen with a flurry of fists after they dropped their gloves a few minutes into the game. crombeen seemed woozy as he slowly got up and left the ice. he didn’t return as a precaution. 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | The observer 

SMC BASKETBALL 

belles prepare to host no. 2 calvin 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
coming off a 73-58 loss to albion, saint mary’s will look to right the ship with a tough home matchup wednesday night against no. 2 calvin. 
The teams come into the game in the middle of two very different sea­sons. The belles (5-17, 3-10 miaa), have lost six straight and seem to be building for next year, giving their young roster some valuable experi­ence. The Knights (19-1, 11-0), on the other hand, are riding an 18-game winning streak that has vaulted them up the national polls. 
The competitors met almost two months ago on dec. 15, and the Knights took home a 77-56 victory. when asked what needed to change from the teams’ first matchup, belles coach Jenn henley said her team needed to tighten its game at both ends of the floor. 
“we need to cut down on turn­overs and be more efficient on the offensive end of things,” she said. 
in that first matchup, the belles shot a paltry 38.7 percent from the floor and turned the ball over 24 times, which the Knights convert­ed into 19 points. by contrast, the belles only scored six points off of 19 calvin turnovers. 
despite its turnover problem, henley said the team’s focus during practice this week was primarily on defense. 
“[we] have to keep teams off the free throw line,” henley said. “The only way you do that is through bet­ter defense.” 
The play of junior guard shanlynn bias has been one bright spot for the belles during their losing streak. bias has lead the team in scoring four of the past five games, putting up 15 points in three of those con­tests. she also led the belles with 14 points in the first matchup with calvin. 
despite bias’ scoring surge, it will take a lot for the belles to take down the Knights. other than a five-point win against no. 4 hope, the Knights’ closest conference game was a 22-point win against alma. 
Tipoff is at 7:30 p.m. wednesday at the angela athletic center. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Wildcats win in SEC clash 
Associated Press 
leXingTon, Ky.  — Kentucky was so effective Tuesday night against south carolina that wildcats coach John calipari al­most seemed to regret pointing out some of his team’s mistakes. 
That’s because the wildcats’ successes outweighed their failures in a 77-55 blowout that brought the wildcats within a game of first-place florida in the southeastern conference. Julius mays’ 15 points led five Kentucky players in double fig­ures as the defending national champions shot 61 percent for their fourth straight victory and perhaps most complete in con­ference play. 
The wildcats shot 27 of 44 from the field and outrebounded the gamecocks 42-25. Kentucky’s shooting percentage was its third-highest effort this season. 
calipari found fault with Kentucky’s 17 turnovers, which didn’t matter because the wildcats also held the gamecocks to 17-of-59 shooting 
(28.8percent). 
“we shoot 60 percent, hold them to 28 percent and i’m not totally happy. i must be a jerk,” the coach said. “i’ve been called worse, by the way. i don’t know if you know that.” 

The wildcats (16-6, 7-2), meanwhile can be called con­ference contenders again on a night that began with them two games behind florida before the no. 2 gators suffered their first league loss, 80-69 at arkansas, earlier in the evening. 
Kentucky ended the night within striking distance of florida, just what the wildcats were looking for with their first meeting against the gators next Tuesday in gainesville, fla. 

mays’ four 3-pointers led the way Tuesday as he paced Kentucky’s scorers after tying with nerlens noel for the team lead in saturday’s overtime win at Texas a&m with a season-high 19. 
paid adverTisemenT 



McGraw 
conTinued from page 20 
said the wildcats’ slow offensive tempo kept the game tight. 
“Their style of play, that’s the way they play, they use the clock,” she said. “you get one shot and then you know they’re going to come down and use 30 seconds, and if they get an offen­sive rebound they’re going to use 30 more. 
“it’s a hard game to flow when you’re an up-tempo team like we are, because our whole game is based on running and getting the transition going and we just weren’t able to do that. it’s a very difficult game for us.” 
The irish turned up the de­fensive heat early in the contest, implementing a full-court press every time the wildcats in­bounded the ball. according to mcgraw, the tactic was meant to counteract villanova’s methodi­cal offense. 
“we were trying to use some of 
O’Koniewski 
conTinued from page 20 
getting to know some of her team­mates and ensuring that she wasn’t going to spend another school year feeling like a fresh­man. but she credits transfer orientation with helping her accli­mate quickly to notre dame life. 
o’Koniewski has quickly found success as a member of the irish squad. in the fall, she went 7-3 in doubles with junior Julie sabacinski and 4-4 in singles. in her first season with the irish, o’Koniewski has gone 5-1 in sin­gles play at no. 6 singles and has proved to be an integral part of several irish victories this year. 
o’Koniewski said she is glad she made the move to join the notre dame family. 
“i’m so lucky that it worked out that i was able to transfer here,” o’Koniewski said. “i really felt like this is the place for me and you re­ally do feel like part of a family and it’s just awesome. The coaches are great, the team is amazing, and i’m just very lucky to be a part of it.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Yanik 
conTinued from page 20 
competition. 
“[reaching the ncaa championships] kind of raises the standard,” she said. “it kind of puts more pressure on you, thinking, ‘i made ncaa’s in spring, i should make it in the winter’. it’s a lot harder in the winter because they take fewer people. but the fact that you’ve been there before makes you want it that much more again.” 
yanik and the rest of the irish will next compete in the grand valley big meet invitational in allendale, mich., this weekend. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
the clock so that when we were (on defense), we only had to guard their offense for maybe 13 seconds instead of 30,” mcgraw said. 
senior guard and leading scor­er skylar diggins struggled from the field, shooting 4-for-17 from the field, including 0-for-3 from beyond the 3-point arc. 
“i think the pace was difficult. To play at that pace, you start to press a little bit because you want to go a little faster than normal, so i think (diggins) was probably just trying too hard,” mcgraw said of the guard’s struggles. 
unlike diggins, junior forward natalie achonwa thrived in the matchup against the wildcats. consistently playing against undersized villanova defend­ers, she registered 19 points, 11 rebounds and two blocks to lead notre dame. 
“she’s playing extremely well,” mcgraw said of achonwa. “she’s just such a big part of our offense and what we need to do. and we got her the ball, and she at the walsh gymnasium on i thought tonight she would have did a great job.” saturday at 2 p.m. a big game because she had a big The irish will head east again advantage in size and she used this weekend when they face Contact Cory Bernard at her advantage. we looked for her seton hall in south orange, n.J., cbernard@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
ACROSS 1 With 71-Across, breakfast choice … or a punny hint to this puzzle’s theme 6 River in a 1957 
hit movie 10 SALT topic 14 Singer/actress 
Luft 15 Boss Tweed 
lampooner 16 ___ avis 17 Midwest hub 18 Eye 19 Words after 
“come” or “go” 20 Mark down for a 
sale, say 22 Model’s path 24 “Lawrence of 
Arabia” figure 27 Spotted 28 Angel dust, 
briefly 30 Ore tester 32 “Amo, amas, I 
love ___” 34 Cut crosswise 38 Slangy affirmative 39 Make scents of? 42 Cry of derision 43 Hot desert wind 45 Yankees manager 
before Girardi 47 F.D.A.-banned diet pill ingredient 

50 Thrice, on an Rx 51 With 35-Down, fictional heroine who says “I am no bird; and no 
net ensnares me” 53 Augustus ___ 55 Hit for Guy 
Lombardo in 1937 and Jimmy Dorsey in 1957 
57 Jewish or Iranian, e.g. 61 Make 62 Auden or Aiken 65 [Bo-o-oring!] 66 Swarm member 67 Layer of the eye 68 Singers James and Jones 69 Hard thing to carry 70 Meal for a weevil 71 See 1-Across 
DOWN 1 Dona ___ (1976 Sonia Braga role) 2 Architect Mies van der ___ 3 Like much folklore 4 Things that lead to mergers? 5 Billy Blanks 
fitness system 6 Small hills 7 Tail movement 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A  B  O  D  E  F  L  I  N  T  F  O  X  
R  U  B  E  S  R  A  D  A  R  A  T  E  
E  X  A  M  S  A  B  O  L  I  T  I  O  N  
T  O  M  E  A  P  R  D  C  A  R  E  A  
E  M  A  N  C  I  P  A  T  I  O  N  
T  A  K  E  T  O  T  S  A  R  S  
C  U  B  I  S  M  S  I  M  M  O  O  
A  B  R  A  H  A  M  L  I  N  C  O  L  N  
S  E  A  N  A  S  N  E  A  R  L  Y  
A  R  T  O  O  R  O  B  I  N  S  
P  R  O  C  L  A  M  A  T  I  O  N  
C  A  M  E  B  Y  A  N  E  L  O  V  E  
O  F  S  L  A  V  E  R  Y  Z  O  W  I  E  
B  R  R  C  E  L  I  A  S  T  A  N  D  
B  O  P  H  Y  M  A  N  A  S  S  E  S  

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  
 16  
 
 
17  18  
 19  
 
 
20  21  
 22  23  
 
24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  
 33  34  35  36  37  
38  
 39  40  41  42  
 
43  
 44  45  46  
 
 
47  48  49  50  
 
51  52  53  
 54  
55  
 56  57  58  59  60  
61  
 62  63  64  
 65  
66  
 67  
 68  
69  
 70  
 
 71  

PUZZLE BY DAVID STEINBERG  
8 Talking with one’s hands: Abbr. 9 Roman road 10 Laundry staff 11 Request for group permission 12 Jones once of the Stones 13 Oodles 21 Tikkanen of hockey 23 Newsgroup system since 1980 25 Erik of “CHiPs” 26 Husband, in France 28 “No more!,” e.g.  29 31 32 3335 36 37 40 41 44 46  ___ Crunch Bosox nickname of old Sorrowful cries  Melodramatic series, in slang See 51-Across Mystery author John Dickson ___ Everyday article Morse unit 10 sawbucks The Ricardos, to the Mertzes Italian city that is the title setting of a Walpole novel  48 49 51 52 5455 56 5859 60 63 64  Prom tux, usually Japan’s largest active volcano Actress Pflug Pianist Claudio  Photographer Adams ___ lily Digital book file extension  ___-Rooter Give ___ (care) Gershwin opera heroine Egg head? Fish contained in unadon  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for 
more information. 

Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/ crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  lenny rago &                      paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: cristiano ronaldo, 28; michael sheen, 44; Jen­nifer Jason leigh, 51; christopher guest, 65 
Happy Birthday: Take responsibility and follow your own path. learn from experi­ence in order to keep moving in a positive direction. learn that you can do with less and you will end up with much more. do things that make you proud and cause others to take note. direct and honest communication will bring good results. your numbers are 4, 14, 22, 29, 31, 42, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): change things up a bit. Try something new or get in­volved in activities that are conducive to love, romance and expanding your circle of friends. greater opportunity to earn money doing something you enjoy is apparent.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotions and money will not mix well. don’t make a do­nation based on guilt. put more thought into how you can make a difference without limiting your cash flow or your integrity. a past partner will cause problems. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): uncertainty will set in, causing a lack of vision with regard to both personal and professional matters. proceed with caution to avoid being blamed for passing along false information. spend time improving your skills or updating your appearance.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll be faced with opportunities and choices to make. don’t let a flashy offer override other possibilities. give ample time to figuring out what is best for you. sometimes a slower start leads to a solid and secure future.. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): shake things up by traveling to unfamiliar places or trying your hand at something new and exciting. sharing with people you feel emotionally attached to will help you realize what you want to achieve. consider an investment opportunity. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a closer look at what’s going on in your life and with the people you must deal with daily. a problem with a peer or boss can lead to emo­tional mistakes. you should be working toward securing your position practically. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): fix up a space at home that will encourage you to develop a profitable skill or service. you shouldn’t have to go over budget if you have worked out all your expenses carefully. a partnership change will improve your prospects. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): avoid controversy when it’s creative input that will help you explore and expand new avenues. walk away from anyone placing restrictions on you or the activities you want to attend. a personal change will turn out to be inspirational. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t believe everything. ask questions and rely on the people you know and trust to help you see your situation clearly. love is in the stars, and a special partnership can make your life better financially, emotionally and physically. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): proceed with caution if you are dealing with someone using personal information in the workplace. protect your reputation and focus on diplomacy and doing the best job possible. offer positive help and you will redirect negative connotations. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep everyone guessing. The more changeable you are, the more intriguing you will become. a personal opportunity will lead to a change of residence or living situation. romance is in the stars and personal stability within reach.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): go over your personal papers. update your skills or talk to someone about a problem you face that could lead to legal repercussions. don’t blow situations out of proportion. bide your time, but be prepared to take action if necessary. 


Birthday Baby: you are emotional, driven and competitive. you think big and take action. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 59, villanova 52 
McGraw joins 700-win club 
With friends and family watching, coach returns to home state to reach milestone victory 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
irish coach muffet mcgraw spent much of her pre-notre dame life either playing or coaching basketball in the philadelphia area, so it was only fitting she record her 700th ca­reer win there Tuesday night. 
no. 2 notre dame held on to beat villanova 59-52 at The pavilion in villanova, pa., and mcgraw joined 12 other division i coaches in the 700-win club. 
“it made it so much sweeter,” mcgraw said of the homecom­ing atmosphere. “it was just so much better and so great to have all my friends and family in my hometown. it just really made this one special.” 
mcgraw said her players want­ed to get the milestone win, but a road victory over the wildcats (16-6, 5-4 big east) was enough cause for celebration. 
“i think they were acutely aware (of the milestone) early. i think they were aware and i think they wanted to get it done,” she said. “it’s a hard game for us. it was just a great effort by them to maintain their poise down the stretch. and having a win not just for 700, but just getting a win at villanova is difficult, so i’m just really thrilled we got that.” 
The irish (21-1, 9-0) never trailed, but never pulled away either. They closed the first half on a 10-2 run to take a 29-21 lead into the locker room, but never led by more than 10 in the sec­ond half. with 4:45 remaining in the game, villanova junior guard devon Kane sank a 3-pointer to cut the lead to 48-46. notre dame responded with an 11-6 run to seal the victory. mcgraw 
see mcgraw PAGE 18 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Transfer finds home with irish 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
for a while, it looked like molly o’Koniewski was the one that got away. 
irish coach Jay louderback showed the high schooler from hilton head, s.c., around notre dame’s campus the day before Thanksgiving break in nov. 2010. even though most of the student body had already left, o’Koniewski said the campus “had that special feel to it.” 
but this special feeling didn’t keep her from committing to the university of virginia. 
“i had recruited her when she was in high school and really liked her, and we were interested in her,” louderback said. “she com­mitted to virginia early, so even though she was probably some­one we would’ve offered a schol­arship to, we didn’t do it because she had already committed.” 
but by the end of her freshman season last may, o’Koniewski was having second thoughts about her college choice, and called louderback to see if she could transfer to notre dame. 
“when she called me we were interested, definitely,” louderback said. “we had a schol­arship open, and it was a good year to bring someone in.” 

o’Koniewski didn’t hesitate. 

“[There were] a few different reasons [for leaving virginia], but i just felt like i could do really well under Jay and [assistant coach Kelcy flores’s] coaching style,” o’Koniewski said. “i always loved notre dame, i just felt like it would be a better fit for me.” 
she spent the summer on cam­pus, attending summer school, 
see o’KoniewsKi PAGE 18 
TRACK 

Sprinter leads by example 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 

during the dreary days of february, one need look no further than irish junior sprinter megan yanik for liv­ing proof that hard work does 
pay off.  
during  her  sophomore  
campaign,  the  plymouth,  
mich.,  native  competed  

in 12 indoor and outdoor events for the irish, and she reached the outdoor ncaa championships in both the 400-meter hurdles and as a part of the 4x400m relay team. a major in pre-professional studies and spanish, she also earned the distinction of big east academic all-star. 
with that bank of experi­ence, yanik said she is an ad­vocate of leading by example. and on a team with such high standards, she said it is impor­tant to help the underclass­men buy into the work ethic. 
“a goal for the team is to win the big east championships,” she said. “we have a really talented team all across the board in each event. at prac­tice, it could sometimes be easy to slack off or not work as hard, but i always try to put forth my best effort to show the underclassmen that if you put in the work, you’ll see the results.” 
This indoor season, yanik said she is looking to add to her list of accomplishments. her 4-x-400 meter relay team has its sights set on quali­fying for the indoor ncaa championships. 
“i think we have a pretty good chance at doing it,” she said. “They only take about 10 teams each year, but if we work really hard we have a re­ally good chance of doing it.” 
along the way, she has al­ready started to collect other victories. she placed first in the 500-meter race last week­end with a time of 1:13.22 at notre dame’s annual meyo invitational. 
“it’s definitely exciting to [win at] the [meyo invitational] because there’s a lot of good competition with teams from all over,” yanik said. “i kind of try to think of each race in the same way, i try to run them all as if it’s the same meet. i try to focus on myself running and not the competition and where they’re at.” 
since she has already made a trip to the ncaa championships once, yanik said she is determined to get there again, this time during both indoor and outdoor 
see yaniK PAGE 18 





