The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 5 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Showers dampen OK Go performance 
The band played through the rain during Friday’s B1 Block Party 
By ERIN THOMASSEN 
news writer 
alternative rock band oK go returned to notre dame Friday for a high-energy per­formance, but rain and wild behavior by band members underwhelmed students. 
Though rain and lightning postponed the concert for one hour, the band was still “pretty high energy” when they came out, freshman nate marti said. 
marti said first year students mostly attended the concert. 
The event, held outside legends of notre dame, fea­tured a rock wall and trampo­line in addition the concert. because it was held outdoors, inclement weather challenged concert-goers and performers alike. 
“[due to the rain], they should have moved the con­cert inside because it was a small enough crowd,” senior alex penler said. 
penler said the event did not draw a large crowd, though he said he enjoyed the concert. 
“There wasn’t as much danc­ing as one might expect, be­cause the crowd was so small,” penler said. “if it hadn’t been game weekend with all the irish shenanigans, more stu­dents would have attended.” 
senior deborah parks said she is happy she attended 
see parTy PAGE 3 


 JOHN NING | The Observer 

OK Go performed outside Legends of Notre Dame at the B1 Block Party, an event that kicked off a weekend of festivities to mark the beginning of the 2013 football season. 


seating policy evokes mixed feelings 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
Though within the notre dame community the ap­peal of notre dame football seems all but universal, the new seating policy enacted during saturday’s football game garnered mixed reac­tions from students. 
Through the 2012 season, students sat in assigned seats during home football games. after a group of students de­cided they would sit together during games, they would sign up as members of the same group and receive as­signed seats together. 
The new seating policy for the 2013 season mandates that students will receive tickets based on class year, but that within each sec­tion the seats will be general admission. 
sophomore marissa bowman said she initially thought that the new seating arrangement would gener­ate undue stress among her peers. 
“i thought that the tail­gaters would be upset about getting bad seats,” she said. 
sophomore matt o’brien said his feelings remained mixed regarding the new seating policy at notre dame. 
see seaTing PAGE 4 

JOHN NING | The Observer 
The Notre Dame student body experienced the new seating policy during Saturday’s season opening 28-6 win over Temple. 


lacrosse house burns 
Observer Staff Report 
a house inhabited by nine members of notre dame’s wom­en’s lacrosse team was destroyed in a fire Friday afternoon, accord­ing to a wsbT report. 
no one was injured in the blaze on the 200 block of east marion st., just east of memorial hospital. The fire was out by late afternoon, the report said. 
notre dame’s office of student 
see burn PAGE 3 



SMC revamps justice awareness group 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
“Justice Friday’s” will be one of many events planned to help the saint mary’s Justice education depart­ment make a comeback on campus. after one academic year without a department chair, the department will be stronger than ever, interim director adrienne lysles­chockley said. 
“There was no one running the department last year, so my job this year is to set the direction of the ship and get the program back on task,” lyles-chockley said. “To do this, i am focusing on two tasks: developing the pro­gram’s minor courses and setting up different Justice education programming throughout the year.” 
To begin the year, the de­partment launched a series of discussions titled “Justice Fridays”, lyles-chockley said. each meeting will look at justice through a different lens, where students coordi­nate the dialogue. 
“Justice Fridays will be dur­ing lunch on Friday before every home football week­end,” lyles-chockley said. 
last Friday’s discussion looked at justice through a gendered lens and was led by junior clare maher and senior galicia guerrero, she said. 
“saint mary’s students are exceptional in their commit­ment to justice and i think they need to be a part of the development of the program this year,” lyles-chockley said. 
both maher and guerrero said they felt the topics of sexual assault and the me­dia’s portrayal of women were important topics worth covering in the first Justice Friday discussion. 
see JusTice PAGE 4 


Zeiss goes To israel PAGE 4 b1 blocK parTy PAGE 9 irish Fall PAGE 16 noTre dame beaTs Temple 28-6 INSIDE 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What was your favorite program to watch on TV this summer? 


Alec Sievern 


Juan Rangel 
freshman 

junior 
dillon hall 

siegfried hall 
“breaking bad.” 

“monsters university.” 

Claire Hackman 


Lauren Morisseau 
senior 

junior 
welsh Family hall 

breen-phillips hall 
“so you Think you can dance?” 
“mad men.” 

Veronica Martinez 


Jessica Creager 
senior 

sophomore 
welsh Family hall 

lewis hall 
“digimon.” 

“merlin.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meg handelman brian hartnett Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: charitha isanaka isaac lorton nicole mcalee Kit loughran 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Register for Swim Lector Training Freshman Night at Momix “Can Notre Dame 
grant Tobin dan brombach 
Lessons Basilica of the Sacred the Snite DeBartolo Performing Women Have it All?” Rockne Memorial Heart Snite Museum of Art Arts Center South Dining Hall 9 a.m.-11:55 p.m. 8 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 
Corrections 

Learn how to swim. Read at Basilica Mass. Reception and tours. Contemporary dance. Panel discussion. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

CSC Panel Classic Films RCIA Information Iron Sharpens Iron Women’s Volleyball 
strives for the highest standards 
Discussion DeBartolo Performing Session Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall Arts Center Coleman-Morse Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. 8 p.m. Center 10 p.m.-11 p.m. The Irish take on 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Panel on “Dignity and Silent films “Where 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Interdenominational, Bowling Green in 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Justice for Migrants Are My Children?” and Learn about Notre student-led Christian the Golden Dome 
we can correct our error. 

and Refugees.” “The Immigrant.” Dame’s RCIA process. fellowship. Invitational. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | The observer 

Party 
conTinued From page 1 
the concert, despite the poor weather. “The rain made it kind of gross,” she said. “but they were a good band.” despite the rain, she “would choose to go again.” 
The band used notre dame fans’ pre-game excitement to its advantage, heightening the crowd’s energy by telling them notre dame was “going to smash Temple,” marti said. 

marti said they also got the crowd involved with clap­ping and coming out into the crowd, but he said some stu­dents seemed frustrated by the band’s behavior. 
lead singer damian Kulash “dropped five or six f-bombs while onstage,” marti said. 
penler also said she felt oK go should have behaved dif­ferently during their perfor­mance at notre dame. 
“[The band] was obviously drunk … and used the f-word 
paid adverTisemenT 
more than was appropriate for catholic school,” penler said. 
still, some of the students who turned out for the show said they were long-time fans of the band. 
Junior Kenny Kraynik said he listened to the band in middle school. 
he said a highlight for him was when the band broke out hand bells and played their normal songs “with cool harmonies.” 

oK go filmed their music video, “This Too shall pass,” while on campus with the notre dame marching band in 2010. 
before they left, oK go tweeted a picture of the mu­sic video and a message that read, “Thank you to the marching band who stayed at school over fall break so they could be in the video.” 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
irish novelist patrick mccabe drew on his per­sonal experience growing up in ireland to address the effects of technological de­velopment Friday in a talk titled, “irish village life over 100 years: From brass band to broadband.” The Keough-naughton institute for irish studies spon­sored mccabe’s talk in the hesburgh library’s rare books room. 
mccabe quoted the poem, “a sofa in the Forties” by seamus heaney, the recent­ly deceased irish poet to emphasize the changes that have taken place in society and morality in ireland over the last century.  he said he agrees with seamus heaney and others who argue the core of irish society always has been the family and the parish, and then the county. 
“everything radiates out 
paid adverTisemenT 

irish novelist reflects on changing times 
from that,” mccabe said. 

Burn 
conTinued From page 1 
affairs is in the process of finding on-campus housing for the stu­dents because the house is heavi­ly damaged. Few belongings were salvaged from the blaze. 
The report said the fire’s cause is still unknown, though a friend of the tenants said a hot barbeque grill was near the house when the fire started. The outside tempera­ture was in the 90s, sunny and humid. 


“Familiarity and neighbor­liness is written into dna.” 
mccabe said his mother’s awareness of everything going on in their neigh­borhood evidenced that community orientation so dominant within irish society. 
“i thought what a gap ex­ists between [my mother’s awareness] and a person who lived all his life in wexford town. he could decompose merrily in the christmas season, right through the spring and not be discovered until st. patrick’s day,” he said. 
mccabe said a story from a march edition of the irish Times demonstrated this decreased sense of community.
 “The neighbors decided to pay a visit — they knocked on the door and there was no reply. They opened the door, and the [christmas] lights were there, wishing the season along its merry way, and there was a skele­ton there, sitting in the easy chair,” he said. “and it got me to thinking how times have changed.” 
mccabe said he is amazed that in today’s society, “the apotheosis of achieve­ment is eating live bugs and worms on television” and “authority which for so long had held sway was now openly flouted.” 
mccabe said modern soci­ety is not without god, but a profusion of gods. Quoting 
g.K. chesterton, he said, “when man stops believing in something, he starts be­lieving in everything.”” 
mccabe said he cautions against willingly submit­ting to a kind of imperson­al, godless society, “where the life of the sidewalk and the front yard will have all but disappeared.” 
“These are challenging times, and choices will have to be made,” he said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 



Fencer represents 
U.S. in ‘Jewish Olympics’ 

By LESLEY STEVENSEN 
news writer 
For junior madison Zeiss, this summer revolved around only one event: the maccabiah, an international competition for Jewish athletes around the world. Zeiss, a first-team all­american fencer, collected a gold medal in both the individ­ual and team foil events in the open division for athletes of all ages. 
despite her successful indi­vidual performance, Zeiss said she felt more proud to repre­sent the united states in the maccabiah, which is frequently hailed the “Jewish olympics,” according to the games’ website. 
“i definitely felt like i was competing for the u.s.; all of us [on the u.s. team] did,” she said. “That’s what we were there for and it wasn’t about the individual medal. That was awesome but it was about the team.” 
although the maccabiah is a competition, Zeiss said learn­ing more about israel and israeli culture filled much of her time abroad. 
“it was more about bringing awareness to israel and show­ing us exactly what the country has to offer. … The times that we weren’t competing we were always just constantly tour­ing and sightseeing around the country and meeting people.” 
Zeiss described a trip to an israeli defense Force base where she met adults her age completing their compulsory two- or three-year military ser­vice requirements. 
“it was so eye-opening to see that because it’s normal for us to go to college; this is just nor­mal for them.” 
she also noted that despite the political turmoil in israel, palestine and neighboring syria, she never believed she was in danger. 
“There wasn’t even one point that i felt uncomfortable,” Zeiss said. “To me the people were amazing.” 
Zeiss said her primary focus for the summer was preparing for the maccabiah. For that rea­son, she stayed in south bend for the summer to continue training with notre dame fenc­ing associate head coach gia Kvaratskhelia. 
“i was here this summer, so i trained a lot really closely with my coach,” Zeiss said. “probably every other day we’d go to the gym and train. so that definitely helped a lot. it was mainly just being here and being able to focus on getting ready.” 
collegiate fencers tend to meet each other through com­petition, Zeiss said, so she knew many of her us teammates be­fore competing with them at the maccabiah. 
“we all know each other, but we obviously weren’t as close as we were when we left,” she said. “we immediately meshed as a team. … There was no conflict or anything.” 
according to the maccabiah website, about 10,000 Jewish athletes come to israel from across the globe to compete in the games, which are “the world’s largest Jewish athletic competition.” 
The maccabiah offers com­petitions in olympic sports like basketball, volleyball, soc­cer and cycling as well as other events such as bridge, chess, karate and bowling. 
The u.s. ranked second in the overall medal count for the open division. with 170 medals total, american athletes earned 56 gold, 53 silver and 61 bronze, far behind the 498 total medals won by israeli athletes. russia finished third in that division with 38 medals. 
Contact Lesley Stevensen at lsteven1@nd.edu 
Seating 
conTinued From page 1 

“The new seating system is a step forward, but it could be improved.  i would like to be able to sit with people in dif­ferent classes, since i have an older brother and older friends at the university,” o’brien said. “There are a lot of people in this situation. over the last twenty years, we have always sat together, and it is extremely unfortunate that it is no longer the case.” 
sophomore brian lach said he approves of the new sta­dium seating setup. 
“There is more manageabil­ity with general admission because there are fewer con­straints on where you can sit, as opposed to assigned seat­ing,” he said. 
senior chris andrews said he felt unsure about the changes. he said that stu­dents who arrived late to the game were unable to sit in their assigned sections. 
“i felt that people were un­sure when to arrive at the stadium to get the seats that they wanted, which made group coordination more dif­ficult,” andrews said. 
when leprechaun legion president matt cunningham spoke to The observer about the group’s intentions behind the seating policy, he said the goal was to create a “mutually beneficial” situation for play­ers and students, facilitating a better game day experience for everyone involved. 
“This new system allows people who want to be there to get close to the game, and it gets rid of the chance that they might be stuck in the top row,” cunningham said in a april 19 observer article. 
some fans said they felt con­cerned that the most spirited students would not end up at the front of their sections with the new arrangement, as the leprechaun legion hoped. however, freshman gretchen bruggeman, did not feel that this was the case. 
“i think that it made more people more exciting about being in the front row,” she said. “There were a lot of freshmen there an hour early to get the best spots.” 
she said she thinks the sys­tem was less hectic and bet­ter organized than her past experiences attending games as a visitor. 
James heisler, a junior, said he preferred the original method of student seating. 
“The system was not as bad as originally anticipated, but there is a proposal that i think would be better,” heisler said. “at the end of the day, the new seating system, while not perfect, does allow you the opportunity to randomly meet the love of your life your life as you search for a seat,” he said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 

Justice 
conTinued From page 1 
“sexual assault is not limited to ‘law and order: svu’ or to big cities,” maher said. “one in four college women are sexu­ally assaulted. That is the norm. it is something that needs to be discussed and is truly an injustice.” 
guerrero said the depic­tion of gender issues in the media perpetuates a system where sexual as­sault is tolerated. 
“In our language, the word rape is almost used as a slang term.” 
Galicia Guerrero 
senior 
“let’s take a look at the media and pop culture,” guerrero said. “The song ‘blurred lines’ for in­stance. Just in this song you can see a media that is promoting a culture where sexual assault is okay and it really is not.” 
maher said saint mary’s is a place where gendered issues can be discussed over a proper dialogue, but encouraged their au­dience to bring that dia­logue outside of campus grounds. 
“as bystanders and ac­tive individuals in society, we have a duty to inform others of injustices going on in the world,” maher said. “gender justice is­sues are around us all the time and we can­not sit back and let them go on without a proper discussion.” 
guerrero said it is im­portant for individuals to find an issue they are pas­sionate about and work to promote justice in that issue. 
both guerrero and maher are involved with the belles against violence office (bavo) on campus. 
guerrero said their time spent with this office and director connie adams has shaped their views of justice around sexual as­sault and violence. 
“we have both been through green dot train­ing,” guerrero said. “This is a national campaign that works to discuss by­stander intervention and how issues of violence should be addressed.” 
Through working with bavo, guerrero said she realized how certain pow­erful words have been changed over the course of time. 
“in our language, the word rape is almost used as a slang term,” guerrero said. “sometimes you hear people say things like, ‘That test raped me’. rape is not something that should be taken lightly.” 
maher said individuals should stand up against injustices even if it means going against the norms of society. 
“you know sexual as­sault is not taken seri­ously when such a thing as a rape joke exists in our society,” maher said. “letting things like this slide means letting a whole lot of other things slide. it really is just per­petuating a system where sexual assault is looked at as okay and where victims are stigmatized.” 
lyles-chockley said she was excited about the turnout at the depart­ment’s first event of the year and hopes future programming events will be just as successful. 
“This first event was hugely successful,” lyles­chockley said. “i am thrilled because it was quite a challenge to get this done the first week of class, but the attendance, diversity of individuals who showed up and the overall participation were all great. it is a great way to start the year.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | The observer 

U.S. seeks approval for action again Syria 
Associated Press 
washingTon  — The obama administration geared up for the biggest foreign policy vote since the iraq war by arguing sunday that new physical evidence shows the syrian government used sa­rin gas in a deadly august attack. with its credibility on the line, the united states must respond, the country’s top diplomat said. 
members of congress, dead­locked on just about everything these days and still on summer break, expressed sharply diver­gent opinions about whether to give president barack obama the go-ahead he requested to re­taliate with military force against the assad regime, and what turn­ing down the commander in chief could mean for america’s reputation. 
presenting obama’s case for military action, secretary of state John Kerry gave a series of inter­views on sunday news shows outlining the latest information the administration has received about the aug. 21 attack in the damascus suburbs that the u.s. says killed 1,429 civilians, includ­ing more than 400 children. he said samples collected by first responders added to the grow­ing body of proof that syria’s government launched a chemical weapons attack. 
“samples of hair and blood have been tested and they have reported positive for signatures of sarin,” Kerry said. “each day that goes by, this case is even stron­ger. we know that the regime ordered this attack. we know they prepared for it. we know where the rockets came from. we know where they landed. we know the damage that was done afterwards.” 
sarin, which affects the ner­vous system and is toxic in liq­uid or gas form, can be delivered in missiles, bombs, rockets or artillery shells. The gas is out­lawed under international rules of warfare. The reference to hair and blood samples were the first pieces of specific physiological evidence cited by any member of the administration, which previ­ously spoke only about an un­named nerve agent. 
Kerry’s assertion coincided with the beginning of a force­ful administration appeal for congressional support, now that obama has declared he will await approval from the house and senate before ordering any cruise missile strikes or other action. 
on capitol hill, senior administration officials briefed lawmakers in private to explain why the u.s. is compelled to act against president bashar assad’s government. obama, vice president Joe biden and white house chief of staff denis mcdonough also made calls to individual lawmakers. Further classified meetings were planned over the next three days. 

sen. John mccain of arizona, a leading senate hawk and the candidate obama defeated for the presidency in 2008, said he’d discuss syria with the president at the white house monday. 
obama must convince skep­tical americans and their rep­resentatives in congress of the need for more u.s. military ac­tion in the muslim world af­ter a decade of war in iraq and afghanistan. 
he also is trying to assemble an international coalition, but find­ing it hard to land partners. They fear becoming involved in a con­flict that has claimed more than 100,000 lives in the past 2½ years and dragged in terrorist groups on both sides of the battlefield. 
only France is firmly on board among the major military pow­ers. britain’s parliament rejected the use of force in a vote last week. 
paid adverTisemenT 

The united nations on sunday asked the head of its chemical weapons inspection team to ex­pedite the analysis of tests from samples it collected from syria last week. 
assad’s government, which has denied allegations of chemical weapons use, reveled in obama’s decision to defer any immediate action. deputy Foreign minister Faysal mikdad claimed that the move reflected the lack of evi­dence of government culpability. 
with navy ships on standby in the eastern mediterranean sea ready to launch missiles, congress began a series of meet­ings that will take place over the next several days in preparation for a vote once lawmakers return from summer break, which is scheduled to end sept. 9. 
dozens of members attended the two-hour classified briefing sunday in the capitol, though many emerged saying they need­ed to see more details of obama’s plan and more facts about the alleged chemical weapons at­tack. many feared giving obama overly broad authority for mili­tary action. 
on selling the strategy to congress, rep. rep. bennie g. Thompson, the senior democrat on the house homeland security committee, said, “They have a ways to go.” 
“They also have work to do with respect to shoring up the facts of what happened,” Thompson said. 
The senate Foreign relations committee plans a meeting Tuesday, according to its chair­man, sen. bob menendez, d-n.J. The senate armed service committee will gather a day later, said oklahoma sen. Jim inhofe, the top republican on the panel. 
Kerry confidently predicted that lawmakers would back lim­ited military strikes. 
“The stakes are just really too high here,” he said. 
Kerry was asked repeatedly in the broadcast interviews what obama would do if congress didn’t give its consent. he said he believed lawmakers would recognize the grave implications for letting a chemical weapons attack go unchecked and what that might mean for u.s. efforts to force north Korea to get rid of its nuclear weapons and pre­vent iran from acquiring such capability. 
“we are not going to lose this vote,” Kerry said. “The credibil­ity of the united states is on the line.” 



The debate we’re still waiting for 
my place in the world 

Kaitlyn Rabach 
saint mary’s editor 

i would like to take the opportunity to personally thank the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil) at saint mary’s college and the outstanding women who put in countless hours to make this office one of the most productive centers on campus. 
For the past two summers, i have been blessed to work in this office as a mentor and student coordinator for a state department program titled “study of the united states institute” (susi).  This institute provides intensive leadership training for under­graduate women leaders around the globe. over the course of two summers, i have been able to form friendships with women from burma, mongolia, Tunisia, Jordan, iraq, libya and egypt. Throughout this five-week institute, we not only worked on forming diplomatic relationships, but also shared laughter, tears and personal stories. most im­portantly, though, we dreamed together. we participated in a global dialogue of how the world could look better for women and were then encouraged to not only envision this world, but were actually given the tools to choose our limits and create positive change. 
The great thing about the susi sisterhood is that we now have a network of strong-minded, positive women who will work together to  keep our own personal dreams well nourished and alive. we each left the program with a different plan to implement in our communities, and now we will hold each other accountable. we know we are not implementing change for just ourselves, but are rather doing it for everyone in susi and for our sisters around the world who are active agents of change, but do not necessar­ily have the tools to push their own dreams forward. i am thankful to be a part of an international community where i will be held responsible for working to constantly promote peace and prosperity. 
i am even more thankful for the mentor-ship opportunities this program has allowed me. working with mana derakhsani, susi academic director and martha smith, susi administrative director, has shown me the importance of having strong female lead­ers to serve as role models. These are two incredible women who full-heartedly care about the well-being of others and who pour their whole hearts into making sure this institute is a positive experience for all participants. They know the importance of optimism, dedication, knowledge and how important it is to share lessons and experi­ences with younger generations. 
when i was first enrolled at saint mary’s, president carol mooney promised me a chance to engage in discovery of myself. i can say without a doubt that both the susi program and mana and martha’s strong leadership have set me on a path of both dis­covering myself and my place in this world. For that i am truly grateful. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet 
Throughout the hot summer days, americans have seen quite a bit of action on the political front. revelations regarding invasive seizures of telecommunications and metadata collection from the proclaimed “most transpar­ent administration ever,” heated shots fired back and forth within the republican party, the nau­seating portrayal of Trayvon martin’s court case and attacks on whistleblowers chelsea manning and edward snowden have cer­tainly provided for a dynamic summer, if it can be described as such without dire solemnity. all of these events have stimulated quite a bit of conversation among the american people, even in the midst of the fiascos we call miley cyrus and amanda bynes. 
but as it usually is in american politics, the times can’t be static for too long. americans recently discovered that the national security administration delved into “love interests” and broke privacy rules “thousands of times” according to an audit published on the washington post’s web­site. but this time, instead of overly intruding on the lives of americans, the current admin­istration is thinking about get­ting involved in syria. The new york Times recently reported that president obama is considering “limited” strikes against syria’s current regime, led by president bashar al-assad. not only would that interventionism be foolish, i believe it would also be uncon­stitutional without the authori­zation of congress. many people have questioned why it’s taken the president so long to call together congress for a formal debate on syria, which is quite a legitimate question. many might point to the pressure particular congressmen have put on obama, repeating the fact that a strike invoked by the executive alone would be entirely unconstitutional. 

article one, section eight of the 
u.s. constitution reads that, “no state shall … engage in war, un­less invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of de­lay.” The war powers resolution of 1973 was an additional law passed to protect the nation from rushing into military excursions, although it has been ignored by republican and democratic presi­dents alike. The resolution states that if the commander in chief sends troops into action abroad, they must be home within 60 days unless congress approves of the military force and declares war. unfortunately, many people read this bill out of context and sug­gest that the president can send military force abroad at will  and then just get congress’s approval later. This is an incorrect interpre­tation of the law. The war powers resolution specifically states in section 1541(c) that the executive can only send our troops abroad if one of the three following criteria is met: he receives a congressional declaration of war, he receives other specific legal authorization or if there is a national emergency caused by an attack on the united states, as happened on sept. 11. This means that if the president wants to send troops into syria or simply bomb them from home, he would need congressional approv­al before advancing, since there has not been a direct attack on the united states. unfortunately, the current administration has already drone-bombed iraq, iran, afghanistan, somalia, pakistan, yemen, algeria and libya, so prac­ticing peace would actually be a new precedent. 
on the afternoon of saturday, aug. 31, president obama stated he would call together congress to discuss and vote on intervention in syria by sept. 9 or 10. 
it is important to note that the use of chemical weapons by a for­eign regime is a legitimate con­cern. There are times where war is necessary — certainly no people (or an extremely small few) would have protested our involvement in world war ii. however, there are serious costs and benefits that we as a country need to measure before continuing our occupation and bombing of the middle east. people making these decisions need to further consider the cia’s term “blowback,” describing how aggressive foreign policy can lead to unfavorable consequences. 
a new reuters poll found that only 9 percent of americans sup­port a multi-national invasion of syria and only 25 percent would support u.s. intervention, even if it’s proven that assad used chemi­cal weapons. clearly the affairs in iraq and afghanistan have weighed heavily on our nation not only financially, but mentally as well. based on the numbers, we can say most people are sick of war and are even more tired of our government attempting to be the policeman of the world. it’s good to see the president follow the constitution and seek congress’s approval for an attack, but i’m interested to see what he will do if congress refuses to give him the authority to strike, but he feels the need to do so anyways. will he abide by the law? 
Connor Roth is a junior studying economics and constitutional studies. He lives in Duncan Hall, hails from Cleveland, Ohio and is currently par­ticipating in the London abroad pro­gram through Notre Dame. He can be contacted at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“he who blinded by ambition, raises himself to a position whence he cannot mount higher, must thereafter fall with the greatest loss.” 
Niccolo Machiavelli 
italian philosopher 




The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The GreenMan goes to China 
Christian Nofziger 
ask the greenman 

welcome home, fellow tree-huggers and green enthusiasts. i hope you all had restful and ful­filling summers; i know i did. having heard some hubbub about all the pollution problems in china, i, your beloved greenman, decided to visit the other side of the world. 
i didn’t experience any language barriers dur­ing my time in china because as my fans know, i don’t speak, and as my stalkers know, i have been literate in mandarin since the age of three. however, i did have a serious crisis: There wasn’t any mexican food. none. i couldn’t be­lieve it. a month without my garden fresh salsa was almost enough to make me go mad, but i was on a mission. 
The chinese capital of beijing is covered by a permanent hazy cloud cover. i am not talk­ing about the “perma cloud” that envelopes south bend every december (although the weather during my summer in beijing did seem almost as gloomy as my winters in the bend). 
This cloud was a sign of the industry that has so rapidly developed china but which is also slowly killing its natural wonders. you see, while in china, i also had the opportunity to climb mount hua. do you know that absurdly steep mountain with the two foot wide wooden planks sprouting from the side of it? no? well, i did make it to the top of mount hua, but i must admit the reward was a bit lacking. The view was not as epic as my expectations, instead it was grey. you see, western china’s largest coal power plant is located about 30 miles north of mount hua. 
china’s air pollution problem stems from its electrical production, not its factories. about 70 percent of china’s electricity comes from coal-fired power plants. by comparison, the united states only gets 37 percent of its electricity from coal. These plants also produce pm2.5 particles that are as small as specks of dust. however, when lots of coal is burned in an area like beijing (which is protected from heavy winds), the pm2.5 forms huge clouds that block out the sun and cause lung problems for residents. 
after discovering the cause of this problem, i did what any green hero would do: i went to the beautiful beihai park in beijing, pulled out my laptop and looked up what china was doing to solve the problem. Turns out, last year china in­vested $58.4 billion in renewable energy sources while the united states added $30.4 billion. not only that but between 2006 and 2007, china shut down 350 outdated coal plants. surprisingly, china stands as not only a strong example of how serious the consequences of pollution can be but also as a role model for countries trying to solve their own pollution issues. 
i’ve heard a lot of students studied abroad over the summer. shoot me an email and let me know what your travels were like and what envi­ronmental wonders or struggles you saw during your time abroad. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
combatting the federal leviathan 
Steven Begakis 
guest columnist 

at every sporting event, we all join together in song for our national anthem, hailing the stars and stripes that “yet wave … o’er the land of the free.” but do we still live in a free country? 
in his new york Times best sell­ing book, ‘The liberty amendments: restoring the american republic,’ con­stitutional lawyer mark levin argues our society is currently grounded on a “post-constitutional soft despotism,” and proposes a solution for returning to con­stitutional government. 
at this you may be rolling your eyes. “i can go to a football game, go to the bar, go out to dinner, go to the movies, watch netflix and do all sorts of things,” you respond. “of course i’m free.” 
Free, unless you’re an entrepreneur trying to start a business. unless you’re a christian photographer who objects to taking pictures of a gay wedding. unless you’re a catholic business owner who refuses to pay for your employee’s abor­tion procedures. unless you’re a conser­vative or tea party group trying to get an exemption from the internal revenue service. unless you’re seeking a spe­cial medical procedure under the new obamacare law. 
we are no longer citizens in any mean­ingful sense, but subjects to an uncon­trollable and insatiable federal leviathan. The federal government spends 25 percent of the gdp, which is 25 percent of our private property, the wealth we produce through our labor. in addition, it has borrowed over $17 trillion — about 100 percent of the gdp — and has un­funded welfare liabilities that exceed $90 trillion — over 500 percent of the gdp. all of these debts and promises will have to be paid for in taxes, which means the government owns us — five times over. washington has enslaved us, our children and our children’s children to a bleak and miserable future with no sign of letting up. 
The federal government, levin ex­plains, “is the nation’s largest creditor, debtor, lender, employer, consumer, con­tractor, grantor, property owner, tenant, insurer, healthcare provider and pension guarantor. moreover, with aggrandized police powers, what it does not control directly it bans or mandates by regula­tion.” The ubiquitous nature of the fed­eral tyranny is such that “nearly all will be emasculated by it, including the inat­tentive, ambivalent and disbelieving.” 
nineteenth century French philoso­pher alexis de Tocqueville predicted this omnipotent state and the damage that it would do to liberty and human progress. 
he stated, “[The supreme power] cov­ers the surface of society with a network of small complicated rules, minute and uniform, through which the most origi­nal minds and the most energetic char­acters cannot penetrate, to rise above the crowd. The will of man is not shattered, but softened, bent and guided, men are seldom forced by it to act, but they are constantly restrained from acting. such a power does not destroy, but it prevents existence, it does not tyrannize, but it compresses, enervates, extinguishes and stupefies a people until each nation is reduced to nothing better than a flock of timid and industrious animals, of which the government is the shepherd.”  does that not describe 21st century america? more importantly, does that describe a free country? 

There are those who seek to reform washington by electing more federal pol­iticians, but often they encounter a mad­dening truth: once so-called “reformers,” whether republican or democrat, reach washington, they no longer make good on their promises to reform washington. The absolute legislative power seized by congress, the monarchical executive power maintained by the president and his legions of unaccountable bureau­crats, the oligarchical judicial power of nine lawyers in black robes, will never be willingly handed back to the people by the very rulers who profit from it. consequently, voting has taken on a quixotic character. 
but levin offers a concrete solution: he calls for two-thirds of the state legisla­tures — 34 total — to invoke article Five of the constitution, calling a national convention for proposing constitutional amendments. There, the state delegates could propose a series of “liberty amend­ments” to restore constitutional limits on power and reaffirm individual liber­ties, including: term limits, a balanced budget, limits on taxes and spending, limits on the bureaucracy and much more. These amendments would then be ratified by three-fourths of the states 
— 38 total. congress, the president and the supreme court would be completely bypassed. it is a ‘hail mary’ pass — the last gasp of a once great republic now on the verge of abandoning the principles of the american revolution. 
in order to see the wisdom of this strat­egy, one must first comprehend the tyr­anny we face. on mar. 23, 1775, after the british attack at lexington and concord, patrick henry issued a resounding call to arms at the virginia convention, in which he said, in part: 
“mr. president, it is natural to man to indulge in the illusions of hope. we are apt to shut our eyes against a painful truth and listen to the song of that siren till she transforms us into beasts. is this the part of wise men, engaged in a great and arduous struggle for liberty? are we disposed to be of the number of those who, having eyes, see not, and having ears, hear not, the things which so nearly concern their temporal salvation? For my part, whatever anguish of spirit it may cost, i am willing to know the whole truth, to know the worst, and to provide for it.” 
if we shut our eyes to the truth of what is happening in this country and sur­render our unalienable rights without a fight, we will, as president ronald reagan warned, spend our sunset years telling our children and our children’s children what it was once like in the united states, where men were free. “is life so dear,” asked henry, “or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and slav­ery? Forbid it, almighty god.” 
it’s time to take back our country, to demand that our state legislatures call an article Five constitutional conven­tion and pass a new bill of rights for the 21st century that will restore self-government. let us, we the people, set aside meager party distinctions and work together to reclaim our birthright, the blessings of liberty, for ourselves and our posterity. 
Steven Begakis is a first-year student at the University of Notre Dame Law School. He can be reached at sbegakis@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


WEI LIN | The Observer MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 
legends of notre dame threw the b1 block party last Friday night, the annual kick off to the new school year that adds a bit of flare and excitement to the student body’s first saturday together. legends’ unofficial congratulatory celebration re warding the newly christened freshmen on the completion of their first week of classes saw the return of the popular four man alternative rock band from chicago, oK go. 
oK go has had an impressive history with notre dame. back in 2004, the band started as sim ply the latest “up and coming” band to perform at legends. Then, they rose to prominence as they made their return to notre dame in 2007 for “The show” at the Joyce center, this time as the co headliner with lupe Fiasco (side note: based on lupe’s rapid fall to irrelevancy and disgrace, the staying power and quality of oK go’s music career is quite im pressive in its own right). 
They played themselves right into the hearts of the student body, as they included the notre dame marching band in the mu sic video of their single “This Too shall pass,” while also return ing to legends for another en ergetic performance. needless to say, notre dame just can’t get enough of oK go. 

however, the real story at this year’s b1 block party came cour tesy of another up-and-com ing band to perform through legends. royal Teeth, a band from louisiana that doesn’t even have their own wikipedia page, stole the show on Friday night. Featuring lead vocalists gary larsen and nora patterson, the band performed with high en ergy and fervent passion the en tire set. 
This was an impressive feat at any rate, but on saturday even more so. They were burdened with the task of opening the en tire event and with playing for a crowd that was still filing into the venue despite the fact that they were halfway through their set, but they overcame these challenges by playing with an “amateur” style. 
i say that they played with an “amateur” style with absolute admiration, because i appreci ated the way they played with joy and genuine pleasure on the stage, looking and feeling as if they were simply happy to be there. 
a simple look around the crowd was all it took to vindi cate their performance. what was once a hesitant and, frankly, inattentive audience gradually transformed into a one that was clapping along. 

as their performance cli maxed with their biggest hit “wild,” which was featured on ea sports’ “FiFa soccer 13” soundtrack, the audience was enthralled. 
legends obtained large “Jumbotron” displays that sat on the stage, displaying text messages from audience mem bers. amidst some of the typical “can’t wait to see oK go!!” texts, there were just as many — if not more messages that reflected audience members’ roaring approval and appreciation for royal Teeth’s performance. 
oK go will probably forever hold a special spot in notre dame’s heart, as their continued involvement with the campus speaks highly to their regard for their fans and notre dame and this campus’ continued appre ciation for the band. 
even though fans came to see the star power of oK go, this year’s b1 block party treated them to an extra helping of mu sical entertainment in the form of the impressive up and comer, royal Teeth. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
WEI LIN | The Observer MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

improving college football’s rules 

Mary Green 
sports writer 
what’s that, you say? 
college football is back? 
wow, i never would have guessed, based off the thou­sands of tweets on my Twitter newsfeed counting down the hours until the kickoff of Thursday night’s games. 
but now that america’s fa­vorite saturday obsession has returned, i’ve noticed some things that could use adjust­ment. since the postseason system will (finally) undergo a little facelift next season, here are some more suggestions on how to make the sport even better this year and in years to follow. 
rule no. 1: bcs-eligible teams must play bcs-eligible teams 
obviously, the phrasing of this requirement will have to change next season after the bcs system gives way to a more logical playoff system, but the concept is simple— if you’re a major program, you must play other major programs. 
now, i understand that when smaller schools go to gainesville, Tuscaloosa and columbus and play perennial powerhouses, those smaller schools make more money than they would playing an­other small school. but it’s also a tad embarrassing if you’re nicholls state (where in the world is nicholls state?) and you roll into eugene know­ing you’ll be crushed by no. 3 oregon before the game even kicks off. 
so here’s the caveat: schools from major conferences, in­cluding the american athletic conference (even though some of us want to pretend they’re not a “real” conference) can play a mid-major or smaller team one game a year. i still want schools like boise state to have the chance to win the Fiesta bowl, but i’m tired of seeing scores, such as no. 15 Texas 56-new mexico state 7, for the first month of the season. 
last year’s national cham­pion, alabama, played three mid-major or smaller pro­grams in its four non-confer­ence games, facing western Kentucky, Florida atlantic and western carolina. The crimson Tide won by a com­bined 117 points in those three games. That’s ridiculous, es­pecially considering every fan would rather see a matchup between two major programs from different conferences. 
with this rule, notre dame can still honor tradition and play navy, and schools in the sec can still fulfill their charitable mission of “help­ing the poor” by beating up on chattanooga, Kent state and arkansas state. 
rule no. 2: make ohio state prove itself 
pollsters, analysts and anyone else with an opinion should not justify ohio state’s (excuse me, The ohio state university’s) no. 2 ranking by saying how the buckeyes went 12-0 last season. did everyone just forget the fact that the team was not eligible for post­season play because its players sold memorabilia for tattoos? 
i probably wouldn’t be so annoyed with this ranking if wasn’t as inconsistent with other top 25-placements. 
The buckeyes were raised in this year’s rankings because they could not play in a bowl game, while other teams fell to the bottom half of the top-25 by finishing last season with a bowl game loss. sure, sounds logical to me. 
so, talking heads, give view­ers another reason as to why ohio state is worthy of its ranking, besides its “undefeat­ed” season. 
rule no. 3: enough with Johnny Football 
seriously, i’m sick of it. 
while watching Friday night’s matchup between Texas Tech and smu, it seemed that the announcers couldn’t go ten minutes without talk­ing about the most polarizing figure in college football. if i heard the name “Johnny” one more time, i probably would have ripped my ears off. 
yes, his half-game punish­ment was laughable, and, yes, the ncaa is more than a little fickle in doling out penal­ties, but there’s no need for the media to debate a single player ad nauseum. Friday’s announcers discussed the Texas a&m quarterback, who, by the way, was not playing in their game, more than they did Texas Tech’s gunslinger, a true freshman by the name of baker mayfield who walked on to the team and came away with the game one-nod for a big Xii program in less than a month’s time. 
here’s the rule: limit any Johnny manziel-related chat­ter to once a game, excluding halftime. and now please ex­cuse me as i get sick after de­voting 187 words to a guy who dressed up as scooby doo last halloween. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC SOCCER | beThel 1, sainT mary’s 0 
belles fall short in season opener against bethel 

By MERI KELLY 
sports writer 

saint mary’s lost a hard-fought game in its season opener against bethel 1-0 on Friday in mishawaka, ind. 
after controlling pos­session for much of the first half, the belles (0-1-0) looked to break through early in the second half. Freshman midfielder Jenn Jarmy shot from inside the 18-yard box, but her attempt was turned away. 
in the 75th minute, fresh­man forward rosie biehl at­tempted a shot, only to see it sail just above the crossbar. 
The game appeared to be heading to overtime, when a ball cleared from the belles’ offensive half along the left side of the field went to bethel senior forward nicole stellar in the 90th minute. stellar’s attempt from 30 

PERSONAL 

Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults. 574-256-9836 
Music Lessons: Guitar, Bass, Mandolin, Dulcimer, Autoharp, Ukulele. 574-256-9836 

yards out soared right under the crossbar and into the net. 
“it was a long game for all of us, and it literally came down to the last three min­utes of the game,” sopho­more defender Kate looney said. “but it didn’t really take our spirits, we tried to keep up the intensity and play until the very end of the game.” 
The belles couldn’t re­spond in the final seconds of action, and bethel (1-1-1) came away with the victory. 
although the outcome of the game was not favor­able for the belles, the team boasted several strong per­formances. Junior goalie chanler rosenbaum had nine saves in goal for the belles. biehl had five shots, while junior defender mary Kate hussey took three shots. 
“it was a rough loss, but i think we can take it and go into our next games strong and confident,” looney said. 
looney said the belles would look to improve on passing the ball and slow­ing down their pace of play for their next few games. The team is also looking to improve its communication both on and off the ball, looney said. 
saint mary’s will face the illinois institute of Technology today at 5 p.m. at home. 
“There is definitely a home field advantage for us, it’s where we practice every single day during the week,” looney said. “so we know the field, we know how it plays and we’re used to play­ing on it.” 
Contact Meri Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Get Your Shine On” - Florida-Affordable Housing Intern: Work with Georgia Line a small consulting business helping “Silverado, candy painted, Ray Bans, non-profit and for-profit organizations got the whole world shaded. Chrome develop affordable housing. Good piece tucked in the console, Riding communication and detail skills, high, roll up on the down low. Feeling EXCEL experience, access to a car lucky, got hooked up with some and flexibility needed. Office close to Kentucky clear.So slide that little downtown South Bend. 10-15 hours/ sugar shaker over here...And get your week. $10/hour. Send resume & cover shine on! ‘Cause you and me be letter to amannix.nda@comcast.net rocking all night long!” 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
sunday’s highly-anticipated top-10 match up lived up to the hype, as the bruins and irish bat­tled to a stalemate for most of the game. neither team seemed able to create scoring opportunities in the first half, as the bruins got off seven shots and the irish took only one. 
ucla junior midfielder sam mewis led the bruins with three shots in the first half and was aggressive in pushing the ball throughout the game. waldrum said he believes that ucla’s midfielders, some of whom he’s coached on the united states under-23 national Team, won the battle in the midfield. 
“mewis  and  [ucla  junior  
midfielder  sarah] Killion, they  
outplayed  our  midfield  today,”  

waldrum said. “i think that’s where the game is won and lost when you play against good teams, in the midfield. as a player, you always want to play against good players and good teams, so hopefully ours will take it and learn from it.” 
mewis, Killion and the rest of the bruins challenged the irish, rarely allowing them to maintain any prolonged possessions. notre dame’s best two scoring chances both ended in narrow misses. in the 75th minute, bruins junior goalie Katelyn rowland snagged sophomore defender brittany von rueden’s cross just before andrews could head it in for the irish. 
in the 80th minute, andrews knocked it away from rowland to a wide-open Thomas, who knocked it in. seconds later, however, the goal was negated by an offside call. 
Five minutes later, the bruins scored the only official goal of the game when freshman forward darian Jenkins collected a re­bound off the crossbar and sent it back from point-blank range past little for her fourth goal of the season. The irish were unable to mount any sort of response in the final five minutes, even after switching out a defender for some extra firepower. 

despite the 1-0 loss, waldrum believes the game showed the irish what they have to work on to challenge top teams like ucla. 
“ucla deserved it, they were the better team,” he said. “what we want to do is learn from that, that’s why we play good team. we needed to get exposed, we needed to have that kind of game today. we’ll be better for it.” 
The irish return to action at home against detroit next sunday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | ohio norThern inviTaTional 
Belles drop three in tournament 
Observer Staff Report 
The belles opened the 2013 season by traveling to ada, ohio, for the ohio northern invitational. 
The belles (1-3) fell 3-0 (25-14, 25-11, 25-19) to host ohio northern and defeated Thiel 3-1 (19-25, 25-16, 25-21, 25-18) Friday. on saturday, saint mary’s lost a pair of 3-0 matches to heidelberg (25­22, 30-28, 25-22) and depauw (25-18, 25-19, 25-21). 
Throughout the tourna­ment, several belles had im­pressive performances. in the tournament opener against ohio northern (4-0), sopho­more outside hitter Katie hecklinski had 10 kills with five digs, while freshman set­ter clare mcmillan had 16 assists. 
after dropping the first set to Thiel (0-4), the belles bounced back behind the play of hecklinski and junior outside hitter Kati schneider, who each compiled 12 kills, and mcmillan, who added 30 assists. Junior middle hitter melanie Kuczek added 10 kills against the Tomcats, while ju­nior libero meredith mersits chipped in with a team-high 18 digs in leading the belles to their first win of the season. 
against heidelberg (2-1), schneider led the team with 15 kills and added 13 digs. Junior libero samantha grady tallied 12 digs in the loss, while mcmillan added 26 as­sists and10 digs of her own. 
in the tournament fi­nale against depauw (2-1), schneider had nine kills, Kuczek had eight kills and junior outside hitter brooke Fowler added six kills. schneider also had 13 digs, and mersits led all players in the game with 16 digs. 
at the conclusion of the tournament, Kuczek was named to the all-Tournament Team. 
The belles (1-3) will open their conference sea­
son  against  Kalamazoo  
in  Kalamazoo,  mich.,  on  
Tuesday at 7 p.m.  




ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | The observer 

ND VOLLEYBALL | norTh carolina 3, nd 0; middle Tennesssee 3, nd 1; nd 3, san Francisco 2 
Notre Dame ends weekend on high note 
dispatch san Francisco in the fi-
By CONOR KELLY 
nal match of the blue raider bash 
in murfreesboro, Tenn. 

after a disappointing first two up two sets to none against the matches that saw the irish fall dons (0-3), the irish watched their to new conference foe north lead evaporate in the following carolina and host middle two sets before taking command Tennessee state, notre dame (1-of the fifth, cruising to a 15-9 
sports writer 

3) rallied on saturday evening to victory. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“we hung in there and fought really hard,” irish coach debbie brown said. “it was a really posi­tive thing. we got away from the errors that hurt us in our first two matches and really played much better. when you play three matches in 24 hours, it’s grueling. i was happy with our toughness in taking that fifth set.” 
after struggling offensively against north carolina (3-0) and middle Tennessee (2-1), notre dame hit with greater precision in its first victory of the season. led by senior setter maggie brindock and junior outside hitter Toni alugbue, the irish hit .260 against the dons. brindock continued her role as the distributor of choice for the irish, notching 47 assists and jumping into the offense with nine kills of her own. alugbue led the irish with 15 kills on saturday night and was named to the all-Tournament team for her efforts over a weekend in which she col­lected 35 kills. 
“we expect alubue to be one of our top point scorers as she was last season. That’s her role for us,” brown said. “we changed the lineup around a little bit, and she did a great job adjusting to those changes. she played a number of positions and did everything we needed her to do.” 
despite alugbue’s solid over­all performance, notre dame struggled offensively in losses on Friday and saturday to north carolina and middle Tennessee. The irish managed to hit just .060 combined in the season’s first two matches. To brown, the problem was apparent. 

“There’s no question we were disappointed with how we played offensively in our first two matches,” brown said. “we were just making uncharacteristic un­forced errors and shooting our­selves in the foot. by the time we played usF, we were playing much better and making better hitting choices.” 
while the irish were disap­pointed in taking only one of three matches on the weekend, brown said that the experience against top teams was worthwhile and can only improve her team as it prepares for the season. 
“middle Tennessee and north carolina are perennial ncaa tournament teams,” brown said. “obviously we went down there to beat them, but i think that we overcame some obstacles and put ourselves in a better position going forward.” 
notre dame will be back in ac­tion this weekend at home for the golden dome invitational. The irish will take on bowling green at 7 p.m. Friday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY | wabash hoKum Karem 
belles earn fourth in tournament 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s kicked off its 2013 campaign by plac­ing fourth at the wabash hokum Karem on saturday in crawfordsville, ind. 
The belles notched two top-10 finishes in the field of the 31 pairs that compet­ed in the relay-style race. The tandem of senior Jessica biek and freshman brittany beeler led the way by finish­ing in fifth place with a time of 23:51. 
biek and beeler’s mark was a little more than one minute behind the relay’s winning pair of marian senior lauren borchelt and sophomore ann Kuntz, who finished the four-mile race in just 22:43. 
Junior samee chittenden and sophomore allie danhof also started the season on a high note, as their 24:11 time was good enough for seventh place. 
after graduating six run­ners last year, saint mary’s welcomes five freshmen this season. in addition to beeler, freshman Kaitlyn alessi was the only newcomer to score points in her debut. running with senior sarah Thompson, alessi produced a time of 25:53, good for 15th place overall and 12th place out of the scored runners. 
other contributors for the belles this season will in­clude senior colette curtis, juniors erin Knauf and emily getz and sophomore Katelyn dunn. This weekend, the returning runners finished just behind Thompson and alessi, as the team of curtis and Knauf and duo of dunn and getz had times of 25:55 and 26:02, respectively. 
debuting for the belles, the freshmen pairing of Kathryn marshall and maggie pacana finished in 26:34.10, good for 21st place. Freshman colleen ogren and sophomore holly higdon finished in 25th place with a time of 27:18. 
saint mary’s will host its annual alumnae race on saturday at 9 a.m. The team will next compete in the calvin Knight invitational in grand rapids, mich., on sept. 14. 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
understanding. They never gave away any scoring op­portunities. all of the seniors have a lot of experience and looked very solid.” 
despite five shots on goal, however, the irish offense the irish. “They are free to create a lot of opportunities. cicciarelli is very dangerous. we played well in everything except scoring goals. we had a few chances, but we didn’t convert.” 
clark said he wasn’t too worried about notre dame’s lack of scoring. 
“i think the most important thing is that we created chanc­es,” clark said. “if we hadn’t created chances, i would have been more concerned.” 
The irish converted two chances against smu (0-2­
0) on sunday, as senior for­ward leon brown scored both goals. 
The first came early in the first half when brown re­ceived a pass from senior for­ward alex priede, took three dribbles from midfield and shot. 
“Those were two excellent goals from leon,” clark said. “The first, he picked up the defense and cut the ball back to leon, who just hammered it in.” 

smu threatened the irish lead in the 70th minute when sophomore forward will smith fed a pass to sopho­more midfielder brenden lee, who shot from the left corner of the box for the mustangs’ only goal. 
notre dame and ucla fin­

ished the tournament with paid adverTisemenT 
ball and shot from about 25 yards.  his striker partner, priede, fed him the ball. The goalkeeper was diving, and it was a really good kick in the low corner of the goal.” 
hodan set up brown’s sec­ond goal with a low cross into the box in the 20th minute. brown converted the pass into an eight-yard shot that gave notre dame a 2-0 lead over the mustangs (0-2-0). 
“hodan picked up the ball in the right flank,” clark said. “he beat and weaved past the the same record of 1-0-1, but the irish took the title by winning the goals scored tiebreaker. 
“it’s nice to win a tour­nament,” clark said. “we should’ve beaten ucla. no question, we were the more dominant team. There were a lot of positives. The team played well, but there are things to improve like finish­ing and playing under pres­sure. overall, it was a solid weekend.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
failed to score against the bruins. 
“maybe it was just a little bit of excitement,” clark said of the offense’s struggles. “maybe we were trying a little too hard. scoring goals is the hardest thing to do in soccer. somehow it didn’t fall. That’s the way some games go.” 
sophomore midfielder patrick hodan led the irish with two shots on goal. Junior forward vince cicciarelli also came close in the 84th min­ute, but his kick bounced off the post. 
“These are some very cre­ative players,” clark said of 
Kelly 
conTinued From page 16 
today, i just wanted to take a minute on behalf of Father Jenkins and the rest of the university of notre dame, to say how thrilled we are that on a day where our head football coach becomes one of the youngest 
“It’s about that we’re all together in this contract about moving the program forward … that we’ve all decided that by signing this contract, we’re all in it together, and that’s what I was looking for.” 
Brian Kelly 
Irish coach 
coaches in history to achieve the 200-win milestone, that we can also announce that we have entered into a new agreement that ensures that brian will continue to provide the leader­ship that has fundamentally changed this program, restored it, given it the foundation that it needs for continued success in the future,” swarbrick said. 
Kelly had previously signed a contract extension that was set to take him through the 2016 season. The new deal will take Kelly through 2017. 
with the win over Temple, Kelly became the second young­est coach — at 51 years and 310 days — to hit the 200-win mark. 
“i haven’t really taken the time to think about it, other than a lot of the coaches that are with me today have been part of a lot of those wins,” Kelly said. “and that’s really, for me, pretty special.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: gloria estefan, 56; phil mcgraw, 63; barry gibb, 67; lily Tomlin, 74. 
Happy Birthday: Follow through with the plans you’ve been contemplating. do your research and take action. a change will do you good and could help you use your talents more effectively. realizing your true potential through sincere and devoted gestures will raise your profile and your reputation. avoid indulgent people and un­necessary expenses. your numbers are 4, 9, 16, 23, 27, 35, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you’ll face changes that will cause you concern, but rather than complain or overreact, turn what you view as a lemon into lemonade. it’s up to you to take the high road and make the most of whatever situation you encounter.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): concentrate on new beginnings and picking up skills, information and new friendships along the way. don’t let emotional matters stand between you and what you deserve. a day trip will encourage you to keep moving forward. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your finger on the pulse. nose your way into con­versations that will keep you in the loop and on top of any opportunity that can lead to an adventure, love or a positive change. be a participant and make a difference. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take part in workshops, a conference or a social event that will allow you to mingle and meet influential people. explore new avenues and consider how you can use your skills in other markets or industries. present and promote. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you may not like some of the restrictions you encounter, but time is on your side and the end result will be in your favor. incorporate love, compassion and especially understanding into your conversation and good things will happen. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): look for ways to best help others. what you offer can make a difference to your community as well as to a friend or relative. showing concern, along with sensitivity and love, will bring unexpected rewards and satisfac­tion. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take a back seat and let everyone else make a fuss. don’t get sucked into melodrama or someone’s overindulgent scheme. protect your pos­sessions, assets and your emotions. put your efforts into doing something that makes you feel good. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a trip or function that allows you to explore new pos­sibilities should be scheduled. positive change will bring about home and domestic improvements that will lead to greater security and stability. consider what you must do to obtain a better professional position. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can’t please everyone, so you may as well do what’s best for you. False information will be given in hopes of getting your support, cash or hands-on help. do your due diligence before you make a promise that will lead to ill feelings. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): revisit life goals you have yet to accomplish. you’ll find a way to get closer to your dreams, hopes and wishes if you discuss your plans, intentions and timeline with someone you want by your side. visit a destination that encourages romance. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take care of money matters, health and situations that may need legal documentation. having a game plan in place will give you more con­fidence and encourage you to forge ahead until you reach a destination that ensures a better future.  

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t relax when you should be out hustling, making connections and securing your position in an economic market that requires skill, finesse and constant nurturing. a partnership is encouraged, but put what you want in writing before sharing your ideas.. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

200 wins and five more years 
Kelly and Notre Dame reach contract extension through 2017 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
Editor’s Note: A version of this article appeared online Aug. 31. 
after the no. 14 irish opened up their 2013 campaign with a 28-6 victory over Temple, notre dame announced a five-year contract extension for head coach brian Kelly. 
Though the university did not disclose specific terms of the deal, Kelly did confirm the contract would extend through the next five seasons, including 2013. Kelly, who reached 200 ca­reer victories with the win over the owls, said the new contract was less about improving perks and more about the future of the program. 
“obviously, [notre dame director of athletics] Jack swarbrick, [university president] Father Jenkins, we’ve all been in discussion about the future of the program,” Kelly said. “so when we come to an agreement, it’s not nec­essarily that within it i get a lunch stipend on Tuesdays and Thursdays. it’s about that we’re all together in this contract about moving the program for­ward … that we’ve all decided that by signing this contract, we’re all in it together, and that’s what i was looking for.” 
Kelly said in early august that the two sides were close to an agreement but were still final­izing details. during the second half of saturday’s contest, news broke on the nbc broadcast that notre dame would an­nounce the extension after the game. swarbrick then spoke to reporters after the game to con­firm the news. 
“while i know that the news has made its way out into the public during the broadcast 
see Kelly PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER | nd 0, ucla 0; nd 2, smu 1  ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 4, oaKland 0; ucla 1, nd 0  
irish shut down ucla,  Notre Dame  
edge mustangs  splits weekend  

By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The no. 7 irish endured hot, humid conditions Friday night to force a 0-0 draw against no. 9 ucla, and then bounced back sunday to re­cord a 2-1 over smu at the ad­idas/ iu credit union classic in bloomington, ind. 
irish coach bobby clark said the warm weather dur­ing Friday’s matchup tested notre dame’s  endurance. 
“it was a very warm night,” clark said. “it was 93 degrees when we started the game and very humid. our fitness was very good, and they played very well and kept their en­ergy, so i give credit to them.” 
The irish (1-0-1) and bruins 
(1-0-1)  remained  scoreless  
after  regulation  and  two  
overtimes.  

senior defenders andrew o’malley and grant van de casteele prevented bruins scoring opportunities, as ucla managed only nine shots, compared to notre dame’s 18. senior goalkeeper patrick wall contributed five saves to the irish defensive effort. 

“our defense was very solid,” clark said. “i think our goalkeeper was excel­lent — pat was very calm and 

By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
no. 7 notre dame had a week­end of firsts at the notre dame adidas invitational, as the irish recorded their first shutout of the season with a 4-0 victory Friday against oakland but also suffered their first defeat in a 1-0 loss to no. 4 ucla on sunday. 
The tournament started off with a near-perfect game for the irish (3-1), who scored four goals for the third consecutive game. 
oakland (1-3) played very con­servatively in an attempt to stem the irish onslaught, even dropping back extra defenders. Their efforts proved fruitless, as four different players found the back of the net for the irish. 
Junior forward lauren bohaboy 
opened the scoring in the third 
minute with her fourth goal of 
the season. sophomore crystal 
Thomas assisted on bohaboy’s 
goal and earned another assist af­
ter her pass led to a goal by junior 
forward Karin simonian in the 
48th minute. The next two goals were sand-
collected. o’malley and van 

wiched around a 35-minute de casteele have a very good 
lightning delay. Freshman mid­fielder morgan andrews scored minute, and after the rain delay sophomore forward anna maria gilbertson scored her second goal of the season in the 69th minute. 
irish coach randy waldrum said he believes andrews’ goal is just the first of many for the high-ly-acclaimed freshman. 
“she’s getting better every game,” waldrum said of andrews. “you know, seeing her get her first goal Friday night, i think she’s go­ing to be a handful for years to come.” 
andrews wasn’t the only fresh­man that stood out this weekend, as goalie Kaela little continued to excel in her starting role. little saved four shots against the grizzlies and was strong against ucla (4-0), as the bruins only managed one goal in 20 shots. her performance pleased waldrum, but he said he still saw room for improvement. 
“i think [little’s] doing great,” waldrum said. “i thought in the second half [against ucla] she gave a couple balls away with her distribution, but that’s the kind of mistake young players are going to make. we’re going to have to coach that up a little bit, but over­all, we’re really pleased with her.” 
see soccer PAGE 14 

her first collegiate goal in the 54th see w soccer PAGE 12 





