The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 82 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
White House proposes compromise 
Possible deal could allow Notre Dame to insure employees without directly providing contraception 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 
The white house proposed a new compromise Friday re­garding religious nonprofits and the mandated contracep­tive coverage, a deal that would potentially allow notre dame to issue a health insurance plan to its employees without di­rectly providing birth control coverage. 
The proposal suggested a separate, individual private in­surance policy that could pro­vide contraceptive coverage at no cost for the employees of faith-based organizations. 
“These proposed rules aim to provide women with contra­ceptive coverage without cost sharing and to protect eligible organizations from having to contract, arrange, pay or refer for contraceptive coverage to which they object on religious grounds,” the proposal stated. 
The proposal is an amend­ment to rules regarding mini­mum insurance packages set forth by the department of health and human services as part of its regulatory authority under the affordable care act (aca). 
if the proposal takes effect, objecting organizations could provide employees with a plan that does not offer contracep­tive coverage. The health in­surer providing the plan would then enroll those employees in a separate, stand-alone policy that only covers contraceptives at no extra cost. 
The university, however, is self-insured. The policy pro­posed by the white house on Friday presented several possible approaches for self-insured organizations. in all 
see hhs PAGE 3 




Former bishop passes away at 80 
observer 

“since he became the bishop kingdom.” and receive an honorary de-
Observer Staff Report 


hires dept. 

of this diocese in 1985, he has current bishop kevin gree, due to obama’s pro-
Fr. John m. d’arcy, bishop 

emeritus of the diocese of 
Fort wayne-south bend, died 
sunday after a battle with lung 
and brain cancer. he was 80. 
d’arcy passed away on the 

56th anniversary of his first 
mass as an ordained priest, ac­
cording to a statement from the rhoades, d’arcy’s  successor, choice policy. in a statement 



editors 

also expressed his condolences released by the diocese at the 
in a statement released sunday. time, d’arcy said he would not 
“i am filled with deep sad-attend the event because “a 

ness at the death of a dear bishop must teach the catholic 
Observer Staff Report 

friend and brother bishop,” faith ‘in season and out of sea­
rhoades said. “we mourn the son,’ and he teaches not only by six new editors will join The 
death of a good shepherd after his words — but by his actions.” observer’s editorial board in 
the heart of christ, a bishop d’arcy was ordained a priest 2013-14 and two current edi­
diocese of Fort wayne-south bend. 
in a press release, university president Fr. John Jenkins said d’arcy’s life “was one of lov­ing service to god’s people as a pastor.” 
shown dedicated and affec­tionate care for notre dame,” Jenkins said. “we remem­ber him with gratitude and, though saddened by his pass­ing, we believe he will be an advocate for us in the heavenly who loved the lord and his people with all his heart.” 
in 2009, d’arcy boycotted the university’s commencement ceremony where president barack obama was to deliver the commencement address on Feb. 2, 1957 and installed bishop of the diocese on may 1, 1985. he stepped down from his office in 2009. 
Funeral services for bishop d’arcy have not yet been set, according to the diocese. 
tors will retain their positions, incoming editor-in-chief andrew gastelum announced sunday. 
sophomores ann marie 
see ediTors PAGE 5 




Students gather for Super Bowl gamewatch 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
san Francisco would face baltimore on sunday evening to compete for professional foot­ball’s most coveted title in super bowl Xlvii, but some notre dame students said they planned to enjoy the game without too much concern for the winner. 
Junior meghan moore said she usually roots for the panthers and the bears. since neither team is in the game, she said she was looking forward to other highlights of the super bowl. 
“i don’t really care who wins because neither of my teams are in it,” moore said.  “i am looking forward to the commercials and the halftime show though, and to watching the game off-campus with my friends while we eat some really good food.” 
Third-year law student andy matthews said he would have friends over to his off-campus residence to watch the game and cheer for the 49ers. 
“i’m rooting for the niners because i have friends coming over who are niners fans and be­cause i’d rather [49s coach] Jim harbaugh not ever come back to college football,” matthews said. 
Freshman katie loughran said she also cares minimally about the outcome of the game. 
“i don’t really care who wins, i mostly watch it for the commer­cials and to spend time with my friends since everyone watches it,” loughran said.  “my plans for the game are to go to my friend’s house off campus and just hang out, watch the game and eat pizza.” 
loughran said she cares about professional football only when new england plays. 
“my entire family roots for 
see bowl PAGE 5 



yoga class PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Super Bowl commercial? 


Rob Luceri 

Maureen Connelly 
junior 
junior 
duncan hall 
ryan hall 
“The doritos one.” 

“old people at Taco bell.” 

Lindsay McSweeney 
junior 
breen-phillips hall 
“The planters peanut commercial.” 


Gerry Wilson 
junior 
keenan hall 
“calvin klein.” 


Mary Kate Nelson 
junior 
ryan hall 

“The one with the pug who wants the dorito.” 



Jay  Wang 
junior duncan hall 
“godaddy.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
mel Flanagan vicky Jacobsen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
carolyn hutyra brian hartnett nicole mcalee a.J. godeaux 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Ethics Week Lecture Engineering Seminar Workshop: Interview Zen Meditation Basilica Mass 
suzanna pratt dan brombach 

Mendoza College of Geddes Hall Dos and Don’ts Coleman-Morse Basilica of the  Sacred Business 3 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 114 Flanner Hall Center Heart 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. Seminar by Dr. Filippo 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m. 
Corrections 

Presentation by John Coletti of Stanford Interviewing tips and Practice sitting and Led by Bishop Kevin 
The observer regards itself as Sturm. University. tricks from Ann Moran. walking meditation. Rhoades. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“The Gospel Four:7 Catholic Meet the Baseball Film screening: Men’s Hockey 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

According to Josh” Fellowship Team Dinner “American Meat” Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 

Geddes Hall Cavanaugh Hall Joyce Center DeBartolo Hall Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:40 p.m. 7:35 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

One-man show in the Student-led Catholic Autograph session Presented by the The Irish face the 
we can correct our error. 

Andrews Auditorium. fellowship group. and dinner. Office of Sustainability. Michigan Wolverines. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | The observer 

STUDENT GOVERMENT ASSOCIATION 

Saint Mary’s SGA updates policies 
By JILL BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
as turnover between admin­istrations approaches in com­ing weeks, saint mary’s student government association (sga) will focus on several major calen­dar items at the college. 
during the month of February, sga will host heritage week and love your body week with other organizations on campus. 
during the week of Feb. 18, the college will also launch its capital campaign, a major fund­raising initiative. 
another significant upcoming event will be elections for sga, student body president maureen parsons said. 
“currently we are working on updating our election policies and posting policy,” parsons said. “we have callout meetings next monday and Tuesday, Feb. 11 and 12, where candidates will be able to sign up and note what they are running for.” 
parsons said she and student body vice president meghan casey will then go over the rules for elections with the candidates. 
“student body president [and] vice president and senate elec­tions will be the last week in February,” parsons said. “big boards and class boards will be the first week of march. candidates can start campaign­ing that sunday and elections are held that Thursday. we will 
paid adverTisemenT 

be doing elections through orgsync.” parsons and casey will be running the callout meetings and approving each of the can­didate’s platforms once it is are complete. “i also want to make sure that turnover is a smooth transition and the new president and vice president will feel comfortable in their roles,” parsons said. casey said she hopes to have an abundance of applications from students for sga posi­tions, especially the senate, for the upcoming year. “our senate was not com­pletely filled this year so i’m re­ally hoping that more students will apply for positions within sga so that the new structure can be used to its full poten­tial,” casey said. “i am looking forward to the transition so that maureen and i are able to discuss our goals with the new administration and make sure turnover goes smoothly.” but before turnover, parsons and casey both have goals of expanding the impact of sga 



paid adverTisemenT 

in their remaining time, and they said they hope the events 
“We want to get people really excited about Heritage Week and hopefully have the most successful turnout as possible.” 
Meghan Casey 
student body vice president 
Saint Mary’s SGA 

of heritage week and love your body week have solid attendance. 
“we want to get people really excited about heritage week and hopefully have the most success­ful turnout as possible,” casey said. “Following through with our goals for heritage week and the capital campaign means a great deal to us.” 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
HHS 
conTinued From page 1 
approaches, self-insured plans could work with the company that administers their health benefits to avoid coverage contraceptives. 
a third-party administrator would “automatically arrange separate individual health in­surance policies for contracep­tive coverage from an issuer providing such policies,” the proposal stated. 
a previous proposal had sug­gested a similar solution for self-insured plans, but under that proposal, the third-party administrator would have had no way to pay for the contra­ceptive coverage other than the revenue it receives from self-insured plans. That proposal was criticized by many as noth­ing more than an accounting gimmick. 
The current proposal would lower fees in other parts of the aca to provide third-party administrators with savings they could use to pay for the contraceptive coverage. 
The third-party administra­tor would receive a credit «in an amount that would offset a reasonable charge by the third party administrator for per­forming this service. 
university spokesman dennis brown declined com­ment on the proposal until notre dame administrators have fully analyzed its contents. 
last may, the university filed one of more than 40 re­ligious liberty lawsuits from faith-based organizations to contest the constitutionality of the contraception mandate. The lawsuit states the mandate would go against church teach­ings and therefore violates the First amendment, the religious Freedom restoration act and other federal laws. 
a federal judge dismissed notre dame’s lawsuit last month, when u.s. district court Judge robert miller Jr. ruled Jan. 2 that the lawsuit should be dismissed because the university’s claim is not yet “ripe,” meaning it is not ready to be litigated — in this case, because the rule regarding contraceptive coverage had not been finalized. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

camp kesem fundraiser makes magic 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
news writer 
make the magic, the inaugu­ral fundraiser for notre dame’s chapter of camp kesem, will bring out the true meaning of the national organization’s name, student co-chair lauren mcgrath said. 
“kesem is the hebrew word for magic, and it’s what drives the whole operation,” mcgrath said. “we channel the magic and try to bring it out of our campers.” 
camp kesem, a week-long summer camp for children whose parents have or have had cancer, is relatively unknown on campus, mcgrath said, but this year’s make the magic event is a step toward chang­ing that. The silent auction and dinner will be held Friday at the inn at saint mary’s. 
notre dame students can lead the camp as counselors to make a difference in the lives of these children, mcgrath said. beyond the benefits of help­ing children and their families during periods of uncertainty, camp kesem provides students with the opportunity to develop professional skills. 
“a camp kesem notre dame counselor is someone who is crazy fun, great with kids and has absolutely no problem look­ing silly,” she said. “The mission of camp kesem national is two­fold, to help these kids in the community but also to give stu­dent leadership skills that they can take with them throughout their life.” 
whether they spend their volunteer time dressing up in costumes for theme days, danc­ing at the talent show or taking part in a giant ice cream fight, students will never regret de­voting a week of their summer to camp kesem, mcgrath said. 
“you definitely come away from the experience a more en­riched person,” she said. “it’s hard not to see life in a differ­ent light and appreciate every­thing that you have after camp. guaranteed, it will be the best week of your summer.” 
The word “kesem” expresses both the structure of camp and the effects it produces in the lives of campers and counsel­ors, mcgrath said. For example, everyone has a nickname for the duration of the camp and can be whomever he or she chooses. 
“it’s a way to escape from all the hard stuff,” she said. “when a parent is diagnosed, it affects the whole family, and these kids are forced to play mom or dad, whether that’s cooking dinner or providing emotional support, and to grow up very quickly. camp is a week when they can 
“It’s hard not to see life in a different light and appreciate everything that you have after camp.” 
Lauren McGrath 
student co-chair 
Camp Kesum 
just be kids and be goofy again.” 
The magic does not stop at the conclusion of camp, but rather extends throughout the year as a result of the sustained care and concern of the dedi­cated counselors, she said. 
“it’s not just a week in the summer though,” mcgrath said. “we have camper reunions for the families, and we create this support group within the families. we don’t want to be there just for the good parts. we want to be there for our camp­ers throughout the year.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
while the notre dame chap­ter represents one branch of a national organization, the camp focuses on serving the needs of the local communi­ty, mcgrath said. The chapter serves local children in south bend and mishawaka. 
Further, cancer provides a common point of contact for the campers, counselors and community members or groups supporting the organi­zation. locally, the kelly cares Foundation and the harper 
cancer  research institute  are  
supporting  organizations  for  
camp kesem.   
“everybody  has  been  af­ 

fected by cancer in some way,” mcgrath said. “cancer is an ab­solutely terrible disease, but it’s also what brings us all together and allows us to have this week. our counselors volunteer for in­dividual reasons, but almost all sign up because they have also experienced the affects of can­cer in their lives.” 
camp kesem exists to serve the needs of children and their families, mcgrath said, but the campers provide as much in­spiration for their counselors through their courage and per­sonal testimonies. 
“you go into the week thinking, ‘i’m the counselor, and i’m here for these kids,’ and then by the end of the week, af­ter all of the crazy games and bonding, the campers end up giving you more than you could ever give them,” mcgrath said. 
mcgrath said planning make the magic, which will also fea­ture a performance by the notre dame glee club, has been ex­hausting, but well worth it to see the joy on the children’s faces. 
“so many people depend on us to make camp happen,” she said. “The campers light up my world though, and it makes all of the hard work completely worth it.” 
Those interested in apply­ing for a counselor position can find the application online at campkesem.org. applications are due Friday. 
registration for “make the magic” can also be found on the organization’s website and will be accepted until wednesday at midnight. The event will take place Friday from 6 to 9 p.m. at the gillespie conference center, part of the inn at saint mary’s.  
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | The observer 



paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 
Bowl 
conTinued From page 1 
the patriots, so every time the patriots go to the super bowl i watch it and care about the re­sults,” loughran said.  “The last two times they’ve gone to the super bowl they’ve lost — which has been upsetting — but other than that i don’t really care about pro football.” 
Junior emily kaes said she would also root for san Francisco. 
“i really like football,” kaes said.  “but usually when my team is not playing, i don’t care who wins and hope that the game is a good, exciting game to watch — but i hope the 49ers win because i hate the ravens.” 
her allegiance to the bengals turned her against the ravens, kaes said. 
“i am from cincinnati and cheer for the bengals, so i hate the ravens,” kaes said.  “if it’s any other team besides the cleveland browns, the pittsburgh steelers and the baltimore ravens — the teams in the bengals’ division — i don’t care very much, but i al­ways cheer against those teams.” 
despite her football allegianc­es, kaes said she would also focus on the commercials during the game. 
“i am watching the game with friends and we are making food,” kaes said.  “i also have to watch the commercials for one of my classes, actually.  The class is called ‘internet and society,’ and 

Editors 
conTinued From page 1 
Jakubowski, mike monaco and kaitlyn rabach and juniors kirby mckenna, grant Tobin and steph wulz will assume posi­tions on the editorial board after spring break. 
Junior kevin noonan will return as scene editor, while junior dan brombach will shed the title of interim and continue as viewpoint editor. 
Jakubowski, a mcglinn hall resident and native of grand rapids, mich., will serve as news editor. an english and spanish double major with a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy, Jakubowski has experience covering indiana politics and the indiana senate race this fall in particular. 
monaco, a film, televi­sion and theatre major with minors in journalism, eth­ics and democracy and busi­ness economics, hails from cohasset, mass., and lives in o’neill hall. monaco will serve as sports editor after covering men’s basketball, men’s lacrosse and spend­ing the past year as interhall editor. 
rabach, a resident of holy cross hall and native of muskegon, mich., will serve as saint mary’s editor. a sopho­more political science and global studies major, rabach spent the fall semester study­ing abroad in morocco and contributed to The observer’s for it i will look specifically at commercials and how they de­sign commercials for the super bowl.” 
Junior brian duffy said he is hoping to see what he would con­sider the most interesting story emerge from the result of the game — the triumph of ravens linebacker ray lewis and his team. 
“since the packers are out, it’s all about the story,” duffy said. “The best story would definitely be if ray lewis went out on top.” 
duffy said he would not watch the game, however. 
“i’m not watching,” he said. “it’s the pre-med life.” 
Junior Tyler richards, study­ing abroad in Toledo, spain, said he does not plan to watch the game and does not care about its outcome. 
“The game doesn’t start until about 1 a.m.,” richards said.  “no one from notre dame abroad with me cares very much, and in general if it’s not spelled ‘fútbol,’ no ‘football’ game is being broad­cast in spain.” 
richards said he blamed notre dame’s loss in the national championship for loss of all in­terest and hope.  when asked if what he meant was a loss of in­terest in football or in all sports, richards responded with feigned dismay. 
“life,” he said. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
nd passport blog. 
mckenna will take over as multimedia editor. mckenna is a marketing and graphic de­sign double major. a resident of ryan hall and native of dublin, ohio is also a member of The observer’s photography department. 
Tobin is a finance and chinese double major from port orange, Fla., and a resi­dent of dillon hall. Tobin has worked as The observer’s lead lacrosse photographer and covered women’s basketball in the sweet 16 last season. Tobin studied abroad in beijing last fall and served as interim photo editor in the spring of 2012. 
wulz hails from ramsey, n.J., and lives in walsh hall. The graphic design major has ex­perience with The observer’s irish insiders and the scene section’s centerspread. 
noonan, from overland park, kan., is currently on leave while interning at The david letterman show in new york. The marketing major with a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy has con­tributed to every department in The observer and served as scene editor in spring of 2012 and fall of 2012 and will return this upcoming fall. 
brombach is from st. paul, minn., and is a resident of Zahm house. brombach, a history major with a minor in business economics, is currently serving as interim viewpoint editor. 


INSIDE COLUMN 
patriarchy of war 

Kaitlyn Rabach 
news writer 
This semester, i decided to broaden my horizons and take a gender and politics class. The professor recently asked the class to write a paper on the masculinity of war. my initial reaction to this topic was very constricted: violence is often associated with male stereotypes, but other than that, how masculine is war? 
after learning more about the topic, i was surprised to learn that not only are active participants of war characterized as mas­culine, but the underlying structure and language of war itself is centered on male dominance. 
as i began to dig deeper into the patriarchy of war, i was surprised to see how few female voices were involved in foreign policy con­cerns, specifically in regards to the military. 
i have never been a feminist that believes women are inherently peaceful, and i will al­ways propose benevolent solutions to issues regarding international security, but i am a firm believer that when women are able to join in on discussions, different perspectives are brought to the table. 
our country is mostly run by white, male elites. Their perspective is narrow and often links international security with the military. war is often viewed as strong and manly, while other solutions to security like eco­nomic development and gender empower­ment are often not proposed. 
placing women in security discussions will propose different solutions to security, and will ultimately lead to a more genuine and stable international community. 
Feminists will ask questions about sexual violence, mass rape and structural displace­ment. They will wonder why men are using rape as a weapon of war. The international criminal court already proposes this tactic of war as a crime against humanity, but having that on the books is different than the world recognizing it as a human rights violation. 
not only will feminists bring concerns of vulnerable individuals to the table, they can also be a force in reconstructing the language of defense, security and war. currently, the language used by defense intellectuals is sexist and uses euphemisms to draw away from the reality of nuclear holocaust. 
not only does defense language stray away from reality, it also creates gender dichoto­mies. masculinity is viewed as dominant and functional where feminine characteris­tics are viewed as weak and dysfunctional. For instance, when defense intellectuals are testing new bombs they use language like, “it’s a boy” to express successful tests. 
Feminists can work to change this lan­guage. This change, along with the pro­posal of new security perspectives, will work to create a more stable international community. 

No such thing as gun control 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet. 
after reading anti-gun editorials ad nauseam, i figured i’d respond to many of those articles first with a po­litical perspective and then secondly by exploring the practicality of gun control laws. with this end in mind, i would like to introduce readers to a quote made popular by blogger and radio host stefan molyneux: “if you are for gun control, then you’re not against guns, because the guns will be needed to disarm people. you’ll need to go around, pass laws and shoot people who resist … just to take away guns. so it’s not that you’re anti-gun … you just believe that only the government should be allowed to have guns. so there’s no such thing as gun control, there’s only centralizing gun owner­ship in the hands of a small political elite.” molyneux is bringing up the obvious: gun owners will not simply turn in their guns because congress or the president tells them to. guns will be necessary to collect guns, and thus force will be required to disarm the public. with “pro-gun centralization” laws, society will only be taking the in­dividual’s natural right to defend him/ herself away. but then again, maybe gang members will cooperate if you just say, “please follow orders.” 
as i mentioned in my previous ar­ticle, republicans and democrats alike have the same goal — making society better off for all individuals. but what i do not understand is if classic lib­eralism emphasizes the importance of individual rights, why do so many liberals stand against the second amendment? in a recent article on the daily kos, widely considered a rela­tively progressive blog, author kailil Joy gray discusses how the typical lib­eral loves the constitution, excluding one particular passage in the bill of rights. she opens her article by ad­dressing the fact the bill of rights pro­tects individual rights and analyzes the repeated diction in the document 

— “the right of the people” — encom­passed in the First, second, Fourth, ninth and Tenth amendments. gray continues her argument by stating if liberals stand for individual rights, they should also support the right to protect one’s self. 
many gun centralists will cite the passage in the second amendment regarding “the militia” as exclusive to former servicemen and women, but fail to realize in chapter 13, section 311 (2b) of the u.s. code, the docu­ment defines “militia,” reading,“The unorganized militia, consisting of [those] who are not members of the national guard or the naval militia.” This includes all people, all individu­als. we are all endowed by our creator with the right to defend ourselves 
— not given by congress, but by god. many people often forget the second amendment was also designed to pro­tect society from government tyranny, which is no less relevant today than it was in 1776; look at the expansion of the military-industrial complex of the past 20 years, the patriot act, forced government healthcare, public sur­veillance, “enhanced interrogation techniques,” drone strikes abroad — the list goes on and on, whether or not people choose to admit the truth. 
after catastrophes like sandy hook, gun centralizers will take full advan­tage of the public disbelief to promote their agenda. after a particularly violent weekend in chicago, rahm emanuel was infamously quoted for stating, “let no crisis go to waste.” many of you probably saw piers morgan’s debates with alex Jones and ben shapiro. piers based his argument for “gun control” on the sheer number of gun-related crime in america: about 8500 homicides were commit­ted in the united states throughout 2011, while great britain had only 59 (britain has a complete gun ban for the public). but, his argument“fewer guns equal fewer crimes” falls apart when one examines the violent crime rates in each respective country. The united kingdom was named the second most violent country in the european union with between 766 and 2,034 violent crimes per 100,000 people. britain has a different definition of “violent crime” than the united states, making the true number an estimate somewhere inside the given range. This is opposed to 466 per every 100,000 in the united states. next, we hear only semi-automatic rifles should be taken away, yet no one mentions 68 of the 142 guns used in the 62 mass shootings since 1982 were semi-automatic handguns, while only 35 of the weapons were assault rifles. so, my question to gun centralizers is, “why not start going after handguns instead of assault rifles if they are much more prevalent in mass homicides?” 
once society moves past the fear and passion left by these tragedies, hope­fully we will stop taking the bait offered by sen. dianne Feinstein and president obama, claiming “gun owners don’t care about child safety” or that “guns make us less safe.” violence exists in the heart and mind, not in a weapon. if we want to prevent another sandy hook or columbine from occurring, society needs to tackle the root of the problem, not simply focus on the means to those catastrophic ends. 
Connor Roth is a sophomore econom­ics major and constitutional studies minor. He can be reached at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Join the conversation 
who should come to notre dame’s 5th annual human development conference (hdc)? Just inter­national development studies minors? only political science majors?  no — everyone and anyone who cares about world issues and innovative research to combat these issues. 
we are civil engineers who are constructing bridges in nicaragua. we are pre-professional students who are researching infant health in bangladesh. we are anthropologists understanding women’s role in com­munity development in uganda. we all have some­thing to contribute to the conversation, whether as an accounting major or as a graphic design student. it is only through collaboration that we come to a greater understanding of how everything intertwines. This is how we develop micro-finance programs for women in post-conflict rwanda. This is how we combine dif­ferent mediums to promote youth development. This is how we care for our fellow human beings. 

no matter what our diplomas will say, we are all students of international development. experts in every discipline must work with communities and fellow academics to provide solutions for pervasive global problems, from poverty to corruption to pollu­tion. at the end of the day it doesn’t matter how many calculus problems you can solve or how many pages you can pump out during an all-nighter; what matters is ensuring that every individual may enjoy a fulfill­ing, dignified existence. 
The 5th annual human development conference, sponsored by the Ford Family program in human development studies and solidarity at the kellogg institute for international studies and cosponsored by siT study abroad and the center for social concerns, will take place on Feb. 8 and 9 at the hesburgh center for international studies. registration begins at 1:15 p.m. on Feb. 8, with panel sessions through the fol­lowing evening. please see http://nd.edu/~hdc for a complete schedule of speakers and events. 
we hope that you will join the conversation as we seek to understand and aid the developing world. Together, we possess the ability to see the human faces printed on the pages of our textbooks, to hear the hope echoing in quiet places where we least ex­pect to find it. 
Margot Morris 
senior mcglinn hall 
Anna Kottkamp 
sophomore pangborn hall 
UWIRE 

A call for ethical media 
Gabriella Corvese 
brown daily herald 
The tragedy of the sandy hook massacre not only opened american eyes to policy and social issues affecting our nation, but it also illuminated some of the shoddy inner workings of the mechanism that shared this information with us in the first place: the media. 
Through news websites, Twitter, Facebook and other networks, the american public knew of the events occurring in newtown, conn., just minutes after they began. and as time passed and more interest was garnered, questions were raised. why is this happening? who is doing this? what is hap­pening to these people? ours is an easily intrigued and interested culture. it is in our nature to raise questions about events that shock and disturb us. 
Thankfully, our media outlets are able to satiate our hunger for information. but sharing the news is not always an act of altruism — information shar­ing is a for-profit industry. and it is through the media’s overwhelming desire for page views that we, the intrigued public, bear witness to unethical measures. in the hours after the shooting, journal­ists and reporters flocked to the elementary school. while some interviewed police officers and respon­dents to the shooting, others sought the input of children. 
consulting kids, many of whom were trauma­tized by the events that occurred at sandy hook, is no display of journalistic integrity. it is a cruel and invasive act that only disrupts a community, and disruption is the last thing needed by the residents of newtown. There is a fine line between reporting on an event and dealing more damage after tragedy strikes a community. if the success of your report depends on a statement from a child, perhaps your report needs some work. 

when it comes to modern journalism, it is often said that “if it bleeds, it leads.” That is, tragic sto­ries with extreme details attract the most viewers, regardless of whether or not those details were obtained ethically. as empathetic people, we tune in to certain stories just to see how much “bleed­ing” there really is. stories like newtown provoke ethical dilemmas for journalists. how can they maintain their duty to inform the public without manipulating the emotions of the affected and the consumers? Just like it is unethical to violate the privacy of children for a headline, it is wrong to intrude upon a community to obtain sensational, violent details. likewise, the media should not at­tack consumers’ emotions with violent reports for the sake of profit. 
amidst tragedy in places like newtown, it often becomes easy to forget the community itself. but despite the policy issues these horrific events bring to the table, it is wrong to define a thriving town by a political debate or the media’s fascination. The phrase “school shooting” is not a pleasant one to have in my vernacular, but it is preferable to “pull­ing a columbine” — an inconsiderate statement that disregards the people involved in this tragedy. 
shootings like that at sandy hook bring many im­portant topics up for discussion — topics i believe are worth discussing. but among the significance of these issues remains the need for respect from the media. one way to help the problem is to shrink the already massive reporting force. The white house provides news to the public with smaller press pools that report back to a collective source, as op­posed to sending hordes of eager journalists to an event. perhaps this sort of organization is what the popular media needs. not only would it reduce the amount of intrusion suffered by a grieving commu­nity, but also it would provide more condensed and concise, rather than sensationalized, reports. 
most importantly, the media must stop abus­ing the well-being of individuals. people should be treated as people, not commodities for reporters to snatch in hopes of getting an eye-catching head­line. That especially includes children who have been affected by tragedy, individuals who should be left to heal after an event rather than continu­ously reminded of it. in journalism, sometimes less is more. 
while it will take time for the entire system to change, i hope that the discourse of media ethics serves as a wake-up call to journalists, both suc­cessful and aspiring. getting thousands of views on a news segment is gratifying, but the first priority should be the ethical and proper treatment of oth­ers, not profit. The media is an important part of a democratic society, and as such, it should work with and for the people, not against it. 
This column originally ran in the Jan. 30 edition of The Brown Daily Herald, serving  Brown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY  4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 
an ocean of telemetronic beats, dub-step drops, banging drums pulsing upwards, breaking into lilting, waving piano and clear vocals.  genre smash­ing, hipster rapping, one of mTv’s “13 artists to watch in 2013,” Twenty one pilots put on an incredible show at legends on saturday night. 
i left the concert sweaty, tired, hoarse and completely confused as to why i had never heard of the band before and what they were doing playing a half-full legends. 
Their music is difficult to describe. each song was energetic, fun, creative and really easy to dance to.  i spent the entire show jumping up and down, booty popping and doing the bernie. 
vocalist Tyler Joseph was a pretty fun rapper talking about his hatred of sundays and other nerdy white college boy complaints, while still creating a sound that was a little scary and full of drops. most songs started with some lines of rap accompanied by heavy bass and drumbeat. 
They’d soon break into alternative piano pop for a few verses, proceeding to interweave the two sounds together. if eminem went to a liberal arts college and then joined neon Trees, he would make music like this. 
The two-person group started the show wearing skeleton costumes and would sometimes put ski masks over their heads before starting a song.  This might have seemed weird at any other concert, but for them, it just sort of made sense. 

in between songs, Joseph would pull the old “make small talk with the crowd as we retune our guitars and catch our breath for the next song” bit.  despite how much i normally hate that, they were actually charming.  drummer Josh dun sat laughing and watching Joseph call out members of the crowd, inviting one kid on stage and at one point telling the audience that they are not gay, despite many of their fans and concert goers thinking they are. 
it was hard not to like both the band members and not want to root for their self-proclaimed “weird songs.”  They paired crowd favorites like “ode to sleep” and “car radio,” with a ukulele cover of “i’m yours” so we could sing along. every audience member wanted nothing more than to convince these two kids to come hang out off campus after the show. 
The opening band “new politics” was a little bit less weird but a whole lot more british.  The group played straight hipster pop, and had every­one in the crowd screaming and jump­ing up and down to “yeah yeah yeah,” which closed out their set and will probably be one of the next songs i buy on iTunes. 
Two final conclusions: mTv still knows what they’re talking about, and Twenty one pilots would make an awe­some sub concert.
 Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 

Photos: STEPHANIE LEUNG | The Observer 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 



dragged author James Frey onto televi-then the stodgy counter figure to barack can do pretty much whatever she wants 
Sam Stryker 

sion to confess he fabricated events in obama when she ran for president in and can get away with it. she got paid 
assistant managing editor 

his self-described memoir “a million 2008, hillary was the exact opposite $15 million for doing one season of “The little pieces.” lesson learned: don’t of diva. cut to 2013, and clinton is the X-Factor” which literally only requires when super bowl organizers se-mess with the o. coolest cat in washington. whether it’s passing judgment on people’s talent, the lected beyoncé knowles to perform at 

Anna knocking back beers in colombia, tak-perfect job for a diva. when she de­sunday’s halftime show, they weren’t 
Wintour: The ing selfies with meryl streep or being manded a raise for a second season and just selecting one of the top performing 
editor-in-chief honored with the “Texts from hillary” was denied, she didn’t stick around and artists of all time to entertain millions 
at vogue is website, clinton has officially earned take a pay cut. she said peace to simon of viewers around the world. 
notoriously her diva title. The only way she can top cowell and co. because, hey, she’s They were selecting a bona-fide diva. 
known by nick-herself is if she is elected to the white britney and she doesn’t need them. what does being a diva really mean? 
names such as house in 2016 as diva-in-chief. britney gets bonus props for selling is it defined by dramatic behavior, ri-
Mariah more than a billion dollars of fragrances diculous demands and a sense of theat­
“the editrix” Carey: a diva worldwide in the past five years. youand “nuclear

Photo: Forbes.com 

is measured by can’t just act like a diva — you need to a diva is the best at what he or she devil wears prada,” rumor has it that ricality? of course not. wintour.” if you’ve ever seen “The 
how large her smell like one too. does, and a diva knows it — and de-meryl streep based her performance as 

Prince:
personality is, 

Further proof as such. divadom knows no boundaries a diva is all about making outrageous and very oftenmands mere plebeians treat him or her miranda priestley off of wintour. being that the divathat means 
title knows no race, gender or sexual orientation. $200,000 annual shopping allowance get along with other grandiose figures. 
— you can be a diva regardless of age, demands, and wintour has written a 
Photo: Twitter.com she does not 
gender bound-but how do the greatest divas of all into her vogue contract. additionally, case in point: mariah carey, the queen 
aries, prince is stack up? in honor of beyoncé’s super wintour is so powerful in the fashion of the celebrity feud. The list of a-listers 
one demanding bowl performance, here is a power world that her approval alone is enough she has gotten into beefs with reads like Photo: MTV.com cat. let’s look ranking of the greatest global divas. to spell success or failure for a designer’s a who’s-who list of hollywood stars — at his qualifications. First of all, prince 
Beyoncé: collection. even notre dame is in her eminem, nicki minaj, whitney houston doesn’t play by the rules. in 1993, he Following the debt — wintour persuaded brooks and christina aguilera. if you’re going changed his name to an unpronounce­backlash she brothers to hire then-unknown Thom to step in the ring with those celebs, able symbol and in order to accommo­received for browne, an alumnus of the university you better have some credibility. and date the switch, his record label had to lip-synching who went on to design clothing worn mariah backs up her words with talent mail out a massive batch of floppy disks at this year’s by michelle obama at this year’s and success. she’s won five grammys, containing custom font. in 2007, prince presidential inauguration. sold more than 200 million records performed what many consider to be inauguration, 

Anderson worldwide and has had 18 no. 1 singles the best super bowl halftime show per­beyoncé belted Cooper: ever in the united states, the most of any formance ever in miami. The weather 
Photo: Twitter.com 

since he came solo female performing artist. did not cooperate during the show, but anthem live at a super bowl press 
out the national 

The Queen of in typical diva fashion, prince used it conference to silence all of the critics. 
out last year, 

England: kate to his advantage. in honor of one of his after the performance, she sarcastically 
cnn news an­

middleton may most famous songs, he had stage lights asked, “any questions?” 
chor anderson 

be the darling turn the cascading rain around him everything beyoncé does screams 
cooper has 

of britain, but purple. best of all, prince kicked kim “diva.” she and husband Jay-Z shelled man sass ma-
been a one-
Photo: CNN.com 

let’s be real kardashian off his stage during a con-out more than $1 million to rent a hos-chine. This has been especially evident 
— the Queen cert for not dancing. spoken like a true pital floor for the birth of her daughter on Twitter, where cooper has put his 
Photo: Biography.com runs the show. diva. blue ivy, and they had a team of security verbal putdown skills on display. This For starters, she had James bond per-

Elizabeth 
Taylor:

guards rivaling the secret service on was no truer than in the fall, when he sonally deliver her into the opening 
elizabeth other patients at the hospital were re-mous tweeter asked what would hap-olympics. in addition to england, hand to keep the media and fans away. was reporting from gaza. an anony-ceremonies of last summer’s london 
Taylor may portedly not able to access certain areas pen if the palestinians knew cooper elizabeth ii is queen of some pretty 
have passed of the prenatal zone because of security. was gay, to which anderson responded, prime real estate, namely every tropi­
away two years nothing says “diva” quite like putting “why not use your name and photo, cal island you’ve ever wanted to vaca­
ago, but she your needs ahead of normal peasant coward? have some more Fritos and tion on — Jamaica, barbados and the Photo: Hauteliving.com has earned folk. keep typing.” and when a woman called bahamas, to name a few. The Queen diva hall of Fame status. let’s look at 
Oprah: cooper’s reporting skills into question, knows she is a powerful, independent her qualifications, shall we? Jewelry america’s moral he responded with this gem of a tweet: woman and best of all, she seems pretty collection worth a reported $150 mil-arbiter is also “perhaps spend less time tweeting content being the biggest royal diva lion at the time of her death? check. one of its big-about coconut flan and more time actu-around for even longer — her reign of eight marriages and seven divorces, gest divas. she 
ally following 60 years is the second-longest ever for a including two each to richard burton? actually retired 
the news.” Face british monarch. check. Two academy awards? check. from her day-

Britney essentially, Taylor wrote the textbook time talk show it, anderson is a 
Spears: britney on how to be a diva, and everyone has so she could #diva. 
isn’t a diva in been following in her footsteps since.
Hillary
Photo: Oprah.com 
Clinton: hillary 

the sense that sentially, one show wasn’t enough for found her own television network — es-
she just has a Contact Sam Stryker at oprah, so she needed an entire chan-
Photo: Politico.com can grow into 
is proof that you 

larger-than-sstryke1@nd.edu nel. she was one of the key boosters who your diva status. when she was known 
life personal-The views expressed in this column are launched barack obama to the white as a stiff counterpart to her slick hus-Photo: Twitter.com ity (which she those of the author and not necessarily house in 2008, and she single-handedly band during her time as First lady and does) but because personality-wise, she those of The Observer. 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
marathons give everyone a shot 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
maybe you were the high school tight end who real­ized he had a better chance of making it to the rose bowl as a trumpet player in the marching band. maybe dreams of scoring in the world cup faded away as it became more and more apparent that you are slow and uncoordinated. personally, i started to doubt my chances of ncaa hoops glory when i got cut from my middle school basketball team. 
Forget about winning titles and medals — most of us won’t even get to compete in the events we loved watching as kids. 
unless you’re a runner. The olympics might be out of reach, but the world marathon majors (boston, london, berlin, new york, chicago and, beginning this year, Tokyo) are the only contests where amateurs can honestly say that they competed in an iconic event against the best athletes in the world. 
There are limits to who can enter one of the races — to be one of the 20,000-plus participants who run in any given year, you either have to meet a qualifying time at a smaller marathon or receive a sponsors’ exemption, many of which go to charity runners who collectively raise more than $10 million a year. but the diversity of participants is staggering: There are sepa­rate qualifying standards for each age group (for the 75-plus club, don’t worry, it’s not too late to start training), and the wheelchair race leads off the festivities. 
The boston marathon was first run in 1896, making it by far the oldest of the an­nual major marathons (new york, the second, didn’t come around until 1970.). The race is part of the festivities honoring patriots’ day, a massachusetts state holiday held on the third monday of april to commemo­rate the battles of lexington and concord. 
i realize the boston marathon doesn’t get the same sort of attention paid to a lot of team sports. Tv rat­ings aren’t going to be all that high when the race is held on a monday morning when most of the country is in the office. it does lack a lot of the spectacle that has become a standard part of american sports (no, beyoncé will not be serenad­ing runners as they struggle up heartbreak hill.). The winners probably won’t become house­hold names, at least not in the united states. i’m sure last year’s winners, wesley korir and sharon cherop, are well known in nairobi. and for the 48 states that don’t celebrate patriots’ day, there is no tail­gating and no partying. 
but are any of those things good reasons to hold or watch a sporting event? i love the trappings of modern sport­ing events as much as the next person, but as humans we are still eager to compete even when there is no money, glory or partying to be had. on the most basic level, we love sports because it is our attempt to transcend the limitations of the human body. we want to see the seemingly impossible done before our eyes. we want miraculous diving catches, gymnasts with strength and balance that appear to defy the laws of gravity and bicyclists who think it’s a good idea to pedal up the pyrenees and ride back down. 
while the marathon might lack the flash of some of those sports, it makes up for it in its elegant simplicity. For every participant, from the top run­ner in the world to the weekend warrior to the cancer survivor running for charity, the feat is the same. They might have dif­ferent goals and expectations, but each is forcing his or her body to run a 26.2-mile course as every instinct wants to slow down. 
we often hear that sports serve to inspire us. what pro­fessional athletes do is amaz­ing, but isn’t it even more meaningful when you see your neighbors, colleagues or fellow college students taking on the same challenge? i would have to say yes. so that’s why i’m choosing the boston marathon 
— the simplest and most dem­ocratic contest on the athletic calendar — as the best event in sports. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at      vjacobse@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, Tennessee 3 
Irish top Tennessee 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 

Their match took longer than expected, but the irish defeated Tennessee at home by a score of 4-3. 
The dual meet at eck Tennis pavilion began at 9 a.m. sunday and was supposed to be finished by noon, when the irish men’s team was sched­uled to have its match. but, at 1 p.m., the no. 18 irish (4­
1) and no. 25 lady vols (0-4) were still locked at 2-2, and the crowd looked on as irish soph­omore molly o’koniewski beat Tennessee freshman Tiffany Tavares 5-7, 6-4, 6-4 and notre dame freshman Quinn gleason persevered for a 6-2, 4-6, 7-5 win over lady vols sophomore caitlyn williams. 
“we knew it was going to be close,” irish coach Jay louderback said. “i didn’t see much of molly’s match, but Quinn gleason did a great job at the end of her match. [williams] got it back to five-all [in the third set], and Quinn played two great games.” 
The irish have now played in four straight matches where the outcome was determined by one point. 
“we’ve played a tough schedule already, a lot of top­25 teams, and every match is going to be like that,” louderback said. “Tennessee is 0-4, and they’ve lost four 4-3 matches.” 
although the result of the match was in doubt until the very end, louderback said the doubles point, contested hours earlier, played a huge role in the outcome.
 “we knew going in that it was going to be hard for any team to win four singles matches, because we’re so evenly matched,” louderback said. 
o’koniewski and junior Julie sabacinski swept Tennessee sophomore Jesse grace and freshman mimi Fotopoulos, 8-0, in no. 3 doubles, and the lady vols’ no. 12 duo of junior brynn boren and senior kata szekely beat junior Jennifer kellner and senior chrissie mcgaffigan, 8-2. although gleason and junior britney sanders had earlier fallen 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confi­dential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more infor­mation, visit ND’s website at: http:// 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
pregnancysupport@nd.edu Some Kind of Wonderful By The Drifters 
All you have to do is touch my hand And show me you understand And that something happens to me That some kind of wonderful 
Now every time my little world seems blue 


behind 4-1 in their doubles match against the no. 41 duo of williams and sophomore Joanna henderson, the irish rallied to grab the 8-6 doubles win and the first point of the match. 
The irish lost two of their first three singles matches. in the no. 1 position 23rd-ranked boren defeated sanders and kellner fell to no. 25 szekely, both by scores of 6-3, 6-2. mcgaffigan claimed another point for the irish with a 6-4, 6-1 victory over henderson. 
although sabacinski lost to Fotopoulos in two sets, 6-2, 7-6 (7-4), theirs was the last match to finish. The closely-matched players had a hard time building the two-point lead needed to win a game, and louderback said the match was halted twice when the players didn’t agree on the score. 
within minutes of sabacinski’s loss, the irish gathered their things and pre­pared to board a bus to iowa, where the irish will play the second of back-to-back dual matches. 
“[iowa] has a couple of new kids that we haven’t seen, and their no. 1 girl [junior ruth seaborne] played at Florida state last year and trans­ferred,” louderback said. “so we thing they’re going to be tough, and i think on the road after playing today the doubles will be a key again tomorrow.” 
Today’s match will be the home opener for the hawkeyes (1-0), who beat iowa state 6-1 on Jan. 26. 
“it’s going to be another good one,” louderback said. “we had a pretty solid, tight match with them last year, and at their place i think it’s going to be good.” 
notre dame and iowa will face off at the hawkeye Tennis and recreation complex in iowa city, iowa, at 4 p.m. today. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
I just have to look at you And everything seems to be Some kind of wonderful Now I know I can’t express This feeling of tenderness There’s so much I wanna say But right words don’t come my way 
I only know when I’m in your embrace Then this world seems a better place And something happens to me 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | The observer 


FENCING | norThwesTern duals 
Irish best tough 
paid adverTisemenT 


competition 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame tacked another successful competition onto its 2013 resume saturday, as the men’s and women’s teams combined to go 13-1 at the northwestern duals in evanston, ill. 
The second-ranked wom­en’s team recorded a per­fect 8-0 record on the day, while the third-ranked irish men’s squad went 5-1. notre dame, which made the long trek to new york the previ­ous weekend to compete at the st. John’s and nyu invitationals, had a relative­ly short bus trip on its hands this weekend, traveling to northwestern university for the one-day event. 
on the women’s side, the irish recorded eight victo­ries, three of which came against ranked opponents, including no. 9 Temple, no. 4 ohio state, and no. 1 princeton. The irish also beat stanford and north carolina en route to their undefeated day. 
irish epeeists compiled a 63-9 record over their eight matches, including 9-0 shutouts against Fairleigh dickinson and cal Tech. sophomores nicole ameli and ashley severson both went 3-0 against defend­ing national champion ohio state, while senior epeeist ewa nelip posted a 3-0 mark against no. 1 princeton. 
The women’s foils record­ed a combined 56-16 record saturday. sophomore foil madison Zeiss joined her epee teammates in posting a 3-0 mark against ohio state. The only match in which the foils were outscored was against no. 1 princeton, as the Tigers bested the irish 5-4. 
with saturday’s victories, the lady irish improved their season dual record to 17-1, with their only loss coming at the hands of no. 3 columbia at the nyu invitational on Jan. 27. 
on the men’s side, the irish recorded five wins, includ­ing a decisive three-weapon sweep of no. 10 stanford and a hard-fought one-point vic­tory over no. 4 princeton. 
The lone notre dame de­feat came against no. 1 ohio state, a match in which the Tigers outscored the irish 7-2 in the epee event. notre dame beat the defending national champion buckeyes at the st. John’s invitational on Jan. 26. 
senior and 2012 olympian gerek meinhardt made his regular-season debut saturday. The san Francisco native rebounded from an opening match loss to ohio state, going 3-0 in the subse­quent five bouts to finish the day with a 17-1. 
saturday’s wins put the irish men at 11-5 on the season. 
notre dame now turns its attention to this upcom­ing sunday, when the men and women will compete at the duke duals at duke university in durham, n.c. 

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING | sainT mary’s 153, oliveT 105 
belles win first dual meet 
By DONG-HYUN KIM 
sports writer 
saint mary’s earned its first win of the season saturday, as the belles defeated conference oppo­nent olivet 153-105 at rolfs aquatic center. 
Freshman diver andrea canacci, who won both the 1- and 2-meter dive events, led the belles (1-6). other top performers for the squad included senior ellie watson, who placed first in the 500-yard free­style, freshman caroline neville, who won both the 200-yard indi­vidual medley and the 200-yard freestyle and sophomore anna nolan, who took the 50-yard freestyle. 
“we had great depth and expe­rience in all of the freestyles and both sprint and distance relays,” belles senior captain genevieve splitter said. 
saint mary’s won the meet by 48 points, but did not lead all throughout the meet. olivet (0-8) had strong showings from its relay team and led the belles before saint mary’s came back in its strong suit, the freestyle. 
The belles hope the win will boost their confidence as they pre­pare for the miaa championship. 
“we will hit the water pretty hard and just improve on our swim­ming techniques,” splitter said. 
saint mary’s will next com­pete at the miaa championships, which will be held from Feb. 13-16 at Jenison high school in Jenison, mich. 
Contact Dong-Hyun Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


TRACK AND FIELD | meyo inviTaTional 
irish take several events at meyo 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish claimed several im­pressive finishes at the 26th annu­al meyo invitational this weekend at loftus sports center. 
The meet drew a field of nearly 50 schools from a range of confer­ences. notre dame senior captain and pole vaulter chrissy Finkel said all of the schools that com­pete enjoy the meyo invitational because of the meet’s atmosphere. 
“This is the most important meet of the season that we host at home,” she said. “students and the community come out to cheer, and the level of competition is much higher than anything we’ve faced during the year.” 
on the women’s side, senior rebecca Tracy placed first in the famed meyo mile. 
For the men, junior middle-dis­tance runner walter schafer won his 3,000-meter event, and junior sprinter patrick Feeney took first in the 400-meter event. Feeney’s time in the event currently ranks second nationally. 
“To see those notre dame names in the top 20, 10 and even 5 in the country is an unbelievable thing,” Finkel said. 
graduate student pole vaulter ann polcari also took first in the pole vault event, breaking her per­sonal record by eight inches. 
“it was very exciting for ann,” Finkel said. “a few years ago, she blew out her knee pole vault­ing, so to see her do that well was unbelievable.” 
Junior sprinter megan yanik and freshman distance run­ner michael clevenger rounded out the irish victors, with yanik winning the 500-meter event and clevenger winning the 5,000-meter. 
“because the competition is so great, every winner or top finisher we had was huge,” Finkel said. “it was really exciting to see how we spanned across a number of dif­ferent events.” 
The irish will travel to allendale, mich., for the grand valley big meet invitational this upcoming weekend. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | norThwesTern inviTaTional 
Team wins two dual meets 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
nearing the end of an ardu­ous three-weekend stretch of meets, notre dame faced one last regular-season test before the big east championships when the irish traveled to the northwestern invitational. with strong finishes from a handful of swimmers, the team left evanston, ill., with a 191-177 win over northwestern and a 210-160 victory over missouri state, as well as a 212.5-155.5 loss to no. 20 iowa. 
despite trailing northwestern (4-5) by a point after Friday’s opening session, notre dame (9-2) overcame the deficit throughout the two sessions saturday to pull out the win, its 400th all-time dual-meet victory against the wildcats. irish coach Tim welsh said he left the meet impressed with how his team performed both this weekend and in the three-week span as a whole. 
“we’ve been in a sequence of a one-session meet two weeks ago, two sessions last week and three this week, and it takes speed and endurance to carry that, and we got better as we progressed,” he said. “being able to carry the energy and performance level through the three sessions was the most important thing we did [this weekend].” 
on Friday night, several irish athletes set the tone for the suc­cessful weekend. sophomore Zach stephens, senior bill bass and sophomore patrick olson touched the wall in succes­sion in the 200-yard individ­ual medley to capture second through fourth places, respec­tively, right before junior team­mate Frank dyer sprinted to first in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 20.46 seconds. sophomore nick nemetz also sealed an irish victory with a score of 316.35 in the one-meter dive. 
The following day, strong results from all team mem­bers added to the irish advan­tage over missouri state (7-5) and allowed the squad to pass northwestern to take the lead. notre dame had an entrant finish in the top four in 12 of saturday’s 14 events. 

dyer added two more wins to his resume, hitting the touch pad first in the 100- and 200­yard freestyle events. in the 200-yard butterfly, sophomore John williamson posted a time of 1:49.88 to add a fifth team victory. led by sophomore Ted wagner, irish divers took third through sixth places in the three-meter event. 
welsh said his team’s depth played a significant role in notre dame’s doubly-victori­ous weekend, which boosted its record to 9-2, its best regular-season finish since the 2006-07 season. 
“something that you’ll notice is that it’s never the same guy [winning] every meet,” he said. “we have a lot of balance and a lot of depth, and that’s some­thing that’s carried us through this season.” 
The irish have three weeks off from competition before they head to indianapolis to try to defend their title at the big east championships, which will be held from Feb. 27 to mar. 2. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | The observer 





MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 16, deTroiT 8 
Irish struggle in 
paid adverTisemenT 

scrimmage win 




By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
They were national semifi­nalists last season. They are the no. 3 team in the nation. They beat detroit 16-8 on saturday at the loftus sports center in the final scrimmage before the start of the regular season. 
but irish coach kevin corrigan said notre dame is not a good team. 
“we’re just not very good,” corrigan said bluntly after the scrimmage. 
corrigan said he saw prob­lems with notre dame’s perfor­mance every place he looked. 
“i can’t think of one single area that i feel like we played at the level that i think we should be playing,” corrigan said. “i couldn’t be less satisfied with the quality of our performance.” 
a week after traveling to orlando, Fla., for a pair of scrim­mages to kick off the spring se­mester, the irish scrimmaged for 75 minutes against the Titans. 
notre dame broke out to a 6-3 lead by halftime and extended its advantage to 10-5 after four quarters of play. The teams took the field for an extra fifth quarter of action and the irish exploded for six goals before detroit scored a trio of goals to conclude the action at 16-8. 
detroit struck first when sophomore attack/midfielder brandon beauregard found the back of the net just 32 seconds into the game. The teams al­ternated goals, and irish senior midfielder ryan Foley scored with 1:57 left in the first quarter to tie the game at 2-2. 
notre dame opened the sec­ond frame with three straight goals, capped off with a score from junior attack ryan mix on a feed from Foley. 
irish junior midfielder Jim marlatt began the second half with a goal to make it 7-3 just 59 seconds into the third quar­ter. roughly nine minutes lat­er, marlatt drove to his right, jumped and fired for his second goal of the quarter to extend the notre dame lead to 10-5. 
irish sophomore attack kyle runyon spearheaded the notre dame offensive effort in the final 15 minutes as the irish built a 16-5 lead. detroit then responded with three goals, two of which were scored by freshman midfielder dylan swanson. 
despite the prolific offensive onslaught, corrigan said the irish played poorly in every fac­et of the game. 
“i couldn’t even begin to list it,” corrigan said when asked what was the worst part of his team’s performance. “it’s a race for no. 1 when it comes to that. but more than anything else we didn’t handle the ball well. we’re fundamentally unsound. we don’t communicate well. we don’t work hard enough. we’re not physical enough. i don’t know, the list could go on.” 
with two weeks to prepare for the season opener against duke on Feb. 16, corrigan said he needs to be a better coach, and he needs every member of his squad to step up. 
“i look for all 46 guys,” corrigan said. “we just have to pick it up. i have to do a better job first and foremost. if we’re this bad, then i’m not doing a good job so it starts with me.” 
corrigan said the scrim­mage’s main objective was to prepare the team for duke. Though he wasn’t pleased with notre dame’s performance, corrigan said the win over detroit was another step to­ward being ready for the blue devils. 
“it’s another day of work, but it’s another day where we found out that we’ve got a lot of work to do,” corrigan said. 
notre dame will be back in action Feb. 16 to take on duke in durham, n.c., in its season opener. 
Contact Mike Monaco at monaco@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


DePaul 
conTinued From page 16 
junior forward cleveland melvin hit a jumper to give the blue demons a 70-68 lead. Fifteen seconds later, grant connected on two free throws to tie the score at 70. with five seconds remain­ing, grant had a look from three-point range to win the game, but he couldn’t get it to go. 
“we thought maybe we could get a ball screen for Jerian,” brey said. “i wish he would have drove that instead of shoot the fade-away because i think he may have gotten fouled. but still i didn’t think it was a bad look, it rimmed out.” 
coming off its third consecu­tive win, the irish turn now to ar­guably their hardest two-game stretch of the conference season. notre dame will square off with no. 6 syracuse on monday night at the carrier dome in syracuse, n.y., before hosting no. 12 louisville on saturday. 
The orange (18-3, 6-2) suf­fered their second consecutive loss saturday when they fell to pittsburgh 65-55. prior to that, syracuse lost to villanova 75-71 in overtime Jan. 26. 
“well they’re really good, and they’re really good in that build­ing,” brey said. “The biggest thing we need to do is get some rest over the next two days. … These guys need to get their en­ergy up for monday night. but that’s going to be a great game, ‘big monday’ in the carrier dome. This is why you become a college basketball player for a big game. it’ll be a heck of a chal­lenge for us on the road.” 
syracuse will be without senior forward James southerland, who has missed the past five games af­ter he was declared academically ineligible. southerland will miss monday’s tilt with the irish, and his appeal will be heard later in the week. The 6-foot-8-inch senior is second on the squad in scoring with 13.6 points per game. 
The irish face syracuse on monday at 7 p.m. at the carrier dome in syracuse, n.y. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS | duke 4, nd 0; nd 7, iupui 0 
Irish split Sunday doubleheader 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
in its marquee matchup sunday at eck Tennis pavilion, no. 30 notre dame fell to no. 5 duke 4-0, nar­rowly dropping the doubles point before losing three more singles matches. 
The irish (4-3) followed the loss with their third home sweep of the spring season, defeating iupui 7-0. 
despite several close matches against duke (6-1), the irish were unable to pick up any single wins before duke took the overall match to end the competition. 
“i feel like we played well enough to win in enough spots that we had a chance to win the match,” irish coach bob bayliss said. “but i don’t know that we competed at crunch time quite well enough. i think we have got to believe in ourselves a little bit more, and we have got to show a little bit more poise than we should in a couple of the matches.” 
when the points mattered the most, the irish faltered. in the no. 1 singles match, irish junior greg andrews served with a 4-3 lead in both the first and second sets, but no. 11 blue devils senior henrique cunha broke andrews in both sets en route to a 6-4, 6-4 victory. 
The no. 3 singles match fea­tured a tight battle claimed by no. 14 blue devils freshman michael redlicki in a back-and-forth first set tiebreaker 10-8. irish freshman Quentin monaghan led the tie­breaker 6-5 but couldn’t convert on his set point. The match ended with monaghan up 3-2 in the sec­ond set. 
“we just didn’t win the big points,” bayliss said. “That’s what it’s going to take. i don’t think we have to hit the ball a whole lot bet­ter. but i think we have to be more consistent at the biggest times.” 
The biggest bright spots from sunday’s match against the blue devils came from monaghan, no. 4 singles player junior billy pecor and the no. 2 doubles team, bayliss said. 
composed of freshman alex lawson and pecor, the no. 2 dou­bles team won its match 8-5. but the irish didn’t win the doubles point, as the no. 1 doubles pair couldn’t overcome the blue devils, and a late surge by the no. 3 dou­bles team was not enough to take the victory. 
“The doubles point could have swung either way,” bayliss said. “we were in control of no. 2 dou­bles right off the bat. but they were in control of no. 1 doubles the whole way. where we really got hurt was third doubles where we pretty much dominated the latter part of the match. but we got in too big a hole in the beginning.” 
notre dame’s second match of the day against iupui (0-7) was a completely different match in both lineup and result. The irish took control from the beginning, win­ning all three doubles matches. 
Then, with irish senior michael moore, junior matt dooley and sophomore michael Fredericka playing in the last three singles slots, notre dame won 7-0. 
after another full week of prac­tice, the irish will face more top competition when they travel to east lansing, mich., to play michigan state this upcoming saturday. 
“we are going to have opportu­nities in front of us,” bayliss said. “we’re playing well enough and we haven’t done anything bad … we just have to do a better job when it matters.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Jackson 
conTinued From page 16 

Justin dasilva finished off the scoring with a goal in the final period. 
with Johnson starting the sec­ond game, the irish were stingier on defense, holding the buckeyes to a goal by sophomore forward darik angeli and a power-play goal by freshman defenseman craig dalrymple. The irish streak of six straight games with the first goal was broken, however, when angeli scored a short-handed goal in the first period. Freshman for­ward Thomas dipauli responded for the irish to set up a 1-1 tie after brady hjelle. 
although the irish did not get the regulation win, Johnson was pleased with his team’s play saturday. 
“we need to be prepared next weekend like we did this saturday,” Jackson said. “we con­trolled the tempo, that’s our game. That was irish hockey … the best game we’ve played in the second half.” 
The irish will face off in a week­end rivalry series when michigan visits compton Family ice arena on Friday and saturday. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 

one period. Jackson said he was pleased with how the freshmen have handled the team’s recent struggles. 
“[dipauli and lucia] and [fresh­man center] steven Fogarty have been playing better,” Jackson said. “when your young guys are step­ping up in the second half [of the season], it helps a lot.” 
senior defenseman sam calabrese gave the irish the lead in the second period. a goal by dalrymple quickly knotted it up, and a scoreless third and overtime sent the game to a shootout, where Johnson stymied the buckeyes, and lee sent the winning shot home past ohio state goaltender 
McGraw 
conTinued From page 16 

summitt win 1,000 [games]. 
[700] seems like a pretty small number to me.” 
The matchup was the team’s annual “pink Zone” game in support of breast cancer awareness and research, and the irish wore pink-accented brought back some memories for me, how we got where we are, from those women that got this all started.” 
mcgraw will try for her 700th win as a head coach Tuesday night when the irish travel to villanova. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
uniforms and shoes. 

some of the earliest notre dame women’s basketball players attended the game saturday and were recognized in a pregame ceremony. 
“it means a lot to me because that’s back in my era, when i was playing, and i know ex­actly what they went through,” mcgraw said. “it kind of 
paid adverTisemenT 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY  4, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &       paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: rebel wilson, 27; isla Fisher, 37; nathan lane, 57; blythe danner, 70 
Happy Birthday: size up your situation and prepare to step into the limelight. let your creative mind lead the way into the future with greater optimism. explore new avenues and pick up as much information along the way as possible, and success will be yours. love and romance coupled with self-improvement will bring happiness. your numbers are 9, 14, 21, 26, 33, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): participate in events and causes that interest you, and you will meet someone you will want to get to know better. partnerships are in a high cycle for both business and pleasure. making a personal change will bring good results.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t worry about the things you can’t change or people who oppose you. Focus on what you can do and do it well. your kindness will be ap­preciated by those who share your interests. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): nothing will be straightforward. ask questions and deter­mine for yourself whether or not you can take part in what’s being asked of you. an of­fer will turn out to be more inviting then expected, but read the fine print first.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): spice up your looks and do whatever it takes to build your confidence. a unique situation will arise if you attend an event that features different cultural traditions. community social events will lead to new beginnings and friend­ships. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Troubles at home can be expected. you’d be wise to get out and enjoy a pastime with someone who shares your interests and doesn’t judge you. don’t give in to bullying or anyone trying to coerce you into something you don’t want to do. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t hold back when discipline and hard work offers such good results. Too much of anything will be your downfall. keep life simple, pursue goals with moderation and you will come out on top. an idea built on solid ground will be profitable. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): be unique, imaginative and engaging and you will be no­ticed. your ability to pull things together will result in greater interest from someone who can offer you either personal or professional assistance. love and romance are heading your way.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick to creative endeavors or home improvement proj­ects. Talks will get you nowhere but into trouble with the people you love most. make love, not war, and you will enjoy the comfort that goes along with a good relationship. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a little reservation when it comes to taking a risk will be required. you have to look at whatever you are planning to do objectively and wager all the pros and cons before leaping into action. protect your reputation first and foremost. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take command. an emotional matter can be cleared up if you are compassionate and understanding with regard to the needs of those around you. give and take will help you get what you want in the end. Take a unique and unexpected approach. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look at your options but don’t make a decision just yet. stick close to home and take care of odd jobs you’ve left undone. mulling over in your mind what you want to strive for in the future will pay off.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): look over your important papers and you will discover something that needs to be dealt with and that can make your life easier financially. keeping the way you feel about someone a secret will backfire. you are best to be upfront. 


Birthday Baby: you are imaginative, entertaining and quick to respond. you are a motivator. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 79, depaul 71 oT 
Irish survive in overtime 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 64, cincinnaTi 42 
mcbride leads squad to victory 
group collectively.” 
atkins opened overtime by drilling a three-pointer. he then knocked down a pair of free throws just over a minute later and buried two more in the over­time period as the irish rolled. notre dame limited depaul to a single made free throw during the final five minutes. 
“we start with game situa­tions in the very first practice so you’re in everything in prac­tice,” brey said. “and we talked about that down the stretch. i said ‘Fellas we are in game situa­tions. nobody does it more than us. and i don’t think anyone’s better at them.’ and i thought our experience in game situa­tions and poise really helped us.” 
senior forward Jack cooley powered the irish with a season-high 26 points and 16 rebounds. atkins played 43 minutes and scored 16 points to go along with five assists and four steals. Fellow junior guard Jerian grant also logged 43 minutes and chipped in with 10 points, five rebounds and five assists. cooley, atkins and grant scored all of notre dame’s final 24 points. 
The irish led 39-30 at halftime and extended their lead to 46-34 a little over three minutes into the second half with a quick five points from cooley. 
but the blue demons stormed back over the next seven min­utes and took a 56-55 lead with 
9:25 remaining in regulation. From there, the teams contin­ued to trade leads. 
with 1:24 left to play, depaul 
see depaul PAGE 14 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 

irish junior guard kayla mcbride entered the weekend as a player with a shooting problem. she had made just 4-of-23 shot attempts in her previous two games, but, one minute into saturday’s 64-42 home win over cincinnati, mcbride threw up a jumper that sailed through the net for the game’s first points. 
“it’s a good feeling,” mcbride said of sinking her first shot. “i think it’s a momentum thing, it gives you energy and helps you in other things; getting steals on defense, getting rebounds, and tempo.” 
mcbride hit her first seven shot attempts, leading the no. 2 irish (20-1, 8-0 big east) to an early 20-8 advantage over the bearcats (8-13, 0-8). 
“That was probably one of the best individual perfor­mances that i’ve seen in the big east this season,” cincinnati coach Jamelle elliott said of mcbride’s efforts. 
The irish shut down cincinnati’s offense for much of the first half. The bearcats didn’t score until six-and-a­half minutes into the game, when senior center lesha dunn broke though with a jump shot. The irish held se­nior guard dayeesha hollins, cincinnati’s top scorer to a season-low six points. 
“i thought [hollins] had some makeable shots, missed some easy bunnies” elliott said. “To notre dame’s credit, she’s our best player, everybody knows it. everybody knows that we have trouble scoring, and we expect everyone that we play to try and get her out of her game offensively and make some­body else score.” 
mcgraw said she thought hollins was limited by her three personal fouls, two of which came in the first half. 
“we were trying to hold her to single digits, we did a pretty good job there,” mcgraw said. “i think she missed some shots, and she only took nine.” 
mcbride scored 17 points in the first half and added two more in the second, and was complemented by the produc­tion from irish senior guard kaila Turner, who scored 11 points. 
“i thought kaila Turner gave us some great minutes off the bench,” mcgraw said. “she really stepped up when we needed a little bit of poise and composure.” bearcats junior guard kayla cook led her team with 12 points. she was the only cincinnati player to end the game with double-digit points. 
The win over cincinnati was the 699th of mcgraw’s career. 
“no, i really don’t,” mcgraw said when asked if she thought much about her career mile­stones. “not when you watch [former Tennessee coach] pat 
see mcgraw PAGE 14 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
notre dame surrendered a 12-point second-half lead, en­dured nine second-half lead changes and forced overtime satruday against depaul, but the irish dominated the extra time in rosemont, ill., to win 79-71. 
with the game tied 70-70 at the end of regulation, notre dame (18-4, 6-3 big east) outscored the blue demons (10-11, 1-7) 9-1 in the extra period behind seven points from irish junior guard eric atkins. 
“i’m really proud of our team’s mental toughness,” irish coach mike brey said in a postgame interview with und.com. “They made the run, and it’s an unbe­lievable atmosphere — what a great college atmosphere and college game. we had to be men­tally tough to kind of get through that, and i’m really proud of our 
HOCKEY | osu 6, nd 3; nd 2, osu 2 (nd wins so 1-0) 

Notre Dame loses one, ties one at Ohio State 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
notre dame was unable to built on its momentum from a home win last saturday, as the irish failed to win either game in their trip to ohio state this weekend. 
after falling 6-3 to the buckeyes (11-11-6, 10-6-4-1 ccha) on Friday, the irish (16-11-1, 12-7-1-1) salvaged points in the conference standings with a 2-2 tie on saturday. with the game tied at the end of overtime, the irish won the resulting shoot­out after senior goaltender mike Johnson stopped all the buckeyes’ shot attempts and junior captain and center anders lee scored the team’s lone goal. 
Johnson replaced junior goal­tender steven summerhays in the third period of Friday’s game. irish coach Jeff Jackson said he is not sure if the move will be permanent. 
“it’s still to be determined,” Jackson said. “mike [Johnson] played well in the third period. steven [summerhays] hasn’t been playing his best of late. we’ll have to see how practice plays out this week.” 
on Friday, the irish continued their trend of scoring early, as freshman forward mario lucia’s ninth goal of the season gave them a 1-0 lead entering the second peri­od. The irish scored twice more on goals by junior defenseman kevin lind and junior forward bryan rust, but they were unable to stop the buckeyes’ offensive onslaught. Five goals, including two by soph­omore forward ryan dzingel, in the second period chased summerhays from the game, as the buckeyes took advantage of penalties to score four power-play goals. Jackson said he was disap­pointed with his team’s penalty kill this weekend. 
“we have to get confidence back in that part of our game,” Jackson said. “The penalty kill is something we’ll have to spend more time on. it’s also about the goaltending and controlling rebounds.” 
Three of the buckeyes’ goals Friday came off rebounds. in ad­dition to dzingel, sophomore for­ward nick oddo, junior forward alex szczechura and freshman for­ward anthony greco scored in the second. sophomore defenseman 
see Jackson PAGE 14 


SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Freshman left wing Mario Lucia moves the puck during Notre Dame’s 3-1 loss to Ferris State at the Compton Family Ice Arena on Jan. 25. 



