The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 128 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
Grammy-nominated rapper 
B.o.B. will take the stage at the Compton Family Ice Arena to per­form as part of SUB’s 2013 AnTostal week-long event Tostalpalooza on Friday. 
Senior Danny Kinasz, a member of SUB’s concert committee, helped plan the event. He said the concert tickets cost $20. The concert is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students as well as Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross stu­dents, he said. 
Unlike previous years, this SUB concert will take place in Compton rather than at the Stepan Center. Kinasz said the decision to move the concert was a group effort of the SUB executive board, concert pro­grammers and SAO supervisor Josh Wilson. 

B.o.B. headlines SUB concert 
“We saw the opportunity to up­grade the concert to a newer and larger venue to respond to the re­quests of the students,” he said. 
Kinasz said frequent complaints from students about the concert in the past stemmed from the distant venue location. 
“People complained that Stepan was a buzzkill to the fun vibe the concert created,” he said. “We want­ed to enhance the student experience and bring the show into a new venue that would create a dramatically bet­ter concert going experience.” 
In the past, Kinasz said the com­mittee was experienced at coordi­nating all the necessary elements to the show, but this move to Compton required meetings with different University groups in order to orga­nize and work out any issues. 
“This year was a whole new 
see b.o.b. PAGE 3 

reading for life donates books 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
reading for life, the largest diversion program for juvenile offenders in st. Joseph county, will celebrate world book day on Tuesday by donating books to youth at the Juvenile Justice center (JJc). 
a diversion program is a form of sentencing designed to enable offenders of law to avoid criminal charges by complet­ing various requirements, such as education, restitution or completion of community service hours.       
dr. alesha seroczynski, the program’s director, said pro­gram leaders chose to distrib­ute John green’s “looking for alaska” because they felt it was 
see reading PAGE 5 



SMC excels in math competition 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 

math students from saint mary’s college competed in the 2013 internation­al competition known as the mathematical contest in modeling (mcm) host­ed by the consortium for mathematics and its applications (comap). 
in a competition of nearly seven thousand teams, se­niors samantha brady and olivia mcintee placed in the top 15th percentile and earned a position among the meritorious winners. The two students were one of three teams sent by saint mary’s, marking the first time in the college’s history where more than two teams competed. 
steven broad, assistant professor of mathematics, coached the teams at saint mary’s. he said the comap competition challenges students over the course of a weekend with prob­lems involving mathemati­cal models of real-world phenomenon. 
“every year [the teams are given] two problems, the sort of problems experts might work on for years,” broad said. “The goal of the week­end is to try to make some significant step toward solv­ing the problem at a very high level.” 
The teams choose one problem and spend four days compiling a report of over 20 pages on the mathematical model they devised, broad said. at the end of the com­petition, the teams submit their work to be judged. 
“The thing that’s really great about it is [that] it’s all their [own] work, “ broad said, “once the competition starts, i’m completely out of the picture. i can get them prepped and ready to go, but once the competition starts, i’m not involved at all.” 



The other two saint mary’s teams involved in the com­petition received recognition as successful participants, a highly gratifying accom­plishment for work at this level, broad said. 
“being successful at some­thing as extraordinarily dif­ficult as this shows that they 
see maTh PAGE 6 







ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 

News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite part of your dorm? 

Cooper Cohen 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“morrissey has a spire and chicks dig spires.” 

Jeff Chapa 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“no ac, sweaty nights, close proximity, what more do you need?” 

Nathan Troscinski 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“The tiny rooms.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Shadmn Minir 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“The bros.” 

Stephen Schaffer 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“absolutely nothing.” 


Tommy Schneeman 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“The 5th floor pool.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

carolyn hutyra brian hartnett Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: katie mccarty samantha Zuba peter durbin cole schietinger 

Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 

samantha coughlin maria Fernandez 

Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive Zen Meditation Outdoor Sports Women’s Lacrosse Basilica Sunday 

lily kang Tabitha ricketts 
Coleman-Morse Coleman-Morse Festival Arlotta Stadium Mass Center Center South Quad 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred 11 a.m.-6 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 12 p.m.-5 p.m. The Irish face off Heart 





Corrections 
Hosted by NDSP. Practice meditating. Free bike repair. against the Marquette 10 a.m.-11 a.m. 

The observer regards itself as Golden Eagles. Music by the Notre a professional publication and 
Women’s Lacrosse “A Liam O’Flaherty MFA Thesis Reading Dame Liturgical Choir. 

strives for the highest standards 
Arlotta Stadium Retrospective” DeBartolo Performing Spring Concert 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Keenan Hall 

however, recognize that we will make 
The Irish face Arts Center 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Baseball 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
off against the 7 p.m.-9 p.m. MFA students read Performance by the Eck Baseball Stadium 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Northwestern Presented as part of excerpts from Voices of Faith Gospel 1:05 p.m.-3:05 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 
Wildcats. the Irish Film Festival. their final theses. Choir. Game vs. Connecticut. 





B.o.B. 
conTinued From page 1 
experience which required lots of additional planning.” 
SUB first had to set a date suitable to 
the schedules of the Compton staff, Kinasz said. They also had to meet with production officials and con­sider additional requirements, like light and sound equipment, needed for a larger venue, he said. 
“it is a larger overall pro­duction to match the larger venue,” he said. “[it] requires university-wide effort to make the show a success.” 
The committee also met with ndsp, the fire department, ush­ers and medical staff in order to ensure the location change would be a success, he said. The committee also considered hir­ing additional support staff in­cluding more ushers, first aid workers and security, he said. 
“compton does not have all the resources that we were used to having in stepan so we needed to ensure that we were able to obtain all those in order to make the show and its set up possible,” kinasz said. 
a larger venue also meant the need for increased publicity. kinasz said there was an em­phasis on getting the word out to more students since more tickets were available. 
“To make this show a success we want the support of the stu­dent body which has been gen­erating greater interest than in years past,” he said. 
as for picking the performing artist for the concert, that deci­sion reached back to midway through the fall semester, he said. kinasz said sub released a survey to the student body with about six artists as poten­tial headliners for the show, and 
b.o.b. came out as the winner. 
“we made it one of [our] mains goals from the start of the year to listen to the student body and bring in an artists that they wanted to see perform,” he said. 
kinasz said the negotiation 
“Those who go will remember it forever and those who miss it will regret it for even longer.” 
Danny Kinasz 
S.U.B. concert committee 
member 
process involved speaking with b.o.b.’s agent at the creative artists agency (caa) in order to finalize a contract for the show. besides verifying his avail­ability for the scheduled date of the performance, negotia­tions on contractual issues and logistical questions were also considered. 
“it took a couple of weeks of negotiation and lots of commu­nication to successfully work out the contract,” he said. 
as of now, kinasz said about 2,000 tickets have been sold and they are hoping to have at least 3,500 attendees. he also said two sets of tickets are available, one which provides floor access and a second for 
paid adverTisemenT 
seats surrounding the floor. since tickets do not provide an assigned seat, students may choose to move about their sec­tions, he said. 
Tickets are available for pur­chase up until the show in the laFortune box office between 
9:30 a.m. and midnight. kinasz said students may also obtain their tickets at antostal events during the week or from tick­et sales in the dorms by sub representatives. 
compton’s doors open at 7:30 p.m, and the concert begins at 8:30 p.m. with the opener dzeko & Torres, a canadian dJ duo. 
“This concert is going to be a fun, high energy, exciting con­cert,” kinasz said. “if you›re the type of person who likes to have a good time and likes mu­sic, you can›t find a better show than this.” 
These two performers know how to put on a great show and keep the crowd entertained, he said. kinasz said sub believes this show in compton will start an “exciting new tradition of a bigger, better and more mem­orable show for the student body.” 
“i can guarantee that this show will be unlike any that any current notre dame stu­dent has witnessed on campus while they have been here,” kinasz said. “Those who go will remember it forever and those who miss it will regret for even longer.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 




students prepare for the mcaT 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
notre dame pre-med stu­dents face a notoriously dif­ficult schedule with academic and extracurricular activi­ties, a stressful balancing act which reaches new heights when it comes time to take the medical college admissions Test (mcaT). 
Junior biology and theology major antoinette pusateri said she will be one of the pre-med students taking the test this upcoming saturday. although she has faced a busy schedule because of the additional task of studying for the mcaT this semester, pusateri said there are some positive results stem­ming from the experience of studying for the mcaT. 
“if anything, what i would take away from the whole pre­med, studying-for-the-mcaT experience would be the art of prioritizing, of time manage­ment,” pusateri said. “it’s defi­nitely been a learning curve, but that’s kind of the college experience for everybody.” 
pusateri said she set up a study schedule specifically for the mcaT, and made sure she stuck to it. 
“i really started hardcore studying after finals fall se­mester and then really every day since then, with a few days off,” pusateri said. “[i’ve been studying] at least a couple hours a day,” pusateri said. 
despite stress associ­ated with studying for the mcaT, pusateri said she feels prepared for the exam on saturday. 
“First and foremost, i don’t think anywhere else prepares us better than notre dame,” pusateri said. “i went through the notecards and notes that our professor had us make for organic chemistry and basi­cally, out of all the cards and notes i had, i only needed a fourth of that for studying.” 
Junior biology and peace studies major gwyneth sullivan is electing to take the mcaT in late may, outside of the confines of the semester, but within the upcoming ad­missions cycle. Though her test date is further away, she said she still has tried to con­tinue her preparation, which started is January. 
“ideally, i’m doing two hours of study a night, but realistical­ly if i have a huge exam, like my physics test this week, i’ll push it off a little bit” sullivan said. “it’s a lot of time management.” 
a prominent factor in her decision to take the mcaT in may rather than this saturday is the annual benefit her fam­


“I really started hardcore studying after finals fall semester and then really every day since then, with a few days off.” 
Antoinette Pusateri 
junior 
ily hosts in chicago in remem­brance of her brother, declan sullivan, she said. 
“The benefit is actually this weekend so there’s no way i could have physically taken the mcaT,” sullivan said. “especially in the last three weeks, i’ve been doing so much logistical work for it that it’s been hard to study.” 
other pre-med students have decided to forego sit­ting the mcaT during the school year in favor of taking it during the summer. chantal berry, a junior anthropology and preprofessional major, is one student who chose this less traditional path, instead opting to take the mcaT in august. 
“what i found with my friends that were either tak­ing the mcaT this weekend or in may was that it’s been a very stressful semester,” berry said. “i didn’t really want to have that stress, i wanted to get the most out of my college experience in terms of the ac­ademics and i wanted the sole focus to be the academics.” 
Taking the test later means berry will not receive her scores in time for the upcom­ing admissions cycle, but she said she already decided on taking a gap year after finish­ing her studies at notre dame. 
“i think the decision to take a gap year was partially the mcaT reason but also just because i wanted that time off before once again getting right back into academics and medical school,” berry said. 

Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 







smc hosts hannah and Friends carnival 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
The Saint Mary’s College Alumnae Association has paired up with Hannah and Friends to put on a Community Carnival for the people of Michiana this Saturday from 1 to 4 p.m. Saint Mary’s alumnae, Holy Cross Hall, students from Notre Dame and local businesses have worked together to foster support for the special needs community and its allies. 
According to an Alumnae Association flier, the Community Carnival will feature games, mini clinics and free food, with all pro­ceeds going to Hannah’s House and Special Olympics. 
Sophomores Emily Hazen and Christen Kloski, who interned at Hannah and Friends last summer, continue to visit the site regularly. 


Reading 
conTinued From page 1 
a relatable story that would easily generate discussion. 
“it’s a really serious coming­of-age story, something we knew would really resonate with these youth,” seroczynski said. 
seroczynski said many of the youth at the center do not have their own personal li­braries, so she likes that each participant will receive his or her own copy of the book. 
“it’s a really deeply moving 
“It helps collaborate local col­leges with the community. We rec­ognize those with difference needs in the community,” Kloski said. The two students will intern at Hannah and Friends again this upcoming summer and in­tend to attend the Community Carnival this weekend. “Hannah and Friends is a neighbor­hood for adults with different abil­ities,” Kloski said. “This Saturday is for the entire community.” Kloski, who has also worked at Family Fest, a similar event hosted by the nonprofit organiza­tion during the summer, said the Community Carnival is an event that began this year. 
“it’s good that smc is get­ting involved, but especial­ly the alums. i guess they were the ones that contact­ed hannah and Friends,” kloski said. “it’s a com­
munity outreach program, which is good for us to see.” ashley hall, hall director of holy cross hall, said the dorm supported the organi­zation throughout the year by offering transportation to its resident-volunteers.   “This partnership is near and dear to the holy cross hall community and we strive to find any way possible to con­nect our residents with the residents and families who are associated with hannah and Friends,” she said. holy cross hall typically hosts one on campus event and participates in anoth­er off-campus event each year, hall said. last semes­ter, “winter wonderlan.” was the event they chose to host..This year, hall said the carnival seemed like a good 

opportunity to bring holy cross residents to their site and volunteer. 
“overall, this program is a safe and fun event for spe­cial needs children and their families in the michiana 
applications of being virtu­ous, which, of course, involves emotions, ethical decision-making, being courageous, and having self-control.” 
caroline kelleher, a pro­gram student mentor, said she has volunteered with the pro­gram for two years and is in her third mentoring group this semester. 
“one of the reasons i love reading for life is the involve­ment with the south bend commutity,” kelleher said. “it’s a rewarding experience to work with high-schoolers and watch them change over the course of our nine-week session.” 
The books are vehicles for discussions about life and is­sues the kids face, kelleher said. 
“The students i have worked with have started the pro­gram guarded and unwilling to share their thoughts, but by the end bond with each other and develop aspirations for their futures,” she said 
each group must also per­form community service to­gether. The service typically relates to one of the books the group has read, seroczynski said. 
“a group that might read ‘The boy in the striped ja­jamass or ‘The book Thief,’ they would probably go to the Jewish Federation of st. Joseps valley and do commu­nity service there,” she said. seroczynski said, “last sum­mer the program expanded from only serving people in the diversion program to also servino boys in the detention facility. she said a lack of fund­ing prevented the program from extending to girls in the detention facility 
“The effect is actually stron­ger for boys than for girls in the diversion program,” seroczynski said. “based on that, when i was approached by the director for the JJc to take it into detention, we chose to work with boys.” 
experience to give a young person a book and have them look at you with these wide, almost tear-filled eyes, and tell you this the first time someone has ever given them a book to keep, ” she said. “it’s a power­ful moment.” 
participants in the program are often first-time offenders and learn virtue theory while reading, seroczynski said. 
“we operate from a perspec­tive of virtue ethics,” she said. “we use the stories to get stu­dents to talk about personal life applications of virtue 
paid adverTisemenT 
theory.” 
leaders place participants in groups of no more than five people and assign two mentors to each group, seroczynski said. The group meets in the community twice a week for 10 weeks. 
“Together, they choose from several different genre options consistent with their read­ing ability,” seroczynski said. “They choose one or more books to read together and they spend the week learning, discussing and journaling on virtue theory and personal-life community,” hall said. “it also allows our residents to give back to such a special organization.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
seroczynski said the groups in the detention program have been very successful in the past year. 
“we’ve had excellent atten­dance and no behavior prob­lems,” she said. “They actively read and participate in groups, and we’ve had some wonderful experiences with those boys.” 
many participants in the de­

“One of the reasons I love Reading for Life is the involvement with the South Bend community.” 
Caroline Kelleher 
student mentor 
tention program enjoy realis­tic stories, seroczynski said. 
“we find that our boys in detention pick true stories or novels that could be true, like holocaust novels, biographies, and biographical fiction.” 
seroczynski said 99 percent of participants in the program have not been prosecuted for re-offense. 
“we want to dissolve the la­bel they have been given by becoming a juvenile delin­quent,” she said. “we don’t want them to believe that just because they have walked through those doors at the JJc at one time that that’s where they’re going to spend the rest of their life.” 
seroczynski said the reading For life program aims to maintain participants’ hope for the future 
“we want them to imagine a different kind of possible self,” she said. “Just because they committed one crime doesn’t mean that’s who they are or that’s they’re going to be doing for the rest of their life.” 


Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Math 
conTinued From page 1 
spent that weekend doing good work, and walked away from it without anything to complain about,” he said. “They did well.” 
preparation for the com­petition involves partici­pating in a one credit “boot camp” class that meets in the spring semester before the competition in February, broad said. The class fo­cuses on different types of mathematical modeling and various mathematical strat­egies for approaching these models. 
This year, for the first time, the class was open to stu­dents who did not compete in comap. broad said he hopes to expand the class to satisfy requirements within the math major and attract more students to take the class as well as to partici­pate in the competition.
 “There isn’t any rea­son why it has to be [just math majors],” he said. “in fact there are a lot of cases where it might be valuable to have people who major in the sciences.” 
mcintee is a dual-degree 
“Sometimes having ideas about things that aren’t just math can be really helpful.” 
Olivia McIntee 
participant 
engineering student, study­ing math at saint mary’s and mechanical engineer­ing at notre dame. broad said he thinks her engineer­ing major at notre dame helped considerably in the competition. 
“sometimes having ideas about things that aren’t just math can be really helpful,” he said. “having a range of different kinds of students could be very beneficial, but they need to have a very strong background in mat h.” 
one of the problems from this year demonstrates the varied nature of the models, he said. it involved deter­mining the optimal shape of a brownie pan for even heat distribution, which is not a math-specific model. 
broad said he was nervous going into this year’s com­petition because the teams had so little time to prepare, with the competition falling barely three weeks into the spring semester. 
“it’s really cool to watch students take their own knowledge and do some­thing they didn’t think they could do with it,” broad said. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 



GAIN index finds new home at ND 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
news writer 
The gain index, a project of the global adaptation institute (gain), annually ranks coun­tries on their vulnerability to climate change and ability to adapt to natural disasters that climate change may cause. The gain index will make its new home at notre dame becoming nd-gain. 
Juan Jose daboub, gain’s founding ceo and current chair of the world economic Forum’s council on climate change, said nd-gain will become an inter­national necessity. 
“The nd-gain index will be­come the preferred tool for deci­sion makers in the private, public, and civil society sectors,” he said. “The index helps decision makers prioritize investments in water, food, energy, infrastructure and coastal protection, especially in developing countries.” 
Daboub said he believes the mission of the ND-GAIN endeavor will be to help vulnerable people globally. 
“In a fast changing world, where urbanization, economic growth, popu­lation shifts and the effects of climate change are creating additional chal­lenges for people, Notre Dame is po­sitioning itself in the global state as a major playing in saving lives and im­proving livelihoods,” he said. 
according to a recent press release, the gain index was formerly under the direction of the washington, d.c.-based nonprofit global adaptation institute. The program’s prima­ry founding sponsor was ngp energy capital management. 
ken hersch, chairman of the global adaptation institute and ngp’s ceo and founder, stressed gain’s importance in a press release. 
“gain highlights those coun­tries that urgently need help adapting to a warmer world,” hersch said. “we are thrilled about our new partnership with notre dame and it’s ability to 

“The ND-GAIN index will become the preferred tool for decision makers in the private, public, and civil society sectors.” 
Juan Jose Daboub 
GAIN’s founding CEO 
help us take gain to the next level.” 
Notre Dame Professor Jessica Hellmann, leading climate expert and director of the Climate Adaption Program, believes GAIN and the University will help each other to grow. 
“I will be responsible for bringing student and faculty research to bear on the ND-GAIN Index—to help build and improve it—and for bringing the Index to bear on activities at Notre Dame,” she said. “I hope to use ND­GAIN to increase the profile and social relevance of our University’s world-class research on climate change.” 
The University will also use ND­GAIN to advance and apply knowl­edge  for the better of humanity and nature, she said. 
“Notre Dame, and the Environmental Change Initiative (ECI,) are committed to pursuing teaching and research that makes the world a better place for diverse people and places,” Hellmann said. “ND­GAIN gives us a new platform for translation and outreach that makes our research relevant to countries around the world.” 
Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 




abortion doctor faces death penalty 

Associated Press 
philadelphia— a judge tossed three of eight murder charges Tuesday in the high-profile trial of an abortion doc­tor accused of killing babies prosecutors say were born alive at a clinic they dubbed “a house of horrors.” 
dr. kermit gosnell, 72, still faces the death penalty if convicted on four remaining counts of first-degree murder involving babies he’s accused of killing with scissors after they were born alive. 
Judge Jeffrey minehart did not explain why he dismissed the three murder counts but apparently felt he had not heard sufficient evidence from prosecutors that those three babies were viable, born alive and then killed. much of the evidence during the five-week prosecution case has come from the recollections of former staff members, though their testimony was bolstered by graphic photographs of some of the aborted babies. 
prosecutors argued that the babies were viable and that gosnell and his staff cut the backs of their necks to kill them. 
“why would you cut a baby in the back of the neck unless you were killing it?” assistant district attorney ed cameron asked. 
The defense questioned tes­timony from staffers who said they had seen babies move, cry or breathe. defense lawyer Jack mcmahon argued that each tes­tified to seeing only one move­ment or breath. 
“These are not the move­ments of a live child,” mcmahon said. “There is not one piece — not one — of objective, scien­tific evidence that anyone was born alive.” 
The judge also upheld mur­der charges in a patient’s over­dose death. gosnell is charged with third-degree murder in the 2009 death of 41-year-old karnamaya mongar, a recent refugee to the u.s. who died af­ter an abortion at his women’s medical society. 
mcmahon argued that third-degree requires malice, or “conscious disregard” for her life. 
“she wasn’t treated any dif­ferently than any of the other thousands of other people who went through there,” mcmahon argued Tuesday, in a preview of his likely closing arguments. 
prosecutors might concede that point themselves at clos­ings, and argue that patients were routinely exposed to un­sanitary, intentionally reckless conditions at the clinic. Former staffers have testified that pa­tients received heavy sedatives and painkillers from untrained workers while gosnell was offsite, and were then left in waiting rooms for hours, often unattended, before gosnell arrived for the late-night surgeries. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





INSIDE COLUMN 


strange ways 
Lily Kang 
photographer 

“americans are kinda strange…” This phrase entered my mind on my first day of school in the united states, and echoed throughout the following years. 
americans are such strict rule follow­ers. i witnessed this once sitting on the sidelines of a high school dodgeball game. To me, it was goofy, a little violent and very american. it struck me that my classmates followed the rules of the game so strictly. even when no one noticed that a person had been hit and he could have kept play­ing, he voluntarily gave himself up and left the game. i was deeply impressed by how much people honored the rules even when they were not seen. it was a little strange to me because i was raised in an environ­ment where rules are, unfortunately, usu­ally taken for granted. 
american honesty is another “strange” thing that truly humbles me. some rules seem to go without saying. in high school, we were assigned a take-home exam from our chemistry teacher. i assumed it was just like homework assignment and asked my friends if they would like to work to­gether. however, they hesitated. at first i thought it was kind of strange, but when i realized the reasons for their reluctance i was left ashamed. even though our teacher never mentioned that collabora­tion with others was not allowed, my fel­low classmates seem to be very vigilant about not violating the honor code. it was another important lesson i learned about the unwritten rules in america. 
another incident occurred at a depart­ment store. There were pillows of prices ranging from $9.99 to $40. i was debat­ing which one to buy and the sales clerk informed me that the $40 pillow would go on sale in two days. i thanked her for letting me know and explained to her that it would not be convenient for me to come back to the store again. To my great sur­prise, she winked and said, “i will give you the discount now, just don’t tell anyone.” i was dumbfounded by what she offered to do. since when did americans start overlooking the rules? a rule that might increase the revenues of a store is one that other people do not need to be reminded to follow. This woman’s actions were strange, but truly nice and deeply appreci­ated. rules are admittedly respected in the united states, but they are also situ­ational and flexible — when the violation of rules is harmless and intended well. 
americans still kind of strange. They sometimes seem dogmatic with obey­ing the rules, yet they contradict them­selves in a proper manner. This is why i have fallen in love with this country. in chinese, the translation of america liter­ally means “beautiful country.” it’s indubi­tably a beautiful country. Thank you for all the things you’ve taught me, ‘merica. 


A summer blessing 
Carter Boyd 
god, country, notre dame 
“what good is the warmth of sum­mer, without the cold of winter to give it sweetness,” was well put by John steinbeck in “Travels with charley: in search of america.” The winter has definitely made known its presence to all inhabitants of notre dame. walking past the lakes, we all saw the half-frozen waters with the geese and ducks, as our winged friends tried to figure out the lay of the land. They moved about, making do with the changes in nature. They seemed to have some since of peace and tranquility, with trust that this will all pass and the waters will be full and fresh again. 
we have all made adjustments for the harsh, cold winter we have expe­rienced. i, as a freshman domer from the south, had a winter unlike any other. different, yes; good, yes; tir­ing, yes; frustrating, yes; and fun, of course, yes. 
yet, it has been really cold, so why does steinbeck insist that the cold of winter gives summer its sweetness? 
well, maybe he was referring more to the no-pain, no-gain attitude. or maybe if you do not know the dark you cannot appreciate the light. so, if the trees were green all the time, how would we be able to recognize their beauty in the warmth of summer? seeing the barren trees, the snow covered limbs, lets us realize that we are all a work in progress. we all need cultivating, we need time to grow and we need time to heal. The winter does just that, as it gives us time to take a different look at our lives and maybe see ourselves in a way we have not seen before. The sweetness of the winter helps give us that burst of energy we need to put a spring into our steps and embrace the warmth of summer. 
oh yes, the summertime has defi­nitely always been a welcomed time of the year for me. i, though, think i will approach it much more different­ly this year. reflecting on steinbeck’s quote has given me a fresh outlook on my upcoming summer adventures. i will try not to take the time for granted and really try to feel the true warmth of the summer, the summer of god’s warmth and love. 
i know that many of us have many opportunities this summer to spend the summer of god’s warmth. The students of notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross have amazing oppor­tunities to travel, volunteer, conduct research, participate in camps, in­ternships and the list goes on and on. The options are endless and some­times it is hard to choose what to do. i guess these are good problems to have, though. Just like my freshman year, with all the varied and chal­lenging experiences, i am thankful to have the amazing opportunity to be at notre dame. 
as i look back over my incredible freshman year, i can understand what steinbeck meant.  i think he is really asking how can we appreci­ate the warmth and love of life if we do not respect how blessed we are to have it? as we all travel in life, it is important to not take our situations for granted. Just maybe we need to check out the ducks on the lake, see how the flowers are blooming near the dome or notice if the trees are greening. and while you are at it, look at your neighbor, see how he or she is doing and encourage them to share the sweetness of winter and the warmth of the summer. 
as the semester ends, i pray that all of us will experience the warmth of the summer and the blessings of god. i look forward to experiencing the next few cold winters and warm­ing summers with the notre dame family in the years to come. our god loves us all. 
Carter Boyd is a freshman studying science-business. He can be reached at cboyd1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


40 years and counting 

Officers of the Shades of Ebony Club 
raising voices 
great things occurred during the week of april 8. There is nothing like tapping into something poten­tially great; the event, 40 years and counting, did just that. however, it was just a tap. 
last week the student organization shades of ebony invited students, faculty, staff and residents of south bend to celebrate 40 years of co­education at the university of notre dame. shades members and other students enjoyed spending the first day reflecting on the women’s call to service with a trip to st. margaret’s house, an organization that seeks to improve the lives of women and chil­dren in south bend. on Tuesday, with the help of many sponsors, around 70 students, faculty, directors and other guests met to discuss the experiences of notre dame women over the past 40 years and what that experience means for notre dame women today and in the future. we heard from panelists lindsay brown ’13, mrs. iris outlaw and kathleen cesanski-Ferrand and discussed topics such as the intersectionality of identity, girl’s education, work-life balance and women in leadership. we ended the week with a small yet deeply mov­ing prayer service in ryan chapel to honor and remember the women in our lives. The speakers taught us how we can all grow through the example of strong women of faith, and find the strength that god instills within us. 
we could not have been more proud of this event and the amounts of sup­port we, shades of ebony, received in executing this idea. The amount of support could also be due to the fact that, throughout this year, not much had been done to acknowl­edge this milestone. overall not many students, including us, knew what life was like for the first class of women. we didn’t know that rec­tors like kathleen cekanski-Farrand fought hard to gain women access to the pools in the rockne building. we didn’t know that many did not feel that sense of dorm-life community. we did not know that often many did not feel comfortable in their classes, in which they were the minority. creating this event, members of our club did not know what kind of im­pact this week would have on those around us and on ourselves. 
This was a unique opportunity to recall the experiences of notre dame women first hand. Forty years has not been a very long time. often we do not get the opportunity to discuss what it means to be a woman, or even a notre dame woman (or a notre dame male). The discussions that oc­curred over the three days during the 40 years and counting allowed many to express their opinions as well as share their struggles and triumphs. in just 40 years, notre dame women are racially, ethnically, religiously and regionally diverse. Their sur­roundings have definitely influenced them and there is no doubt they have greatly influenced the notre dame community. however, we now see that we are not quite where we should be. 
The event 40 years and counting was a time to celebrate, to reflect, and to look toward the future. if you are interested in being involved, please contact shades@nd.edu. please look forward to this event next year! 
The officers of the Shades of Ebony Club can be contacted at Shades@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Lily Kang at jkang5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





Who is Kermit Gosnell? 

Shaaya Ellis 
reason will prevail 

“who is kermit gosnell?” is the question all americans should be asking themselves. kermit gosnell is an abortion doctor with practices in wilmington, del.; philadelphia; and baton rogue, la. kermit gosnell is currently on trial for first-degree murder, third-degree murder, illegal abortions and medical malpractice and a litany of other charges related to his disgraceful clinic. 
aptly named the “house of horror,” kermit gosnell’s abortion clinic is now closed. in the span of 20 years, gosnell performed gruesome and ghastly abortions inside his clinic with no regard for the unborn. his abortion clinic in philadelphia is accused of murdering babies af­ter induced labor. according to philadelphia district attorney seth williams, “the baby had been born on a cold steel table and abruptly mur­dered by taking scissors to the neck, severing the spinal cord.” simply put, kermit gosnell performed infanticide with no remorse. 
in his clinic kermit gosnell and several of his staff not only performed abortions but also had extreme means of ensuring “fetal demise.” according to the grand jury report, gosnell would perform snippings, which is cutting the spinal cord, to ensure that the baby was fully aborted. due to the dilapidated conditions of the clinic, accurate records were never kept but it is estimated that gosnell and his staff killed hundred of babies. while he murdered hundreds of babies with the “snipping” technique, he is only on trial for eight murder charges. on april 23, 2012, according to the new york Times, a philadelphia judge granted motions of acquittal for three of the charges of murder. no reason was given. 
kermit gosnell is used to being charged for his heinous acts. several reports have shown that state offi­cials in pennsylvania, new york and delaware have failed to visit or in­spect gosnell’s practices as far back as 1993. The states of pennsylvania and new york disciplined gosnell’s practice of medicine. The grand jury report noted that the medical ex­aminer of delaware county alerted the pennsylvania department of health that gosnell had performed an illegal abortion on 14-year-old karnamaya mongar who was 30 weeks pregnant; it also claimed the pennsylvania department of health did not act when they became aware of gosnell’s involvement in the death of karnamaya mongar. after the death of their daughter due to the botched abortion, the family brought a wrongful death suit against gosnell. The civil suit is unfortunately still pending. 
The harsh truth about what trans­pired in gosnell’s “house of horror” over the past 20 years is that it all could have been avoided. we have to ask ourselves at what point per­sonal responsibility becomes a factor in this equation. state officials and health inspectors should not feel like they are infringing on a woman’s right to choose by simple checking if the facilities in which abortions are conducted meet proper public health standards. interestingly enough, gosnell’s clinic was not exposed because of poorly-performed abor­tions and the murder of babies, but by the members the dea and Fbi about illegally prescribing Xanax and oxytocin. The politics of abor­tion create atrocities like this where babies are murdered and women die as a result. under no circumstance should gosnell’s house of horror have remained open for more than 20 years with all these deplorable acts going on. 
likewise, those who support abor­tion would have us believe that it is a woman’s right to choose and they chose to get abortions at this clinic. whilst this argument has some merit and is somewhat credible, one has to consider what that choice results in. That choice led to the murder of inno­cent babies. 
kermit gosnell made a living off preying on the weak and vulnerable. mr. gosnell adamantly believes his conduct was correct and that his practice was providing a viable ser­vice to philadelphia. mr. gosnell takes pride in his heinous acts and justifies his actions by saying that none of the aborted fetuses were viable. his bla­tant disregard for human life should see him imprisoned with no parole. all life is sacred in nature and all life is precious to god. 
Shaaya Ellis is a sophomore political science major with a classics minor. He can be contacted at sellis2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Shame on the Leprechaun Legion 
how dare they. That was the first thing i thought when i saw the new ticket policy instituted by this slimy student organization that is just a figure­head to one of the athletic department’s cronies. changing the ticket student ticket policy is an affront to the institution that is notre dame foot­ball. The slippery slope of an identity crisis con­tinues, and it leads all students to question what’s next. perhaps a night game? encouraging fans to stand? supposedly they are even giving time to the idea to a video board that is bigger than the average Tv in dorm rooms? playing music by the “prince of darkness,” instead of letting the band play their usual four songs (my personal favorite, “rolling in the deep,” has to get the fellas pumped on third down). actually winning instead of just talking about returning to glory? preposterous, the athletic department needs to reign in every­thing about the football program right now but the legion remains the problem. next thing we know a huge irish flag could be on top of the student sec­tion, obscuring 20 seconds of the band’s halftime performance. most relevant to the average stu­dent is the terrible direction that the leprechaun legion is under. The leaders who walk across cam­pus need to realize that the leprechaun legion is a plague on this campus and that striving to emu­late the decibel level that originates from other student sections is offensive to the notre dame tradition. 
The proletariat needs to mobilize if we are to neutralize this threat to our god-given right to a six-inch piece of wood that allows us to see the backs of golden helmets — forget the game, i want to be so close to the field to really feel a part of the game at the expense of actually being able to see it. if we are going to have to deal with this new student section, lets do it in a notre dame way — uniquely and more pretentiously. The solution to all of our problems is so simple — if opec can do it, we can too. why doesn’t everyone collude and walk to gate e at exactly 2:46.54 before every game day. not only will this create such a dangerous atmosphere for everyone in the vicinity of gate e, but it will also bring everyone together in the spirit of community — chaos and community de­rived from a need for tradition and over-thinking; sounds like the notre dame spirit if you ask me. 
maybe we as students should take it a step even further. lets all show up wearing Temple red at the first home game — this will show that leprechaun legion they can’t change the spirit of notre dame without our approval (i still can’t be­lieve their logo is on this year’s shirt, such a pure student organization has striven to separate itself from the evil empire of the athletic department by making money for student organizations by sell­ing shirts for said athletic association’s events, genius, although i’m surprised the legion didn’t push for it to be purple). or how about even a step further — lets boycott football. nothing tells this overreaching “student group” that they can’t control us like the student body not showing up. That makes a lot of sense, right? again we need to collude on this — classic prisoner’s dilemma — we all need to abstain from buying football tickets to really tell these people that if we can’t have an as­signed seat that three other people are standing in when we get to the stadium, then we simply won’t come to the games. i can’t even tell my inebriated peers who are standing in my seat to move any­more. how dare they take away that quintessential game day experience from me; i know i am not the only one who savors this experience. 
what have they ever done for us other than mess everything up? Free T-shirts for the kentucky game? last time i checked, our school colors were blue and gold; this group doesn’t even know what our school colors are! handing out food be­fore games of less attended sports? we are true fans and don’t need any motivation to show up to women’s volleyball against teams like eastern kentucky. 
The leprechaun legion has stepped too far on this one. how dare they try to make notre dame stadium a better place to watch a game with an intimidating atmosphere. shame on them. 

Jack Trunzo 
junior conway hall, london april 23 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
scene editor 

in my spare time, after checking Facebook and Twitter, my go-to time-wasting website is pinterest, the virtual board full of fash­ion, humor and food.  however, whenever i am browsing pins on an empty stomach i immediately regret it because of all the de­licious recipes the site has to offer.  my fa­vorite foods to re-pin are the various types of gourmet grilled cheese, made with all different types of bread, cheese, meats and vegetables.  These sandwiches are actually works of art, and i am constantly trying (and usually failing) to replicate them.  despite the failures, i am still determined to master the gourmet grilled cheese, and i’m going to share my favorite combinations to show ev­eryone what they are missing out on.


 Caprese Grilled Cheese 

being a vegetarian, caprese is my abso­lute favorite kind of sandwich (if you haven’t tried au bon pain’s version, walk to the li­brary now, it’s worth the six flex points).  it is even better as a steaming, melty grilled panini; here’s how to make it: 
brush olive oil on both sides of two medi­um-thick slices of ciabatta bread.  use fresh mozzarella and add two slices to your bread, place two slices of tomato on top and slather the other slice of bread with pesto.  use a panini grill or just a stovetop grill and cook until the cheese melts and the bread is gold­en brown.  if you’re feeling fancy, add a cup of tomato soup to dip it in. 
*note: a modified version of the caprese can be made in the dining hall — use shred­ded mozzarella cheese instead of fresh and downgrade to regular sliced bread and you still have a pretty good imitation of the real thing! 

Avocado Spinach Grilled Cheese 
a close second, this sandwich is almost as delicious as the caprese.  i enjoy it best on a pretzel roll, but any kind of bread works. once again, brush the bread with olive oil. place two slices of provolone cheese on the bread, followed by a sliced-up half avocado and a handful of fresh spinach.  grill your sandwich until the cheese melts and the spinach starts to wilt and serve with a side of guacamole using the other half of your avocado. 

Fried Chicken and Waffle Grilled Cheese 
alright, as a vegetarian i am not adver­tising this one myself, but i’ve heard from a friend that it is heavenly, although it is a bit more complicated to make.  First of all you’re going to need to whip up some waffle bat­ter and prepare two square waffles to use as “bread.”  next you’ll need about a cup of fried chicken, it’s up to you whether you are brave and/or southern enough to make that yourself.  on the waffle, stack the fried chick­en, a couple of slices of american cheese and a drizzle of melted butter and honey.  grill time is a bit longer for this sandwich, so leave it on there for about eight minutes, four on each side.  The cheese should melt but make sure to not burn the waffles. 

Blueberry Brie Grilled Cheese 
This sandwich will transport you to “un petit café” in paris with its brie cheese and deliciously gourmet look.  For this recipe, you’ll need two slices of italian bread, a handful of fresh blueberries, two slices of brie cheese and a snippet of fresh basil. arrange the ingredients on your bread, add a dash of cinnamon sugar and grill until the cheese is melted.  although delicious any time of the day, this would be perfect for a fancy sunday brunch. 

BLT Grilled Cheese 
This is a great combination of two classic favorites.  it works best with a heartier, thick bread and is best with both cheddar cheese slices and swiss.  cook three to four slices of bacon, arrange them on top of the bread and cheese and top it off with two slices of fresh tomato (even better if they’re heirloom to­matoes straight out of the garden).   lather your bread with butter and grill until the cheese melts.  add some sides of grilled zuc­chini and corn on the cob and you have the perfect summer picnic. 

Cobb Grilled Cheese 
This one is for the more advanced grilled cheese connoisseur because of the amount of ingredients and prep involved.  Just like a cobb salad, this sandwich is stuffed with bleu cheese, tomato, hard-boiled egg, ba­con, avocado and grilled chicken. how does this all fit on a sandwich, you might be won­dering?  well it’s going to be a bit messy to eat, so if you’re planning this for a first date you might want to choose something a bit less unattractive to eat.  use whole wheat bread and spread olive oil on the outside of each slice.  start with the tomato — make sure they’re thinly sliced — then stack the avocado, sprinkle the bleu cheese, add some slices of hard-boiled egg, stack the bacon and top it with the grilled chicken.  carefully transport your sandwich to a grill and cook about four minutes per side to make sure it gets heated all the way through. make sure you have a large stack of napkins because this is sure to be messy. 


Strawberry Grilled Cheese 
maybe it’s a stretch to call this one a grilled cheese, but there’s technically cheese on it and you grill it, so i think it fits the defini­tion.  sourdough works best for this sand­wich, so spread butter on the outside of each slice. next, spread a thin layer of strawberry preserves on one slice. now you spread a cream cheese mixture on top — mix room-temperature cream cheese in a bowl with orange zest and honey, it should be spread­able.  spread a good amount of your mixture on top of the strawberry preserves.  next comes the fresh strawberries — prepare them by cutting them up into thin slices. if you’re feeling up to it, it will taste even bet­ter if you soak the strawberries in balsamic vinaigrette first, but it will still taste delicious with plain old strawberries.  stack as many on top of the cream cheese as you can and grill until warm.  sprinkle powdered sug­ar on top and voila! you have a breakfast masterpiece.
  Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By NICOLE MICHELS 
assistant managing editor 

cereal. Fried eggs. Food from a box, with directions. until i interned in washington, d.c. last summer, my cooking repertoire consisted entirely of dishes i did not need to actually cook. my family always ate fabulously cooked meals created by my mom, which made learning to cook for myself seem quite daunting. so, i didn’t. 
matters were complicated by my preference for relatively healthy meals, which were notoriously more difficult to make and more costly. after eat­ing depressing, pre-made microwave meals, fried eggs and cereal during my first week in d.c., i decided to spend my saturday morning scouring the internet for recipes that would meet three criteria: healthy, relatively easy to make, with common ingredients between them. 
i may have set off the fire alarm four times, dumped six burned creations into the trash and ordered food several times, but at the end of my summer i was able to walk away with a list of delicious recipes i could confidently craft. 
Two weeks after i returned home to chicago, i made my two favorite meals for my dinner with my family. Though cooking for five is much more ardu­ous than cooking for one, i laid a well-executed dinner out on the table.  and even though our familiarity with my mom’s cooking means collectively we can be culinary snobs, my family heaped praises upon me. 
and i don’t think they were kidding. maybe. regardless, take heart, wan­nabe-chefs. even the most inept among you will be able to struggle through 
these recipes. 



Green Beans with Mustard, Shallots, Bacon 
Ingredients: 

1 pound fresh green beans, trimmed … or one 16-ounce package frozen 
2 slices lean bacon 

¼ shallots, sliced or ¼ cup sliced green onions 
2 teaspoons brown or grainy mustard 

 salt and pepper, to taste 
Directions: 
1.  
in a large saucepan, boil 1/2 cup of water and add green beans. cover and cook for 10-15 minutes or until beans are crisp-tender. drain into a colander, rinse beans under cold water and set aside (if using frozen beans, cook according to package directions.) 

2.  
in a medium skillet, cook bacon until crisp. drain bacon on paper towels, then crumble pieces and set aside. 

3. 
add shallots to bacon drippings then raise heat to medium-high and cook until tender. Turn heat to low then stir in the mustard, salt and pepper. add green beans and toss until evenly coated. 


4.  serve in a platter sprinkled with crumbled bacon. 


Garlic Shrimp with Noodles – four servings 
Ingredients: 
1 tablespoon vegetable oil 3 cloves garlic, peeled and chopped 1 pound uncooked medium shrimp, peeled and deveined 2/3 cup shredded carrot 2 tablespoons cilantro, chopped salt and pepper to taste 
Directions: 
1.  in a wok or medium sized skillet, heat oil to medium-high heat. 
2.  
add garlic and stir-fry for one minute then add shrimp and stir-fry for another minute. 

3. 
add shredded carrot and stir-fry for two to three minutes or until shrimp is pink and cooked through. 

4.  
stir in cilantro, add salt and pepper to taste and then serve over cooked noodles (optional). 



Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 


SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 


nothing beats a ‘mock’ draft 

Isaac Lorton 
sports writer 
draft week is my favorite week of the year. 
it is like christmas morning for me when roger goodell stands up on that podium and announces the draft picks. 
The best part of draft week is the uncertainty of it. no one will know if a pick is good un­til three, five, maybe even 10 years down the road, and the enormous hype created about this uncertainty is just so ex­citing. when millions of dol­lars are on the line, i’m saying to myself, “give him a 100-plus million dollar contract based on one year of his college ca­reer.” in my mind, marquee college players deserve that. it is their payment for not being paid in college. They played hard, proved themselves and put their bodies on the line for four (sometimes three, but usually one or two) years. and what did they get out of it? a college education. who uses that anyway? Then if they want, they can retire nicely on the guaranteed money from their contract without ever taking a snap. 
do i feel bad for the super­star junior who returns for his senior year and has a less­than-stellar year and his draft stock drops? no. his junior year must have been a fluke. he should have entered the draft when his stock was the highest and collected his mon­ey. clearly his college educa­tion didn’t help him. 
i just love predicting what is going to happen and see­ing who goes where. like the “experts” mel kiper, kirk herbstreit, Todd mcshay and adam schefter, i have spent the past three months look­ing over every factor, and i mean every factor, which could make or break a pick in the nFl. i do this because in five years, i want to look back and be able to tell everyone i was right. i want to be able to say to someone, “remember when i picked him and you didn’t?” and with his head held extremely low, like eeyore wearing one of Flavor Flav’s necklaces, he will say, “of course i remember the draft. everyone remembers the drafts. you were right, i admit it.” 
so like every other year, i have looked at every minute factor, crunched the numbers, consulted my ouija board, for­tune teller and therapist, and have come up with my top-five picks. 

1. Kansas City Chiefs 
with the first pick of the 2013 nFl draft, the kansas city chiefs reselect vince young from the university of Texas and then the Tennessee Titans and philadelphia eagles. young was so good he had two pro days at Texas: one in 2006 and one in 2013. 

2. Jacksonville Jaguars 
This is a tricky one. i think the Jaguars will actually trade this pick to the Jets for Tim Tebow and 5,000 Jets fans. it is a win-win for everyone. The Jets can draft one of the many nFl-ready quarterbacks in the draft and disgruntled Jets fans can go to a place where they don’t have to share a stadium. The Jaguars will get the Qb of their dreams and have a fan base of at least 5,000 people. 

3. Oakland Raiders 
i am 90 percent sure the oakland raiders will take usain bolt with the third pick of the draft. The raiders love speed and finding talent where no one else sees it. he may not be able to catch, but we will see. no one else has this pro­jection, but don’t be surprised when bolt’s name is called. 

4. Philadelphia Eagles 
The no. 4 pick will be michael Jordan. when the eagles predicted themselves to be the “dream Team” of the nFl, they were a couple of years early. They had to wait for Jordan to announce his retirement from owning the bobcats and his wish to play in the nFl. he has already played baseball and basket­ball, he is a proven winner and he was part of the original “dream Team.” There is only an upside in drafting Jordan. 

5. Detroit Lions 
The fifth pick of the draft will be herschel walker. walker is a freak athlete. even at 51, he is still more beastly than most people in the nFl. after his 13-year career in the nFl, he decided he would be­come an mma fighter. after beating up everyone he pos­sibly could, he made a state­ment saying he could still compete in the nFl. detroit liked what they heard and thought walker would be a great addition to the lions’ al­ready scary, arguably-abusive defense. 
now you know. you’re welcome. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilor­ton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer 
NBA 




Cleveland gives Brown the green light for second time 
Associated Press 
cleveland — mike brown and the cavaliers are getting back together. 
brown, who led the cavs to the playoffs in all five seasons he coached them from 2005-10, has agreed in principle to a contract to return as their coach for a sec­ond time, a person with knowl­edge of the situation told The associated press on Tuesday. 
brown hasn’t yet signed his new deal, but has agreed to take the job, according to the per­son who spoke on condition of anonymity because negotiations were ongoing. brown’s hiring could be announced as early as wednesday. 
The sides are working through the length of the deal and other matters, but brown’s back with the team he guided to its greatest successes. 
“i’m happy for him,” said miami’s lebron James, who played in cleveland under brown. “very happy for him. i think he’s a really good coach, very defensive-minded coach. it’ll be good for those young guys that they have.” 
brown went 272-138 and went to the playoffs every season with the cavs, teaming with James on a run to the nba Finals in 2007. he was fired by owner dan gilbert after the cavs lost to boston in the 2010 eastern conference semifinals, shortly before James decided he was leaving cleveland as a free agent. 
brown spent one full season with the lakers, but was fired by los angeles five games into this season. 
The cavs have been without a coach since firing byron scott last week following his third straight losing season. 
one of the main factors in brown’s decision to come back to cleveland was that he had al­ready planned to move his family back to the area, long before scott was fired. brown is also close friends with cavaliers general manager chris grant. 
brown met with gilbert and grant on sunday in detroit and negotiations intensified. gilbert 



PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more infor­mation, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 


reached out to a few other high-profile coaches, including phil Jackson. but Jackson had no in­terest and the search quickly ze­roed in on brown, who was the only candidate to be interviewed. 
The cavs knew they had to act quickly to snare brown before they were in competition with other teams to sign him. phoenix reportedly reached out to brown about their vacancy in recent days, and other teams were ex­pected to contact the 43-year-old. 
and now that brown is back in cleveland, it remains to be seen what impact that could have on James one day returning to the cavs. he can opt out of his con­tract with miami next summer, and there has long been specu­lation about him coming back home to play in northeast ohio. 
last week, James positively touted brown’s possible return to cleveland. 
beyond his stellar record and postseason triumphs, brown also helped build a winning foun­dation with the cavs. it certainly helped that James was around, but brown instilled a winning at­titude and defense-wins belief in his players. 
scott was fired last week after three seasons following a 24-win season and with one year left on his contract. scott was strapped with a young, inexperienced squad but owner dan gilbert didn’t think the cavs made ad­equate progress - especially on defense - with him so he’s handed his team back to the same coach he fired three years ago. 
brown’s return to cleveland isn’t really all that surprising. 
The cavs wanted a success­ful, defensive-minded coach and they had their greatest success in five seasons under brown, who was certainly helped by hav­ing James on his teams. but he has made the playoffs in all six seasons as an nba head coach, and shown the ability to develop younger players during his first stint with cleveland. 
The cavs won at least 45 games each season during brown’s ten­ure and went 66-16 in 2008-09 when he was named nba coach of the year. 
his teams in cleveland always played solid defense, ranking among the top in most catego­ries. James has credited brown with making him a better de­fensive player and getting him to understand the importance of defending the basket. brown, though, was criticized for a stag­nant offense that too often re­lied simply on James’ marvelous athletic skills, especially late in games. 
brown was fired by gilbert af­ter the cavs were beaten in the 2010 playoffs by boston. James was accused of quitting on the team during that series and there was tension in the final weeks between the league mvp and his coach. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Songs from The Observer Office  “Dance Yourself Clean”  
by LED Soundsystem  
“1901”  
by Phoenix  “The Ghost Inside”  
by Broken Bells  
“Can We Get Much Higher”  
by Kanye West  “Just What I Am”  
Kid Cudi feat. King Chip  
“Trouble on My Mind”  
by Pusha T feat. Tyler, the Creator  



ND SOFTBALL | nd 6, uconn 0; nd 11, uconn 1 (5) 

Irish sweep Huskies in doubleheader 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
notre dame (35-10, 15-1 big east) returned home Tuesday for a doubleheader sweep over connecticut (22­22, 6-10) in melissa cook stadium. The squad earned two wins — 6-0 in game one and 11-1 in five innings in game two — extending its winning streak to nine games. The second win marked deanna gumpf’s 500th career win as irish head coach. 
Junior pitcher laura winter led the squad on the mound in game one, only allowing two hits against the huskies in six innings. winter was named the usa softball national collegiate player of the week on Tuesday. 

The afternoon took a slow start until a double by junior infielder chloe saganowich in the bottom of the fourth gave the irish a 3-0 lead by sending home junior outfielder lauren stuhr, sophomore catcher cassidy whidden and fresh­man pinch runner carly piccinich. 
winter rode the momen­tum of the runs, quickly ending the top of the fifth with two strikeouts and an easy groundout. 
senior catcher amy buntin then rose to the occasion for the irish, hitting a double to send sophomore infield­er Jenna simon home from third and advancing to third score buntin, stretching the herself on the throw. winter lead to 5-0. The irish added followed with an rbi of her another run in the inning for own on a sacrifice fly to the final margin. 
paid adverTisemenT 


“our hitters one through nine executed at the plate when we needed it and our pitchers found a way to get outs and keep us in the ball game,” buntin said. 
winter closed out the top of the sixth in less than three minutes with three straight outs. 
Freshman pitcher allie rhodes ended the game on the mound for the irish with one strikeout in a perfect seventh inning. 
in game two, the huskies took an early 1-0 lead when freshman third baseman lexi gifford was singled home after two walks. notre dame went scoreless in the bottom of the first and sec­ond before taking off in the third. 
a buntin single sent soph­omore center fielder emilee koerner home to tie the game at one. winter stepped up to the plate next with another single, advancing to second on the throw and sending buntin and simon home to end the inning with a 3-1 lead. The irish scored eight more runs in the bot­tom of the fourth, overcom­ing a 20-minute rain delay to widen the gap. buntin fin­ished the game with three rbi, two runs scored and a home run. 
“The two games against uconn gave us a lot of confi­dence in our game going into this weekend for depaul,” buntin said. 
The irish next face depaul in a three-game series on saturday and sunday in chicago. 

Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish secure conference title after strong rally 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
down seven shots to louisville after sunday’s first round of the big east cham­pionship at reunion resort and golf club in orlando, Fla., the irish faced the pos­sibility of a disappointing tournament finish after a strong regular season. 
however, the team me­thodically rallied back to take the conference title and set a big east championship record for total team score at a six-under-par 861. 
with the win, the irish claim their fifth conference championship in program history and third under coach susan holt. notre dame finished 14 strokes ahead of the second place cardinals and more than 40 shots better than third place st. John’s, which shot a total of 904. 
holt said she was espe­cially proud of how her team did not let the champion­ship competition disrupt its focus. 
“i’m proud of how well the team responded to the first round,” holt said. “They played great, stayed focused and didn’t get wrapped up in trying to beat the competition.” 
The irish got stronger as the tournament progressed, posting their best score of the year, 282, in Tuesday’s fi­nal round. 
holt credited her golfers’ determination and poise for notre dame’s performance. 
leading the charge for the irish were freshmen lindsey weaver and Talia campbell, who each ended the tourna­ment at six-under-par and were declared individual co-champions. Their final scores of 210 strokes also broke the big east champi­onship individual record by three shots. 
not far behind was sopho­more ashley armstrong, who bounced back from a five­over-par first round to shoot two-under in her final round, vaulting her from 13th to fifth. Junior kristina nhim and sophomore kelli oride also had strong tournaments, as they finished tied for eight and 14th, respectively. 
“lindsey and Talia played great, but it was a team ef­fort,” holt said. “everyone did a great job of playing the golf course, which was giving up low scores. i didn’t have to talk to them about their play going into final round. we only talked after the first round to regroup a bit and stay focused.” 
although holt said she en­joyed the victory, she said she is already focusing on the road ahead, which starts with may’s ncaa regionals. 

“we had a list of goals com­ing into the season,” holt said. “winning the confer­ence was one of our main goals. The next big one is ad­vancing to the ncaa finals. we definitely should be in the regionals, based on our ranking, so we’re excited to see where we go and [want to] try to get in the top eight.” 
The irish will next compete at the ncaa regionals, which will take place from may 9-11. if the squad advances, it will compete in the ncaa finals, which will be held in athens, ga., beginning may 22. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





BASEBALL | Toledo 15, nd 3 

Rockets frustrate Irish pitchers in loss 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
Toledo senior center fielder ben hammer responded to the irish pitching staff as if he were in batting practice Tuesday, as he knocked in two home runs and five rbi on four hits to lead the rockets to a 15-3 win over the irish at scott park in Toledo, ohio. 
“obviously, hammer was hitting the ball pretty darn good off us today,” irish coach mik aoki said. “when you’re not pitching that well, i think anyone can do some damage against you.” 
The irish pitching battery struggled all afternoon, as sophomore right-hander matt Ternowchek started the game and lasted just one inning. Ternowchek gave up three runs on two hits, one of which was hammer’s first home run of the game. after allowing two more runs in the third inning, freshman right-hander nick mccarty had the irish (22-16, 4-8 big east) back on track for a bit, but he allowed hammer’s second home run in the bottom of the fifth inning. The rockets (15-24, 6-9 mac) put the irish away for good with six runs in the sixth and two more in the seventh. 

“we just weren’t very good,” aoki said of his team’s perfor­mance. “i think our pitching just put us too far behind the eight-ball, and it’s difficult to play offense that way.” 
one of the bright spots in the notre dame box score was sophomore left fielder connor biggio, who had three hits  but never crossed the plate. Junior first baseman Trey mancini had two rbi on two hits and scored notre dame’s other run himself. 
The game was originally scheduled to be played at notre dame, but an unpromising forecast for Tuesday afternoon in south bend convinced the teams to move the contest to Toledo. 
The loss is a disappointing development for the irish, who were hoping to build on the three-game win streak that be­gan with a sweep of Quinnipiac over the weekend. instead, notre dame slipped back into the type of play that lead to its six-game losing streak earlier this month. 
“i don’t think overall we’ve played particularly well since maybe the kent state game al­most a month ago,” aoki said. “we’ve had some bright spots and some good moments here and there, but we haven’t con­sistently played as well as we did for the first 20 games of the season.” 


The irish will return to Frank eck stadium tomorrow, and freshman right-hander Zac kutsulis will take the mound against no. 23 michigan state (22-11, 5-4 big Ten). 
“certainly, [michigan state] handled us pretty easily in the last two seasons,” aoki said, adding that the irish lost their 2011 home finale to the spartans by a score of 20-3. “we’ll have to play well to come out with a good result.” 
notre dame and michigan state will meet tonight at 5:35 
p.m. at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

saint mary’s sets sights on conference tournament 
conference tournament. continue to play better doubles calvin has struggled this absolutely nothing for granted,” 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

sports writer coming off a 6-3 victory over and figure out how to win the season, but took a positive campbell said. non-conference north central, close singles matches.” turn on march 8, edging no. 25 last season, calvin finished Two more conference matches the belles will try to keep rolling saint mary’s has just two reg-davenport, 5-4. The knights’ fourth in the miaa with a 5-3 
means two more chances for the with the same focused mindset ular season matches left, one at no. 3 through 6 singles secured conference record to snag the 
belles to make a statement and in a conference match against calvin (5-12, 3-4) on wednesday victories, as did no. 3 doubles. final spot in the miaa tourna­
secure a place in the miaa’s top calvin. and one at kalamazoo (10-7, 5-1) campbell said he was cautious-ment. The knights have not 
four. if saint mary’s (10-6, 4-2 “no changes right now,” belles on saturday. For the eighth sea-ly confident heading into the performed as well in confer­
miaa) ends the season in the coach dale campbell said. son in a row, the belles have won match against a struggling team. ence this season, but calvin has 
top four, it is headed to the miaa “Just to improve every day and at least 10 matches. “confident, but taking won three straight conference matches. The most recent win paid adverTisemenT 

came monday against Trine, when the knights triumphed 6-3. campbell insisted the belles could not take the matches against calvin lightly. 
“we have lost to calvin a lot over the years, but have won recently,” campbell said. “They are a very formidable opponent.” 
The knights defeated olivet, 8-1, on Friday. The belles also secured one of their largest mar­gins of victory against olivet, which ended its season win­less. saint mary’s defeated the comets, 9-0, on april 4. 
regardless of what happened throughout the rest of the sea­son, campbell said the only fo­cus should be on the upcoming match and trying to win. 
“bottom line, we want to get the victory, but we have to fo­cus on the ball and one shot at a time,” campbell said. 
saint mary’s will travel to 
calvin on wednesday for match­
es beginning at 4 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Bookstore 
conTinued From page 20 
who took over the paint in the second half. scoring most of their points inside, stewart and swanagan seemed to be difficult matchups at times. 
in fact, swanagan told two-sport star and #Team43 coach sophomore pat connaughton, ‘i’m about to go to work, take notes,’ be­fore backing his man down for a bucket. 
#Team43, however, put up a tough fight, only trailing by three at the end of the first half. despite their ef­forts, d.g.p proved to be too much to handle, as its sec­ond half surge gave the team the lead. 
late in the game, #Team43 tried to battle back, making shots and preventing inside passes. but the shooting of second year law student bryan pasciak, a former bas­ketball player at division ii Ferris state, sealed the vic­tory for g.d.p. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
No. 11 Uncle Drew def. No. 6 Burn Dogs 

with strong gusts of wind and rain that gradually picked up as the game pro­gressed, the matchup be­tween no. 11 uncle drew and no. 6 burn dogs was determined by the quality of both teams’ defense, and uncle drew ultimately made consisted of mazza, fresh-in the frontcourt, williams def. No. 10 The Show someone like cooley.” enough stops to take the 21-man brian spahn, graduate said feeding the ball down The rain was pouring Though cooley got off to 19 victory. student ryan richter, se-low was his team’s goal for down, and so were no.7 a slow start on the offensive 
The game was close nior conner wright and sec-the game. Former Team 13’s interior end, he affected the game on throughout its duration, as ond year law student henry “[we focused on] empha-shots, as former irish bas-the defensive end with eight neither squad led by more ciocca, just getting to the sizing the post game,” he ketball player senior Jack blocked shots, which forced than three points. The sweet 16 this year was not said. “we are lucky to have cooley helped the team The show to hesitate before night’s main matchup came enough. two very talented forwards scrape out a 21-18 victory driving into the lane. in the paint between uncle “i’m not impressed [with in mike broghammer and over no. 10 The show in a “no one even attempt-drew third year law student our run],” mazza said. “we erik van eperen.” very physical game. ed to shoot inside against kevin brooks and burn dogs should’ve gone further.” Though Team 3 main-Former Team 13, which [cooley],” vanderschans freshman patrick mazza, with this victory, uncle tained a consistent lead, consisted of cooley, juniors said. “if we keep playing who led his team with eight drew moves into the elite glory days, made up of mba chris vanderschans, andrew zone with him in the middle points. The pair clashed on eight, where it will play students drew bedward, sauerwein and paul Frierott like that, we’ll be in good each possession, fighting for Team 3 tonight at 6 p.m. Tony niemeier, chris and senior Tim whelan, at-shape.” every rebound and trying to caverly, brian martin and tempted to feed cooley the in addition to his interior stop the other from getting No. 3 Team 3 def. No. 14 John baranowski, played ball from the get-go and use defense, cooley also scored an easy shot. Glory Days hard until the 21st point, the bruising center to exploit eight points in the second 
uncle drew senior ryan playing through a steady tallying three late scores The show’s relative lack of half, finishing eight-of-11 murphy said those exchang-rain that never let up, no. 3 and putting up a strong de-size. from the field and adding es echoed his team’s strong Team 3, formerly known as fensive front to cut their fi-The show, an all-soph-two free throws to end with defensive performance the concrete mixers, nev-nal margin of defeat to only omore team comprised of a total of 10 points. it wasn’t throughout the rainy game. er relented in its sweet 16 three points. nate burggraf, matt hegarty, all a one-man show, though, 
“defense is key anytime, matchup, as it defeated re-“[i was impressed with] kurt wemhoener, ryan as Frierott also pitched in especially when you strug-silient no. 14 glory days, our defense,” bedward said. prom, and brett dolan, held seven points of his own. gle on offense to get buckets 21-18. “They had really big guys, its own defensively against “it helps when you have a because your hands are wet behind a strong nine-and we had to collapse and cooley in the first half, as first team all-big east play-and it’s hard to shoot,” he point performance from for-double team them, so we cooley made only one of his er,” prom said. “[Former said. mer irish basketball player, fought hard though we were first four shots. Team 13] has a lot of other 
Football assistant strength senior mike broghammer, overmatched.” players on both teams good players, but he’s defi­and conditioning coach Team 3 held the lead for the led by its formidable agreed the rainy conditions nitely the reason it won.” david grimes scored a majority of the game, quick-frontcourt, Team 3 will meet had a negative effect on the Former Team 13 will play game-high nine points for ly recovering from a brief uncle drew today at 6 p.m. play, as there were several romeo medical clinic to-uncle drew, utilizing a com-deficit at the start of the in the elite eight. occasions when the ball night at 5 p.m. bination of long-range jump-second half. The squad con-slipped out of players’ hands ers and circus-shot layups. sisted of keough residents Contact Mary Green at as they went up for shots. No. 1 Sophomores at murphy, brooks, sophomore broghammer, seniors Joe mgreen8@nd.edu. “we’re an outside shoot-Holy Cross def. No. 16 Tyrell atkins and senior eric williams, matt kilgannon, ing team, which makes it The Big Mirks roth contributed to uncle erik vaneperen and James tough,” prom said. “since The no. 1 vs. no. 16 match-
By A.J. GODEAUX 

drew’s winning effort as mcclay and junior mark sports writer it’s wet, you can’t get up off up was an all-holy cross well. coyne. the ground like if it were 
For the burn dogs, which with a pair of tall players No. 7 Former Team 13 dry, which hurts against see booksTore PAGE 17 



sophomores at holy cross seniors adam arsenault Bookstore will play onions!!! tonight and lavarr barnett fought 
conTinued From page 16 

at 7 p.m. with their taller opponents 
for every loose ball. in the consists of four sopho-Contact A.J. Godeaux at end, however, the height more members of the holy agodeaux@nd.edu mismatch was too much to cross basketball team – overcome for The drones, as darrell mcintyre, alajowon it fell by four. 
By CASEY KARNES 
edwards, Zoe bauer, george sports writer “They hit the boards stainko – and notre dame hard,” mackowiak said. sports properties employee No. 2 Romeo Medical “They had size on us, and beau bauer. Clinic def. No. 15 The just were able to make more 
another member of the Drones plays. [still] it was a blast, holy cross basketball team, no. 15 The drones came and i had a lot of fun.” senior mike vander ploeg, up just short in their upset with the game tied at 16, led The big mirks, scoring bid against no. 2 romeo romeo medical clinic went the bulk of his team’s points. medical clinic, falling 21-17 on a 5-1 run behind romeo 
sophomores at holy cross after it led for much of the and sonsalla, who had seven raced out to an 11-4 half-game. and six points, respectively. time lead, taking advantage romeo medical clinic That run provided the win-of The big mirks turnovers came into the game looking ning margin for romeo to score easy transition to use their height advantage medical clinic, but the vic­baskets. after vander ploeg and tenacious defense. The tors said they weren’t satis­scored the first three buck-team of juniors Tom hickey, fied with just moving onto was not able to keep up with carr’s stellar shooting and ets of the second half and dom romeo, Jack gardner, the elite eight. its younger counterpart. strong team defense, which narrowed the gap to four Tyler sonsalla, and kevin “[This isn’t] a team, it’s a charlie keller’s captain, Fr. allowed them to score tran­points, sophomores at holy Timperman said its take family,” romeo said. “we’re pete mccormick, c.s.c., was sition baskets. carr led the cross stepped back on the pride in the fundamentals. going to keep playing to-unable to attend the game, way with seven points in gas pedal, outscoring The “when we can, we like to gether and keep winning.” leaving the team with only the game, while brenner big mirks 10-2 to close out run and push the ball, but romeo medical clinic will five players. rd.nc.Jr.kg. and lichon each scored the game. also play hard half-court face Former Team 13 tonight Tp., composed of senior two for charlie keller. each 
bauer and edwards car-defense,” gardner said. at 5 p.m. ryan dunbar, junior nate member of rd.nc.Jr.kg.Tp. ried the scoring load for the “Teams try to play zone on carr, junior Jeremy riche, scored at least two points in sophomores of holy cross. us … so we just try to move No. 5 RD.NC.JR.KG. freshman Travis pate and the winning effort. bauer was seemingly unaf-the ball quickly and get it TP. def. No.12  Charlie sophomore kevin gates, “i’ve been playing for 14 fected by the torrential rain, inside.” Keller credited its success to its years, and these guys were using his midrange jumper The drones had other no. 5 rd.nc.Jr.kg.Tp. team chemistry. just amazing,” delorenzo to finish with six points. plans, however, coming used a fast-paced offense “we have a lot of chemis-said of rd.nc.Jr.kg.Tp. edwards led his team with out in an aggressive man and balanced scoring to run try together,” dunbar said. “They shot lights out from seven points, as he attacked defense to take advantage no. 12 charlie keller off the “we all lived in keenan at outside, and were really big the basket at will. of the slippery conditions court in a 21-5 victory. some point, and have played inside. They have a shot at 
vander ploeg said his op-and heavy rain. holy cross charlie keller, made up of interhall [basketball] to-the championship.” ponent’s ability to handle sophomore matt mackowiak campus ministry program gether. i think that helps us dunbar said his team has the elements made the dif-led the team with 11 points, coordinator John paul move the ball well and cre-its eyes on the ultimate ference in the game. draining several deep shots lichon, center for research ate some open looks.” prize. 
“we just had trouble han-in the first half to give The computing associate That familiarity helped “we missed it last year, so dling the ball,” vander ploeg drones a 11-10 lead at the director paul brenner, rd.nc.Jr.kg.Tp. jump out it’s championship or bust said. “it’s slick out there, break. The drones’ other notre dame vision director to a quick 4-0 lead against [this year],” dunbar said. and there are puddles ev-team members, notre dame lenny delorenzo, and ace charlie keller, and the team erywhere, too, which made juniors michael bradley and program teacher andrew never looked back. it took a Contact Casey Karnes at it really tough.” kevin Fink and holy cross hoyt and senior ben Turk halftime lead of 11-2 behind wkarnes@nd.edu 



belles travel to Trine for 
doubleheader 
paid adverTisemenT 
SMC SOFTBALL 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
despite the potential for rainy weather, the belles will travel to angola, ind., to face Trine today in a doubleheader at 3:30 p.m. 
coming off a split against hope and six total games saturday through monday, the belles (17-13, 7-3 miaa) feel pre­pared to take on the Thunder (29-3, 12-0), the no. 1 team in the miaa, belles coach erin sullivan said. 
“we are excited to keep play­ing,” sullivan said. “we are do­ing well right now and besides a little fatigue … we will be ready for four more games in the next two days.” 
as well as being undefeated in the miaa, Trine is the de­fending conference champion. regardless, sullivan said she be­lieves the belles could win if they perform how they did in their first game against hope. 
“Trine is playing well so they have a lot of confidence,” sullivan said. “we need to go into the games prepared to win and knowing all of the pressure is on Trine to continue to per­form well and keep their streak alive.” 
sullivan also said the belles need to prepare for Trine’s fast pitching. sullivan said the belles mostly took Tuesday off but also took some cuts off the pitch ma­chine at a higher speed to pre­pare for the pitchers at Trine. 
The belles’ pitching has been top notch, as well. Junior pitcher callie selner won her 10th game of the season against hope, while belles freshman sarah burke has won seven games this season. sullivan said both are expected to play in the double­header against Trine. 
There is a chance of showers in angola tomorrow, yet sullivan said she believes they will play despite light rain. 
“The field at Trine is dry and tarped, so i think unless the rain is brutal or there is lightning, we will play,” sullivan said. 
sullivan also said with the miaa tournament a few weeks away, a win against the top-ranked team in the miaa would greatly boost the belles’ morale. 
“we have struggled to get a win against Trine lately, so it would be a great boost of con­fidence for us and another step toward the conference tourna­ment, certainly,” sullivan said. 
sullivan said this game not only puts the belles up against great competition, but also pro­vides a great learning experience for the duration of the season. 
“i think this will be a good test to see what we are doing well and what we may need to im­prove when we get to the tourna­ment,” she said. 
The belles will attempt to topple Trine in a doubleheader at 3:30 p.m. today in angola, ind. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 20 
loss [northwestern] just suffered at the hands of an incredible Florida team, it’s always an inter­esting thing with 18-22 year olds. we certainly saw that Florida played [its] best game of the year because we’ve had an opportu­nity to scout that film and it was a very off day for northwestern. every team seems to have one of those days every once in a while.” 
northwestern holds a 13-2 lead in the regional rivalry and will be looking for its 14th straight victory over the irish. notre dame last beat the wildcats in 2003, and most recently fell to northwestern in the first round of last season’s ncaa tournament. 
although “Fall ball” games do not affect regular season re­cords, the irish did defeat the wildcats twice in exhibitions last september. senior goalkeeper ellie hilling said the two exhi­bition victories, in addition to northwestern’s most recent loss, give notre dame confidence heading into today’s matchup. 
“we played them twice and beat them in fall ball and even though that doesn’t really count, it gave us some confidence in our team knowing that [the wildcats] are beatable,” she said. “They also did just get crushed by Florida. so knowing they are beatable, it’s our stadium, we’re playing un­der the lights—i think everyone’s going to be pretty excited, and it would just be awesome [to win].” 
when the two teams met in september, both were missing key contributors and neither played complicated defensive or offensive schemes. despite the unstructured format, halfpenny said the irish emerged from their matchups with northwestern in september with the knowledge that they matched up well with the wildcats. 


“while [the exhibitions] might seem a little bit like street ball, roll the ball out and see what hap­pens, i think that our team defi­nitely walked away [from them] with some major confidence,” halfpenny said. “we know that athletically we stacked up re­ally nicely against them, that mentally we felt like we could handle their pressure and their game. even though a lot has changed since september, i defi­nitely think that gives our team the belief that we’re on common ground with them.” 
in its last two games, notre dame trailed by multiple goals early in the first half. according to hilling, the irish want to begin each game well, but they don’t worry about early deficits. 
“The whole year we’ve kind of been a second-half team, and i think in a majority of our games we’ve been down in the first half or the first couple minutes or first part of the half, so it is important for us to start out strong,” hilling said. “it’s also kind of nice to know we do well in the second half, just knowing if we’re down a couple goals no one’s panick­ing because we’re used to coming back.” 
halfpenny said the irish have been trying to start games well for several weeks but noted that she felt their intensity was lack­ing in the losses to the orange (12-3, 6-0) and the huskies (13-2, 5-1) last weekend. she said notre dame would be more motivated to play a complete game against northwestern. 
“we’ve been focused on [be­ginning the game well] for the second half of the season,” halfpenny said. “That will to win and that extra fire in the belly was definitely missing over the course of last weekend. we are going to put a great emphasis on getting out to a fast start.” 
The irish and wildcats face off at 7 p.m. tonight at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Opportunity 
conTinued From page 20 
soviet union of women’s lacrosse, winning national championships seven of the last eight years. in the year the wildcats didn’t win the championship, 2010, they nonethe­less made the national champion­ship game, losing to maryland by two. To the wildcats, anything less than another national title is a fail­ure, and they have their sights set on a three-peat. 
all the more reason why a notre dame upset tonight would be even sweeter. 
brooks said to his team, “if we played them ten times, they might win nine. but not this game. not tonight.” 
The u.s. team proved their coach’s words true 23 years ago, and wednesday seems to be the perfect set-up for a similar upset. in the past, northwestern has owned notre dame. last year, the wildcats beat the irish twice, including a victory in the opening round of the ncaa tournament to send notre dame home early and end coach christine halfpenny’s fantastic inaugural season. 
This season seems to have set the irish up for a stronger postseason showing. while last season’s 8-0 start was impressive, the irish ex­ceeded that mark when they came flying out of the gate this season, notching 10 straight wins.  during this winning streak, notre dame showed it can play any type of game. The irish proved they could come back from halftime deficits, rallying back to win early season games against then-no. 18 ohio state and stanford. They demon­strated they could flat out  domi­nate games from the opening draw, which they did in a 22-1 thrashing of detroit and a 14-2 beat down of villanova. perhaps most impor­tantly, they showed they could steal games from the jaws of defeat: they survived a 12-11 scare against vanderbilt, a 16-15 double overtime shootout against louisville, and a 13-12 thriller with then-no. 8 georgetown. 

lately, the squad has struggled, losing three of its last four after starting the season so well. as counterintuitive as it may seem, this rough patch the irish have hit is exactly what will help them to focus before attempting to knock off a team like northwestern. it’s an age-old saying that teams do best when their backs are back against the wall, and, with just two games remaining and still no conference tournament berth locked up, notre dame certainly has been backed into a corner. 
The irish need to win. and they will. 
how confident am i? confident enough that i would ask famed an­nouncer al michaels to broadcast the game so he could deliver his fa­mous “do you believe in miracles?” line after notre dame knocks off the mighty wildcats. 
why am i so confident? it’s sim­ple. northwestern is beatable, as it is coming off a 22-4 loss to then-no. 3 Florida, and the irish need a spark. The opportunity is there, and as brooks said, “This is your time! now 

go out there and take it.”  The views expressed in this  
column are those of the author  
Contact Alex Wilcox at  and not necessarily those of The  
awilcox1@nd.edu  Observer.  

paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTrick cross 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: dev patel, 23; Jaime king, 34; Jonathan ruck-man, 44; george lopez, 52 
Happy Birthday: research and prepare before you make a decision that will alter your life professionally, financially or physically. a power struggle can be expected, requiring you to take measures that are well thought-out and unique. make your mind up to put everything you’ve got into accomplishing your goals, and you will come out on top. your numbers are 4, 10, 16, 21, 33, 35, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): avoid emotional encounters with peers. if someone is pressuring you, back away. concentrate on your work and taking care of your responsibilities. an unexpected opportunity must be considered, but refrain from making an impulsive move without getting all the facts first. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Taking action will make a difference. pressure will be put on you if you keep changing your mind. mull over what you want to achieve before you begin. past experience will help you make a better choice now. put love first. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): plan every move you make. giving out too much in­formation will lead to interference. negotiate shrewdly and invest conservatively. Find an alternative if someone blocks you. Think fast and adapt to change and you will reach your goal. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take on responsibilities if it will position you to make the reforms you feel are necessary. Target your goal and be persistent. your dedi­cation and passion to achieve will impress someone with something to offer. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do whatever it takes to get the job done. complaints will be made if you don’t honor a promise. your ability to think fast and operate like a leader will not go unnoticed. someone is likely to be jealous of you. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): knowledge, sharing and visiting people who offer insight into something you want to do or pursue should be the focal point of your day. networking, socializing or concentrating on a love interest will enhance your life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make a decision. Take care of an investment and put money into your living space or a service you want to offer. don’t let your emo­tions stand in the way. make a decision and follow through. avoid unpredictable people who may be offering empty promises. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): offer something different, unique and challenging to the people you believe in or care about the most. your ability to diversify and create will enable you to make changes that will allow you to have more fun and expand your interests. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make the domestic alterations that will give you the freedom to enjoy life and be surrounded by people who share your interests. networking or participating in a worthy cause will lead to stellar connections. partnership opportunities are present. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): make changes to your lifestyle that fit your current situation and you will flourish. a new job or changing the way you do things will result in stability, less stress and opportunities that bring you greater freedom. love is in the stars. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): money, health and legal concerns should be your prime concern. expand your personal goals and you will satisfy your needs. do your own thinking and make decisions that work for you. avoid anyone trying to control you. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): how you earn and handle your money must be looked at carefully. a conservative outlook will help you build a solid plan for the future that will enable you to achieve some of the dreams you have yet to achieve. 


Birthday Baby: you are determined, outspoken and willful. you embrace chal­lenges. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Field narrows to the elite 
Bookstore Basketball tournament continues with eight teams remaining to vie for championship 
team’s second half defensive 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 

sports writer and rebounding efforts as 
the main reasons for its big No. 9 Onions!!! def. No. 8 win. Amish Guard “The way we played de­
in the battle between no. fense in the second half was 8 amish guard and no. 9 a big difference,” herlihy onions!!!, onions!!! man-said. “also, our rebounding aged to fend off the guard’s in the second half was a big inside attack and pull off the reason why we won.” sweet sixteen victory by a despite ending the game score of 21-13. with 24 rebounds compared 
early on, the amish to amish guard’s 32 boards, guard, composed of irish onions!!! actually out-re­guard members, seemed bounded its opponent in the to have the advantage, as second half after suffering a it dominated the boards to -13 rebounding differential start the first half. however, in the first half. onions!!! kept it close with onions!! will take on no. strong mid-range shoot-1 sophomores at holy cross ing. after falling into a 10-7 tonight at 7 p.m. in the elite halftime deficit, onions!!! eight. opened up a second half lead with a 6-0 run. No. 4 D.G.P def. No. 13 
onions!!! senior cap-#Team43 tain chris herlihy led the out on the rain-soaked way for his team, shoot-bookstore basketball courts, ing three-for-eight from the no. 4 d.g.p and no. 13 field to score a total of six #Team43 faced off for nearly points. despite his individ-an hour before d.g.p pulled ual efforts, herlihy cited his out the 21-15 win. 




1. Sophomores at Holy Cross 
FINAL 8 
3. Team Three 
2. Onions!!! 
11. Uncle Drew 
3. RD, NC, JR, KG, TP 
7. Former Team 13 
4. D. G. P 
The rain was not enough to men’s basketball assistant hold back the frontcourt tan-coach harold swanagan, dem of first year law student who took over the paint in and former irish offensive the second half. scoring lineman chris stewart and most of their points inside, 
2. Romeo Medical Clinic 
SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 
stewart and swanagan seemed to be 
see booksTore PAGE 16 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish to take on powerhouse Northwestern squad 
Notre Dame looks to top Northwestern 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
no. 10 notre dame hosts no. 4 northwestern tonight at arlotta stadium in a matchup of two top-10 teams looking to rebound from recent losses. 
notre dame (11-3, 5-3 big east) fell 11-8 to no. 5 syracuse on Friday and lost 10-7 against then-no. 19 connecticut on sunday. The wildcats (13-2, 4-1 american lacrosse conference) dropped a 22-4 decision to then-
no. 3  Florida  on saturday  in  
gainesville, Fla.  
irish  coach  christine  

halfpenny said the lopsided loss is not indicative of the northwestern team notre dame will face today. 
“i look at their entire body of work over the course of the sea­son when i’m scouting an oppo­nent,” she said. “you look at that 
see lacrosse PAGE 18 


Team has ability to best Wildcat dynasty 

Alex Wilcox 
sports writer 
“great moments are born from great opportunity.” 
legendary hockey coach herb brooks said this to his underdog united states team before taking on the soviet union squad in the 1980 winterolympics. 
as everyone knows, the u.s. defeated the vaunted soviets in the “miracle on ice” and went on to win the gold medal. 
with the back-to-back national champion northwestern wildcats coming to town on wednesday, the time is now for the no. 10 irish to create their own “miracle on ice” moment. 
no. 4 northwestern boasts the preeminent women’s lacrosse pro­gram in the country. They are the soviet union of women’s lacrosse, winning national championships 
see opporTuniTy PAGE 18 




