The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 124 | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Called to serve’ 
Hesburgh named honorary naval chaplain at Wednesday ceremony in realization of life-long dream 
By CHRISTAN MYERS 
news writer 
after 70 years, university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh finally realized his dream of be­coming a chaplain in the united states navy. 
rear admiral mark Tidd, chief of chaplains for the united states navy, desig­nated hesburgh an honorary naval chaplain in a special ceremony wednesday night in the carey auditorium of the hesburgh library. 
captain earl carter, com­manding officer of notre dame’s navy reserve officer Training corps (roTc), said the “well-deserved and significant” event was about honoring hesburgh for his leadership and life-long leg­acy of service. 
“Today we honor this self­less leader who has done so much for so many,” carter said. 
in awarding hesburgh, Tidd said he could think of no one who better exempli­fied the navy chaplain mot­to “vocati ad servitium,” or “called to serve.” 
“The latin words on the naval chaplain corps seal are translated ‘called to serve,’” Tidd said. “in my mind there is no one more deserving to be named an honorary naval 
see hesburgh PAGE 7 


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh was named an honorary naval chaplain Wednesday by Rear Admiral Mark Tidd , chief of chaplains from the United States Navy. 


Zeiss to compete in ‘Jewish Olympics’ 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor 
when sophomore fencer maddie Zeiss participates in the maccabiah games in Tel aviv, israel, in July, she will represent notre dame to the Jewish community. 
“it’s for all Jewish ath­letes, and they have over 30 sports, and you’re selected to be on one of the sports teams,” Zeiss said. “and you … spend a week [tour­ing] israel, … and then the second week is the week of competition.” 
The maccabiah is the world’s largest Jewish ath­letic competition that emphasizes the centrality of the state of israel in the life of the Jewish people, according to the maccabiah website. The games take place every four years and are often called “the Jewish olympics.” 
Zeiss, a foil, said she will participate in the open di­vision, in which athletes of any age may partici­pate. she will compete on a team with two other fe­male americans: a student at northwestern university and a high school student from new york. 
Zeiss applied for the 
see Fencer PAGE 6 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Sophomore foil Maddie Zeiss, right, was selected to participate in the Maccabiah games, known as the “Jewish Olympics.” 

nFl players to study in mendoza program 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
This weekend, 23 players from the national Football league (nFl) will travel to notre dame to participate in the nFl “investment for impact” program at the mendoza college of business. 
paul slaggert, director of non-degree programs in the mendoza college of business, said players will gain basic business under­standing to be able to make smart investments. 

“we plan to teach the idea of financial literacy and ba­sic understanding of bud­get,” slaggert said.  “brady talked about the importance of building a successful portfolio being financially literate.” 
The program, developed by former irish football players brady Quinn and Jeff Faine, will work to prepare current and former nFl players with the ability to make smart investments. 
according to an nFl communications press re­lease, attendees qualify if they demonstrate an in­terest in business, com­plete an assigned essay and had nFl playing ex­perience. prominent par­pittsburgh steelers quarter­back charlie batch and cur­rent minnesota viking safety harrison smith. 
“i’m proud to have had a hand in bringing “investment for impact” to my alma mater and assisting in forming a partnership be­tween notre dame and the nFl for the continuing edu­cation of professional 
ticipants include former see nFl PAGE 7 

alumni, students network at event 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 

This weekend, notre dame students and grad­uates will interact and network at the alumni association leadership conference, held Thursday through saturday. 
Featured speakers include carolyn woo, president and ceo of catholic relief services and former dean of the mendoza college of business, and gerry Faust, former notre dame football coach (1981-1985). 
stephanie mola, special event program director for the alumni association, said the conference gives notre dame graduates who acted as leaders in their classes, clubs or groups the opportunity to come back to campus for three days to 
see alumni PAGE 6 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna online editor:  Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your spirit animal? 

AJ Erdman 
junior 
dillon hall 
“i’m a panther...” 
Jeff Ziolkowski 
senior 
off campus 
“manbearpig.” 
Hannah Lindman 
junior 
badin hall 

“i am a medium through which deceased emus voice their grievances.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Kendra Resiser 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
“Killer whale. They’re quite prevalent in seattle.” 
Mike Fronk 
senior 
off campus 
“great white buffalo.” 
Pat Smith 
junior 
dillon hall 
“water buffalo.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
ann marie Jakubowski Jack hefferon charitha isanaka peter steiner lesley stevenson alex wilcox 

Graphics Scene Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
emily danaher allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint Women’s Softball Soup and Substance: Men’s Lacrosse Baseball Elevator Pitch 
lily Kang dan brombach 
Melissa Cook Stadium Education in Africa Arlotta Stadium Eck Baseball Stadium Cocktail Party 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Geddes Hall 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 1:05 p.m.-3:05 p.m. Hospitality Room, The Irish face off 12 p.m.-1:15 p.m. The Irish take on the Game vs. Quinnipiac South Dining Hall 
Corrections 

against Valparaiso. CSC discussion. Villanova Wildcats. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Wham! Bam! Poetry Spring Concert Blue-Gold Spring Sunday Mass Lecture: Western 
strives for the highest standards 
Slam DeBartolo Performing Football Festival Basilica of the Sacred Music as World 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Snite Museum of Art Arts Center Notre Dame Stadium Heart Music 
however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-10:30 p.m. 1 p.m.-5 p.m. 10 a.m.-11 a.m. DeBartolo Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
First annual poetry The Symphony Preview of the 2013 Music by the Notre 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
slam. Orchestra performs. Fighting Irish. Dame Liturgical Choir. Speaker Nicholas Cook. 
we can correct our error. 



Senate discusses response to marathon tragedy 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
student body president alex coccia discussed the student government’s plans for respond­ing to the boston marathon bombings at wednesday’s senate meeting. 
“we did the vigil on monday night as sort of an immediate they have planned a moment of silence or something similar to respect the victims, also in coor­dination with boston college. 
The group then discussed ideas to bring up at the upcom­ing town hall meeting.  student body vice president nancy Joyce opened the floor to discussion. 
“one of our main items in our platform is this idea of trying to hold several town hall meetings throughout the school year as a way to connect students with administration,” Joyce said.  “i think sometimes there’s a dis­connect between students and the administration on issues that are really important, so it will be helpful to talk with them and give them some feedback.” 
Joyce said one of the topics they would like to bring up is food services, ranging from din­ing hall menus to grab-and-go to meal plans and swipes. 
club coordination council 
(ccc) president maggie armstrong said she would like to learn more about campus expansion. 
“i’ve heard rumors about building new dorms out on li­brary fields and mcglinn fields,” armstrong said.  “i think a lot of students would be interested in learning how the university is planning on growing and changing.” 
senior class president carolina wilson said she also had con­cerns about housing as well as overcrowding on campus. 
“i would be interested in hav­ing more senior housing,” wilson said.  “not necessarily specific housing but maybe nicer op­portunities for seniors who want to stay on campus.  also, study space is a huge issue because it is almost impossible to find a table at the library especially during finals week.” 
o’neill hall senator Kyle mccaffery said he thinks student relationships with hall maintenance staff should be addressed. 
“i think it is important to develop a better relationship between students and the hall cleaning staff,” mccaffery said.  “maybe we can estab­lish a sort of staff appreciation day.” 
This idea was widely sup­ported by other senators who had ideas such as collecting money for a christmas bonus, 
“I’ve heard rumors about building new dorms out on library fields and McGlinn fields [...] I think a lot of students would be interested in learning how the University is planning on growing and changing.” 
Maggie Armstrong 
Club Coordination Council 
president 
having students clean for the maintenance staff for a day and cooking for their staffs. 
welsh Family hall’s sena­tor sophie manley brought up the issue of inconsistencies between women and men’s dorms.  
“between girls and guys dorms, with parties and stuff, the standards are not the same at all,” manley said.  “For girls it’s annoying that we’re held to this high standard, while guys can have crazy parties and not get in any trouble.  For us, it’s one toe out of order and we get in a lot of trouble.” 
Judicial council president michael masi introduced two nominees for various judicial council positions. 
“Kathryn peruski is being nominated for judicial coun­cil vice president of elections,” masi said.  “if approved, she will be in charge of all elec­tions, including freshmen class council, student body and hall elections. 
“secondly, erin o’brien is being nominated for judicial council vice president of peer advocacy, an organization that oversees 12-15 peer advocates,” he said. “she will be respon­sible for training these advo­cates and working closely with the office of residence life.” 
both nominees were ap­proved by the student senate. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
response, and i thought it had a good turnout,” coccia said. “since then we have gotten in contact with people at boston college, trying to coordinate with their plans.” 
according to coccia, boston college planned a walk, called The last Five miles, and imme­diately got over 14,000 attendees on their Facebook event. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“They were asked by the police to postpone the walk because of the possible danger and the fact that boston is still technically a crime scene, but when we do find out the date we are planning to do a similar walk in conjunc­tion,” coccia said. 
coccia said he has spoken with the coordinators of The shirt unveiling event on Friday, and 



paid adverTisemenT 

The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

University initiative offers ePortfolio service 
By MARIA DO 
news writer 
The notre dame eport­folio engagement program (ndeep), launched its official online site april 9, offering new resources and assistance to students interested in form­ing virtual portfolios. 
offering  new  eportfolio  
resources  and  assistance,  
the  notre  dame  eportfo­ 

lio engagement program (ndeep) held a career ep­ortfolio student workshop wednesday 
a new initiative by the office of provost, ndeep serves students, faculty, advisors, programs and college depart­ments. according to ndeep’s webpage, the program’s mis­sion provides resources that would help “build a deep and broad portfolio culture and community across the campus.” 
ndeep’s interim commissioner alex ambrose said the program formed to meet the university’s need for a committee that would provide technical eportfolio assistance for students and faculty of all programs and majors. 
“because different faculty and departments have their own responsibilities, they are unable to invest enough time to expand on their use of eportfolios,” ambrose said. “successful eportfolio sub­scriptions have a support sys­tem that will help them with the skills and backing they need to implement eportfolios into their programs or cours­es. That’s where ndeep comes in. 
“we’re here to help them. not only are we creating all these accounts for students and faculty, we’re having a program to help support it,” he said. 
a career eportfolio student workshop held wednesday addressed the relevance of eportfolios for students in all undergraduate programs and colleges. They offered person­al assistance for students in­terested in building or further developing their eportfolios, ambrose said. 
“The workshop [was] broken into three parts, “ambrose said. “we [started] off ex­plaining eportfolio basics — what it is and why students should create it. we [also gave] students information on how their eportfolio can work hand-in-hand with career ser­vices that will allow them to showcase their achievements and skills to prospective em­ployers as students are look­ing for internships and jobs.” 
“lastly, we [held] a hands-on workshop to show how students can create and cus­tomize their eportfolios to make it stand out,” he said. 
as a more recent initiative by the university, eportfolios were officially offered this year to all first year students, ambrose said. with a major­ity of these students creating and modifying their eport­folios, ambrose said ndeep hopes to see widespread use of eportfolios among all undergraduates. 
“The dean of First years challenged the incoming freshman for this year to build their eportfolios,” ambrose said. “about 80 percent of the students took it on, and to us, that counts as a suc­cess because this is a tool that they can use later on in their careers. 
“as a researcher in the field of eportfolios, eportfo­lios should be for student en­gagement. it should engage and benefit the student first. if it helps improve the pro­gram or department, that is secondary.” 
along with the First year studies, the college of engineering use eportfolios to help students further specify their engineering interests as well as showcase coursework and projects, freshman rachel wallace said. 
“in engineering, we have a specific eportfolio that we use to put in our assignments and describe our experiences as we go out and explore the various fields within the engineering school at college events and major nights,” wallace said. “These assignments force me to go out and get informed about what i want to study. also, putting up engineer­ing projects on this eportfolio helps me show others what i’ve done so far in terms of en­gineering experience.” 
outside of academia, eport­folios have become a medi­um for students to document their accomplishments dur­ing their undergraduate stud­ies, freshman ajani crosley said. 
“it’s good because you can have everything out there at once so if people want to see what you’re like for a job inter­view, your eportfolio does the talking for you,” crosley said. “it tells employers and people who are interested in taking you into a position the things that you may not be able to fully say on the spot and gives them a fuller idea and details about who you are.” 
Contact Maria Do at mdo1@nd.edu 

SMC Rome moves housing 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 

saint mary’s study abroad program in rome, italy, will change its living arrangements for students in Fall 2013 for the first time since the program’s establishment in 1970. 
rome program director portia prebys said the palazzo pacelli, which housed the hotel Tiziano where students lived, was re­cently sold and will be gutted for renovation by the new owners. 
“after 44 years, the hotel Tiziano will no longer exist,” prebys said. 
peter checca, rome program counselor, said returnees have always remarked that the loca­tion of the lodgings in the heart of rome was a perfect setup. 
“students have always appre­ciated not only the accommo­dations of a four-star hotel, but also the delicious food served there and the friendly and car­ing atmosphere,” checca said. “i am sure that all of us who have stayed at the hotel Tiziano will surely miss it, and rome will not seem the same.” 
checca said the hotel Tiziano’s staff will be missed by all, who have been like fam­ily to the program’s students for years. 
The hotel Tiziano lies along the central street in rome that is nearly the equivalent to michigan avenue in chicago, sophomore audrey Kiefer said. 
Kiefer, who studied in rome last semester, said living along such a hectic and exciting road was one of the best parts of the program. 
“it was so thrilling to walk outside every morning and have to fit into a sea of businessmen, seminarians and roman resi­dents,” Kiefer said.  “and, bet­ter yet, all the most desirable historical sites were within a 10-minute walk.” 
Junior malea schulte, who studied in rome in spring 2012, said she was shocked to hear the news of the changes. 
“i can’t imagine living any­where else but the Tiziano while studying abroad in rome,” schulte said. “i was looking forward to staying there again sometime in my life.” 
now, similar accommoda­tions near the program campus in rome’s largo argentina area are being produced for future groups of students beginning in the fall of 2013, prebys said. 
The new location will still be a hotel and will have the add­ed perk of laundry facilities, though it is further away from the campus and classrooms and does not have a restaurant for student meals, junior lauren coppinger said. 
coppinger, who plans to re­turn to rome next year to study, said the changes will not affect the program in a negative way. 
“obviously, the hotel Tiziano was an amazing place to live, 
paid adverTisemenT 
and the staff were great, but when it comes down to it, rome is rome, and i know that dr. 
“It was so thrilling to walk outside every morning and have to fit into a sea of businessmen seminars and Roman residents [...] And, better yet, all the most desirable historical sites were within a 10-minute walk.” 
Audrey Kiefer 
sophomore 
prebys and the other program coordinators would not place students in a bad location,” coppinger said. 
Keifer also said the experi­ence in rome doesn’t depend on the familiar housing setup. 
“any place in rome is a prime spot to experience all the won­ders of the city,” Kiefer said.  “i know that future students will love it no matter where they stay.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 




Community to compete in slam poetry battle 
By NICOLE McALEE 
news writer 
notre dame students are celebrating national poetry month with the wham, bam, poetry slam! event to­night at the snite museum of art. The event is hosted by the snite in conjunction with the creative writing program, the department of english, First year studies and the department of africana studies. 
The poetry slam will take place tonight in the atrium of the snite, with a recep­tion at 5 p.m. and the slam from 6 to 7p.m. 
coleen hoover, program coordinator for the creative writing program, said the poetry slam is the first that has ever been performed on campus. 
“i don’t know why [a po­etry slam] has never been done [here], i just know that it’s exciting,” hoover said. 
hoover said each partici­pant has three minutes to perform his or her poem, which is judged by five se­lected members of the audi­ence. The first place winner will receive $100, the sec­ond place winner will re­ceive $50 and the third place winner will receive a signed copy of poet marty mcconnell’s book “wine for a shotgun.” 
hoover said the slam has drawn 16 participants rep­resenting undergraduate 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

students, graduate students, faculty and staff from notre dame, as well as students from saint mary’s and mem­bers of the local community. 
sophomore marc drake, who will be the under­graduate student emcee at the slam, said he is looking forward to the open atmo­sphere of the slam. 
“i’m very eager to see people express themselves in such a personal way. The subject matter of people’s poems often deals with pret­ty weighty topics that people aren’t prone to discuss on a daily basis, especially here,” drake said. “i think it’ll be a great way for people to open up to their peers in an a very open environment.” 
Freshman Kelsey collett, who is performing in the poetry slam, said despite her “mild stage fright,” she is looking forward to getting feedback from the audience. 
“one of the biggest chal­lenges for me is just getting up and really confronting an audience with a poem that you feel really strongly about,” collett said. ”The biggest reward is when you get a good reaction or when someone comes up to you and says they really connected with what you wrote.” 
peter Twal, who will serve as the graduate student em­
“The subject matter of people’s poems often deals with pretty weighty topics that people aren’t prone to discuss on a daily basis, especially here.” 
Marc Drake 
sophomore 
cee, is pursing his master of Fine arts in creative writing at the university. he said he is most excited by the idea of the first poetry slam “start­ing something” on campus. 
“i know a lot of the un­dergraduates are interested in this sort of thing, and i think that’s incredible,” Twal said. “i hope this ends up being something that happens every year. it’s just one more way to promote the arts here at nd. 
“and who knows? maybe seeing students work up the courage to get on stage and do this sort of thing will in­spire others to compete next year.” 
sophomore beth spesia is a founding member of spoken word nd, which is under consideration by the student activities office for recognition during the 2013-2014 academic year. spesia, who will be partici­pating in the slam, said peo­ple respond to slam poetry because it is “a reflection of the human experience.” 
“slam poetry is just an en­tertaining way for people to get together and share their stories,” spesia said, “scoring poems and making it a competition keeps the slam interesting.  but one of the main mottos of slam is ‘the points are not the point, the point is the poetry.’” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 

garden program employs autistic individuals 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI 
news writer 
The power of entrepreneur­ship has planted a new busi­ness in the local south bend community called The green bridge growers (gbg). The small business, co-founded by saint mary’s Justice education professor Jan pilarski, will sell local produce and offer employ­ment to autistic individuals. 
pilarski said she was person­ally affected by the hardships of autism when her son was un­able to obtain a full-time job after graduating college. after witnessing others like her son, she began to see a social justice issue. 
“They are strong employees. The skills and opportunities for those with autism are not being used on the job,” pilarski said. 
innovation was needed to solve the problem, so pilarski said she and her son decided to take action. pilarski’s interest in sustainability and her son’s experience in organic farming provided the first step in creat­ing gbg, she said. 
in collaboration with notre dame’s science and engineering meet business, entrepreneurship and innovation master’s program, the gbg team began research­ing adequate and productive farming methods. 
pilarski said gbg uses aqua­ponics, a different agricultural method in which growth must be maintained and monitored on a daily basis. 
“aquaponics saves on hard labor,” she said. “it helps those with autism to work at the same level without creating physical stress on their bodies.” 
Typical farming tasks will be performed by the workers, who will seed the plants, trans­fer them as they grow and test them, she said. The system also requires precision and atten­tion during inspection. 
in collaboration with the lo­cal community, pilarski said gbg will be partnering with hannah and Friends, a non­profit organization former by former irish head coach charlie weis supporting and improv­ing the lives of those with special needs. gbg will be add­ing a greenhouse to hannah and Friends as a prototype, she said. This will provide an opportunity to test energy ef­ficiency and growing methods while training autistic employ­ees who are autistic, she said. gbg plans to build three 2,000 square foot greenhouses in the next three years. 
“we look forward to the ex­pertise that green bridge will share with our staff and partici­pants, teaching us to maintain the aquaponics system and cre­ating hands-on learning oppor­tunities for our participants” Katie Teitgen, staff member at hannah and Friends, said. 
gbg is working on the con­struction of the prototype and will start with the instillation in may, according to pilarski. The greenhouse will be com­pleted by this summer and all proceeds will support further development of the green­house and other day program activities. 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk01@nd.edu 





Fencer 
conTinued From page 1 
opportunity to compete and was selected because 
of her  no. 5 ranking on  
usa  Fencing’s  senior  
points  list.  Zeiss  also  

earned a bronze medal in this year’s ncaa champi­onships and has earned all-american honors for the past two years. 
before the games, Zeiss will continue to train as she does during the school year. 
“usually, over the sum­mer, people take fencing a lot lighter because they’re not in season, but i need to just … keep training,” Zeiss said. “[but] i think [maccabiah is] more about the cultural experience than the actual train­ing, although both are important.” 
before the competition, the athletes will visit sce­nic locations and places significant to the Jewish faith, Zeiss said. 
“even though i was raised Jewish, i was never a very religious person,” she said. “so even though i am Jewish, i don’t re­ally know a lot about the religion.” 
For this reason, Zeiss said she looks forward to learning more about her religion while in israel. although her Jewish faith puts her in a minority cat­egory at notre dame, Zeiss said she does not feel like catholicism has been forced upon her here. 
“my first time at notre dame, i was definitely a little bit hesitant,” she said. “but since i’ve been here, it’s been extremely accepting. i’ve never been pressured into becoming catholic or learning more about catholicism. … i think the opportunity to be around the catholic re­ligion has been amazing, but it also hasn’t been a situation where i’ve been pressured or anything.” 

Zeiss said she chose to attend notre dame be­cause she liked the fenc­ing program and the university as a whole. 
“The religion aspect nev­er got in the way of my ed­ucation,” she said. “it was just something that was in the back of my mind. … it isn’t prominent if you don’t want it to be, and i really like that it gives you options.” 
Zeiss said she antici­pates maccabiah will be “eye-opening” and make her interested in find­ing new ways to practice her Jewish faith while at notre dame. but she does not know what awaits her halfway around the world. 
“i really don’t know what to expect but i’m super curious to find out and i think it should be really awesome,” she said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Alumni 
conTinued From page 1 
work on leadership devel­opment and networking. 
“we were very fortunate this year in acquiring ex­tremely dynamic speakers to address the group,” mola said. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins,  executive vice president John affleck­graves, vice president lou nanni, irish coach brian Kelly and senior associate athletic director John heisler will address the conference participants, she said. 
elle metz, young alumni programs manager for the alumni association, said students will have the op­portunity to interact di­rectly with alumni during the conference. 
“The student-alumni so­cial on Thursday night is an excellent opportunity for students to meet alumni from around the country,” metz said. “in particular, they can interact and net­work with alumni from their current hometown or their future city of residence.” 
she said the atmosphere will be casual and condu­cive to mingling among advice from those who have travelled the same path be­fore them, she said. 
“This is an excellent op­portunity for students to learn what notre dame graduates are doing out in the world and to gather advice on their own life paths,” metz said. 
metz encouraged stu­dents interested in getting involved with their local notre dame club to visit mynotredame.nd.edu/clu­blocator to find one near their city. 
“once they join the club, there are multiple opportu­nities to get involved,” metz said. “For example, they can attend club events like game watches and service projects.” 
Joining a notre dame club could also provide a job op­portunity in the future, metz said, as graduates are able to serve as young alumni coordinators who help plan club programs. 
metz said the university encourages all members of the notre dame family, even parents and friends, to get involved with their local notre dame club. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 







deserving leader,” carter 
Hesburgh 
said. “i’m honored we were 
conTinued From page 1 
able to do the presentation chaplain than someone who in front of our battalion has answered the call to of midshipmen, since Fr. serve our nation, the call to hesburgh’s selfless service serve the world, and the call to the nation provides them to serve god.” with such a shining example 
“Fr. hesburgh, i am hum-as they look forward to their bled to be able to declare: naval careers.” you are an honorary navy Tidd said the ceremony re-chaplain.” flected both hesburgh’s and 
hesburgh said he was the university’s history with touched by the honor, and the u.s. navy. both he and the university “it was a great way to cel­would continue to cherish ebrate his long connec­a connection with the u.s. tion to the navy and notre navy. dame’s long connection to 
“i can’t tell you how much the navy,” he said. i am touched to be hon-sophomore midship­ored by my navy brothers. man sam hyder said the … The navy is welcome at ceremony seemed to bring notre dame,” hesburgh said. “notre dame is better because we’ve had the navy 
“I’m honored we 
here as long as we’ve had 
were able to do 
roTc. 
the presentation 
“i can feel even closer to our naval roTc students 
in front of our 

NFL some 45 different booths experience with a financial now that i am an officer in 
battalion of 

conTinued From page 1 pitching ideas to success-background. 
the navy. i will continue to 
midshipmen, since 

ful entrepreneurs and “The opportunity to play serve our navy and coun-
Fr. Hesburgh’s 

athletes,” Faine said in the investors. in the nFl has provided 
try in every way possible. press release. slaggert said this busi-a platform to have in im­
anchors away.” 
selfless service 

The program will con-ness understanding is in-pact on our communities,” Tidd said although 
to the nation 

sist of keynote speakers tegral to being a successful Quinn said in the press re­hesburgh wanted to be a 
provides the, with 

and panel discussions from entrepreneur. lease. “it is my hope that navy chaplain ever since he 
such a shining 

academic experts and cor-“basic financial under-through the notre dame 
was ordained in 1943, his porate executives, the re-standing is foundational entrepreneurial program, 
path to chaplaincy was very 
example as they 

lease stated.  Former nFl to what one wants to do in attendees may learn how to indirect. 
look forward 

players with successful en-order to ask someone to in-invest with an impact for “he took the long way 
to their naval 

trepreneurial backgrounds vest in a business,” slaggert the greater good.” 
around to becoming a navy 
careers.” 

will also speak, including said.  “we want to teach slaggert said the pro-
chaplain,” Tidd said. warrick dunn and rick them what it means to be a gram’s theme sums up their 
hesburgh said he was 
Earl Carter 

mirer. social entrepreneur.” goals. 
forced to set aside his desire 
Navy captain 

to serve as a navy chaplain gram’s location at notre includes starting a private for impact,” [or] how can 
slaggert said the pro-social entrepreneurship “The theme is “investing 
in obedience to his vows as a dame presents opportu-foundation or investing these players use their 
member of the congregation hesburgh’s career back to nities to leverage unique in a social enterprise, he wealth in order to make a 
of holy cross. he instead ob-where it had begun. activities adding a notre said. one presentation will difference in the world,” 
tained advanced degrees in “i thought it was pretty dame perspective to the specifically highlight the slaggert said. 
and taught theology. full circle for Fr. hesburgh’s program. advantages and disadvan-For participants whose 
Tidd said the inspiration career that when he started attendees will also have tages of each option. occupation lasts just 3.5 
to make hesburgh’s dream as a priest he wanted to be a the opportunity to attend Quinn, who studied years on average, being fi­
come true all these years chaplain and now he is one,” the notre dame “venture political science and fi-nancially smart is critical 
later began with naval chap-he said. “i thought it was Fair” and the mccloskey nance at notre dame, to being secure for life. 
lain Fr. bill dorwart. impressive he was faithful business planning said his unique perspec-
Tidd said hesburgh en-to both the navy and holy competition, he said. The tive on the event combines Contact Peter Durbin at 
couraged dorwart, a mem-cross.” venture Fair will consist of firsthand nFl playing pdurbin@nd.edu 
ber of holy cross, to become sophomore midshipman a navy chaplain. he said Kate privateer said she was 
paid adverTisemenT 
it was dorwart who then happy to be part of a ceremo­brought hesburgh’s dream ny honoring hesburgh and to Tidd’s attention and who to know about hesburgh’s suggested the possibility of appreciation for the orga­making hesburgh an honor-nization granting him the ary chaplain. honor. 
Tidd said he was in favor “i’m really glad i could be of the idea, especially since part of a ceremony for Fr. he had met hesburgh aboard hesburgh because of what the aircraft carrier uss he has done for our country Theodore roosevelt. and for our roTc battal­
“i thought it was a great ion,” she said. “it’s great he idea. i had personally met could be honored by an or-him aboard the Theodore ganization he cares so much roosevelt and knew about about.” his commitment to serv-Junior midshipman ing our navy and marines,” murphy lester said it was Tidd said. “Fr. hesburgh overwhelming to witness has had a strategic impact the ceremony. on our nation. he has also “i think there are so few had a personal impact on people who have done so many people, including Fr. much to shape our nation dorwart.” and our university,” he said. 
reflecting on the ceremo-“To be able to be here for ny, carter said he was glad this, to say i was there when hesburgh received the honor they made Fr. hesburgh a and that notre dame’s navy chaplain, is unbelievable. roTc battalion could bene-it’s beyond words.” fit from hesburgh’s example. 
“i thought it was a faith-Contact Christian Myers at ful tribute to a very, very cmyers8@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Mississippi man arrested in DC ricin scare 
Associated Press 
corinTh, miss.— a mississippi man accused of mailing letters to national lead­ers with suspected poisonous ricin believed he had uncov­ered a conspiracy to sell human body parts on the black market and sometimes performed as an elvis presley impersonator. 
paul Kevin curtis, 45, was ar­rested wednesday at his home in corinth, near the Tennessee state line about 50 miles north of presley’s birthplace in Tupelo. 
authorities were waiting for definitive tests on intercepted letters that were addressed to president barack obama and sen. roger wicker, r-miss. preliminary field tests can often show false positives for ricin. ricin is derived from the castor plant that makes castor oil. There is no antidote and it’s deadliest when inhaled. 
an Fbi intelligence bulletin obtained by The associated press said the two letters were postmarked memphis, Tenn. 
both letters said: “To see a wrong and not expose it, is to become a silent partner to its continuance.” both were signed, “i am Kc and i approve this message.” 
in corinth, a city of about 14,000, police cordoned off part of a subdivision where curtis lived. at least five police cars were on the scene, but there didn’t appear to be any haz­ardous-material crews and no neighbors were evacuated. The one-story, single-family home is similar to the others in the neighborhood, with red brick with white trim. 
ricky curtis, who said he was Kevin curtis’ cousin, said the family was shocked by the news of the arrest. he described his cousin as a “super entertainer” who impersonated elvis and numerous other singers. 
“we’re all in shock. i don’t think anybody had a clue that this kind of stuff was weighing on his mind,” ricky curtis said in a telephone interview. 
ricky curtis said his cousin had written about problems he had with a cleaning business and that he felt the government had not treated him well, but he said nobody in the family would have expected this. he said the writings were titled, “missing pieces.” 
a myspace page for a cleaning company called The cleaning crew confirms that they “do windows” and has profile pho­to of “Kevin curtis, master of impressions.” a youTube chan­nel under the name of Kevin curtis has dozens of videos of him performing as different famous musicians, including elvis presley, buddy holly and Kid rock. 
“as far as him being anti-gov­ernment, i’m not going to say that, but he had some issues with some stuff that happened with his cleaning business,” the cousin said. 
multiple online posts on various websites under the name Kevin curtis refer to the conspiracy he claimed to un­cover when working at a local hospital from 1998 to 2000. 
The author wrote the con­spiracy that began when he “discovered a refrigerator full of dismembered body parts & organs wrapped in plastic in the morgue of the largest non-metropolitan healthcare orga­nization in the united states of america.” 
curtis wrote that he was try­ing to “expose various parties within the government, Fbi, police departments” for what he believed was “a conspiracy to ruin my reputation in the community as well as an on­going effort to break down the foundation i worked more than 20 years to build in the country music scene.” 


paid adverTisemenT 
Investigators hunt for potential bombing suspect 
Associated Press 
bosTon — in what could be major break in the boston marathon case, investigators are on the hunt for a man seen in a department store surveil­lance video dropping off a bag at the site of the bombings, a local politician said wednesday. 
separately, a law enforcement official confirmed that authori­ties have found an image of a po­tential suspect but don’t know his name. 
The development — less than 48 hours after the attack, which left three people dead and more than 170 wounded — marked a possible turning point in a case that has investigators analyz­ing photos and videos frame by frame for clues to who carried out the twin bombings and why. 
city council president stephen murphy, who said he was briefed by boston police, said investigators saw the image on surveillance footage they got from a department store near the finish line and matched the findings with witness descrip­tions of someone leaving the scene. 
“i know it’s very active and very fluid right now — that they are on the chase,” murphy said. he added: “They may be on the verge of arresting someone, and that’s good.” 
The bombs were crudely fash­ioned from ordinary kitchen pressure cookers packed with ex­plosives, nails and ball bearings, investigators and others close to the case said. investigators sus­pect the devices were then hid­den in black duffel bags and left on the ground. 
as a result, they were looking for images of someone lugging a dark, heavy bag. 
one department store video “has confirmed that a suspect is seen dropping a bag near the point of the second explosion and heading off,” murphy said. 
a law enforcement official who was not authorized to discuss the case publicly and spoke to The associated press on the condition of anonymity confirmed only that investiga­tors had an image of a potential suspect whose name was not known to them and who had not been questioned. 
several media outlets report­ed that a suspect had been iden­tified from surveillance video taken at a lord & Taylor depart­ment store between the sites of the bomb blasts. 
The turn of events came with boston in a state of high excite­ment over conflicting reports of a breakthrough. 
a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation told the ap around midday that a suspect was in custody. The of­ficial, who was not authorized to divulge details of the investiga­tion and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the suspect was expected in federal court. but the Fbi and the u.s. attor­ney’s office in boston said no ar­rests had been made. 
by nightfall, there was no evi­dence anyone was in custody. no one was taken to court. The law enforcement official, who had affirmed there was a sus­pect in custody even after feder­al officials denied it, was unable to obtain any further informa­tion or explanation. 
at least 14 bombing victims, including three children, re­mained in critical condition. dozens of victims have been released from hospitals, and officials at three hospitals that treated some of the most seri­ously injured said they expected all their remaining patients to survive. a 2-year-old boy with a head injury was improving and might go home Thursday, boston children’s hospital said. 
on wednesday, investigators in white jumpsuits fanned out across the streets, rooftops and awnings around the blast site in search of clues. They picked through trash cans, plastic cup sleeves and discarded sports drink dispensers. 
boston remained under a heavy security presence, and some people admitted they were nervous about moving about in public spaces. 
Tyler King, a personal trainer from attleboro who works in boston, said four of five clients canceled on him a day ear­lier because they were worried about venturing into the city. he took the train in, but “i kind of kept my head on a swivel.” 
Kenya nadry, a website de­signer, took her 5-year-old neph­ew to a playground. 
“There’s still some sense of fear, but i feel like boston’s resil­ient,” she said. “The fine men in blue will take care of a lot of it.” 
police were stationed on street corners across down­town boston, while national guardsmen set up tents on the boston common and stationed tactical vehicles. 
dr. horacio hojman, associate chief of trauma at Tufts medical center, said patients were in surprisingly good spirits when they were brought in. 
“despite what they witnessed, despite what they suffered, de­spite many of them having life-threatening injuries, their spirits were not broken,” he said. “and i think that should probably be the message for all of us — that this horrible act of terror will not bring us down.” 
president barack obama and his challenger in the last elec­tion, former massachusetts gov. mitt romney, planned to visit boston on Thursday to attend a service honoring the victims. 



Don’t let the goodbyes escape you 
plunge into opportunity 

Charitha Isanaka 
news writer 

“imagine,” crooned John lennon, extolling the virtues of an arcadian society. i wondered if he were being idealistic, until i discovered rishi valley, an academy founded by Jiddu Krishnamurthi. 
rishi valley is my alma mater, where i spent most of my impressionable years in a drasti­cally unconventional schooling environment. it was not a school but a community where self-discovery was the sole premise. There was no canned learning and preset assump­tions. it was a journey where education was taught through observation and application and where text books were unheard of. 
our laboratory was a 300-acre piece of verdant land where classrooms were held in open air amphitheatres, on rolling hills and under sprawling banyan boughs. my peers were a motley group with diverse fiscal back­grounds, varied tongues, distinct ethnicities and nationalities. competition was not en­couraged, freedom was forever fostered and punishments were never doled out. while most conventional schools in india demand­ed practiced order by beginning their day with endless rows of students and teachers standing in disparate queues, monotonously chanting the national anthem, rishi valley encouraged ordered chaos. 
self-sustainability was inculcated from induction and students were engaged in serving food, picking up garbage and wash­ing their own dishes. meals were healthy, eco-friendly and completely home grown. we were taught to respect the arts and dabbled in wood craft, batik and clay modelling. 
i graduated from rishi valley four years ago, but i have never truly left the place. it has taught me not to be afraid to question the unknown and helped me do away with fran­tic self-affirmation. This is the reason why i decided to come to notre dame: because it was so distant from what i had been exposed to. i knew nothing about notre dame foot­ball, the dreadfully cold midwest winters or catholicism. i love how much i learn here everyday, and i learn so much because it is so gravely different from who i was. The reward of that risk has taught me to plunge into things of whichi might not know the outcome. 
i would be lying if i said the decision to be brave was natural and easy. it wasn’t. not at all. but sometimes you have to do it anyway. my fear, however, is what if the risk is not rewarding? what if the outcome is bad and makes me sad or fearful? i don’t know. There might be a time when that happens. i admit i lack courage sometimes to do something brave. but my hope is to overcome that and to try something new whenever the oppor­tunity arises. i am leveraging my time here at notre dame to do new things and swim in unchartered waters, for if i don’t take that dive, i will never know what there is. For me, i would much rather say i tried and failed than to regret not having tried at all. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Katherine Barrett 
Faithpoint 

The end of the semester and of the 2012-13 academic year is upon us. will you be graduating? studying abroad? or maybe you are planning to return next fall filled with hope for a fresh start to a new year. whatever your circumstances, it would be easy enough just to stumble out of here with your suitcases, exhausted and stressed out from finals. it would be easy to leave your post-packed-for­summer-storage empty, to leave your dingy room or apartment and the roommates who used to be your best friends — and are now driving you crazy — in the rear-view mirror. 
don’t do it. give your best effort towards summoning up the energy to say what you need to say. Tell someone you love them. Thank your friends for their kindness. offer for­giveness, or ask for it. senior week and commencement offer graduates lots of chances to say “good-bye,” “thank you” and “i’m sorry,” but we all still have to make sure such exchanges happen. and as we’ve certainly learned this week, there’s no point in waiting until some “ap­propriate” future time to seek peace, express gratitude or offer love. 
as we learned on monday, mo­ments that change our lives forever can occur in the blink of an eye and have no respect for the plans, efforts, celebrations or accomplishments we happen to be focused on at the time. and while we all tend to ask our­selves, “where is god in the midst of all this pain?” we find the answers to that very question in the way emer­gency personnel, strangers at the scene and people hundreds of miles away have responded. god is present in the way all who reach out to fam­ily, friends and to those who mourn offer love to another. 
in the face of terrible tragedy or horrific acts of violence, we quite naturally reach out to one another, even without reminders to hug some­one you love today. we know how hearing news of a serious illness or unexpected death jars us out of com­placency and moves us to express more clearly our love, gratitude or remorse. but why not make sure or­dinary days, busy days or plain old inertia don’t become the cause of missing the opportunities the big events provide? 
Time is precious as the last 10 days of the semester approach. Finals, packing, storage, travel and work all contribute to making this one of the less-appealing times of the aca­demic year. but if you have even just a few minutes, think about people you need to call, email, speak to or text. if you have even just a few more minutes, take a look at some of the letters of paul in the new Testament. at the time of his writing, many people, including paul, thought Jesus’ return and the end of the world were imminent.  paul’s letters reflect a concern to help believers figure out how to live when time could be short — when the “day of the lord” could come “like a thief in the night (1 Thes. 5:2).”  in that same letter, he offers a plea to the Thessalonians that might help us, no matter how challenging it seems at this time of year: “rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circum­stances” (5:16-18). 
in a few weeks, most of you will leave and some of you will stay, hope­fully under very blessed and peaceful circumstances. make a good end­ing to this year. i say “make,” not “have,” because happy endings — differences resolved, love expressed, forgiveness received and gratitude articulated — must be intentional, especially when you have three fi­nals, two papers, a lab, a room to pack up and a summer job to find. it’s not just going to happen on its own, especially at this time of year. as paul would say, “let the peace of christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in the one body. and be thankful” (col. 3:15). if you are sorry, concerned, thankful or if you love someone, then say so. 
Katherine Barrett is the assistant director of Undergraduate Ministry in the Office of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The light in monday’s darkness 
i woke up on monday in anticipation of what was  run alongside my other brother for the last five miles,  
supposed to be a great day. patriots’ day in boston,  pumping up the crowd and getting the masses to  
ma., is always a great spectacle, with the annual ear- cheer his name. i choose to tune into cnn not to see  
ly-afternoon red sox game and, of course, the world’s  the injury total rise, but to look at images of strangers  
oldest marathon.  helping strangers in need.  
This year, my brother and some friends from home  This is what humanity is all about. it is about star- 
were running in it, so my excitement for the event was  ing danger in the eyes to help one another. boston  
higher than usual. right before my afternoon class, i  epitomized that on monday. boston is and always will  
heard he finished in less than three hours. win. Then  be strong. They will overcome this as a community of  
i saw the red sox had won in walk-off fashion. double  brothers and sisters in humanity. boston has shown us  
win. i walked into class with absolute joy. Then, the  its true colors, its valor and its perseverance. we just  
unthinkable happened.  have to choose to look. we must choose to be the light  
we have all seen the photos and watched the videos.  in the darkness.  
we have all felt the pain. The terror attacks that hit  For boston.  
boston struck the lives of thousands of people across  
the country. They placed a dark cloud over a day dedi­ 
cated to the boston community and the power of the  
american spirit.  
in the wake of a day as tragic as this, it is easy to  
look at the world and see only darkness. but if we  
choose only to look at this day this way, that cowardly  
attacker wins. i choose to be witness to the triumph  Paul Kearney  
of the human spirit in boston. i choose to focus not on  sophomore  
the videos of the panic at the finish line, but on the  Keough hall  
videos of my oldest brother hopping into the race to  april 16  



The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Reflections in a time of tragedy 
Angela Bird 
guest columnist 

we find ourselves in a time of fear and un­certainty. The details are blurry. The news is still ringing in our ears. we stand on unsteady ground. in this time of darkness, we seek an un­dying flame. To whom can we turn? 
“blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.” 
as the reports rush in and the numbers of dead and wounded climb, there is heaviness in our hearts. we anxiously await contact from our friends and families. we long to know they are safe. where are we to find solace? 
“blessed are they who mourn, for they will be comforted.” 
it’s disconcerting, this feeling of powerless­ness, this loss of control. we search for some understanding or some way to respond, yet it eludes us. we are at a loss. we fear the power of destruction and worry it might overpower us. who will give us hope? 
“blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the land. “ 
we grow indignant. how many times must we face violence? how many times must we fear for the safety of those we love? The desire for true justice blazes within us. who will guide us there? 
“blessed are they who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be satisfied.” 
in the swirl of emotions, our fear and doubt sometimes turn to anger. we cannot understand what would motivate such a senseless act. but anger and retaliation cannot heal any wound. only love, even for an enemy, can rebuild what has been broken. who will gentle our souls? 
“blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy.” 
we are sometimes told all things happen for a reason. but this suffering is needless. There is no end great enough to justify violence. in bewilderment, we seek god, begging for an an­swer to our doubt. who will renew our suffering hearts? 
“blessed are the clean of heart, for they will see god.” 
violence is destabilizing. it breeds confusion and anxiety. and yet for everyone who perpe­trates violence, there are always dozens more who rush forward to help recover from it. The power of good is alive and strong. who will inspire goodness in us? 
“blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of god. “ 
in time, we may gather the facts and details, but it is unlikely we will ever be able to fully understand why this has happened. in days to come, still smarting from fresh wounds, we may be tempted by unconsidered reaction. but we must distinguish between that which will con­tribute to further destruction and that which will restore. we must stand steadfastly behind right action. who will give us the strength? 
“blessed are they who are persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.” 
“blessed are you when they insult you and per­secute you and utter every kind of evil against you because of me. rejoice and be glad, for your reward will be great in heaven. “ 
The lord answers our calls. The spirit is pres­ent among us. no evil can threaten us. all is made whole in god. 
Angela Bird is a Saint Mary’s freshman living in Holy Cross Hall. She can be reached at abird01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

expanding the viewpoint discussion 
can i please open The observer and not read about the lgbT community or the debate sur­rounding it? an article on the front page at least every week? Four practically identical viewpoint articles on the same day? an observer writer men­tioned in almost every major article? if this topic is actually worth the press it receives, there is likely someone outside your office who is willing to talk about it. 
when i was a prospective student, i remember the viewpoint page holding a wide variety of let­ters. one person wanted to express her humorous view on an “m.r.s. degree,” while another just wanted to thank a kind stranger who might run across the letter. along these lines, viewpoints don’t have to be serious and ideological. They can be that way, but please don’t publish four serious and ideological articles of roughly the same opin­ion on the same day. how would a gay student feel if The observer monotonously published article after article supporting traditional marriage? 
The lgbT community is one issue here on the campuses of notre dame and saint mary’s, but it is not the only issue. Frankly, it is not representative of the daily conversations among students. going to classes, participating in student groups and spending time with friends around campus, i rarely ever hear the topic mentioned. publishing five viewpoints about one topic that is not openly dis­cussed is simply not representative of our student life. if people really feel so strongly about this, why isn’t it discussed in person? do they have to hide behind The observer, which is clearly a safe haven for one opinion over another? want to tell campus what you feel but don’t want to deal with in-person reactions? save it for nd confessions. 
let’s open viewpoints to more ideas and more topics than have been represented lately. if the lgbT discussion is truly so crucial, let’s bring it out of the print and into daily life. 
Tim Woodcock 
sophomore Fisher hall april 15 

A nation united through sport 
First and foremost, as a boston native my thoughts and prayers go out to everyone back home. secondly, in light of recent events, all of my social media pages have exploded with sta­tuses and inspirational photographs praying for and representing the city of boston. among the inspirational pictures is one that has become quite popular among my Facebook friends. This picture features a collection of all four boston mascots drawn to look intimidating and includes the quote, “you messed with the wrong city.” 
my immediate reaction was one of disgust. admittedly, i think bostonians are often too ar­rogant about the success of our sports teams, and my first thought was that arrogance had carried over into the image being so heavily circulated. i think this was mostly because i saw the posted picture as an individual statement rather than a collective movement. The more i saw the picture circulated, the more i realized in this case, our rich history in sport is not some­thing that is there for us to show off, but rather something that is there to unify us as a com­munity. The passion for boston sports is almost unrivaled. it is something basically everyone in the community can relate to, providing solidar­ity and fortitude in times of strength. 
even more importantly, however, the rest of the sporting world in the united states has let us know we are not alone. The oakland athletics chanted “let’s go boston” in the middle of their game, philadelphia phillies’ player ben revere made a spectacular diving catch with “pray for boston” written on his glove and there was a moment of silence at the montreal bell centre where the canadiens play (a team we normally do not get along with). sports plays s unifying role in our nation during times of tragedy, and as a bostonian, i am quite thankful for that. 
Ian Cronin 
junior Knott hall april 16 


The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 

The Film, Television and Theater department’s spring production, “intimate apparel,” opened yesterday at the debartolo performing arts center. The play features esther mills, an african-american seamstress in lower manhattan in 1905, who painstakingly crafts delicate undergarments for clientele ranging from young brides to wealthy matrons to ladies of the night. as esther yearns to escape her life of drudgery and loneliness, let­ters from a distant admirer offer the promise of love and a future. 
playing the role of esther is junior FTT student Zuri eshun, who says that there is more to esther than just needle and thread. 
“everything the audience will discover about esther will happen as her journey unfolds onstage,” eshun said. 
This is eshun’s first main stage production, and she looked to director Kevin dreyer to help her find the char­acter and find herself in the character. 
“For me getting into character was rather difficult. 
By MAGGIE WAICKMAN 
scene writer 

members of the dance company of notre dame, a stu­dent-run dance group, will showcase their work at their annual showcase in washington hall this week. This en­tirely student-run show includes many different styles of dance, such as ballet, lyrical, contemporary, modern, tap and hip-hop. 
dance company member margarita arcenas, a sopho­more, said the variety in the show provides something for everyone. 
“anyone — girl, boy, student, faculty, prospective stu­dent, parent, friend — will love our show because we fea­ture so many different styles of dance,” she said. 
The officers and members of dance company have been working on this showcase since the beginning of this semester, both organizing the show and creating the dances. members of dance company choreograph all the pieces in this showcase themselves. 
choreographers perform a piece of their dance for the entire company at the beginning of the year and then the company members sign up for whichever dances they like best. 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

Though esther and i share the same race, she was liv­ing a completely different life than i am, or so i thought,” said eshun. “as i discovered more about her mannerisms and her thought process, it became easier to fuse myself with her character. i even learned a few things about my­self i didn’t know before taking on this role.” 
dreyer, an associate FTT professor, said that “intimate apparel,” by american playwright lynn nottage, was chosen because of its themes and writing. 
“when we create a season, we consider a wide variety of titles and usually pick a genre or type of play that we want to do and then come up with a half dozen or so ti­tles that match that,” dreyer said. 
“‘intimate apparel’ was one of a few titles we looked at that would allow us to have strong roles for performers of color, something we have not been good at as a depart­ment.  in this case, once ‘intimate apparel’ came up it rose to the top of the list very quickly,” dreyer said. 
The production includes the efforts and talents of stu­dents, including junior biological studies major patrick Fagan, the lighting designer for the play. 
“‘intimate apparel’ is a unique show that deals with 
arcenas commended the group’s choreographers. 
“it takes a lot of guts to go in front of your peers and dance. it also takes a lot of extra hours outside of rehears­al for choreographers to choreograph their dances.” 
besides the efforts of the choreographers, the officers of dance company have spent much of the semester preparing for the show. president annie schied, vice president Julia mcginty, secretary Kelsey richards and Treasurer monica spitzer prepare the rehearsal sched­ule, balance the budget, help with costumes and create programs and posters, just to name a few of their duties. 
The time the members of dance company invest into this showcase — combined with the talents of dance company’s members — promise to create a memorable evening of dance.
 “most members have been performing since they were four or five years old, so they really know how to put on a great show,” arcenas said of her fellow dancers. 
all the members of dance company freely choose to dedicate a large amount of their free time to preparing for this performance — usually at least three or four hours per week. The dancers don’t just bring talent to this per­formance, but also passion. 
despite the fact that the week leading up to the race, self-discovery and romance through various relationships. 
The dialogue and character interactions are the main focus of this piece and therefore i aimed to enhance these aspects of the show with the lighting,” Fagan said. “as the lighting designer, it was my job to capture the lives of the characters and let them tell their story.” 
sam schubert, a junior FTT major, is the stage manag­er for the play, and has been involved from the beginning with auditions, rehearsals and finally running the show. 
“while i have vastly enjoyed watching all my actors grow into their current characters, i love seeing the fin­ished product,” schubert said. “This is when it all comes together and everything i have had a hand in is put on stage for the performance.” 
“intimate apparel” performances are in the decio mainstage Theater at 7:30 p.m. wednesday through saturday and at 2:30 p.m. on saturday and sunday. Tickets are $7-$15 and can be purchased at the dpac box office. call 574-631-2800 or visit performingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
showcase is filled with long rehearsals, dance company member maggie miller, a sophomore, said is her favorite week of the year. 
“everyone always looks like they are having fun, which after all, is the reason we keep doing the art. it’s great to see that reminder and appreciate everyone’s hard work,” miller said. 
Those considering attending the show can check out a preview of the dances online. The group has uploaded a youTube promotion entitled “dance company of the university of notre dame,” which includes clips from this year’s showcase.
 “our performance is a great way to show the student body at notre dame the immense amount of talent, dis­cipline and passion within our company,” arcenas said. “i think that people who go this performance will see not only our skill but also our love for dance and why we de­cided to continue dancing throughout college. it’s also just an amazing show, but i’m pretty biased.” 
dance company’s spring showcase will kickoff Thursday and Friday at 7:30 p.m. in washington hall. Tickets are $5 and available at the door. 
Contact Maggie Waickman at mwaickma@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
listen up, ladies and gentlemen: the scene staff senses love in 
the air, and we took the initiative to help out all of you young lov­ers with budding relationships. have a crush on a girl or a guy in your 9:30 a.m. econ class?  need a date for an upcoming formal or syr? see the same hottie over and over again at dorm parties? Find yourself staring at the stellar dancer in the cage at Feve ev­ery Thursday?  well, memorize this list, build up your courage and 
NOTRE DAME 
PICK-UP LINES 
walk confidently up to your crush. These 20 nd pick-up lines have all been used on or by nd stu-
By SCENE STAFF 

dents and were memorable for one reason or another. They are sure to get the attention of that girl or guy you have been eyeing and Facebook stalking for the past month, so go for it! what do you have to lose? 

“Are you from outside Chicago?” 

“Feel my suit... you know what it’s made of? Boyfriend material.” 
“I hear you support(ed) Romney.” 
“Do you go to St. Mary’s? Holy Cross?” 
“Are you in my econ class?” 
“Do you want to go to graduation formal with me?” 
(This actually happened.) 
“Are you from France? Because maDAMN!” 
“Are you a republican or democrat?” 
“Are you an athlete?” 
“I wouldn’t be able to pick you out of a police lineup, unless I looked at your 
“On a scale of one to America, 
eyes. Because you have the most beautiful 
how free are you tonight?” 
eyes.” 

“Want to go to Reckers?” 
“Can I have your number?”
(nothing wrong with cutting to the chase.) 
“Are you a business major?” 
“I have the keys to the Nieuwland physics lounge. Want to hang out?” 
“Do you work at Little Caesars? Because you’re hot and I’m ready.” 
“I’m Irish. Mind kissing me?” 
“Do you play football?” 
“Hey I was wondering, do you 
know who John Galt is?” 
(he’s a fictional hero from ayn rand’s novel “atlas shrugged,” in case you didn’t know.) 
“Do I know you?”
(preferably to a complete stranger.) 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The unifying effect of sports 

Matthew Robison 
sports writer 
For the first time since the 1996 summer olympics in atlanta, a u.s. sporting event was the successful target of a terrorist attack monday when two bombs exploded near the finish line of the boston marathon. 
while the results were tragic and the events were unsettling on a national level, we have been reminded of the power of sports in american culture. 
as one of the proudest sport­ing cultures in the world, the 
u.s. loves to assert its domi­nance in having the best major leagues in almost every sport, one of the best olympic squads at both the summer and winter games and hosting the biggest audiences for important events. 
but sometimes, those audi­ences become perfect targets for anti-american sentiments, and indeed those sentiments can manifest themselves in the most destructive of ways. 
as a sprawling 26.2 mile race that challenges every facet of the human physique, will and desire to overcome boundar­ies, the marathon has become a symbol of athletic dominance. while the winners often come from other countries, the vast majority of finishers are american, and almost every spectator is also american. 
because of the near impossi­bility of securing all 26.2 miles of the race, a marathon seemed like the perfect place to attempt to destroy life and spirit. 
but the great thing about sports, both in america and worldwide, is that they unify communities in ways many other events can’t. if you saw the parade after the saints brought home the vince lombardi trophy or the hun­dreds of thousands who gath­ered in the streets to watch spain win the 2010 FiFa world cup, you know what i’m talking about. 
The unintended effect of the terrorist attack on the boston marathon was an emphatic, positive and unifying reaction by the american public. The american red cross received so many requests to donate blood for the victims that it had to turn people down, say­ing their donation would spoil on the shelves and go unused. college students in boston held fundraisers and raised over $20,000 in one night for the relief fund. The yankees, perhaps the team most loathed in boston, played the red sox unofficial anthem, “sweet caroline,” in yankee stadium to show their support for their rival city. 
while an act of terror does indeed try to destroy life, its secondary purpose is to destroy the morale and spirit of the victims. Thankfully, the power of the american spirit, often­times embodied in the realm of athletic competition, will not be not be ousted. 
The details of the event are still uncertain. we know the at­tack was with terroristic intent. we know the bombs were fash­ioned from home appliances and cookware. but right now the information is still as much of a haze as the frenzied mo­ments following the explosions. 
There is one thing of which we can be absolutely certain. The american spirit will not be crushed. The spirit of athletic competition, a unifying aspect of our culture, is something that will never die. instead, we will only be stronger as a coun­try and as a sporting culture. 
after the terror attacks of 9/11, people sought hope in the form of the sporting world. The supportive reaction by the united states’ major sporting leagues across the country inspired individuals to rally together. 
i strongly believe the fact that the attack was at a marathon will prove just as symbolic. marathon runners overcome every limitation to cross that finish line. blisters, cramping, fatigue, sunburn, dehydration. it doesn’t matter, they over­come the challenge. 
america will, too. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not ncessarily those of The Observer. 


NHL 

boston hopes for normalcy as bruins rally city 
Associated Press 

bosTon — emerging from a moment of silence with a deaf­ening cheer, fans at wednesday night’s bruins game paid trib­ute to the victims of this week’s boston marathon bombing with a stirring national an­them and a thunderous chant of “u.s.a.!” 
The sold-out crowd at the first major sporting event in the city since monday’s attack lined up for metal-detecting wands and random car inspections to get into the Td garden. once in­side, they watched a somber video with scenes from the race, ending with the words, “we are boston, we are strong.” 
The players on the ice for the opening faceoff banged their sticks in the traditional hockey salute, drifting back off the blue lines so that they, too, could see the video. The boston Fire department honor guard brought out the u.s. flag to honor the first responders who rushed to the aid of the three killed and more than 170 in­jured by the twin bombs at the marathon finish line. 
longtime boston garden troubadour rene rancourt took his place for the “star-spangled banner.” but he sang only the first few lines, allowing the crowd to carry the tune while he pumped his fist to keep time. 
it was an emotional return to normal life for the city, which has been dazed by the attacks on one of its signature and most beloved events. monday’s scheduled bruins game against ottawa was rescheduled, and Tuesday night’s celtics game was canceled outright. 
but the bruins said they were determined to help the city move on. 
“you’re trying to live your life in peace, and there’s peo­ple trying to disrupt that,” coach claude Julien said af­ter the team’s morning skate. “The people trying to live their life in peace are going to stick together.” 
players on both teams wore “boston strong” decals on their helmets, and the garden was illuminated in blue and yellow, the colors of the boston athletic association. 

FOR SALE 

18145 Crownhill, In Georgetown near ND. $75,900. 2-story condo, large master, loft den can be converted to 2nd bdrm. Fireplace, washer/dryer, alarm system, 1-car garage w/opener. Pristine condition. 574-532-5961 

bruins owner Jeremy Jacobs pledged $100,000 to The one Fund boston, the charity estab­lished to help families affected by the bombing; the garden, the nhl and the players asso­ciation pledged $50,000 each. ads on the dasher boards and the video screens gave the website address for the fund. 
bruins players and staff col­lected 80 tickets to the game to donate to the first respond­ers. Forward brad marchand raffled off his own suite for the team’s first playoff game, with the proceeds to go to the family of 8-year-old martin richards, who was killed in the blast. 
“i’m sure tonight will be full of emotion,” forward chris Kelly said wednesday morn­ing. “if we can go play hard to help the city of boston in any way we can, i know everybody in this locker room would be willing to do that. 
“we love the city. we want to help in any way we can — if we can give them 10 minutes of joy, or 20 hours of joy — any­thing we can do.” 
That was already accom­plished 5:45 into the first peri­od, when daniel paille’s goal to give the bruins a 1-0 lead over the buffalo sabres brought a raucous chant of “we are boston!” 
during the first break, pub­lic address announcer Jim martin asked any runners from monday’s race to stand up; many were wearing their finishers’ medals. he then asked for applause for anybody who has ever run; by the time he recognized anyone who has ever volunteered or watched the race, virtually the entire crowd was standing. 
“it’s a great day. it’s a great day for a lot of people,” said bruins forward Jay pandolfo, who went to boston university. “There’s no reason for this to happen. you never thought something like this could hap­pen, especially in the city of boston. stuff like this doesn’t cross your mind.” 
cars were searched inside and out before entering the arena’s underground garage in the morning, with guards us­ing a mirror on a pole to check the undercarriage. sports writ­ers, usually subject to only the most cursory inspection, were waved with a metal-detecting wand when passing through security for the bruins’ morn­ing skate. 
“it brings back memories you don’t want,” said pandolfo, who was with the new Jersey devils during the attacks of sept. 11, 2001. “it’s something you don’t want to think about. you want to go ahead with your life. you don’t want to live in fear.” 
all of the bruins players said they feel safe at the arena and walking around the city, commending authorities for the added security since the bombing. any anxiety, Julien said, needs to be directed to­ward the game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
FOR RENT  PERSONAL  
Grad student in Chicago looking to share 2BR /2Bath apartment in South Loop near Prairie /15th streets - $ 800 / mo.Contact: kallsop @ciber. com  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550.  




NHL 

Stars stick around for playoff hunt 
stars’ last playoff team in 2008. the championship. 
Associated Press 

“The easiest thing would have all three veterans will be unre-
Frisco, Texas — The dallas been to fold. you look at what the stricted free agents at the end of stars traded captain brenden young guys did coming in, they the season. morrow, then dealt away points gave us like a boost of energy.” stars president Jim lites, in an leader Jaromir Jagr and derek The stars’ five-game winning open letter to fans, expressed the roy with a focus clearly on the streak ended with a 5-2 loss at difficulty for teams “at this time future. chicago on monday night, a of the year is weigh their chanc­
except the young stars playing game tied 2-2 in the third period. es of competing for the stanley now still have a chance to make That was just less than a month cup against the existing market something happen this season. after a seven-goal loss at home to place for veteran players, partic-
Just more than two weeks af-the western conference leader. ularly veteran unrestricted free ter completing those trades, a dallas plays roy’s new team, agents.” stretch that includes a five-game vancouver, at home Thursday dallas got two young pros-winning streak, dallas is still in night. goaltender Kari lehtonen pects from boston, along with contention to make the playoffs is expected back in the stars’ a second-round pick that could for the first time in five years. lineup after missing almost four become a first-rounder this sum­
“it’s been exciting. it was tough full games with a groin injury. mer if Jagr and the bruins ad-losing the players that we did, That is the first of four games vance to the eastern conference but i think we came together as a in six days — the rest on the road, finals. The stars got a 23-year-old group, especially with the young at st. louis, los angeles and san defenseman and a second-round guys coming in,” fourth-year Jose. The stars will end the reg-pick for roy, and the penguins center Jamie benn said. “i think ular season with home games sent a young defenseman for we’re a younger, better, faster against columbus and detroit, morrow. team and we’re just going out the teams directly ahead of them “we know we are a stronger there and having fun.” in the standings right now. franchise today ... and built for 
when the stars wrapped up The stars traded the 41-year-the future,” lites wrote. month” to end the season after from the stars’ ahl team after practice wednesday, they had old Jagr and surging center roy after morrow was traded those deals were made. the trades for his nhl debut. he six games remaining in the regu-on april 2, the day before the nhl march 24, the stars lost three of “it’s mostly the young guys had six goals and an assist in his lar season and were 10th in the trading deadline. That was just their next four games. That in-to be honest,” whitney said. first seven games, but hurt his western conference. They were more than a week after morrow cluded a 4-0 loss to anaheim the “’young guys come in and they shoulder in the chicago game only two points out of the eighth waived his no-trade clause to go day before separate deals involv-play a certain way. They play and is out of the lineup now. and final playoff spot. to pittsburgh from dallas, where ing Jagr and roy. hard and fast, and they play de-even if the stars don’t make 
“we’ve responded great,” said his rookie season was 1999-2000, ray whitney, the 40-year-old termined, and they changed the the playoffs, they are finding out stephane robidas, one of only when the stars were stanley cup left on the stars’ roster, said it dynamic of your team a little bit.” they have some quality pieces two players remaining from the runner-ups a year after winning looked as if it could be a “long alex chiasson was called up moving ahead. 
paid adverTisemenT 




The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NFL 

broncos move on without dumervil 


Associated Press 
englewood, colo. — it sounded more like a bad epi­sode of a bad reality series than the nFl. The denver broncos had agreed to a new contract with elvis dumervil. Then they hadn’t. The culprit — well, that all depends on whose version of events you want to believe. but a fax machine was definitely involved. 
back together for offseason workouts without the man who has accumulated 63½ sacks for the franchise over his six healthy seasons in denver, dumervil’s ex-teammates all agreed that they’ll miss their erstwhile pass rusher, team captain and, as linebacker von miller calls him, their “rock” in the locker room. 
but the dumervil debacle also provided them a refresher course on one of the most im­portant nFl lessons: it’s a busi­ness, and not always a pretty one. 
“it’s probably the least favorite part of it for me,” broncos quar­terback peyton manning said of the business side of the league. it was, ultimately, a business de­cision that led the colts to part ways with manning in favor of andrew luck. 
The dumervil-broncos re­lationship started unraveling when the franchise asked its 2006 fourth-round draft pick to take a $4 million pay cut from the $12 million he was sched­uled to make in 2013. not that unusual of a request, especially considering the circumstances 
— with top defensive ends com­manding only around $7 million in the market this offseason. 
dumervil took his time de­ciding and things got squirre­ly on deadline day, when he finally agreed to the pay cut but the communications between team, player and agent — three parties situated in three differ­ent cities — broke down. 
The broncos awaited a signed, faxed contract but with a dead­line ticking it didn’t show up. (no explanation, as of yet, on why a fax machine was in play to begin with). They were forced to cut dumervil or owe him all $12 million of his original contract, which would have put them in salary-cap trouble. 
The broncos and dumervil’s agent, marty magid, who was subsequently fired by dumervil, had different versions of the timing of the events. regardless, dumervil was a free agent. with similar offers on the table from the broncos and the baltimore ravens, dumervil decided a fresh start was in order. he con­veyed no outward bitterness, though some who knew him said he certainly wasn’t happy with the way things went down. 
“That was a prime example of how this business works,” said cornerback champ bailey, who would be an ex-bronco today had the team not fired coach Josh mcdaniels, the man who gave dumervil his fat contract and, separately, had no intention of re-signing bailey, the all-pro cornerback, feeling he’d passed his prime. 
“being in elvis’ shoes, i kind of understood where he came from as far as wanting to sign somewhere else,” bailey said. “you really don’t know. you’ve got to take care of yourself. if you don’t take care of yourself, your career, who’s to say where you’ll end up? i respect his decision. i wish we could’ve found a way to keep him, but it just didn’t work out that way.” 
MLB 

A’s sweep Astros again 
Associated Press 

oaKland, calif. — bartolo colon pitched six crisp in­nings, Josh reddick doubled in two runs during a six-run first and the oakland athletics beat the houston astros 7-5 on wednesday to complete an­other three-game sweep. 
The athletics swept a three-game series at houston during the first week of the season. 
seth smith had three hits and Jed lowrie added two for the a’s, who improved to an al-best 12-4. oakland out­scored houston 22-10 in the series. 
The a’s sent 11 batters to the plate and chased astros starter bud norris in the first inning, then won behind colon (2-0) and three relievers. 
Jose altuve had three hits and carlos pena homered for the second straight day for houston. pinch-hitter rick ankiel also homered for the astros. 
colon beat houston for the second time this season. 
chris carter reached on an rbi grounder in the first, then was picked off by the 39-year­old colon to end the inning. 
colon retired 15 of the final 17 batters he faced. he gave up four hits, struck out three and only allowed one runner past first base — Jose altuve, who singled and scored houston’s first run. 
colon, who has not walked a batter in 19 innings this sea­son, lowered his era to 3.32. 
it was also the second time in three games houston’s starting pitcher failed to get out of the first. eric bedard re­tired just one batter and gave up six runs in monday’s 11-2 loss to the a’s in the shortest outing of his career. 
norris (2-2) lasted only slightly longer, sticking around to get a second out when lead-off hitter John Jaso grounded out in his second at-bat of the first. 
reddick broke out of 4-for-39 slump with a double to high­light oakland’s big inning. chris young, eric sogard, 
paid adverTisemenT 
shane peterson and Jaso all drove in runs during the outburst. 
Jed lowrie’s rbi groundout in the fourth drove in peterson and made it 7-1. 
houston scored three runs in the seventh off reliever chris resop and had the tying run at the plate with two outs before ryan cook got Justin maxwell to strike out looking. 
ankiel homered leading off the ninth against oakland closer grant balfour to cut the lead to 7-5. after matt dominguez singled, marwin gonzalez reached on a field­er’s choice before balfour got altuve to ground into a game-ending double play for his third save. 




MLB 

Reds need just nine minutes to beat Phillies 

Associated Press 
cincinnaTi — The phillies have been losing games because they can’t get a hit. The latest one came without so much as a swing. 
after waiting all night to finish off the game, philadelphia never even got a chance to bat. Jay bruce singled with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning, sending the cincinnati reds to a 1-0 victory on wednesday. 
The game was suspended when heavy rain came on Tuesday night. several hundred fans were in the stands to watch it resume. only four batters and 9 minutes later, it was over, giv­ing the teams plenty of time to get ready for their regularly scheduled game. 
and a little more time for the 

paid adverTisemenT 

phillies to stew over another wasted chance. 
“it’s frustrating to go out there and the game’s over,” said phillippe aumont (1-2). “now i have nine innings to think about what i’ve done wrong.” 
aumont had been warming up to face Zack cozart when the rain came on Tuesday night. eighteen hours later, cozart fi­nally got his chance and singled. 
Joey votto followed with a walk from aumont. center Fielder ben revere made a long run before dropping brandon phillips’ fly ball for an error that loaded the bases with none out. revere lost the ball in the late-afternoon sun. 
didn’t take long for things to go bad for the phillies. 
“That’s baseball for you,” revere said. “i was shaded toward right field. i just stuck out my glove and hoped it (the ball) would hit it. it’s a shame it has to go down like that. if the sun’s not there, i make the catch.” 
up came bruce, who lined the first pitch to right field to drive in the only run needed — an un­earned run at that. 
Then, it was on to the next game. 
very, very weird all around. 
“you try to treat it as normally as possible, but the reality is it’s the ninth inning and it’s 5:30 p.m.,” bruce said. “you try to use it like batting practice.” 
reds closer aroldis chapman (2-0) pitched the top of the ninth, fanning two of the three batters he faced to keep it score­less. sam lecure was warming up in the reds bullpen when the game resumed. 
The phillies didn’t even get a chance to take a swing after the game resumed. They didn’t do much of anything before the rain on Tuesday night, manag­ing only two runners — on a pair of singles. philadelphia fin­ished with as many hits as the game had national anthem per­formances — two each. 
The phillies managed only those two singles off starter homer bailey, who matched his career high with 10 strikeouts in eight innings. cincinnati had only two singles off Kyle Kendrick, who went seven innings. 
The phillies had 18 hours to think about their latest fail­ings on offense. philadelphia has scored three or fewer runs in each of its five games on a trip so far, wasting a lot of good pitching. phillies starters have thrown at least six innings while allowing two earned runs or less in each of the last seven games. 
The reds allowed fans who had tickets to Tuesday night’s suspended game to come back for the unusual finish. 
There were several hundred fans in the stands when club­house assistant Josh stewart sang the national anthem — the second one of the game. The public address announcer went over the lineups — again. umpire wally bell was back be­hind the plate when the game resumed with aumont throw­ing a fastball that cozart fouled back. 
it was the phillies’ first sus­pended game since game 5 of the 2008 world series, when rain halted their matchup against Tampa bay in the sixth inning. The only suspended game in world series history wasn’t resumed for two days. pedro Feliz’s single set up a 4-3 win that clinched the phillies’ first world series title in 28 years. 
The reds’ last suspended game was in 2004 against houston, a game that was halted in the top of the 11th inning by rain. cincinnati won it in 13 in­nings on Jason larue’s double. 


The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NFL 

packers sign matthews to long-term extension 
Associated Press 
green bay, wis. — one big deal done for the green bay packers, one to go. 
The packers locked up star linebacker clay matthews with a long-term extension wednesday, and also is negoti­ating with quarterback aaron rodgers. 
“it feels good,” matthews said wednesday during a news con­ference inside the packers’ lock­er room. “it’s funny, because not a whole lot has changed. i’m happy about it but for me, it’s nice, it’s very humbling and it’s a blessing, but it’s business as usu­al for me. i’m glad that they have put their trust in me and belief in me in awarding me this, but at the same time you’re going to get the same type of unwav­ering perseverance on the field and dedication that i’m going to bring day in and day out. i feel good but not much has changed. 
matthews posted a picture of himself on Twitter signing the deal, saying, “Trivial amongst the recent tragic news, but happy to continue my career in green bay!” 
The packers did not announce terms of the extension, report­ed to be for five years, but the milwaukee Journal sentinel said the deal is worth $66 mil­lion. That would put matthews on par with dallas outside line­backer demarcus ware, whose contract also averages $13 mil­lion per year. 
“clay has been a productive member of our team and we are pleased to be able to come to an agreement that will extend his packers career,” general man­ager Ted Thompson said in a statement. 
with matthews’ deal done, the packers can turn all of their attention to rodgers, whose ex­tension is expected to make him the highest-paid player in the league. agent david dunn rep­resents matthews and rodgers, as well as defensive tackle b.J. raji. 
“hopefully, that’s the next order of business,” matthews said about rodgers’ extension. “being good friends with him, represented by the same agent, who knows, hopefully that’s sooner than later.” 
matthews said he didn’t think the team would be hamstrung by big contracts for its two biggest stars, and that the team’s draft-and-develop philosophy would keep it competitive. 
“one thing this organiza­tion does well. i know we catch a little heat sometimes that we like to build through the draft and develop our players and we’ve done a great job of that,” matthews said. “our free agents are the ones who were up on their contracts. it’s no different than aaron, myself or whoever’s up next. i’ll leave that to them, but for the most part we’ve had some success here over the last few years in maintaining keep players and i don’t see it to be any different.” 
matthews was set to earn a base of $3.73 million this sea­son in the final year of his rookie deal, signed after the packers made him the 26th pick in the 2009 draft. but the 26-year-old’s price tag has gone up consider­ably as he has become one of the top linebackers in the nFl. he had 42½ sacks in his first four seasons, fifth-best in the nFl during that span. he has fin­ished in the top five in the league in sacks in two of the last three seasons, with 13½ in 2010 and 13 in 2012. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 






CLUB SPORTS 

Irish face Gophers and weather in rowing duel 
Women’s soccer team takes second in weekend event, Ultimate Frisbee A-team wins tournament 
Special to The Observer 
Men’s Rowing 
This weekend the irish headed to rockford, ill., for a duel against the university of minnesota. originally sched­uled to be held at devil’s lake in wisconsin, the race was moved to rockford due to icy conditions. unfortunately, the weather conditions still played a factor in illinois. 
when the irish arrived at the course, there was al­ready a firm headwind blow­ing up the racecourse.  as the races began, the wind continued to worsen.  The first race of the day was the Freshman 4+ event.  The irish entered two boats in this race to minnesota’s one. unfortunately, the irish fin­ished second and third, with the wind severely affecting the notre dame boats. 
The next race was the freshmen/3v8+ race, in which the irish again unfor­tunately finished behind the minnesota boat.  however, the freshman eight showed marked improvement since their first race against purdue. 
The v8+ race was more suc­cessful.  The irish started up on minnesota, but allowed the gophers to walk back slightly in the middle of the race.  at about the 1250-me­ter mark, however, the irish crew made a decisive move and put minnesota away. The final margin was around 12 seconds. 
at that point, however, the weather was very poor and made it difficult to safely row.  The remaining races, therefore, were unfortu­nately canceled.  all in all, the weekend was success­ful because it gave the nov­ices another opportunity to race and also gave the v8+ a confidence boost before they race at the southern intercollegiate rowing association championships next weekend. 
Women’s Soccer 
Friday, notre dame played depaul and defeated them 3-0, with goals from junior mary wickert, sophomore Taylor Freeman and fresh­man steph prince. 
depaul is one of the top teams in the midwest alliance soccer conference, so the game was a great in­dicator for the fall season of 2013. The very next day, the irish bounced back to play augustana university and trounced them, 6-0. Freshman aliska berry had two goals, junior erica heissler had two goals, and sophomores wickert and alexis pala each scored one goal. 
The team also played illinois central college and won 1-0. icc put up a great fight, but freshman goal­ie caroline corsones had some great saves to propel the team to victory. heissler scored the game-winning goal off of a corner kick from wickert. 
with that victory, the irish clinched their bracket and secured a spot in the cham­pionship game. however, they still had another game in pool play on sunday morning before the cham­pionship. The team played Truman state in that game, beating them 2-0 with goals from wickert and freshman casey gross. it was an easy victory to propel them into the championship round. 
The championship game proved to be a challenge for the irish, as they faced monmouth college — a well-established team that had been playing together for years. 
monmouth had the wind in the first half and managed to score two goals right off the bat. although the irish con­trolled the rest of the game, they just couldn’t seem to find the net. The final score was 2-0, sending the irish home with a second place trophy. 
The team was very proud of their performance in its debut tournament, outscor­ing their opponents 12-2 and playing strong defense, as well. all-around, the wom­en demonstrated some im­pressive team play in the tournament. 
Women’s Ultimate Frisbee 
last weekend, notre dame competed in the eastern great lakes d-1 college series tournament in Kalamazoo, mich. The a team won the tournament, putting them in great posi­tion for seeding at the re­gional tournament in two weeks. 
on the first day of play, the women’s a-team defeated indiana (9-5), ball state (11­2), michigan state (8-2), and central michigan (9-1). weather conditions were poor, inhibiting the play­ers with cold temperatures, light snowfall, and oppres­sive winds. The team worked hard though and played through the conditions for an undefeated first day. 
on sunday morning, the team faced purdue in the semifinals of the tourna­ment. The boilermakers were able to control the run of play in the first half, and led the game 9-6 just after halftime. when senior captain Kelsey Taylor saw that the team was struggling, she assessed the situation and developed a new defensive formation to shut down purdue’s offense. That tactic proved to be ex­tremely effective, as the irish scored the next eight points to overwhelm purdue, com­ing back to win 15-10. This win gave the team tremen­dous momentum, as they had previously lost to purdue in the Tally classic in Florida back in march. 
The positive energy carried through into the champion­ship game, where the team once again faced michigan state. both teams were fired up from their morning vic­tories, as the spartans had beaten a solid michigan squad in the other semifinal. 
The game was intense from the first point. both teams struggled to keep posses­sion and generate offense, battling each other through intermittent snow and sleet for almost two hours to find themselves tied 6-6 late in the game. The irish hustled to score the game’s last two points, willing themselves to an 8-6 victory. 
with that final win, the irish took the conference championship. Their 7-0 re­cord for the weekend marked the third straight tourna­ment they’ve finished un­defeated. senior captains Kelsey Taylor and Kelly Taylor were extremely proud of their team’s performance. 
The women’s b-team also performed well over the weekend. The ladies played up to their 8th seed, beating central michigan (11-7), ball state (8-1), and grand valley state (11-6). The team played hard all weekend, especial­ly through the challenge of having few subs. 
unfortunately, they were unable to qualify for the great lakes regional tour­nament, bringing an end to their season. The b-squad’s captain, sophomore nicole vujosevich, was very appre­ciative of all her teammates and everything they had ac­complished. The players look forward to the fall semester when they can continue to play together again. 
both the men and women’s a-teams advanced to the great lakes regional tourna­ment, which will be held over the weekend of april 26-27 in rockford, ill. That tourna­ment will determine which teams from the great lakes region will advance to the national tournament, which will be held in madison, wisc., in late may. 





SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles host conference foe in doubleheader 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
The belles will look to maintain their top-three standing in the miaa af­ter they host Kalamazoo today for an afternoon doubleheader. 
Kalamazoo (5-11, 2-6 miaa) is currently seventh in the conference, while the belles (13-11, 3-1 miaa) are third. belles coach erin sullivan said the belles hope to transfer their en­ergy from the second game 
“We don’t take any games lightly. These are two must-win games to qualify for the MIAA tournament.” 
Erin Sullivan 
Belles coach 
of Tuesday’s doubleheader against calvin, a game they won 3-2, into their matchup with Kalamazoo. 
sullivan said freshman pitcher sarah burke played really well in the second game against calvin, and the team will continue to rely on her to perform in the series against the hornets. sullivan also said the belles hitters came through in the clutch during the victory over calvin. 
Freshman third baseman Kayla chapman leads the team in batting with an aver­age of .394, trailed closely by junior pitcher callie selner, who boasts a .390 average, Freshman centerfielder Jillian busfield is close be­hind with an average of .343. 
with just over two weeks until the miaa tournament, sullivan said the team needs to keep up its strong early-season performance and fo­cus on winning every game they can — especially with­in the conference.
 “every conference game matters,” sullivan said. “we don’t take any games light­ly. These are two must-win games to qualify for the miaa tournament.” 
Kalamazoo is currently struggling a bit, as it enters the game on a two game los­ing streak. nevertheless, sullivan said the hornets are not a team to be looked over. Kalamazoo has sever­al new players on its roster this year, including two new pitchers who the belles will need to prepare for, she said. 
“we don’t assume we have 
paid adverTisemenT 


won anything until the game is over, so we are going into this game fully prepared for a battle,” sullivan said. “we aren’t assuming that Kalamazoo’s struggles the last few years have any bear­ing on their team this year.” 
Forecasted thunderstorms today have the potential to postpone the proceedings, although sullivan said they would wait as long as they can to call the game. 
“we have 12 games in 10 days remaining,” sullivan said. “if we lose the games tomorrow we could be playing four days in a row, which is really tough on any athlete.” 
despite the weather, the belles hope to face Kalamazoo for two games today at saint mary’s, with the first game scheduled for 
3:30p.m. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29 @nd.edu 


SMC GOLF 
Team takes second at qualifier 
place, respectively. senior 
Observer Staff Report 
Jessica Kinnick rounded out 
saint mary’s quest for an-the team score with a 94, giv­other ncaa Tournament ing the belles a final score of berth started off on a posi-353. tive note after the belles despite strong perfor­took second place in the mances from four saint first miaa ncaa Qualifier, mary’s golfers, there was hosted by saint mary’s at no beating fall confer-blackthorn golf club. ence champion olivet. The 
it was a tough day for saint comets’ three fall all-miaa mary’s sophomore Janice team members swept the heffernan, who coming top three positions, fin-into the match was second ishing 23 strokes ahead of in scoring average for the the belles with a 330. hope belles. after carding a 79, 83 took third, eight strokes be-and 81 in her previous three hind the belles, and calvin rounds, heffernan took a rounded out the field with a step back with a 95, which 370. The finishing order was did not count toward the identical to the fall miaa team score. championship. 
The rest of the belles picked The belles have two up the slack, though. Junior chances to narrow the gap paige pollak, the belles scor-with olivet, as the team ing average leader, used a with the lowest scoring av-strong back nine 39 and the erage after the three miaa belles’ only birdie to card an qualifiers receives the 84, finishing fourth overall. ncaa Tournament berth. Freshman claire boyle con-Their first chance will tinued her consistent play come at the second ncaa with an 86, while junior alexi qualifier april 26 at The brown finished with an 89, medalist golf club, hosted good for sixth and seventh by olivet. 



Africano 
conTinued From page 24 
always puts the team first. her work ethic is so hard day in and day out that it’s showing right now in her play and in her at-bats just how much hard work pays off.” 
Today, the irish will look to africano and the rest of the 
“We know that we have to keep moving forward, that way for the end of the year and postseason, we are where we need to be.” 
Brittany O’Donnell 
senior pitcher 
squad to keep the crusaders at bay. although this year’s 
senior class has never lost to valparaiso, the last three meetings include a gritty 6-3 win in 2012 and a narrow 7-6 victory in 2010. 
“They always gave us a good game,” o’donnell said. “They try to keep us off-balance and we know that at the plate we have to make good pitch selec­tion, and be solid with defense and pitching.” 
as the irish begin to wind down the regular season schedule, o’donnell said the team is doing its best to keep their mentality strong. 
“we know that we have to keep moving forward, that way for the end of the year and postseason, we are where we need to be,” she said. “This keeps our mentality in check and our momentum going forward.” 
action will begin at 5:00 
p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lco­letti@nd.edu 


Irish 
conTinued From page 24 

two-out, two-run single to left field and the irish took a 3-0 lead. 
in the bottom of the third, notre dame unleashed an offensive frenzy and hopped on the merry-go-round, as they scored eight runs in the inning. in doing so, the irish matched their run to­tal for the past five games in one inning. First baseman Trey mancini began the in­ning when he reached sec­ond base on a throwing error by Falcons freshman third baseman nick glanzman. bull then hit a brisk ground­er up the middle to score mancini for his second rbi on the night and a 4-0 irish lead. sophomore right-hander Jason link relieved Fitzwater. 
with the bases loaded and one out, junior catcher Forest Johnson hit a lazy pop fly which landed in no-man’s land in the outfield, scoring the fifth irish run. desico then hit a sharp ground­er, which glanzman laid out for and knocked down, but was unable to get the out. everyone was safe and notre dame took a 6-0 lead. Freshman right fielder Zak Kutsulis next hit a gapper be­tween first and second which brought in two more runs, for an 8-0 lead. 
To cap off the inning, ju­nior third baseman eric Jagielo hit a monster three-run homer to right field against the gusting 15 mph wind for an 11-0 lead. link was then relieved by junior right-hander chris miller and the inning finally came to an end. 
There are positives and negatives to take away from a game like this, aoki said. it was positive to see this kind of run production, which 
Giesting 
conTinued From page 24 
team,” he said. 
This weekend will be anoth­er stepping stone, as the team continues to use its regular season meets to prepare for the postseason. 
“This is the hardest point in the year training-wise, because it is the last opportunity to build strength and endurance before having to taper down leading into conference,” giesting said. “after this week, our training will start to ease up and we will focus toward big east in a few weeks.” 
while the california invitational is currently under way, the mount san antonio college relays will kick off today, and the polytan invitational will begin at 4:30 pm on saturday in bloomington, ind. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


may lead to some much-needed momentum, but since the win is not official, it is hard to say it will stop notre dame’s losing streak. 
“i think the kids can go home feeling pretty good about the way that they swung the bats and the way that they played,” aoki said. “at the end of the day, we kind of officially need to re­cord a win [to get over the slide], but we can put it in the category that if we don’t have bad luck, we don’t have any luck at all. it is what it is.” 
when charlie markson reached base in the bottom of the fourth on a single up the middle, all notre dame batters had reached base successfully. The irish load­ed the bases for the third time in four innings and desico hit an rbi single for the 12-0 lead. with two outs in the bottom of the fourth, a mandatory half-hour delay was called due to lightning strikes near the stadium and when the rain began to pour, the team pulled the cover over the field and the game was called. 
The irish next host a series with Quinnipiac on Friday at 5:35 at Frank eck stadium and then play saturday at 
3:30 p.m. and sunday at 1:05 p.m.  
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: rooney mara, 28; Jennifer garner, 41; liz phair, 46; sean bean, 54 
Happy Birthday: Taking responsibility will enhance your reputation as well as help you build a tighter relationship with the people in your life who count. don’t be afraid to express your emotions or change your mind should someone or something disap­point you. look out for your interests and use your creative imagination and you will excel. your numbers are 5, 13, 20, 27, 35, 38, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): money will come and go due to temptations that keep you cash-poor. acquiring financial information will make it easier to budget for your future. rely on experts. Take control by creating a lifestyle that fits your budget. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): an acquaintance will help you find a solution. you mustn’t offer too much information in the meantime. a third party will make the difference when it comes to the outcome of a personal situation you face. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put your skills and talent to work for you. The more you of­fer that is unique and timely, the better equipped you will be to weather the changing economic climate. a backup plan will put your mind at ease. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t trust anyone making rash changes or using force or pressure to get ahead. your emotions will be difficult to control, leaving you in a vulnerable position if someone criticizes your actions. get your facts and figures straight. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): communication will be your strong point. speak up and you will grab the attention of someone able to help you make the changes you are sug­gesting. Take physical and mental strides to reach your goals. people you have worked with in the past will be valuable to you now. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): be responsible. The decisions you make now will have an impact on the people you care about. Take an unusual approach to finding solutions. partnerships are highlighted and networking functions should be attended. love is on the rise. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take care of your personal needs first. a partnership may try your patience but should be handled with caution to avoid ongoing problems. look at the big picture before you decide to make a move that could jeopardize your reputation. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep the creative journey you desire afloat. putting in extra time and effort and getting together with people striving to reach similar goals will give you a renewed vision and greater clarity as to how you should proceed. love is highlighted. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep your money in a safe place. Temptation will be costly. spend more time utilizing the things you already have instead of buying something new. a good idea can help you make your space more inspirational. Take on a physical challenge. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): concentrate on what you can do without being taken for granted. offering too much will lead to dissatisfaction and anger. make a commit­ment, but only if you feel you are entering into an arrangement that offers enough in return. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): utilize the skills, knowledge and talent you have mas­tered and you will come up with an idea, service or product that can help you bring in extra cash. work on self-esteem as well as moving forward with decisions that will improve your current situation. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): initiate something that you feel passionate about doing. helping a cause or finding a new way to present an old idea will bring about a new opportunity. romance will help ease your stress and clear your head, don’t be afraid to take the risk. 

Birthday Baby: you are charming, unique and disciplined. you are popular and responsible. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
TRACK AND FIELD 
BASEBALL 

Thunderstruck 
irish compete in 

Rain and lightning stop game with Irish ahead 12-0 
events across nation 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The thunderstorm ended notre dame’s offensive storm. 
lightning and rain short­ened the game to four innings and nullified what looked to be a sure irish (19-15, 4-8 big east) victory, as they led bowling green 12-0. notre dame did not reach the five innings necessary for a game to be counted as official, and the 12 runs and all statistics racked up in the game are not counted. 
coming in riding a six-game losing streak, the irish were in desperate need of a win. irish coach mik aoki said he was disappointed the game didn’t count, but was not willing to go against the integrity of baseball. 
“Just four outs to record be­fore it counted as an official game,” aoki said. “we knew it was coming and originally we thought we had a window of opportunity until about 
7:30 or 8, but then it seemed the storm sped up. we knew it was coming, but it’s not like you can tell the kids to go up to the plate and make outs to try and speed the game along. i guess maybe we should have done that in hindsight, but it just doesn’t seem right.” 
notre dame jumped to an early lead in the first in­ning and broke a 54.1-in­ning leadless drought. it was the first lead for the irish since the saturday game of the villanova series on april 
5. with the bases loaded and one out, sophomore left fielder ryan bull hit a high-bouncing ball over bowling green freshman pitcher brett Fitzwater’s head to score irish second baseman Frank desico for the 1-0 lead.  notre dame sophomore designated hitter phil mosey then roped a 


see irish PAGE 22 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish will participate in three different meets this weekend as they continue to prepare for the big east con­ference championships in two weeks. 
senior decathlete Ted glasnow and sophomore hep­tathlete carly loeffel kicked off competition today at the california invitational at azusa pacific university. senior mid­dle distance runners Jeremy rae and J.p. malette will begin their competition at the mount san antonio college relays on Thursday. The rest of the notre dame squad will travel to bloomington, ind. for the polytan invitational at indiana on saturday. sophomore sprinter chris giesting said that these meets will best fit the level of competition notre dame’s athletes are suited for. 
“sometimes it is better to split up specific event groups depending on where the best competition is going to be at,” he said. “For this weekend, there is great competition out in california for a few of the distance guys and some multi-event athletes. The polytan invite will have solid competi­tion for all event groups.” 
coming off a fun border battle meet that featured a ri­valry between indiana and Kentucky teams, giesting said that the irish expect the polytan invitational to be another very competitive weekend. 
“They have one of the best tracks in the midwest, which attracts a lot of other good schools to come as well,” he said. 
The irish are coming off the heels of many successful in­dividual performances last weekend. senior rebecca Tracy was honored as the big east as runner of the week for her first-place finishes. she ran the 1500-meter in a time of 4:17.12, good for a meet record and the fourth-fastest time in the na­tion this season. her first-place finish in the 800-meter event was good for another meet re­cord and best in the big east, at a time of 2:07.12. 
although there has been much individual success lately, giesting said the team still has work to do. 
“The coaches are very pleased with some of these break-out performances, but we are still a long way from reaching our full potential as a 
see giesTing PAGE 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

notre dame tries to extend streak against valpo 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
riding a four-game win­ning streak, the irish will host valparaiso this afternoon. 
The crusaders (21-19, 6-6 horizon league) have histori­cally given notre dame (30­10, 10-1 big east) competitive games, and the team expects this season to be no different. 
“we know that they’re defi­nitely going to come out at us with their best game both offensively and defensive­ly,” senior pitcher brittany o’donnell said. “so we know that we have to attack back and keep our level of play hard.” 
The irish seem to have es­tablished a rhythm as of late, after a short streak of being inconsistent at the plate and dropping games to weaker op­ponents. They swept a three-game series with rutgers last weekend and took down michigan state on the road on Tuesday. 
“Those games [we lost] are definitely a wake-up call for us, that that’s not where our level of play should be and that we should expect more of ourselves,” o’donnell said. “i think recently everything has started to click and we’ve realized what a special and talented group of girls we re­ally are, and that if we play the way we know how we can beat anyone.” 
Freshman catcher/outfield­er casey africano belted her first two career home runs last weekend, both of which proved to be game-winners. in the series against rutgers, the california native went 3-for-6 with two home runs, six rbi, three runs scored and 10 total bases. africano was named to this week’s big east weekly honor roll for her performances. 
“casey is a tremendous team player,” o’donnell said. “she 
see aFricano PAGE 22 







