THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 132 | TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND reviews sexual assault policies 
Survey reveals most students understand how to utilize the present system 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Senior News Writer 
Despite significant changes to Notre Dame’s sexual assault policies in the past two years, most students understand how to make a report of sexual harassment or sexual assault under the current system, ac­cording to a survey adminis­tered by the Office of Student Affairs last fall. 
Vice president of Student Affairs Erin Hoffmann Harding and Deputy Title IX coordina­tor Dr. Bill Stackman released and discussed the results of the campus-wide survey last week with The Observer. While not every student completed every question, Harding estimated about 50 percent of the gradu­ate and undergraduate student body responded to the October survey. 
Of the students surveyed, more than 75 percent claimed they knew how to report inci­dents of sexual harassment, sexual misconduct or sexual assault to the University’s ad­ministration, and more than 80 percent claimed familiarity with the University’s policies related to these incidents. 
But as Harding and Stackman reviewed the survey data and over 350 pages of additional comments from students, they said administrators did notice areas where their outreach re­lated to sexual assault reporting needed to grow. 
“Our campus is not perfect, and we all need to work very hard to make it better,” Harding said. “As an institution and a community, though, good net­works of support are in place and we have a solid process. One area we know we want to do more in is training and education. Done well, this will help us prevent incidents in the future.” 

While more than 75 percent of undergraduates indicated the University responds effectively and fairly to these incidents, Harding said between 20 and 25 percent of the responders did know the answer to those ques­tions on the survey. 
Harding said comments re­vealed two underlying trends in student concerns — a per­ceived double standard for student athletes in cases of sex­ual harassment or assault, and a perception of the system pre­suming the accused to be guilty as soon as the report is made. 
Harding described these per­ceptions as both “unequivocal­ly not true” and “incorrect.” 
Even this year, Harding said Title IX investigations into these reports have found both the ac­cused to be both guilty and in­nocent in different situations. 
The survey also revealed some barriers for both victims and third parties who might file a report of sexual harassment or assault, Harding said. The most significant barriers for victims 
see SURVEY  PAGE 5 



Professor receives Sheedy award 
Observer Staff Report 
Julia Douthwaite, professor of French and francophone studies, will receive the 2013 Sheedy Excellence in Teaching 

Award, according to an email announcement from the College of Arts and Letters on Monday. 
The award, named for for­mer Arts and Letters Dean Fr. Charles Sheedy, honors a fac­ulty member who has “demon­strated sustained excellence in teaching, informed by schol­arship, over a wide range of courses,” associate dean for Undergraduate Studies JoAnn 
see SWEEDY PAGE 4 



CCAC conducts student survey 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Editor 
A recent survey by the Community Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) gathered infor­mation on local college students’ perceptions of South Bend, which CCAC said will be used “to im­prove the student experience in South Bend and increase the city’s ability to retain students after graduation.” 
The data was collected from more than 3,500 students at Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, Holy Cross College, Bethel College, Indiana University South Bend, Ivy Tech Community College, Purdue College of Technology South Bend and Indiana University School of Medicine (South Bend). 
On a scale of one to seven, stu­dents rated South Bend 3.64 as a city, the survey results stated. They gave a 4.17 when asked how well they feel they know South Bend and a 4.31 about whether they feel South Bend is a positive place to receive an education. The lowest number, 2.53, corresponds to whether students would con­sider living in South Bend follow­ing graduation. 
Notre Dame student body pres­ident Alex Coccia said he thinks 
see CCAC PAGE 3 



CSC celebrates thirty  years of service to community 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
News Writer 

The Center for Social Concerns (CSC) will celebrate its 30th anni­versary with an open house tonight in Geddes Hall. 
Rev. Paul Kollman, executive di­rector of the CSC, said the Center seeks to assist students in fulfilling the University’s mission. 
“I think we represent a lot of Notre Dame’s best ideals in what we seek to form in our students and in the ways we relate to the communi­ties we seek to serve, locally, across the country and internationally,” Kollman. 
The Center was founded in April 1983 when the Volunteer Services Office and the Center for Experiential Learning com­bined, Kollman said. “We’ve en­gaged more and more students in 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
different sorts of experiences,” he said. “We’ve sought to engage fac­ulty in their pedagogy, and we’ve 
see CSC PAGE 5 


OLD 2 GOLD PAGE 4 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 BASEBALL PAGE 16 SOFTBALL PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew Gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Maddie Daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: Grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby McKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your greatest strength? 

John Kearns 
sophomore 
Siegfried Hall 
“Pilates.” 

Megan Talpash 
sophomore 
Le Mans Hall 
“Lat pulldowns.” 

Joe Mueller 
sophomore 
Keough Hall 
“Bicep curls.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Bridget Mooney 
freshman 
Badin Hall 
“Bench press.” 

Hank Eckardt 
junior 
Keenan Hall 
“Squats.” 

Christina Gutierrez 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
“My Latina fire.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kaitlyn Rabach Jack Hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie McCarty Greg Hadley Kelly Konya A.J. Godeaux 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday. Friday Saturday 
Sara Shoemake Maddie Daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

MFA Candidate Men’s Baseball Take Ten Festival Write First Women’s Softball 
Jodi Lo Caroline Schurz 
Gallery Talks Eck Baseball Stadium Stepan Center Coleman-Morse Melissa Cook Stadium Snite Museum of Art 5:35 p.m.-7:35 p.m. 3 p.m.-5 p.m. Center 4 p.m.-8 p.m. 12 p.m.-12:45 p.m. The Irish take on Local students 8 a.m.-10 a.m. Double-header versus 
Corrections 

MFA students speak. Eastern Michigan. celebrate nonviolence. Work on dissertations. Louisville. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Spring Concert Film: “Brothers on Mother’s & Father’s National Endowment Concert: Nathan 
strives for the highest standards 
DeBartolo Performing the Line” Day Photo Shoot for Humanities Gunn 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Arts Center DeBartolo Performing South Quad Seminar DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. Arts Center 12 p.m.-4 p.m. Flanner Hall Arts Center 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Several Notre Dame 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Pose for a photo to 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Jazz Bands will Documentary showing thank your parents. Lecture by Malcolm Grammy-winning 
we can correct our error. 

perform. and panel discussion. Sen, Ph.D. baritone soloist. 


Manzano named speaker 
By ANGELA BUKUR 
News Writer 
Sonia Manzano, who plays Maria on “Sesame Street,” will speak to 51 multicultural members of the Saint Mary’s College Class of 2013 at the sixth annual Multiethnic Commencement Celebration on May 5. 
The ceremony is hosted by the Office of Student Involvement and Multicultural Services (SIMS), which addresses the academic and personal needs of underrepre­sented students at the College, SIMS assistant director Graci Martsching said. 
“The SIMS office decided to start the annual Multiethnic Commencement Celebration be­cause of the many wonderful, but misrepresented, women who are a part of our community at Saint Mary’s,” Martsching said. 

According to a College press re­lease, Manzano was raised in the South Bronx of New York City as a first-generation American of Latino descent. In her junior year of col­lege at Carnegie Mellon University of Pittsburgh, she traveled back to New York to star in the original pro­duction of the off-Broadway show “Godspell.” 
Within a year, Manzano joined the production of “Sesame Street” and broke ground as one of the first Latino characters on national tele­vision, the release stated. 
As a member of the “Sesame Street” writing team, Manzano won 15 Emmys and continues to create scripts for children’s pro­grams as well as other literary ventures. 
“Some of the many reasons why we chose [Manzano] is because of 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
her diverse background, many life achievements and influential strive toward women empowerment,” Martsching said. 
Manzano has received the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Award in Washington, D.C., the Hispanic Heritage Award for Education and an honorary doctor­ate in fine arts from Notre Dame. She was inducted into the Bronx Hall of Fame in 2004 and was voted one of the most influential Hispanics by People Magazine en Español, according to the release. 
Senior class president Silvia Cuevas said Manzano is living out her responsibility to encourage people not to let fear keep them from pursuing untrodden paths.
 [Manzano is] an example of someone who saw her ability and used it, full force,” Cuevas said. “I hope the rest of my classmates are also eager to go above and be­yond and that they won’t allow fear or doubt [to] hinder them from do­ing so.” 
Martsching said the Multiethnic Commencement Celebration is meant to demonstrate the College’s special effort to celebrate the chal­lenges underrepresented students overcome while at Saint Mary’s.
 Cuevas said only a small percent of multiethnic high-school stu­dents attends higher education. 
“It is frustrating to see that only half of my childhood friends will finish with a college degree,” Cuevas said. 
Contact Angela Bukur at abukur01@saintmarys.edu 
CCAC 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
of the relatively small survey as “a first snapshot” and a starting point for continuing to organize student feedback mechanisms. Coccia said his administration has been planning to emphasize community engagement, espe­cially with the incoming class of 2017. 
“Obviously, the more time students spend in South Bend, the better perception they have of the city,” he said. “That’s why we really want to focus on fresh­
“It’s all about building relationships with people and building this mutual commitment with residents of South Bend, so it’s not just a one-and-done service project.” 
Alex Coccia 
student body president 
man engagement in South Bend, whether that’s the freshman bus tour we want to do or a student government night out at the Silver Hawks game solely for the freshmen in that first week when they’re here. 
“We figure if freshmen and sophomores have good expe­riences with South Bend then when they move off campus as juniors and seniors, they already know about being good neigh­bors [and] they already know what’s available. It just creates a better environment.” 
The survey said the top three reasons for students not re­siding in South Bend after graduation were employment, entertainment and safety. Timothy Sexton, Notre Dame’s associate vice president for state and local public affairs, said the results seem consistent with his previous experiences at the 
University.  
“On  a  daily basis,  we  hear  
about  what  people  want  in  
a  ‘cool’  community  — they  

want jobs, safety and a fun at­mosphere,” he said. “All those things come together to make a really nice community, and it’s not a surprise [to me] that it was articulated in this survey.” 
Sexton reiterated Coccia’s thoughts on engaging freshmen in the community, pointing to the bus tour guided by commu­nity leaders as a primary exam­ple of outreach he believes will be beneficial. 
“We need to expose them to [South Bend] and show them what’s beyond just the campus here at Notre Dame … and at all the local higher-education in­stitutes,” he said. “There’s more than just the campus. There are a lot of opportunities to take ad­vantage of.” 
The results of this survey are a “good benchmark” in the city’s ongoing efforts to keep graduates around, Sexton said. According to Coccia, retain­ing recent graduates from the area schools is one of South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg’s major projects, preventing what Buttigieg calls “brain drain.” 
“Part of the takeaway and ac­tion items from this survey is [asking ourselves], ‘Okay, how can we get thorough student feedback … about what it is that’s going to make South Bend this increasingly cool place so they’ll want to stay in the city?,’” Coccia said. 
Sexton said the survey re­sults concerning economic development align with Notre Dame’s focus on research and innovation. 
“These results affirm the di­rection we’ve been taking … in the last few years, with the University’s research becom­ing a growing focus,” he said. “A lot of the economic develop­ment comes from the research done on campus and cultivating that in the businesses that are expanding in our community. They’re always looking to hire new people and bring in new innovation.” 
Thirteen percent of respon­dents said they do not spend any time in the city, while 30 percent spend 1 to 2 hours, 22 percent spend 3 to 5 hours and 11 percent spend 6 to 10 hours. The survey said 24 percent spend more than 10 hours per week in South Bend. 
According to the CCAC’s anal­ysis, “the hourly breakdown of activities [reported] truly shows the immense impact of students in the South Bend community.” The data showed that with ap­proximately 30,000 students in the South Bend area, students contribute more than 45,000 hours of community service per week and spend more than 60,000 hours supporting local restaurants. 
There is a difference between students’ perceptions of the city and the reality beyond campus, Coccia said. He plans to review the data with his administration and the Co-Campus Council, which gathers representatives from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, Ivy Tech and Indiana University South Bend, and “make positive suggestions for the city using this data.” 
Coccia said student govern­ment’s efforts to promote proj­ects and commitments that go beyond ordinary service activi­ties have the potential to affect students’ perceptions of the city and its residents in positive ways. 
“It’s all about building rela­tionships with people and build­ing this mutual commitment with residents of South Bend, so it’s not just a one-and-done service project,” he said. “It’s about building those relation­ships and working on something with meaningful impact, … and I think Notre Dame students would be especially prime for that kind of interaction.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Anuual Old2Gold sale raises funds 

By NICOLE McALEE 
News Writer 
Beginning next week, Notre Dame students can raise funds for more than 40 local charities by donating gen­tly used furniture, clothing, books and other items to be sold in the annual Old2Gold sale. 

Marty Ogren, associate di­rector of warehouse, delivery and transportation, said the collection period for items is May 6 to May 20. There will be designated areas outside each residence hall for gently-used items in working condition. low, many families are able are what make the Old2Gold help. If it wasn’t for the gener-According to the Old2Gold to purchase items they other-sale successful every yeat. osity of the Notre Dame stu­website, the sale will take wise would not be able to af-“This is a huge project and dent body, this would not be place the morning of June 15 ford,” he said. “[It’s] really a event,” Ogren said.  “It re-possible.” in Notre Dame Stadium. win-win.” quires a lot of work and coor­
 Although the sale is in its Ogren said the contribu-dination, but it helps so many Contact Nicole McAlee at ninth year, it still requires tions of Notre Dame students people who really need our nmcalee@nd.edu months of planning, Ogren 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
said. 
“We have several meetings to coordinate the PR for the sale, both to students who donate items and to the pub­lic who come and purchase items [and] meetings to in­struct our campus teams as to their many roles. … This is a one-day event that we spend four months preparing for,” Ogren said. 
Ogren said it is difficult to make a rough estimate of the number of items that have been donated over the past nine years. 
“Tons of stuff would not be an exaggeration,” he said. 
Ogren said last year’s sale raised $54,000 and the high­est amount of money raised in the sale’s history was $73,000. The money the sale raises directly benefits the local community. 
One hundred percent of funds raised at the sale go to the agencies that volunteer to work the event,” Ogren said. Each year, we support ap­proximately 45 to 50 agencies. The agencies include Busy Hands of Michiana, Campfire River Bend Council and Hope Ministries, among others.” 
Donating items is more sus­tainable than throwing them out, Ogren said. 
“Over the years, tons of items have been redistrib­uted instead of ending up in a landfill,” hew said. 
Ogren said Old2Gold is an important fundraiser for local agencies that volunteer at the sale. 
“This sale gives local agen­cies the opportunity to earn funds for their groups,” he said. “For some of these agen­cies, this is the only fund­raiser they participate in and have come to depend on our event to accomplish their good works.” 
The sale also benefits the families that shop for items, Ogren said. 
“Because our prices are so 


Sheedy 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
DellaNeva said in the email. Creativity and innovation in the learning process are also factors in the selection process. 
Douthwaite holds a pri­mary appointment in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, ac­cording to the email. Her areas of interest include the French Enlightenment, the French Revolution and French-English relations in the 18th and 19th centuries. The Seattle, Wash., native has received grants from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Lilly Foundation. 
The award will be formally presented to Douthwaite at a ceremony Dec. 12, 2013, at 
3:30 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. 


CSC 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
sought to produce research that looks at the effects of our programs on the students who involve them­selves and the communities we seek to serve.” 
John Guimond, the CSC’s di­rector of communications, said the Center runs approximately six seminars per semester, with about 1,000 students who participate each year. 
“The Appalachia Seminar is the most popular, with about 400 stu­dents who participate each year,” Guimond said. 
In addition to seminars, Guimond said the Center works with all colleges in the University to develop community-based learn­ing courses. 
“We have a n.umber of people here at the CSC to work with facul­ty to develop pedagogy from their courses to make connections to community partners,” he said. 
The Center also consults with community organizations to find areas of need when creating com­munity-based learning courses, Guimond said. “It’s really trying to figure out what the community need is and matching that need to the given class,” he said. 
Annie Cahill Kelly, the CSC’s director of community partner­ship and service learning, said community-based learning has been an important part of the Center’s history. 

“For about 28 of the 30 years, there’s been a very intentional rela­tionship with the local communi­ty, working to make connections,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said although once hu­manities-centric, the community-based learning courses are now available to students in many disciplines. 
“My memory is that it was more theology, arts-and-letter classes that had such offerings. Those who had connections to the Center were pioneers of such courses,” she said. “Now, today, it’s business, it’s science, it’s engineering, it’s archi­tecture. It’s all the colleges, not just humanities.” 
Kelly said the Center has grown in terms of numbers of faculty and students engaged, and many of the Center’s programs have reached national and international levels. 
“Some of the programs allow for greater numbers of students to par­ticipate and therefore have greater effects in terms of communities that are reached,” she said. “The ways that students are able to in­teract and engage with local com­munities - I think those ways are deepened and more intentional.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Survey 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
include not being comfortable discussing the details of the in­cident, fear of getting in trouble for other violations of University policy and fear their reputations would be damaged, based on 50 to 60 percent of responses. 
For third parties, about 55 to 70 percent of responders reported similar barriers preventing them from reporting the assault — re­specting the wishes of a victim who does not want to report, pre­ferring to stay out of it and fear of getting in trouble for other viola­tions of University policy. 
Harding cited a “Good Samaritan” policy from duLac, the student policy handbook, which encourages students to come forward with reports even if they might be in violation of other policies related to parietals or un­derage drinking. 
“The University will not pur­sue disciplinary action against a student who makes a complaint of sexual misconduct or sexual assault in connection with the re­porting of that incident, or against students named as witnesses to the incident,” the policy states. 
These obstacles to reporting sexual assaults are not uniquely experienced at Notre Dame, Stackman said. 
“I’ve been doing this work for over 30 years,” he said. “My sense in looking at these barriers, they are very similar to [those at] other colleges and universities. Nothing jumped out to me as a particularly unique barrier. Guilt and fear of embarrassment are consistent with what I’ve seen at other places. It is also common to not always know where to go or how to report it. We are all trying to work to mitigate these barriers, and I hope that conversations like this one will help make a differ­ence in that respect.” 
The survey also asked several questions in relation to what con­stitutes consent to participate in a sexual activity. Harding said over 90 percent of students un­derstood the terms of consent and responded to the question correctly. 
The survey did show the University could clarify the terms of consent with respect to a cur­rent dating or sexual relationship where consent cannot be as­sumed or agreement to a differ­ent form of sexual activity, when consent to one form of activity cannot be assumed for another. 
“I feel best about the individual work we are doing to support students as part of the system, and I think we have a lot of really great features.” 
Erin Hoffmann Harding 
vice president of Student Affairs 
Some confusion also arose around the terms of consent with respect to incapacitation as well, Harding said. In University policy, a person incapacitated by drugs or alcohol is incapable of giving consent. 
As the administration con­tinues its outreach and edu­cation, including hall staff training, in the future, Harding and Stackman said these barri­ers and issues of consent will be given strong consideration. 
The Office of Strategic Planning and Institutional Research cir­culated the survey via email in October. Harding said the survey was primarily “an ongoing piece of our education as a campus community.” 
The questions were also devel­oped in response to an investiga­tion in fall 2010 at Notre Dame by the Office of Civil Rights (OCR) in the Department of Education. 
“When the University worked with the OCR a few years ago, we mutually discussed and agreed that a survey would be a valuable tool for Notre Dame and possibly other college campuses to start gathering information specifi­cally on this issue,” Harding said. 
At the end of the OCR in­vestigation in 2011, its officials released a public letter that both commended some of the University’s policies and offered suggestions for improvements. The University began to imple­ment these recommendations at the same time as it adopted more sweeping reforms suggested by the Department of Education for colleges across the country, in­cluding the creation of a Deputy Title IX coordinator to directly handle all reports of sexual ha­rassment or assault. This aca­demic year was Stackman’s first in that position. 
“There are different compo­nents that the OCR has placed and mandated that colleges and universities do,” Stackman said. “I feel extremely good about the extent to which we’re doing it. We’ve got the bar for ourselves very high.” 
As he prepares to conclude his first year in the Deputy Title IX Coordinator position, Stackman said he has seen the past two years of changes become more ingrained in the Notre Dame community. 
“Among other things, OCR re­quires that we provide effective education to our campus com­munity,” he said. “We’re pushing that pretty hard and want to do even more in future years. The process also requires an inves­tigation. We are on the side of pursuing even a nugget of infor­mation — if somebody feels like there’s a report and we’re not sure, we’ll go look at it to find out. 
“I think we’re doing all of the right things.” 
Harding agreed the survey reflected a growing understand­ing of the newer parts of the University’s policy. 
“I feel best about the individu­al work we are doing to support students as part of the system, and I think we have a lot of really great features,” Harding said. 
“Are we always learning and always trying to improve? Yes.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle@nd.edu 

Renowned lawyer to defend Boston suspect 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — The defense team representing the Boston Marathon bombing suspect got a major boost Monday with the addition of Judy Clarke, a San Diego lawyer who has won life sentences instead of the death penalty for several high-profile clients, including the Unabomber and the gunman in the rampage that injured former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. 
Clarke’s appointment was ap­proved Monday by U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler. 
The judge denied, at least for now, a request from Miriam Conrad, the public defender of 19-year-old sus­pect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, to appoint a second death penalty lawyer, David Bruck, a professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law. 
Tsarnaev has been charged with using a weapon of mass destruc­tion during the April 15 marathon. Three people were killed and more than 260 injured when two bombs exploded near the finish line. 
The suspect’s lawyers could re­new their motion to appoint another death penalty expert if he is indicted, the judge said. 
Tsarnaev’s mother has staunchly defended him, calling the bombing allegations against him lies. 
Clarke’s clients have included the Unabomber, Ted Kaczynski; Susan Smith, who drowned her two chil­dren; Atlanta Olympics bomber Eric Rudolph; and most recently Tucson, Ariz., shooter Jared Loughner. All received life sentences instead of the death penalty. 
Clarke has rarely spoken publicly about her work and did not return a call seeking comment Monday. However, at a speech Friday at a legal conference in Los Angeles, she talk­ed about how she had been “sucked into the black hole, the vortex” of death penalty cases 18 years ago when she represented Smith. 
“I got a dose of understanding hu­man behavior, and I learned what the death penalty does to us,” she said. “I don’t think it’s a secret that I oppose the death penalty.” 
Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz said the decision to put Clarke on the defense team shows “they are going to litigate hard against the death penalty.” 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Happy last week 
Maria Fernandez 
Scene Writer 

I woke up this morning tired and rather hesitant to go to class when it suddenly hit me: this is my last week of school as a Notre Dame student. As I came to this realization, I jumped out of bed, quickly got dressed, grabbed my book bag and walked to class. 
The thought of my college experience coming to an end scares me. I had uncon­sciously been avoiding it throughout the semester until I had to inevitably face it yesterday. 
So, trying to keep my mind off the fear and melancholy of graduating from Notre Dame while walking to class, I decided to reflect on a positive and notable question. 
What have I learned throughout my past four years here at Notre Dame? 
The answer was short and simple. 
I have learned about myself, about oth­ers and about the ways I can truly con­tribute to and impact both. 
From class discussions to a semester abroad, I have definitely gotten to know myself better throughout my college years 
— what I like and dislike, with whom and where I am most comfortable and also who I am and who I want to become. 
Although I still constantly vacillate between different career paths, my Notre Dame education and extracurricular life has helped me get out of my comfort zone, enjoy new opportunities and get to know a new side of me I had yet to discover. 
In addition, my four years  have sur­prisingly taught me more about where I come from (Puerto Rico) — its past and its future. 
Before arriving at Notre Dame, I never imagined I would learn so much about my first home while living and studying in my new, second home. Nevertheless, being at Notre Dame has made me more aware of where I am from and the influence and impact my culture and background have on myself as a student and as a friend. 
Most importantly, being at Notre Dame has awakened in me a sentiment of con­stant action, change and inquiry about myself and those around me. I have be­come fascinated by interactions between different cultures, religions and points of view. 
What had originally felt like a sad real­ity of college almost being over turned into an optimistic and hopeful future as I finished reflecting and finally arrived to class. I am and will always be grateful for my four amazing years at Notre Dame. I am sure the experiences I have had and the people I have met here along the way have shaped and will continue to shape me as I embark on a new and different life adventure. 
Happy last week of school to everyone 
— especially to us seniors! Lets enjoy every minute of it. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christopher Damian 
Ideas of a University 
I came to Notre Dame three months after President Obama’s commence­ment address. Amidst controversy and condemnation by more than 80 bishops, Notre Dame sought to forge a path of dialogue and discourse, ignoring epis­copal warnings and insisting President Obama would be a listening companion and ally to the Church. In his speech, he said, “Let us work together to reduce the number of women seeking abortions. Let’s reduce unintended pregnancies.” We applauded. “Let’s make adoption more available.” We applauded. “Let’s honor the conscience of those who dis­agree with abortion and draft a sensible-conscience clause.” We applauded. 
One might note the irony when legis­lative changes resulted in the unprec­edented closure of Catholic adoption agencies across the country; when the president’s administration changed grant rules to deny Catholic programs, ranked second nationally, funding for sex-trafficking victims; when the University of Notre Dame sued this same president’s administration over its right to function as a religious insti­tution three years later. “Virtuous dis­course,” it turns out, often only works in the minds of academics and their follow­ers. “Dialogue” only goes so far as people are willing to actually listen. Lawsuits and closures occur when dialogue has failed. 
When President Obama’s HHS secre­tary told NARAL Pro-Choice America, “We are in a war,” she spoke about Catholicism and about Notre Dame. As an institution that counters many contemporary cultural practices, Notre 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Dame and its policies are seen as con­trary to equality, liberty and tolerance. For many Americans, Notre Dame must bow to the standards of secular sexuality or give up its right to exist. 
I was at a meeting in which one profes­sor told attendees, “I have many friends here [at Notre Dame], but I also have many enemies. ... If they could get police to come to my door and hold a gun to my head until I paid for their birth control, they would. These are your enemies.” They are here. Those who would under­mine the work of Catholics and their beliefs lie in wait for the opportunity to act openly, fortified by federal mandates. 
The only prejudices that are praised are those of the postmodern world. Postmodern society will seek to destroy those whose prejudices differ from its own. Catholics would be rash to say we are undergoing mass violent persecu­tion in America, but we would be fools to ignore the seeds of such persecution. Already, Catholic institutions across the country have been compelled by law to either give up their beliefs or undergo penalties by our government. 
In a homily in April 2012, Bishop Daniel Jenky aroused controversy by stating, “Hitler and Stalin, at their bet­ter moments, would just barely tolerate some churches remaining open but would not tolerate any competition with the state in education, social ser­vices and health care.” Some say he has demonized some politicians. I believe he has reminded us of the humanity of Hitler. 
He has reminded us every tyrant was once a beloved leader, every policy of persecution was once seen as sensible legislation, violence is always preceded by a feigned peace. He reminded us prior to the great evils it committed in the 20th century, Germany was once among the most well-ordered, developed, intel­ligent and respected countries in the world. He reminded us not to be fooled, as many were in the previous century, into believing the world has progressed beyond evil. No society is beyond the production of martyrs. We have been called to vigilance. 

Still, there is a lesson that was miss­ing in Bishop Jenky’s homily. We must be wary of those who would wage war against our faith, but we must under­stand Catholics do not wage war as the world would. We must show courage, but we must act in a spirit of hope and char­ity. Just as no earthly society is beyond evil, no soul is beyond the good. 
At Notre Dame, I have come to know and respect men and women who dis­agree with Church teaching but who, nonetheless, love the University in her full integrity, as a Catholic institution. Further, they love their peers, students and co-workers and would defend them against injustice. Catholics must hold these men and women close to our hearts and cherish our friendships with them. One day we may need them, and they will not fail to come to our aid. When the world declares war on the Church and its institutions, these few may remind us of the goodness of man­kind in heroic and selfless acts. 
Know your friends, and know thine enemy.
 Christopher Damian is a senior studying philosophy. He can be contacted at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Fashion is a form of ugliness so intolerable that we have to alter it every six months.” 
Oscar Wilde Italian dramatist, novelist and poet 



THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The institution of marriage 

Joshua Whitaker (“Keep your ‘traditional marriage,’” April 15) faults The Observer for failing to guide the debate on marriage to the legal institution of marriage, rather than Catholicism’s sweeping disregard for homo­sexual love. 
He then goes on to offer neither a discussion of the legal institution of marriage nor of homosexual love, but rants about the problems of the Catholic view of marriage and the oppression of the gay community by society. Neither of these positions enlightens the debate nor solves the problem. As a Catholic priest, my views on marriage are shaped by Catholic teaching and by my attempts to un­derstand the meaning of marriage as an institution. 
To this end, I found the book, “What is Marriage? Man and Woman: A Defense,” by Sherif Girgis, Ryan T. Anderson and Robert P. George most illuminating. They argue marriage has three essential elements that cannot be applied to any other situation except to the relation­ship between man and woman. They discuss compre­hensive union of body, mind and heart, union of pursuit of common good directed at procreation and the raising 
(Note the issue is not about the morality of homo­sexuality; rather, it is about homosexuality being part of Nature’s design.) 
“For non-believers, homosexuality also clearly defies the laws of nature,” Mr. Carter Boyd says (“Somewhere Over the Rainbow,” April 10). I must have missed something, because this point is not so clear to me. 
Consider this: 

One of the things that distinguish humans from other animals is humans have souls and animals do not. This is a widely-accepted theory. This theory states humans can and do meditate on the moral­ity and rightfulness of their actions, while animals cannot. Animals act wholeheartedly, as nature made them. 
For example, both humans and animals have a nat­ural inclination for killing and eliminating their com­petitors. While animals just kill that which threatens of family, and a commitment to exclusivity and perma­nence. If Mr. Whitaker thinks about these three elements, he will find no matter how hard he trys to argue for gay and lesbian marriage, these three elements are not and cannot be present in their totality except in the relation­ship between a man and a woman. Furthermore, it seems the most outstanding characteristic embodied in these three elements is complementarity. 
Complementarity says to me that marriage is a rela­tionship in which two people are able to give of them­selves to each other totally, and, through giving, are able to establish favorable conditions for the forming of fami­lies and the raising of children. Complementarity says there is a unity of purpose in pursuit of common goods; this unity of purpose comes as a result of both persons seeking the same thing — a shared life and the establish­ment of a family. 
As a priest, I live in a community of religious life whose members vow poverty, obedience and chastity. Aside from these vows, it is rather difficult to get a group of men to live together with a common purpose and a truly 
It feels natural 
them, humans refrain from killing because they are 
aware of the moral implications of the action. 
You may ask what this has to do with homosexuality. 
Homosexuality is a behavior that has been found in more than 1,000 species, including Homo sapiens. How is it a sin against nature? As established above, animals have no souls, which means they act just as nature made them. It follows then that homosexuality must be a natural orientation. Animals do not think about the moral implications of their doings — they simply do. Similarly, animals do not think about the moral implications of having sexual relations with the same sex. They simply have sex ... because it is part of their nature. 
Moreover, Mr. Boyd, you have argued heterosexual­ity has survived this long because it is the only natural sexual orientation. I must admit I fail to understand this point and must request that you clarify. There have been many organisms that have gone extinct and shared life. Really sharing in all responsibilities and deci­sions on an equal level seems possible only between a man and a woman bound together in marriage. 

And in a complementary relationship there is a desire and likelihood for a permanent and exclusive relation­ship. Sometimes these relationships end in divorce, but where there is genuine mutuality in the relationship, the possibility of permanence and exclusivity is present. 
This is not to say relationships of two men and two women cannot be valid relationships in and of them­selves and open to the same legal process as marriages are. It is just to equate them to marriage, and to demand this right equally for all relationships seems to be some­what far-fetched and liable to destroy what society has for ages regarded as a bedrock for the formation of good society. 
Rev. David Kashangaki, C.S.C. 

alumnus Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House, Indianapolis April 29 
this does not mean they were unnatural. Dinosaurs once existed and I do not think one can argue they were not natural beings since they did not survive. 
Also, I do not see how the survival of heterosexuality relates to homosexuality, because as far as I am aware, homosexuality has also survived in humans and more than 1,000 other animals. Indeed, just because humanity has survived because of heterosexuality, it does not instantly reveal that anything that is not heterosexual is unnatural. 
I suppose I am a bit cautious not to dismiss your point entirely because I do not understand it. I am interested and would love to see the point more clearly explained if you are willing to explain. 
Patrick Ntwari 
freshman Keough Hall April 29 
UWIRE 
I speak for the fish 
Ashley Casper 
The Digital Universe 

A biocide is occurring amongst society today. The victims of this don’t have a voice and don’t deserve their fate. This tale is in comparison to the Dr. Seuss children’s book, The Lorax. So just as the Lorax spoke for the trees, I speak for the fish, sea mammals, birds, turtles and countless other ma­rine wildlife that have become subject to the dan­ger of plastics. 
100s of species of birds, such as the Albatross species of Midway, get their necks caught in the plastic separators used on six packs of soda cans and choke to death. Just as the character Lovelace from the Pixar film “Happy Feet,” animals suffer elongated pain as their airways are constricted by the plastic, eventually suffocating them. In the movie, Lovelace is saved from this fate, but for many of these Albatross birds they are not so lucky. On average 40 percent of newborn chicks die every year because of the 150 plus tons of plastics washed upon the Midway beaches. 
A small turtle, named Peanut, was found with a six pack separator wrapped around the turtle’s shell, making his shell form a figure eight. As the turtle grew around the plastic his organs began to fail. This same process happens to other turtles and tortoises. Animals such as the Hawaiian monk seal and the Pacific loggerhead sea turtle have ac­tually become endangered because of plastic en­tanglement from the waste. 
Animals ingest much of the plastic particles, mistaking them as food. When they eat this plastic it disrupts their digestive system, and they also absorb the chemicals, such as Bisphenol A, that are found in the plastic. Bisphenol A affects their reproductive abilities as well as causes hormonal imbalances. According to Animal Friends Corotia, 10s of 1,000s of animals die every year because of entanglement and ingestion of this plastic waste. 
A research team, headed by Chelsea Rochman and Mark Anthony Browne in February of this year, found the benefits for changing the classification of some plastics to become classified as hazardous materials. In declaring certain plastics hazardous, they hope it will cause companies to look to safer alternatives for fear of the tax that is attached to hazardous material production because of the Comprehensive Environmental Response legislation. 

We as consumers also need to take it upon our­selves to refrain from using plastics wastefully. We need to take small steps such as using reusable water bottles and brown-biodegradable grocery bags. We must also encourage endeavors such as declaring plastic a hazardous material because of the benefits that will come from it. 
The Lorax book ends with the Once-ler giving Ted a single truffula seed because all the truffula trees have been cut down. Does it take a desolate ocean to open our eyes to the destruction that is caused by this plastic pollution? No. We need to act now. 
This column originally ran in the April 24 edition of The Digital Universe, serving  Brigham Young University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By TESSA DeMERS 
Scene Writer 

What would you do if you ran into your accounting professor at Club Fever? Or your art history professor in Las Vegas? It isn’t as uncommon as you might think to run into teachers outside of their classroom or office hours. 
When you take your first step into a classroom at the beginning of a semester and look at your professor standing at the front of the room, getting ready to begin his or her lecture about whatever class you got yourself into this time, you always make judgments. Maybe the teacher immediately clicks with you, telling jokes that seem to indicate a shared sense of humor, or maybe showing pictures of fluffy puppies that just happen to be your go-to procrastination Google search. 
However, it’s often the case that your professor jumps right into coursework and you don’t have a lot of opportunities to see him or her as more than an intimidating figure at the front of the class­room, spouting endless information at you, always much faster than you can write. 
Sometimes, this can lead to fear of going to office hours if you have problems. Personally, I have had at least one professor every semester who has intimidated me so much that I was too scared to ask for help, even though I was riding the struggle bus all semester long. I would finally break down and go in near the end of the semester, only to realize professors are not as scary as I had previously assumed. They genuinely want to help you understand and learn and are usually re­ally cool people who are willing to chat with you about nearly anything. 
My goal with the following pictures is to show that professors are people, too. Knowing this might help you get rid of the fears that haunt many of us at the beginning of each semester and jump right to the part where you realize your teachers are actually awesome. I want to help you take advantage of the opportunities you have, get to know your teachers and maybe even end up with better grades! 
Contact Tessa DeMers at tdemers@nd.edu 


1.
It may not quite be a moonwalk, but economics professor James Sullivan and his wife Kara Kane rock a Michael Jackson look for a costume party. 

2.
Philosophy professor Michael Rea  shops with his adorable children, juggling the bags and banalities of normal-people errands. 

3.
Psychology professor Anre Venter poses as Santa Claus with senior Brian Becker at a St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital fundraiser. All I want for Christmas is an A! 

4.
Economics professor Abigail Wozniak makes a face, but I don’t think she’s really all that sad. She has simply learned that her sad face makes her son David smile. Say “cheese!” 

5.
Professors Eric Sims and Nelson Mark display a flag at a Department of Economics football tailgate.  Go Economics! Beat Recession! 

6.
Physics professor and aspiring professional-billiard player Justin Crepp touhces the famous Notre Dame stadium sign. His personal motto might be “Shoot Like a Champion Today.” 

7.
Professor Danielle Joyner, a professor of Medieval art history, sports a pink wig in Las Vegas. As she would say in class, “What happens in Gothic stays in Gothic!” 


THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Managing Editor 

Every day in London is like a master class for fashion. In the morning I walk across the Thames River and through Trafalgar Square, the London equivalent of Times Square. I arrived in London with a fairly-relaxed wardrobe: lots of cotton shirts in blues and blacks and a few dress­es I thought were cute. 
But once I hit the streets, I realized how woefully uneducated I was in the lan­guage of the London look. And now that I face my return trip home, I have to re­flect on how my lessons will translate in America and at Notre Dame. 
Disclaimer: Everything you see people wearing in London should be taken with a grain of salt. Do not take crazy-moustache guy, plaid-overdose girl or bright-green­hair punk rocker too seriously, unless, of course, you want to make a drastic change in your appearance. 
This should be more of a lesson to those of us Notre Dame students who are tired of looking like we walked out of a college catalogue for jeans and Urban Outfitters shirts but don’t feel the need to go out decked entirely in tweed. (It’s a thing, I promise.) So, I hope you brought your pens and paper, because I’ve been taking notes. 
Winter 

These were probably the most valuable 
By GABRIELA LESKUR 
Scene Writer 

As finals week rears its ugly head, you know it’s time for you to start spending some quality time with the books. The information jumps from the page like a wild beast, one you’ve never seen be­fore that threatens to overtake you. In other words, all that procrastinating has caught up to you and you have to cram a semester’s worth of work into the next few days. To become one with your course material, you must prepare for a journey not quite unlike that of the Hobbits — to the library. How you fare there will determine your grade for the semester. For your greatest chance of survival, treat this next week in the Hesburgh Wilderness like the adven­ture it is. 
Imagine your day at the library is like a camping trip. You need all the same types of supplies. Just replace insect ideas I came across while in London, since I spend the majority of my time in South Bend wrapped up against the cold and wind. Unlike Americans, Londoners usually deal with the cold without having to resort to the igloo-esque North Face, down-to-the-ankle coats. 
The wind on the bridge to class can be just as biting as South Quad in January, but as I tromped along I saw men and women making their way wrapped fash­ionably in many layers of Irish sweaters, pea coats and Burberry scarves. Since snow isn’t really a problem for this town, women were able to wear their favorite ankle-boot high heels while men stole the show with perfectly chocolatey­leather shoes. 
Layers will always be in style, and it seems like Londoners have it down to a science. I learned to wear a camisole and long-sleeved shirt underneath whatever sweater I wore, then a shell underneath my pea coat. 
Then I added a bit of color with a warm scarf and found a bright hat to bring a touch of color to the otherwise London-gray arrangement. I think this will be fair­ly easy to recreate, although I will probably need to add cute knee-high snow boots to the ensemble for South Bend next winter. 
Spring 
To be honest, spring didn’t look that dif­ferent than winter here in London. The skies were dark and cold and spat rain 
repellent with lots of books and ran­dom stuff so no parasitic fellow studier tries to infringe on your study space. Replace a sleeping bag with a big, com­fy sweatshirt, perfect for a midnight nap. Replace a campfire with a cozy blanket to keep you warm when the air conditioning gets you a little chilly. Replace canned food with snacks from the Huddle. Replace water with caf­feine. Instead of a flashlight and batter­ies, bring all the power cords you could ever need. 
The most effective way to get the most out of your library study time is to spend the whole day there. No lunch runs to South Dining Hall. You will need to stock up on food and drink to last you the entire day. Go to the Huddle and prepare yourself a picnic basket full of goods. Suck it up and go to Au Bon Pain, no matter how many Flex Points you may or may not have left. A meal may unexpectedly throughout the day. I had to stick to my black water-proof boots like a koala sticks to a eucalyptus tree, which didn’t give me too many options for what else to wear. 
I took notes on the way to class again, however, and noticed how Londoners paired sleek leggings with the boots and then wore a chic sweater dress or pleated shorts. I firmly oppose the leggings-as­pants movement, so it was a relief to see the London fashion elite agreeing with me. 
Granted, you will see plenty of leg­gings as substitutes for pants around the city, but never without sufficient cover­age from an oversized men’s dress shirt or vintage sweater. Overall, Londoners are modest, especially when it comes to showing skin. Strapless doesn’t seem to be a thing here, but off-the-shoulder chiffon tops are a must, especially once the weather gets nicer. 
Summer 
Summer has just barely, maybe ar­rived here in London, but you probably couldn’t tell from the way people are dressing. The wind is still chilly and the sun only comes out in the afternoon, so no one has broken out the short shorts and tank tops yet. 
I have observed, however, the sheer genius of the sundresses London women wear. Cutouts, floral prints, ‘50s silhou­ettes — these dresses seriously run the 
seem like an innocent break. Wrong, wrong. Do not, under any circumstanc­es, leave the library until you’ve been there for at least five hours. 
The final step is to get one of these prime spots. Arrive early. While some of these are well known, some of the spots are diamonds in the rough. If you can find them, do whatever you can to lay your claim. 
Study Spot #1: Basement Booths. These are tough to get, especially dur­ing finals week, but maybe if you wait for a little bit in one of the cozy chairs, you’ll be lucky enough to snatch up a booth after some studied-out soul de­cides it’s time to zombie walk home. 
Study Spot #2: The Lonely Basement Table. If you’re brave enough, venture into the book archives in the basement, and if you walk far enough you will find several extremely-isolated tables. You have absolutely nothing to look at gamut. And the men have impressed me with the importance of the dress-shirt­and-tie combination. 

Without jackets to cover up their co­ordination, I can now appreciate how much the right tie can complement a simple shirt. Extra points for a bow tie. I’ve transitioned to a pair of black-cloth, lace-up shoes that I bought for my Easter trip to Rome, which instantly makes me feel more like Audrey Hepburn as soon as I put them on. 
It’s gotten too warm for my scarves, so to add personality to my mostly-neutral wardrobe, I throw a purple or white car­digan over a dress and ditch the tights. Of course, these are all extremely conserva­tive alterations; I’m limited by my plain closet (and thinning wallet). 
Another thing Londoners do right is their shopping. You won’t see cheap stores on London’s main shopping strips, like Oxford Street or Regent Street. Things are sold here for value and qual­ity, so Londoners slowly build an eclectic wardrobe according to their personality. 
I much prefer the London approach to shopping and dressing and plan on mak­ing those significant purchases slowly but surely as I transition from college student to college graduate. Hope this gave you a little taste of the London look. Cheers! 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
besides stacks of books and your laptop screen, so get off Facebook and finish that paper. 
Study Spot #3: The Room with a View. Alright, more like the desk with a view, but if you’re lucky enough to score one of the upper-floor solo desks with a breathtaking campus view, you had better be studying instead of watching movies and tweeting. 
Study Spot #4: The Fishbowl Booth. This is the lap of luxury. These booths are comfortable, they have outlets and they are perfect for hiding from people and distractions. The high walls are like shields from the rest of the room. 
As you venture out into the Hesburgh Wilderness, remember: Every adven­ture must eventually end. This, too, shall pass. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Storylines abound in NHL playoffs 

Sam Gans 
Sports Writer 
After a shortened season due to the lockout that made each regular-season game hold even more importance than in normal years, the NHL playoffs begin tonight to make for two of the most exciting months in sports. 
Sadly, North America’s favorite underdog, the Columbus Blue Jackets, came up just short of reaching the playoffs. Despite a 19-5-5 fin­ish to the season, a horrific start led to a tie for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference, and un­fortunately, Columbus lost the tiebreaker to Minnesota. Lucky you, Chicago. 
With the playoffs now upon us, here are five storylines to keep an eye on: 
1. The Return of Sidney Crosby 
Love him or hate him, there is no denying Crosby is the best player on the planet. Despite missing the final 12 games of the Penguins’ regu­lar season with a broken jaw, Crosby still finished tied for third in the NHL in points. 
He is practicing now, though it’s uncertain if he will play in Wednesday’s se­ries opener against the New York Islanders or in the series at all. However, if No. 1-seed Pittsburgh advances to the next round — which is likely, even in his absence — Crosby will probably be back. That, similarly to LeBron in the NBA, is a good thing for the NHL because of his polar­izing nature that draws fans, whether rooting for or against him. 
2.  Can Los Angeles repeat? 
The Kings completed the Cinderella run a year ago when they marched all the way from the eighth seed in the West to lift Lord Stanley’s Cup. This year, they will have a target on their back, not only as the defending champs, but also no longer as the last team in the field. Most of last year’s Stanley Cup-winning roster has returned, including standouts Jonathan Quick, Drew Doughty, Dustin Brown and Jeff Carter, and has the Kings looking to become the first repeat champions since Detroit in 1998. 
3. Will a No. 8 seed make a deep run again? 
As I just mentioned, the Kings won it all from the No. 8 slot last season. This year, the two No. 8 seeds are Minnesota in the West and the Islanders in the East. 
It’s hard to tell what type of momentum they have en­tering the postseason. The Islanders lost only once in regulation in their last 13 games but enter the play­offs on a three-game losing streak — with two shootouts and a regulation loss in their last three games. Meanwhile, the Wild struggled down the stretch, going under .500 in their last 10 games, but won in a must-win regular-season finale to make the playoffs. 
If either of them is go­ing to make a run, it will be tough sledding early, as New York and Minnesota play No. 1-seeds Pittsburgh and Chicago, respectively. Speaking of the Blackhawks… 
4. Can Chicago turn reg­ular-season dominance into playoff success? 
The Blackhawks tore through the NHL in the open­ing months, earning a point in their first 24 games, an NHL record to start a season. The Blackhawks didn’t fal­ter much down the stretch, either, and managed to win the Presidents’ Trophy with the best regular-season re­cord in the NHL. But unlike Minnesota, which had to win its final game to sneak into the playoffs, Chicago hasn’t faced much pressure this year due to its hot start. And three of the last four Presidents’ Trophy winners were elimi­nated in the first round of the playoffs. 
5. Toronto is back in the playoffs 
The Maple Leafs were the only franchise in the entire NHL not to make the playoffs since the 2004-2005 lockout until they broke through this season, earning the No. 5 seed in the Eastern Conference. Now, the hockey-crazed citi­zens of Toronto can go nuts once again to see their team back in the postseason. 
The Leafs’ first-round series should be quite a treat, as No. 4 vs. No. 5 series often are. Adding to the excitement is their opponent: the Boston Bruins. Original Six match-ups are always fun to watch and the atmosphere will only be revved up more in the playoffs. 
So, there you have it. Sit back, relax and get ready for an intense May and June on the ice. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
NBA 

Nets topple Bulls to stave off elimination 
Associated Press 
The Nets’ first season in Brooklyn goes on, with an­other victory needed to set up the biggest game here yet. 
Brook Lopez had 28 points and 10 rebounds, Deron Williams added 23 points and 10 assists, and the Nets beat Chicago 110-91 on Monday night, cutting the Bulls’ lead to 3-2 in their first-round playoff series. 
Andray Blatche scored 10 of his 13 points in the fourth quarter and Gerald Wallace had consecutive baskets down the stretch as the Nets finally pulled away in a game they led most of the way, but never by too much. 
“We came out very aggres­sive, as we have the past few games. I think the difference was just we sustained it for essentially a full 48 minutes tonight,” Lopez said. 
Two days after rallying for a 142-134 triple-overtime victory, the Bulls were out­scored 15-1 down the stretch and failed to set up a second-round series with Miami. Instead they will host Game 6 on Thursday. 
Nate Robinson had 20 points and eight assists start­ing in place of point guard Kirk Hinrich, who bruised his left calf in Saturday’s game. 
Robinson scored 29 of his 34 points after the third quarter Saturday in a game the Nets led by 14 late in reg­ulation. Coming off his big game and agitating to op­posing fans even when he’s struggling, Robinson was loudly booed during intro­ductions, and each time he touched the ball early on. 
He made a jumper with 
4:17 remaining to cut Brooklyn’s lead to 95-90, but there would be no charge this time. Lopez converted a three-point play, and after a free throw by Jimmy Butler, 

FOR RENT 
Available May 1st. Clean 2BR 1BA. Garage and fenced yard. 1326 E. Chalfant St. $675/mo Call 574-340-6789 
1 BR furnished apt with utilities. $550/mo + deposit. Near airport. 574-233-3565 
Grad student in Chicago looking to share 2BR/2Bath apartment in South Loop near Prairie/15th streets - $800/ mo.Contact: kallsop@ciber.com 


Wallace nailed a 3-pointer, then came up with a steal and dunk to give the Nets a 103-91 advantage with 2 minutes to go. 
The Nets finished it off with ease, extending their first season in Brooklyn af­ter moving from New Jersey. They would host a Game 7 here on Saturday. 
Butler scored 18 points for the Bulls, who were out-rebounded 44-33 and gave up 24 second-chance points. 
“That’s the difference in the game, the rebounding,” Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said. “If you defend fairly well and then you give a team a second and a third crack at it, it’s hard to win like that.” 
Only eight NBA teams have overcome a 3-1 deficit, but the Nets remained confident after Saturday’s collapse, feeling they had outplayed the Bulls for long stretches during the series. They have led by double digits in four of the five games. 
“I believed that we would respond,” Nets interim coach 
P.J. Carlesimo said. “We’ve bounced back all year too well, and as disheartening a loss as that was on Saturday, there’s still been enough good minutes in this series. Neither of us are getting away from each other.” 
But they need two more wins against a Bulls fran­chise that is 12-0 all-time when holding a 3-1 lead. 
The Nets ran off seven straight points late in the first quarter, five from Lopez, to turn a 17-17 tie into a 24-17 lead. 
Brooklyn got eight second-quarter points from Kris Humphries, then opened its biggest lead when Johnson and Gerald Wallace made consecutive 3-pointers be­fore Lopez made two free throws to make it 50-40. The Nets led 52-44 at the break. 
The Nets had the lead into double digits a few times in the third quarter but never built on it. The Bulls were back within four by the end of the period after making 11 of 16 shots (69 percent). 
Butler made a 3-pointer to open the fourth quarter and make it a one-point game, but Chicago never could grab the lead in the final period. 
The Nets improved to 6-0 all-time in Game 5s at home. They have never lost a series when holding home-court advantage. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
Sports Quote of the Day: “I feel like I’m the best. But you’re not going to get me to say that.” - Jerry Rice 
American League MVP’s 1999-2012 1999: Ivan Rodriguez 2000: Jason Giambi 2001: Ichiro Suzuki 2002: Miguel Tejada 2003: Alex Rodriguez 2004: Vladimir Guerrero 2005: Alex Rodriguez 2006: Justin Morneau 2007: Alex Rodriguez 2008: Dustin Pedroia 2009: Joe Mauer 2010: Josh Hamilton 2011: Justin Verlander 2012: Miguel Cabrera        



NBA 

Collins comes out as first gay NBA player 
orientation.” 
Associated Press 
Collins’ coach with the 

     WASHINGTON — With the Celtics, Doc Rivers, drew a simplest of sentences, NBA comparison between Monday’s veteran Jason Collins set aside announcement and Jackie years of worry and silence to Robinson’s role when he joined become the first active player the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947, in one of four major U.S. profes-breaking the color barrier in sional sports leagues to come Major League Baseball. out as gay. “I am extremely happy and 
In a first-person article posted proud of Jason Collins. He’s a Monday on Sports Illustrated’s pro’s pro. He is the consum­website, Collins begins: “I’m mate professional and he is one a 34-year-old NBA center. I’m of my favorite ‘team’ players I black. And I’m gay.” have ever coached,” Rivers said. 
Collins has played for six “If you have learned anything teams in 12 seasons, most re-from Jackie Robinson, it is that cently as a reserve with the teammates are always the first Washington Wizards after to accept. It will be society who a midseason trade from the has to learn tolerance.” Boston Celtics. He is now a free Collins says he quietly made agent and wants to keep play-a statement for gay rights even ing in the NBA. while keeping his sexual orien­
“I didn’t set out to be the first tation a secret. He wore No. 98 openly gay athlete playing in with the Celtics and Wizards a major American team sport. — 1998 was year that Matthew But since I am, I’m happy to Shepard, a gay college student start the conversation. I wish I in Wyoming, was killed, and wasn’t the kid in the classroom the Trevor Project, a suicide raising his hand and saying, prevention organization, was ‘I’m different,’” Collins writes. founded. “If I had my way, someone else According to the General would have already done this. Social Survey, the public has States. NFL players Brendan and its players’ union part-teammates’ teammates. Or one Nobody has, which is why I’m grown increasingly accept-Ayanbadejo and Chris Kluwe nered with an advocacy orga-of your teammates’ teammates’ raising my hand.” ing of gay relationships since were outspoken in support of nization fighting homophobia teammates,” he writes. 
Saying he had “endured years the late 1980s. That survey state gay-marriage amend-in sports, and Commissioner Never a star, he acknowl­of misery and gone to enormous found in 1987 that 76 percent ments during last year’s elec-Gary Bettman said the You Can edges, “I take charges and I lengths to live a lie,” Collins of Americans thought sexual tions. Obama spoke about his Play Project underlines that foul — that’s been my forte. immediately drew support relations between adults of the support for gay marriage dur-“the official policy of the NHL ... I set picks with my 7-foot, for his announcement from same sex was morally wrong. ing his re-election campaign. is one of inclusion on the ice, 255-pound body to get guys like the White House — President That fell to 43 percent by 2012. The topic made waves dur-in our locker rooms and in the Jason Kidd, John Wall and Paul Barack Obama called him — “I’m glad I’m coming out in ing Super Bowl week when one stands.” Pierce open. I sacrifice myself along with former President Bill 2013 rather than 2003. The cli-player, San Francisco 49ers cor-“I would say the NHL has for other players.” Clinton, the NBA, current and mate has shifted; public opin-nerback Chris Culliver, said he been a force to kind of obvi-He continues: “I go against former teammates, a sponsor, ion has shifted,” Collins writes. wouldn’t welcome a gay mem-ously embrace and encourage. the gay stereotype, which is and athletes in other sports. “And yet we still have so much ber of his team. At the time, ... What (Collins) did, I think why I think a lot of players will 
Los Angeles Lakers star farther to go. Everyone is terri-Ayanbadejo estimated that at it’s definitely (good) for basket-be shocked: That guy is gay? But Kobe Bryant tweeted that he fied of the unknown, but most least half of the NFL’s players ball, and the same for hockey, I’ve always been an aggressive was proud of Collins, writing: of us don’t want to return to would agree with what Culliver too. It’s going to be encourag-player, even in high school. Am “Don’t suffocate who u r be-a time when minorities were said, at least privately. ing for more guys to step up and I so physical to prove that being cause of the ignorance of oth-openly discriminated against.” Scott Fujita, who recently re-just be open about themselves,” gay doesn’t make you soft? Who ers,” followed by the words While some gay athletes have tired after an 11-year NFL ca-Washington Capitals forward knows? That’s something for a “courage” and “support.” talked in the past about con-reer, said: “I’m pleased to see Joel Ward said. psychologist to unravel.” 
“We’ve got to get rid of the cerns that coming out would such an overwhelmingly posi-Living in the nation’s capi-As for what response other shame. That’s the main thing. hurt their earning potential, tive reaction to this news, be-tal last month while the U.S. NBA players will have to his And Jason’s going to help that. 12-time Grand Slam singles cause it just shows that we’re Supreme Court heard argu-revelation, Collins writes: “The He’s going to help give people champion King said she thinks becoming more accepting ev-ments about same-sex mar-simple answer is, I have no courage to come out,” said Collins’ openness could have ery day. But more than any-riage had an effect on Collins, idea.” Billie Jean King, a member of the opposite effect. thing else, I’m happy for Jason. who says “the strain of hiding “Openness may not com-the International Tennis Hall “I have a feeling he’s got a I’m not a gay, closeted ath-my sexuality became almost pletely disarm prejudice, but of Fame who confirmed she whole new career,” King said. lete, so I can’t pretend to know unbearable” at that time. it’s a good place to start. It all was gay after being outed in the “I have a feeling he’s going to what that must have felt like for “Less than three miles from comes down to education. I’ll early 1980s. make more in endorsements him. But I imagine this is free-my apartment, nine jurists ar-sit down with any player who’s 
“I guarantee you he’s going than he’s ever made in his life.” ing for him, and hopefully he’s gued about my happiness and uneasy about my coming out,” to feel much lighter, much fre-Sports equipment maker encouraged by the millions of my future. Here was my chance he says in his account, adding: er. The truth does set you free, Nike released a statement people who are voicing their to be heard, and I couldn’t say a “Still, if I’m up against an in­there’s no question. It doesn’t Monday saying: “We admire support. ... It’s not a reaction to thing,” he writes. “I didn’t want tolerant player, I’ll set a pretty mean it’s easy. But it sets you Jason’s courage and are proud some rumor and it’s not some to answer questions and draw hard pick on him. And then free,” King said in a telephone that he is a Nike athlete. Nike unwanted outing. It’s his mes-attention to myself.” move on.” interview with The Associated believes in a level playing field sage, and it was delivered under After being a first-round On Monday, there was an out-Press. where an athlete’s sexual orien-his control and on his terms.” draft pick in 2001, Collins has pouring of positive sentiments. 
The Wizards, whose season tation is not a consideration.” On Monday, NFL averaged 3.6 points and 3.8 re-In texts to the AP, Wizards ended April 17, issued a state-On Monday evening, hours Commissioner Roger Goodell bounds for the New Jersey Nets, guard Garrett Temple wrote, ment from President Ernie after his story appeared on the sent a memo to teams reiterat-Memphis Grizzlies, Minnesota “I was surprised. I didn’t know Grunfeld: “We are extremely web, Collins wrote on Twitter: ing the league’s anti-discrimi-Timberwolves, Atlanta Hawks, and I was right next to him in proud of Jason and support his “All the support I have received nation policy about sexuality. Celtics and Wizards. the locker room. It definitely decision to live his life proudly today is truly inspirational. I It includes a section on ques-In his SI piece, he jokes self-took a lot of courage for him to and openly. He has been a leader knew that I was choosing the tions teams cannot ask pro-effacingly about his journey-come out. He was a great team-on and off the court and an out-road less traveled but I’m not spective draft picks and free man career and a parlor game mate,” and rookie Bradley Beal standing teammate throughout walking it alone.” agents. After the NFL combine known as “Three Degrees of said: “I didn’t know about it! I his NBA career. Those qualities Momentum has been build-in February, three players said Jason Collins.” don’t think anyone did! I am will continue to serve him both ing toward this sort of an-officials posed questions about “If you’re in the league, and proud of his decision to come as a player and as a positive role nouncement from a pro athlete sexual orientation. I haven’t been your teammate, out and express the way he feels model for others of all sexual in a top league in the United Earlier this month, the NHL I surely have been one of your and I’m supportive of that!!” 


THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

CLUB SPORTS 

Rowing team finds success at MARCA regatta 
Men’s and Women’s Ultimate teams finish seasons at regional championships 
Special to The Observer 
Men’s Crew
 This past weekend, Notre Dame headed to Ypsilanti, Mich., to com­pete in the MACRA Regatta against many of the best crew teams in the Midwest. Although the re­gatta was originally scheduled for Indianapolis, conditions at the original venue caused a last-minute change in location. Thanks to the hard work of the regatta organizers, the competition went off without a hitch. 
The first novice 8+ boat took sec­ond place in its morning heat, mov­ing on to the finals in the afternoon. In the finals, the novices raced to a fifth-place finish in what was their most successful regatta of the spring thus far. In the second nov­ice 8+ event, the Notre Dame boat also finished in fifth. 
For the Irish varsity, the day started out with the 4+ boat taking second in their heat, qualifying the boat for finals. The varsity 8+ boat also had a heat in the morning. It raced the first kilometer before cruising to a third place finish, also qualifying for finals. 
In the afternoon, the Irish en­tered two boats in finals-only events. In the lightweight varsity 4+ event, the Irish crew raced to a fourth-place finish in a hard-fought battle to the wire. In the JV 8+ event, the Irish boat was also able to race to a fourth-place finish, seeing tra­ditional rivals Michigan and Grand Valley for the first time this season. 
In the varsity 4+ final, the Irish boat attempted a late charge but fell short, and the boat finished fifth overall. In the varsity 8+ final, the Irish crew was unable to hang with the leader, and also finished in fifth place. 
Men’s Ultimate 
TheIrishtraveledtoRockford, Ill., over the weekend to compete in the Great Lakes Regional Tournament. Notre Dame entered the tourna­ment seeded sixth but needed to win the tournament to advance to nationals. 
Saturday’s first game was against Michigan-B, and although the Irish got off to a fast start, Michigan-B fought back and evened the score, and then went on to win on uni­verse point, 13-12. Notre Dame bounced back in its second game of the day against Wheaton, com­ing away with a comfortable 13-6 victory. The third and final pool play game was against Michigan State, the third seed in the tourna­ment. Notre Dame fought hard, played aggressively and stuck with the Spartans for the first part of the game, but a couple of breaks by Michigan State allowed the Spartans to walk away with a 12-9 victory. 
Notre Dame’s 1-2 record was good enough to put it into a cross­over game against Indiana, mean­ing the winner advanced to the quarterfinals Sunday morning and the loser was knocked out of the championship bracket. Notre Dame and Indiana initially traded points, but Indiana gathered mo­mentum as the fourth game of the day took a toll on the Irish, allow­ing the Hoosiers to cruise to a 15-7 victory. 
While not in the championship bracket, Notre Dame had more games to play Sunday. The Irish started the day out against Purdue. The Irish came out fast again, but Purdue fought back to tie the game. Then the teams traded points, making for a close finish. Purdue was able to execute better down the stretch, though, and defeated the Irish 17-15. 
Notre Dame then played Illinois-B, and in the final game of the day the Irish played well for the entire game. Consistent play led to an easy 15-7 victory for Notre Dame. The win gave the Irish a 13th place finish for the tournament and officially concluded their spring season. 
The team was led all tournament by its seniors — as it has been all season. Notre Dame’s seniors in­clude captains Jonathan Koch and Zach Woodruff, as well as Dan Bolivar, Collin Mackett, Eric Bens, Patrick Leary, Connor Sea, Andrew Romero, and Charles Bowen. These seniors left their mark on the team and will be missed as the Irish look to rebuild for next season. 
Women’s Ultimate 
Notre Dame finished its sea­son over the weekend in the Great Lakes D-1 Regional Tournament in Rockford, Ill., where 12 teams com­peted to qualify for a spot in the national tournament in May. The women placed fourth in the tourna­ment, asserting their position as one of the top teams in the Great Lakes region. 
The Irish went into their first set of games determined to continue their 20-game winning streak, and Saturday got off to a great start. The team faced Purdue in its first game of the morning, winning 11-6. The players carried that momentum into their second game, winning 11-0 over Loyola-Chicago. 
The team’s third game was the toughest of the day, as it faced one of its top competitors, Northwestern. The Irish knew going into the tour­nament that Northwestern would be one of the best teams they would face all year. The game got off to a rough start, but after battling through defensive points and con­serving the disc on offense, Notre Dame was able to tie up the game at 5-5. Unfortunately, Northwestern regained control of the game late, and the Irish lost 7-10. 
Although the team members were disappointed, they did not let the loss discourage them from play­ing seriously. The team wrapped up the day with an 8-5 win over Illinois and an 11-1 win over Michigan-B. 
On Sunday morning, the week­end’s intensity reached its peak as the women began bracket play for the regional championship. In the first round, Notre Dame faced Chicago, a team that came out strong. With tremendous efforts and enthusiasm from the team’s key new players — sophomore Kristen Collins and freshmen Emily Dowling, Heather Fredrickson and Mara Jurkovic — the team achieved a 15-5 win. Senior captains Kelly Taylor and Kelsey Taylor attributed the team’s success in the game to the positive energy that each player channeled both on and off the field. 
In the semifinals, the team played Michigan, a historic rival. Like Northwestern, Michigan was one of the region’s top teams and presented itself as a worthy ad­versary to Notre Dame. The game began with strong offensive and defensive points, and cheering fans, players and alumni filled the sidelines of both teams. The Irish ladies fought hard but were unable to pull out the win as Michigan gained control and claimed the 15-9 victory. 
The team’s last game Sunday was against Purdue. Several play­ers stepped up and turned in great performances for the Irish, includ­ing senior Erinn Riley. Riley’s last game for Notre Dame may have been her best, as she not only snatched several discs out of the air for points, but also threw the disc for assists. But after the ex­hausting loss to Michigan, the Irish showed their fatigue in their eighth game of the weekend, falling to the Boilermakers, 13-10. Although Notre Dame didn’t reach its goal of advancing to the national tourna­ment, it finished fourth in its region with a season record of 33-7, a great improvement over years past. 
Theplayersagreedthatthisyear’s squad played with better chemistry than they had ever experienced, which, aside from bringing great success on the field, also brought the players closer together. The team attributed much of that cohesion to its seniors: captains Taylor and Taylor, as well as Riley, Kari Chen, Kasey Coonan, Annie Flood, Kelly Gilmour, Allie Hawkins, Courtney Iverson, Devlin Lynch, Andrea Palazzolo and Elizabeth Villafuerte. 
All of these wonderful young women have been instrumental over the last four years in guid­ing the team in community and growth. These ladies have been more than just friends and team­mates –– they have been amazing role models as both players and people, inspiring the younger play­ers to carry on their legacy through a love for the sport and each other. 





Lane 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
some rough holes and move up to 57th place. 
Meanwhile, Cincinnati senior David Tepe contin­ued to lead the individual competition after firing a second-straight round of 69, which put him at six-under for the tournament and gave him a two-shot lead. Following him was South Florida freshman Chase Koepka, whose consecutive rounds of 70 helped power the Bulls into the overall team lead. 

With a seven-stroke differential dividing the fourth-place Irish from the lead and South Florida, and just three shots be­tween the team and third place St. John’s, the Irish will tee off at 8  A.M. with Connecticut for the fi­nal round of the Big East championship. 
Softball 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
to show its ability to bounce back and leave the loss in the past. 
“After losing to DePaul, we need to realize that we can con­trol the outcome of each game,” Buntin said. “We beat ourselves in the DePaul game. If we play every inning focused and work to produce runs with runners on base, we will be an unstoppable team.” 
Notre Dame already has momentum to move past the loss entering tonight’s game. Junior pitcher Laura Winter, who has acted as a defensive leader throughout the season on the mound, received her first Big East Player of the Week honor Monday. That marked Winter’s fourth award win the past two weeks. 
Offensively, the Irish will con­tinue to look deep into their ros­ter and rely on all members of the lineup to bring runners home and put numbers on the scoreboard. 
With only five games left before the Big East Championship be­gins, the Irish know every inning counts. 
“As we get closer to Big East, we need to focus on one game at a time,” Buntin said. “No rushing or looking ahead to what could happen, just one game at a time.” 
Play between the Irish and the Eagles will begin at 5 p.m. today in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
MLB 

Braves snap losing streak 


Associated Press 
ATLANTA — The Atlanta Braves, who began the night with the most home runs in the ma­jors, showed they can win play­ing small ball. 
Now Washington’s Stephen Strasburg must show his right arm is completely healthy. 
Andrelton Simmons hit a tiebreaking sacrifice fly in the seventh inning, then made an eye-popping play to start the ninth as Atlanta beat the Nationals 3-2 on Monday night and ended their four-game losing streak. 
“We battled and did the little things right,” said Simmons, the second-year shortstop. “We got the bunt down. We got the sacri­fice fly to get the run in.” 
Washington manager Davey Johnson said Strasburg, who 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
was pulled after six innings, has “a little tightness” in his right forearm. 
Johnson said Strasburg was seen by a doctor after the game. 
“That was a tough one,” said Johnson of the loss. “But the main thing I was a little con­cerned about was Strasburg.” 
Strasburg, who had lost a ca­reer-worst four-straight starts leading up to the game, said he’ll be able to make his next sched­uled start. He is 1-4 with a 3.13 ERA. 
Strasburg appeared to struggle to get comfortable on the mound. Johnson also noticed, saying Strasburg “doesn’t look right to me.” 
“He was shaking his elbow more frequently,” Johnson said, adding Strasburg didn’t com­plain “but he was irritable.” 
“I was really concerned,” Johnson said. “Any other time, I might have let him continue. Hopefully, it’s no more than a tired arm or something.” 
Strasburg gave up six hits, four walks and two runs in six in­nings, striking out eight. 
Strasburg insisted he “felt good” but struggled with his control. 
“I couldn’t throw strikes early on,” Strasburg said. “I was able to kind of battle through it and keep it close.” 
Atlanta beat the Nationals for the eighth straight time dating to last season. The Braves swept three games at Washington ear­lier this month. 
Ian Desmond off the ninth with a slow grounder that Simmons charged. Simmons slipped as he fielded the ball and fell on his backside, but somehow fired a strike from the seat of his pants that first baseman Freddie Freeman caught by making a long stretch. 
“That’s the first time I’ve ever seen two guys do a split on the same play at the same time,” Braves closer Craig Kimbrel said. 
Desmond was called out on a close play, and disagreed with the decision. Johnson came out to ar­gue with umpire Tim Timmons. 
Simmons was able to laugh about his awkward but success­ful throw. 
“I just lost my footing,” Simmons said. “It was a little muddy. Fortunately, we’ve got Freddie helping out there. ... Sometimes you’ve got to impro­vise to get it done.” 
The Braves began the night with 36 homers, one ahead of the Yankees for the lead. Against the Nationals, Atlanta’s only extra-base hit was a double by starting pitcher Julio Teheran. 
Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said Teheran, who al­lowed 10 hits and two runs in 5 1-3 innings, showed his growth by escaping jams as the Nationals left six runners on base. 
“We’re watching him grow up in front of our eyes,” Gonzalez said. 
Gerald Laird led off the Braves’ seventh with a walk from Tyler Clippard (1-1). Laird moved up on pinch-hitter Tyler Pastonicky’s sacrifice bunt and was held at third on Jordan Schafer’s single. 
Simmons’ fly ball to right al­lowed Laird to slide safely head­first across the plate. 
Jordan Walden (1-0) struck out three in 1 2-3 hitless innings. 
Eric O’Flaherty struck out two in a perfect eighth and Kimbrel pitched the ninth for his ninth save. 


Streak 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
winning percentage would still be disappointing if it were a batting average. 
Friday’s 12-2 win over Connecticut was promising enough; a 17-hit game will always be welcomed by a team that’s developed a knack for hitting the ball straight into fielders’ gloves. But it was the come-from-behind win Saturday that should really encourage Irish fans. 
Despite what you hear on sports radio, I think it’s very rare for athletes and teams to give up on a season and “mail in” the rest of their games. But it’s plenty easy to lose focus, especially when things just aren’t going your way. There’s no denying it takes a good deal of mental fortitude to hold on for two error-aided, go-ahead runs in the bottom of the eighth when your team has trailed for an entire game. you don’t see that kind of grit and focus from a team that has accepted the disintegration of a once-promising season. 
As Irish coach Mik Aoki said over the weekend, the Irish wasted a lot of the collateral they built up in the first month of the season. They can’t afford to drop mi-week matc-ups against di­rectional Michigan schools and other non-conference opponents, which the Irish have done too much of in the past season and a half. Another Tuesday dud would be bad enough for the win-loss record, but Notre Dame really doesn’t want to tempt a return of the recently-exorcised doldrums. 
There are three more weekend series left on the Big East cal­endar, which make three more opportunities for the Irish to pull themselves up from sixth-place in the conference standings, or at least finish with a winning record in the Big East. Remaining conference opponents St. John’s and Cincinnati currently inhabig the bottom half of the Big East standings, and while USF is 29-15 with just two conference losses, the Bulls do not exactly schedule world-beaters for their out-of­conference match-ups. Despite the struggles the Irish faced at the beginning of the conference season, Louisville is the only Big East team ranked above the Notre Dame in RPI, and the Irish are in control of their own destiny when it comes to an NCAA tournament bid. 
This Notre Dame squad has gotten more buzz than the pro­gram has seen in years. If this past week is any indication, they might just live up to it. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Mancini 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said the one-two punch of Jagielo and Mancini has been crucial to his squad’s recent success, especially with Mancini finally show­ing his power as an All-American candidate. 
“When Eric and Trey are both going good at the same time, I mean, I’d pity the pitching coach that has to face that duo,” he said. “I know that I cer­tainly wouldn’t want to be that guy. So it’s nice to see Trey get going, it’s nice to see him using the entire field. That was a real big pick-me-up.” 
The current tear at the plate for Irish batters comes as a result of Aoki’s charge to be aggressive with each at bat and to score first in each game, an attitude he said his players will need to keep up in the regular sea­son’s 12 remaining games. 
“Outside of the typical baseball things — pitch it well, defend it, get timely hitting — I just think it’s still us being the aggres­sor, us being the ones to try to dictate the action and the tempo of the game,” he said. “I think that as long as we do that and as long as we stay in that mode, we’re a very good team.” 

Notre Dame will have to keep that spark alive to match the recent offensive torrent of Central Michigan (19-22, 8-10 MAC). Sophomore first baseman Cody Leichman accumu­lated five hits in as many at bats in the Chippewas’ 10-1 win over Eastern Michigan on Saturday, a game in which the team totaled a season-high 19 hits. Freshman right fielder and leadoff batter Logan Regnier also picked up four hits that day. 

Aiming to extinguish Notre Dame’s hot streak will be freshman starter Jimmy McNamara. The left hander comes in to the game with a 0-2 record and a 3.03 ERA. 
McNamara will take the mound against the Irish to­day at Theunissen Stadium in Mount Pleasant, Mich., where the first pitch is scheduled for 4:05 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNY RAGO &              PATRICK CROSS 



HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andre Agassi, 43; Uma Thurman, 43; Michelle Pfeiffer, 55; Jerry Seinfeld, 59 
Happy Birthday: The more you do to improve your relationships with others, the easier it will be for you to make the personal changes that can alter your life forever. Consider your mental, physical and financial options and you will find a way to balance your life. Relocation or adding knowledge or skills to your resume will lead to greater success. Your numbers are 6, 13, 20, 26, 31, 34, 69. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put some thought into what excites you, and you will find a way to satisfy your needs. Travel, communication and education will all help you reach your current goal. Don’t let anyone limit what you can achieve. Take progressive action.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Speak with confidence and authority, and you will sway others to support you. Follow up whatever statement you make with actions. Once you put the work behind you, the rewards will follow. An agreement will help you move forward. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A spontaneous act will help someone more than you realize. Rewards for your actions may not come through the usual channels. The less you expect, the more you shall receive. 
Take action rather than being a bystander. Settle differences and move on. CANCER (June 21-July 22): What you do for others will be a reflection of who you are. Reconnecting with people you have worked with in the past will open doors to new beginnings. Let your instincts and keen memory lead you in the right direc­tion. Love is highlighted. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don’t give in to anyone putting demands or pressure on you. Speak up and make it clear what you need and want to see happen. Step out­side your comfort zone if that’s what it takes to get your way. Make an unexpected move. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Step up and take action. Let your heart lead the way personally and professionally and you will find peace of mind and satisfaction. Romance is on the rise. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may have more at risk than you realize. Go over contracts, personal paperwork and your financial situation and make adjust­ments. Protect your assets, your home, your family and your emotional wellness. An unusual interest will relieve stress. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Deal with partnerships and lifestyle issues that haven’t been giving you the satisfaction you require. Spice up your life and utilize your talents. Share what you have to offer with those sharing your interest and skills. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don’t give up a chance to socialize, network and be a participant. Responsibilities must not be allowed to stand between you and your goals. Helping someone out is one thing, but being taken advantage of is another. Draw the line. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take control and make things happen. Your insight and common sense will help you engage in ventures that will secure your position and transpose anything that isn’t working for you into something that is. Love and romance are in the stars. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Say little. Whatever you need to do, just pick and choose the time and place carefully. It’s important to avoid interference. A prob­lem with institutions, authority figures or traveling to destinations you know little about should be curtailed. Stick close to home. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Pull in ideas from people you see as creative and forward-thinking. Draw up contracts and agreements that will help you alter your course and reach your set goal. Someone you have worked with in the past will come in handy now. 


Birthday Baby: You are a leader. You are responsible, assertive and dedicated. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 



Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  

 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information   Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an  Name  
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  Address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
City  State  Zip  


THE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
BASEBALL 
Power trip 
Irish enter match-


Squad ends slump, up with Eagles looks to build on 
riding hot bats recent wins 
By MARY GREEN 


Vicky Jacobson
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Fresh off a weekend sweep of Connecticut, Notre Dame 

Remember when the Irish were will quickly head back into 
ranked No. 15 in the country? action in its game against 
I do — Notre Dame had several Central Michigan this af­
buzzworthy players returning, ternoon in Mount Pleasant, 
opened the season with a 12-5 re-Mich. 
cord and appeared ready to hang The Irish (26-16, 7-8 Big 
with anyone in the Big East. East) grabbed three con-
Well, it looks like the Irish (26­ference wins in the series 
16, 7-8 Big East) finally remember against the Huskies, with 
that team, too. For some time the first and third games dis-
it seemed like the players who playing the team’s rediscov­
swept Tulane, dropped just one ered offensive power. Notre 
game in each of their three early-Dame claimed 12-2 and 
season tournaments and took 12-5 victories, respectively, 
victories from top-20 teams like amassing 32 hits as a team 
Virginia Tech and UCLA had for-between the two contests. 
gotten how to win games. Leading the Irish at the 
Starting March 28, Notre Dame plate in that power surge was 
lost nine of 13 games, including junior first baseman Trey 
six in a row. Call it bad luck; call it Mancini. Mancini collected 
a funk. Either way, the Irish were nine hits in 12 at bats over 
stuck in it. the weekend and has picked 
But they’ve found a way out up 15 hits in his last 18 at 
in the past week. Seven wins in bats, boosting his batting 
eight games is not a meaningless average to .374, which trails 
fluke, even if the streak started only junior third baseman 
with a three-game sweep of 10-29 Eric Jagielo’s .400 average. OE KENESEY | The Observer Quinnipiac, a team whose .256 
Irish junior first baseman Trey Mancini follows through on a swing against Connecticut on April 26. Man-see MANCINI PAGE 14 cini finished the three game series with nine hits on twelve at-bats, including three doubles and five RBI. see STREAK PAGE 14 
MEN’S GOLF | 584 (+8); FOURTH PLACE 
ND falls to fourth on Day Two 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish teed off Monday to continue play at the Big East championship at Reunion Resort in Orlando, Fla., eventually capping their second round in fourth place. 
The squad could not hold the first-place lead it se­cured in the first round and fell behind South Florida, which shot a one-under 287 to best Notre Dame’s 296 (+8). 
Irish senior Paul McNamara started on a good note by firing three consecutive pars but fell on a rough patch later on, recording three bogeys on the back nine to end at two­over-par on the day. 
That score placed McNamara in a tie for sixth place with freshman and teammate Cory Sciupider in the individual competition. McNamara started the day in second but could not keep up his great start from the first round. Sciupider, on the other hand, improved in the standings through con­sistency, firing his second consecutive even-par round to move from 10th to sixth. 

Junior Niall Platt gave up some shots to the field Monday, shooting a 74 to move back from sixth into a tie for 12th place. Platt was hampered by a two-over 38 on the front nine but played par golf after the turn to help him stay in contention. 
Freshman Zach Toste nearly matched his first-round score in Tuesday’s second round but took one more stroke to card a four-over 76 and drop to seven­over-par overall. 
Junior Andrew Lane was able to improve on his first round by two strokes, using three birdies to counter 
see LANE PAGE 13 
SOFTBALL 

Irish set to battle Eagles 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Tonight the Irish return home after a weekend series to host Eastern Michigan in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Notre Dame (37-11, 17-2 Big East) stands tied at the top of the Big East conference standings entering the game. 
“Our hope for the Eastern Michigan game is to prepare for Louisville this weekend,” senior catcher Amy Buntin said. “We are hoping to use these live at bats and defensive situations as practice to get us ready for the big games this weekend.” 
Eastern Michigan (15-29­1, 5-12 MAC) comes into the midweek showdown riding a three-game winning streak, as it earned wins over Miami and Ball State last week. Despite this momentum, the Eagles will have to overcome their struggles away from Ypsilanti, as they have only gathered one win on the road this season while taking 13 losses. The Irish will look to capitalize on Eastern Michigan’s troubles when away from home 


JULIE HERDER | The Observer 

Irish junior Laura Winter pitches against Villanova on April 7. Winter was named Big East player of the Week for April 22-29. 
and attempt to drive the number  Notre Dame is looking to re- 
to 14.  bound after suffering its first loss  
Last weekend, senior pitch- in 12 games to DePaul in the final  
er  Jenna  Ignowski  led  the  game of a three-game series over  
Eagles with her five strikeouts.  the weekend. Tonight, the squad  
Defensively, the squad has given  will have the opportunity  
up 10 runs in its last three wins,  
in comparison to its 18 scored.  see SOFTBALL PAGE 13  






