The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 9 | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University students visit West Wing 
Washington, D.C. program participants meet Deputy Chief of Staff to the president 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame students studying in the university’s washington, 
d.c. program discovered they have friends in high places when they visited the west wing to speak with deputy chief of staff to president barack obama, rob nabors. 
while participating in the washington program, students must work 20 to 25 hours per week at an internship and take nine credits of classes, accord­ing to the program’s website. students also tour various sites of national importance, includ­ing the supreme court, the capitol complex and the west wing. 
Junior alex caton [editor’s note: caton is a viewpoint col­umnist] said getting to tour the west wing and meet one of the president’s right-hand men was “surreal.” 
“you’ve seen the Tv show, you’ve always heard about [the west wing], but you’ve never imagined you could be in it. sitting around a room with battle flags, medals, a portrait of Fdr [Franklin delano roosevelt], boxes of m&ms with reprints of barack obama’s signature on them … a surreal experience,” caton said. “it was surreal: be­ing in such close proximity to someone who spends three to four hours a day with the presi­dent and having him be so frank, so honest about 
see wesT wing PAGE 3 


Photo courtesy of Nicole Sganga 

Notre Dame students spoke with Deputy Chief of Staff Rob Nabors and toured inside the Supreme Court, the Capitol complex and the West Wing. 


south bend updates taxi ordinances 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
news writer 
The city of south bend has worked to better regulate local taxi companies and improve the municipal code, assistant city attorney ann carol nash said.
 “what we’re really trying to do is help taxi drivers know that they’ll do better business-wise if they become more cus­tomer oriented. … i’m hoping the requirements of the ordi­nance will help them along,” nash said. “it will be good for taxi business and better for the city as a whole.” 
in an effort to improve safe­ty, the city now must inspect taxi vehicles once a year and the south bend airport must do the same once a year. 
“we make sure the car is in very good condition,” nash said. “we always did inspect [the cars], but we standardized our criteria with the criteria of the airport, so there is no confusion.” 
Following a suggestion made by former notre dame student body president grant schmidt, all cab drivers the city licenses must display a placard inside their vehicles that shows the driver’s name, the company, the cab number, a city map and the company’s 
see TaXis PAGE 5 



bavo starts year with picnic 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
on Thursday, saint mary’s students took a stand against domestic violence and sexual assault by participating in a no more campaign picnic hosted by the belles against violence office, director connie adams said. 
“we wanted to do it at the be­ginning of the academic year 
see bavo PAGE 5 




Extra football ads showcase ND 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
many members of the notre dame community feel our university has five times as much to offer as any other, and during the nbc broadcast of each home football game, notre dame gets five times the commercial air time of other universities with which to attempt to prove this true. 
beth grisoli, director of multimedia services, said the university’s working re­lationship with nbc gives the university the chance to air a two-minute and a 30-second institutional message during home football games. in total, this is quintuple the air time typically allotted to other universities during national broadcasts of sporting events. 
“we have a unique opportu­nity with nbc,” grisoli said. “it’s hard to say everything you want to say about your university in 30 seconds, so we’re delighted to have these two-minute segments.” 
The university uses these extra two minutes to broadcast its “fighting for” campaign, which is now in its seventh year, grisoli said. each year, notre dame pro­duces six new segments for broadcast and rebroadcasts one previous year’s segment. nbc airs one segment dur­ing each of the seven home games. 
The campaign’s goal is to show the inspiring work of students and professors, and at the same to capture the human element and the mo­tivations behind the efforts, grisoli said. 
“we select topics that showcase how members of the notre dame family are advancing the university’s vision domestically and glob­ally through scholarship, re­search and service,” she said. 
“we have extremely impres­sive and motivated students, and our faculty are doing in­credible things in their work. These two minutes allow us to tell a story and to show the breadth of research, the un­dergraduate achievements and the deep catholic faith of our university.” 
see ads PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE scene PAGE 8 INSIDE 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite boy band jam? 

Ben Brockman 
Junior 
Keough hall 
“i want it That way.” 

Chris Cane 
Junior 
Keough hall 
“i want it That way.” 

Conner Cole 
Junior 
Keough hall 
“i want it That way.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Rob McCurrie 
Junior 
Keough hall 
“i want it That way.” 

Scott Copeland 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“i want it That way.” 

Troy Laedtke 
Junior 
Keough hall 
“i want it That way.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kaitlyn rabach samantha Zuba Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine owers cole schietinger charlie ducey vicky Jacobsen Graphics 
Scene 


emily hoffmann Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Kevin song Movie Showing Notre Dame Football Men’s Soccer CUSE Grant Deadline Student Safety 
dan sehlhorst 
DeBartolo Performing @Michigan Alumni Stadium Campus-wide Summit Arts Center 8 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 12 p.m. Carey Auditorium, 
6:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. The Irish play their first The Irish play North Deadline to submit Hesburgh Library 
Corrections 

Showing of “Frances away game against Carolina. undergraduate 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Ha” (2012). Michigan. research proposals. NDSP presents panel. a professional publication and 
Eucharistic Minister 
strives for the highest standards 
Graduate Student SatAWAY FITness Training Berges Lecture Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Mass Class Basilica of the Sacred Series: “The Notion of Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
Basilica of the Sacred Snite Museum of Art Heart Competing” Cavanaugh Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Heart 9:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 141 DeBartolo Hall 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. Free outdoor yoga. Train to administer holy 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Student-led small 
we can correct our error. 

Church service. communion. Steelcase CEO speaks. group discussion. 


 Student ‘strove for greatness’ to be Leprechaun 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
senior Johnny romano used to dream about being a notre dame football player, but af­ter realizing his body type was not well suited for the sport, he decided to take on a different role in notre dame athletics and became the notre dame leprechaun. 
“i always wanted to be a foot­ball player, but when you are five feet and five-and-three­fourths inches tall, it’s a little hard,” romano, a native of glencoe, ill., said. “so i strove for greatness, and what’s bet­ter than being a football player? The notre dame leprechaun.” 
romano said the process to become the leprechaun begins with a one-page essay about why the leprechaun hopeful wants to be the official mascot of notre dame. Those appli­cants then participate in cheer-leading tryouts. 
“They try to see how you in­teract with the team,” romano said. “They would pull you aside and tell you to pump the cheerleaders up and then give you different situations to get the crowd going.” 
Ten to 15 hopefuls are then cut down to six finalists, who learn some of the finer points of what it takes to be the leprechaun. 
“They taught us the jig, and then we had a push-up contest, a mini pep rally and a game time situation,” romano said. “after that, we each had an inter­view with a panel of six people, which included representatives from different departments, like athletics. usually, the pre­vious leprechaun is there, too.” 


romano said he was not ner­vous during the process. 
“i have nerves of steel,” he said. “i had been a leprechaun the year before, so this was my second year. i was just trying to get the top spot.” 
This past weekend was the university’s first football game, and romano said the experi­ence was exciting. 
“The pep rally was fun, but at the game it did not really hit me that i was the leprechaun until they said ‘here come the irish’ and i had the flag on the field,” he said. “i just didn’t want to get trampled by the football team.” 
during the game, romano tried to rally the crowd. 
“i try to get fans engaged dur­ing key plays,” he said. “i get them pumped up, especially with the volley cheers that in­clude whole stadium.” 
notre dame Football is a tradition in romano’s fam­ily, he said. his grandfather played on the football team from 1946 to 1949 and helped the irish win three national championships. 
attending the university is also a tradition in the romano family. 
“my father went here,” romano said. “eighteen of my 
first  cousins  have  attended  
either  notre  dame or  saint  
mary’s.”  

romano, a marketing major, says his plans are not concrete for after graduation. with a flu­ency in spanish, romano said he will either find a job or do a year of service in honduras. 
“i lived for six years in mexico because of my dad’s job,” romano said. “i also studied abroad in mexico during the sixth grade.” 
when asked which of this season’s football games he is most excited about, romano grinned. 
“michigan is in the big house, usc is at night, and we are playing in the dallas cowboys stadium,” romano said. “go irish, beat wolverines.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
Ads 
conTinued From page 1 
grisoli said this season’s first segment aired during the Temple game and fea­tured the university’s enFo­cus program, which partners entrepreneurship students with the city of south bend to develop innovative ideas for the city’s many programs. 
another of this year’s seg­
“We’ve built a 
tremendous 
following with 
this campaign, 
and people look 
forward to it 
every year.” 
Beth Grisoli 
director of Multimedia 
Services 
ments, which has yet to air, will feature the nd seed pro­gram, grisoli said. nd seed is a group for engineering students that raises funds to build bridges in rural south american communities.
 The segment explores the motivations of one student whose father was an engi­neer in columbia but then could not find work as an en­gineer in the united states. 
grisoli said the segment that airs during a particu­lar game is chosen based on association with the op­posing university whenever possible. 
“sometimes we look at the university we’re playing and see if one of our segments ties in with that institution,” she said. “For instance, this year we’re playing navy at home and we have a story that touches on research we’re doing with the navy.” 

The “fighting for” cam­paign airs to over four mil­lion viewers each game and is popular with fans and alumni, grisoli said. 
“we’ve built a tremendous following with this cam­paign, and people look for­ward to it every year,” she said. “we get a surprising number of responses from alumni, and 99.9 percent of it is positive, which is very re­warding. we’ve even had sto­ries where students say they saw one of these segments and it made them choose this university over another school.” 
grisoli said the develop­ment process takes almost a full year and begins as soon as the football season ends. 
“when the season is over, we exhale, and then we re­group and begin planning the next campaign,” she said. 
at the beginning of this process, she and her part­ner, assistant director of marketing communications ann hastings, collaborate with an nbc production team to solicit ideas from the university community and then select from the best po­tential topics, grisoli said. 
“we welcome ideas from anyone, and we specifical­ly reach out to deans from each college, the office of the provost and various institutes and centers,” she said. “we seriously consider a few dozen stories each year based on      rigorous criteria.” 
grisoli said once the next season’s six stories are se­lected, a great deal of work and travel goes into filming each two-minute segment. 
“For each story we hone in on the storyline, interview lots of people and consider lots of locations,” she said. “we interviewed archbishop desmond Tutu once and he appeared in a segment. 
“it’s always an adventure and it takes resourcefulness. we fly all over the world, and it’s not unusual to have two crews in different parts of the world doing two things at the same time.” 
This past summer, the nbc team had to film part of a segment with one small cam­era because they couldn’t get the rest of the equip­ment through customs in nicaragua, grisoli said. 
grisoli said working on the “fighting for” campaigns is difficult, but she finds it re­warding to tell the stories of students. 
“These segments require a tremendous amount of work, but every day i am just blown away by notre dame stu­dents and what they can ac­complish,” she said. “i find them remarkable, and it’s a privilege to tell their stories.” 
all previously aired “fight­ing for” segments are avail­able at fightingfor.nd.ed 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
West Wing 
conTinued From page 1 
his own experience … telling us that the way he got there was not by accident or good fortune, but hard work.” 
caton said he was excited to hear of the path that nabors took to reach his current position. 
“it was humbling to see the hard work that he did, but in­spiring to see that if i want to contribute my own piece to the story of the american govern­ment, that dream is achievable for me if i do the hard work,” caton said. 
Junior Tim scanlan said he was excited to meet nabors because he hoped to learn about the life of a national policy-maker. 
“i was excited when i found out about the meeting because of how integral nabors has been to the domestic policy of the obama administration,” scanlan said. “i was really look­ing forward to knowing more about how decisions are really made and hearing about some of the current conflicts in greater detail, especially in regards to syria.” 
when he met nabors in per­son, scanlan said he was im­pressed with his candid account of his work. scanlan said learn­ing work at the executive level demanded 18 hours of work, sev­en days a week underlined the intensity of nabors’ job. 
“The meeting was great — rob nabors was an energetic and earnest speaker,” scanlan said. “he covered everything from a typical day in the life to the priorities of the administration going forward. it was an hour and a half of humble honesty about washington success and the work it takes to get there.” 
Junior nicole sganga said she was inspired by nabors’ willing­ness to speak candidly about his path from notre dame to just outside the oval office.
 “This big, powerful man in washington was sitting down and telling us jokes and stories about [university president] Fr. hesburgh was his fresh­man seminar professor … it was amazing, how candid he was,” sganga said. “it was very uplift­ing and inspiring to see a notre dame graduate who didn’t know what he wanted to do when he received his diploma, go so far.” 
Junior emily voorde said she was impressed by how easily nabors found common ground between himself and her peers. 
“we talked about syria, about his day-to-day operations … but we also talked about dorms on campus and Fr. hesburgh,” voorde said. “it was neat to see someone with so much power able to sit down and speak with us on a really personal and honest level, it shows that these people aren’t superheroes — they come from the same roots we do.”  
“he spoke very candidly about how at our age, he wasn’t sure what he wanted to do … to ev­eryone in the room, i know that was reassuring. There’s still time to decide what we want to do and to make a really incredible contribution to the country and the world.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC welcomes Fulbright Teaching Assistants 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
at the beginning of this aca­demic year, saint mary’s wel­comed two Fulbright Foreign language Teaching assistants to campus. 
alla abu elella, a native of egypt, and ye Zhenman, a na­tive of china, said they went through a rigorous applica­tion process and were eventu­ally selected for the Foreign language Teaching assistant program (FlTa). 
“what attracted me to the scholarship [was the oppor­tunity for] sharing my own culture, sharing my own ex­periences, getting to know a different culture and the american people,” elella said. 
ye Zhenman said the ap­plication requirements at her university in china are very strict, since the FlTa schol­arship has a very competitive applicant pool. most english professors in china had at­tended graduate school in the subject before obtaining their positions. 
“The age limit is 25 to 35,” she said. “[applicants] must be college english teach­ers with two years’ working experience.” 
in order to participate in the program, the women had to accept that they would be spending one academic year apart from their families and friends, according to the FlTa website. The distance and limited communication can make things difficult, espe­cially for Zhenman, a young mother. 
“it’s very worth it,” Zhenman said. “my whole family is very supportive. i have always wanted to go to the [united states]. sometimes you have to [have make some] sacrific­es in order to get something.” 
although she does get homesick, elella said her ex­perience so far is 100 percent worth it. 
“i was a little bit homesick at the beginning, but once you start the courses and once you start teaching, you get [very] busy,” elella said. “you don’t think about [being] homesick.” 
in addition to the physical distance, the women also said they have cultural differences to contend with. 
“[There are] a lot of dif­ferences,” elella said. “you [americans] are very direct when it comes to commu­nication. if you want some­thing, you just say it directly. in egypt, for example, if you want to ask somebody for a fa­vor, you kind of have to start a story at the beginning to ask for a favor at the end.” 
Zhenman said she expe­rienced culture shock last weekend when there was a miscommunication about a gift that was presented to her. 
“we chinese people are not ready to take gifts,” she said. “we are sometimes quite in­direct and we keep refusing until we have it.” 
elella said she often faces curiosity about her clothing. 
“i am considered to be the only veiled [woman] here on campus, so people here are like, ‘why are you wearing that?’” she said. “so i have to explain that. This is consid­ered to be the huge cultural difference here for me. This is my major role here: to explain my culture [and] to spread my culture.” 
as teaching assistants, the women get the opportunity to teach their home language as well as to take college cours­es alongside saint mary’s students. The women said 
paid adverTisemenT 
even the length and routine of classes is different from what they were used to. “i like the american classes here,” Zhenman said. “The stu­dents and teachers are quite interactive.” 
although they said there is still a slight language bar­rier that sometimes presents some problems, especially when students and profes­sors speak english quickly, they both enjoy the open ex­change.  both women said they attended activities night on wednesday in an effort to become more involved in the campus community. 
“you have a lot of activities,” Zhenman said. “i want to do some volunteer work, some­thing like that.” 
elella said she would like to visit different states to get an idea of the diversity of american culture. 
“i can’t judge american food just because of saint mary’s food,” she said. 
The women said one of their biggest complaints about campus life is the college’s internet connection. 
“This is the only connection we have to our families,” elella said. “and how can we do that when the internet is so slow?” 
elella said she also found it difficult to adjust to the time schedules of businesses in the south bend area. 
“[everyone] sleeps very ear­ly,” she said. “in egypt, if you want to go out at 12 a.m. to go eat at any restaurant, you would find a lot of restaurants [open].” 
of all the advice and train­ing the women received be­fore and after coming to the united states, Zhenman said former FlTa scholars gave the best advice. 
“They gave us a lot of helpful advice, but the best was ‘how are you?’” she said. 
Zhenman and elella said the use of “how are you?” as a greeting and a formality rather then as a true inquisi­tion was one of the hardest things to get used to in their transition. 
despite the differences, both women said they are glad for their experience at saint mary’s. 
“we’re willing to learn,” Zhenman said. “This is a gold­en opportunity for us.” 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@stmarys.edu 




Taxis 
conTinued From page 1 
rates. The drivers must also post the phone number of the city’s central office in case an issue arises, nash said. “one of the biggest complaints we have gotten is people feel they were over­charged,” nash said. ”you should be able to look at this card and know what it is you’re going to be charged.” 
nash said other major changes include require­ments for taxi companies to have more vehicles and drivers, increasing from two to six of each. at least two taxis must be available at all times, she said. “we need someone available all of the time. … we don’t want any­body stranded,” nash said. “we require them to have something available.” 
nash said in order to be more customer-friendly, im­prove business and encour­age safety, taxis must equip themselves to accept credit and debit cards. 
“it’s been a long time since we had a taxi driver hurt,” nash said. “They’re already vulnerable — they have to drive anywhere in the city anytime they’re called. we certainly don’t want them hurt. if they’re taking debit cards instead of cash, they’re better off.” 
due to public health and safety risks, the city forbids smoking in vehicles, nash said. she said passengers who smell tobacco smoke in their taxi should immediate­ly report it to the city num­ber posted in their cab. 
“nobody should be smok­ing in the cab,” nash said. “we’re dead serious about that. That’s not allowed. … There’s absolutely no excuse for that.” 
nash emphasized to stu­dents the importance of only using city-licensed taxis because these are the only safety-inspected vehicles. she said the city also screens licensed drivers for unsafe driving records and admin­isters drug tests to them. 

“we have some security measures in place when we do our licensing of our driv­ers,” nash said. “if you get into a taxi that isn’t licensed, you have no idea if that per­son has a criminal history, how they drive or even if they have a license at all. you can’t just rely on the fact that they call themselves a cab driver. we encourage people only to use city-licensed vehicles.” 
nash said before getting into a taxi, students should look for special taxicab li­cense plates and should verify that the outside of the vehicle displays the compa­ny name and rates. she said if the taxi does not display the required placard and li­cense, students should not use the vehicle and should report a description of it to the city or to the police. 
nash said these changes will ensure students and other customers have posi­tive and safe experiences in taxis. she applauded notre dame students for relying on taxis, especially while intox­icated, and she said this us­age has made drinking and driving a non-issue in her eyes. 
“don’t be afraid to get in cabs,” nash said. “The driv­ers are very safe, and are very excited to serve the stu­dents. … for the most part you’re going to get great ser­vice and safe driving. These are the people who are do­ing it right. The people who are doing it wrong are giving others a bad name.” 
Contact Abi Hoverman at hoverman.1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

BAVO 
conTinued From page 1 
to really kick off the year, re­connect and share what we’re about, encourage students to get involved and provide an oppor­tunity for students to reconnect with the office,” adams said. 
The belles against violence office (bavo), established nearly four years ago, educates students about sexual assault, relationship violence and stalk­ing, adams said. 
part of the education process includes mandatory green dot training for all first-year stu­dents, adams said. green dot training is part of a national campaign that encourages students not to ignore acts of violence. 
“i get really, really excited to see the excitement that is com­ing from [first-year students],” adams said. “They are recog­nizing they have the power to really reduce violence and really have an impact in our community.” 
senior elizabeth burzynzki, a member of the bavo student advisory committee, said she recognized the importance of the cause when adams spoke at her first-year orientation. 
“[when i was a first-year,] i thought the mandatory meet­ings about sexual assault were interesting,” burzynzki said. “it’s like, ‘yeah, this is a real issue, this is a human issue, this is something i need to get behind.’” 
adams said the clothesline project, a national initiative that bears witness to violence against women by decorat­ing T-shirts, organized an im­portant station at Thursday’s picnic. 
“girls can go and decorate a T-shirt, and then we’ll keep the T-shirt,” adams said. “later on in the year, we display [them] in the student center and then we also display [them] in the li­brary,” adams said. 
adams said she hopes the project’s light atmosphere will promote a positive, hopeful im­age of fighting sexual assault and violence. hopefully, stu­dents will recognize this hope and get involved with bavo this year, she said. 


“generally speaking, in our society when we talk about these issues, the initial reaction is kind of a loss of a sense of hope,” adams said. “but when we start talking about ways that we can do something and [take] fea­sible steps to prevent violence, there’s power in that. That’s re­ally exciting and it builds that hope up. i really feel that’s the core of what we’re about.” 
applications to join a bavo programming committee are available at http://reslifesmc. wufoo.com/forms/bavo-pro­gramming-committee-applica­tion-z7z8q3/. They are due sept. 9. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

Egyptian interior minister escapes assassination 
Associated Press 
cairo — egypt's interior min­ister narrowly escaped assas­sination Thursday when a car bomb tore through his convoy, wounding 22 people and leaving a major cairo boulevard strewn with debris — the first such at­tack since the military ousted the country's islamist president. 
The strike raised fears of a mili­tant campaign of revenge for the coup and the likelihood of an even tougher hand by authori­ties against protesters demand­ing mohammed morsi's return to office. 
The interim president com­pared the attack to the insur­gency waged by islamic militants in the 1980s and 1990s against the rule of now-ousted autocrat hosni mubarak, when militants carried out numerous assassina­tion attempts, killing the parlia­ment speaker. mubarak himself survived an assassination at­tempt in 1994, when militants attacked his convoy in addis ababa, ethiopia. 
That insurgency provided mubarak with a justification for a nationwide state of emergency, lifted only after he was driven from power by an uprising in 2011. 
since morsi's ouster in a July 3 coup, egypt has been back under emergency law, and police have arrested nearly 2,000 members of his muslim brotherhood and other islamist supporters. 
in mid-august, authorities forcefully dispersed two pro­morsi sit-in camps in cairo af­ter days of warnings, setting off violence that killed hundreds nationwide. The move led to re­taliatory strikes on government buildings, police stations and churches around the country. 
islamic hard-liners have since stepped up attacks on security forces in the sinai peninsula and in the south, and have in­creasingly brought attacks to the capital. 
still, Thursday's bombing against mohammed ibrahim, who heads the police force waging the crackdown, was a substantial escalation. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. 
interim president adly mansour's office vowed it would "not allow the terrorism the egyptian people crushed in the 1980s and 90s to raise its ugly head again." military leader abdel-Fattah el-sissi, the man who ousted morsi, pledged to continue the fight against terrorism. 
egyptian media have for weeks vilified the protesters, blaming the violence on morsi's supporters and a terrorism cam­paign. after Thursday's attack, state media urged citizens to ex­ercise caution, report suspicious activities or individuals, and called on authorities to widen their crackdown on suspected terrorists. 
The attack is likely to further isolate the islamists. liberal politician amr moussa called on the ousted president's backers to take a clear position against the bombing. 
"when lives of innocents are targeted, those who support that or justify it will not be accepted among us," said moussa, who sits on a newly appointed constitu­tional panel. 
morsi's supporters sought to distance themselves from the attack. 
The anti-coup coalition, a group of islamist factions that has spearheaded protests since morsi's ouster, predicted it would be used as a pretext for widening the crackdown on its opponents. 
"The coalition is against any vi­olent act, even if it is against those who committed crimes against the people," the group said. "it expects that such incidents will be used to extend the state of emergency and to increase the use of oppression, repression and detention which have been used by the coup authority." 


nannying, not nyc 

Maddie Daly 
associate scene editor 

even though we have been back insouth bend for just a week and a half, summer al­ready feels months away.we are back in the rhythm of school, and summer now seems like a distant glimmer of the past.iwould like to take a moment to remembersummer 2013 whileistill can.althoughididn’t have a fabulous summer to brag about, simply put,i learned a lot about life. 
iam now a junior atnotredame and still slightly reluctant to admit thatidid not work for a top business firm innewyork, nor did itravel tochina for a six-week program.my resume received no additional padding. however, my bank account and modesty sure did.ispent nearly every waking minute of the summer working two jobs with only one week off. 
specifically,iassumed the role of nanny for three children in the suburbs ofchicago, carting them to tutoring, swim lessons, gym­nastics and birthday parties while suffering through their antics and tears.no matter how pointless this all sounds,ifeel likeigained as much world experience by playing mom for three long months asiwould have in an of­fice cubicle.more importantly,irealized a lot more about how much respect we should all have for our mothers.shout out to you,mom. 
in my very little amounts of spare time,i worked as a sales associate at a store called anthropologie inoakbrookmall in the west­ern suburbs ofchicago.it’s an overpriced, girly store with a hippie twist.my hours were spent ringing up thousand dollar purchases and aiding helpless boyfriends shop for their lucky girlfriends. 
nothing about my summer would seem to impress future employers all that much or make me stand out right away.most obvi­ously, now that we’re back, nothing about my summer impresses most of the students here atnotredame.however,iknowigained invaluable life skills by working near-menial jobs. The amount of patience and people skills igained this summer from working a lowly retail job will take me far. 
irealize that, to some, this would be a waste of a summer, reflecting poorly on my degree of motivation and my plans for the future.but to me, although it would have been nice to have landed an impressive internship in a big city,irefuse to look back on the sum­mer with regret.igained a type of real-life work experience and had no ego boost to ac­company it, keeping me modest and thankful for the opportunitiesihad to work two fairly simple jobs. 
sometimes at our overachieving school we can get distracted by the competition to get the best job and then tell everyone about it. in fact,ithinkideserve the right to add this fancy, impressive title to my resume right now: “elite intern in child services with an as­sociate position at an upscale women’s fash­ion company.”if that doesn’t say “hire me,” i don’t know what does. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
“notre dame will admit undocumented students” 
as notre dame’s leaders continue to push the united states government on immigration reform, the university announced it would join the majority of american catholic colleges and universities in admitting undocu­mented students in an 89-word press release aug. 22. 
“The university of notre dame has adopted changes in its admission policies that will make possible the admis­sion of undocumented students who successfully com­pete for a place in its first-year and transfer classes,” the release stated. 
“in making the decision to admit academically quali­fied men and women who are undocumented,” said don bishop, associate vice president for undergraduate en­rollment in the release, “we will strengthen our incoming class and give deserving young people the chance for a notre dame education.” 
The attention the nation has given to the university’s new policy to admit undocumented students speaks to the symbolic weight of the decision. when notre dame does something, people notice. 
in this case, notre dame’s action publicly affirms the worth and dignity of undocumented students by giving qualified and deserving applicants chances to attain the education all of us at this university are so blessed to re­ceive. we applaud the administration for taking this step on behalf of our undocumented brothers and sisters. 
The policy aligns with the university’s mission “to cultivate in its students … a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many.” it will increase ethnic and racial diversity at notre dame by bringing in students who were born in other nations. widening the potential applicant pool will allow the university community to continue to grow intellectually and spiritually, cultivating the voices of often-marginalized undocumented students while wel­coming individuals with different life experiences into the notre dame Family. 
if the recent developments at notre dame to resolve feelings of exclusion voiced by certain groups are any indication of the community’s likely response to the ad­dition of undocumented students, current students and faculty members will welcome them with open arms and open minds. 
notre dame’s decision is fair to all students. The ma­jority of undocumented students were brought to the united states as children, following their families’ deci­sions and now living with the challenges as adults. These undocumented students still will have to earn admission to the university by the same academic, extracurricular and moral standards that the office of admissions use to assess every other candidate. 
now, qualified candidates will receive a chance to prove themselves, irrespective of their immigration sta­tus. This policy is ethical, fair and compassionate. 
but, it’s too soon to celebrate. The adoption of a new policy does not mean the job is done. 
The press release did not expand on the financial and social support systems that need to be created to ensure undocumented students can participate fully in the col­lege experience and succeed post-graduation. 
at the forefront of any prospective college student’s mind is concern over his or her finances. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“unless man is committed to the belief that all mankind are his brothers, then he labors in vain and hypocritically in the vineyards of equality.” 
Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. American politician 
“notre dame is committed to meeting the full dem­onstrated financial need for all admitted students,” the press release stated. 
in reality, a notre dame education will remain out of reach for many undocumented students, some of whom likely come from low-income backgrounds. undocumented persons are not eligible for federal finan­cial aid in any form, including loans, grants, scholarships or work-study funds. additionally, indiana’s house bill 1402 stipulates that students without documentation cannot receive state aid. undocumented students can only receive privately-funded financial aid, such as that which comes from notre dame’s private endowment. 
There are a few private scholarships available for un­documented students, but while these forms of aid are helpful, they likely will not offset the cost of a notre dame education enough for most undocumented stu­dents. most university students still graduate with a sig­nificant amount of debt, though they can apply for and receive governmental aid. undocumented students can­not utilize governmental aid to offset this burden, and thus, a notre dame education will remain out of reach for many. 
will notre dame provide these students with more fi­nancial aid in recognition of their inability to qualify for government funding? would providing additional aid to undocumented students be the ethical choice, or would that be unfair to other students? The university has not yet publicly answered these questions. 
The cost of a notre dame education is not the only hurdle undocumented students interested in attending the university must face. 
These students need healthcare. will they be eligible for the student health insurance that university health services offers? will they pay the same rates? 
These students need post-graduation prospects. will the university give undocumented students information about pathways to citizenship? will the university help them navigate the post-graduation job search? 
These students need an entry point into the notre dame community. will notre dame facilitate their im­mersion into this community? will the university pro­vide them with the support necessary to handle the very unique challenges they will face? 
opening the university’s doors to undocumented stu­dents is symbolic. how notre dame plans to support these students is unclear, and until the university elabo­rates on the ways in which it will support its undocu­mented students, this action will remain only symbolic. 
we look forward to hearing about how the administra­tion, student affairs and government-facing factions of notre dame will collaborate to enrich and assist these students as they pursue education at our university and make plans for life after graduation. 
undocumented students can help the university com­munity better understand what more needs to be done to ensure that all people have a right to education in this country. even more importantly, by working, playing and praying with us, undocumented students will help notre dame continue to grow into a more understanding and welcoming place. 
we look forward to learning from our undocumented peers who attain admission to and choose to attend notre dame. we hope the university will give them the chance to consider sharing their stories and experiences with the notre dame community. 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
prolonging your semester’s adventures 
Gary J. Caruso 
capitol comments 

melding rosh hashanah this week with the start of the academic year not only heralds the upcoming Jewish new year of 5774, but also offers students an op­portunity to discover how to savor each new semester moment without relying on snapchat, vine, instagram or our digi­tal devices. is it possible to force time to crawl while permanently imprinting for a lifetime your laughs, loves or languishing moments without a personal icloud to store those memories? Think of last week­end’s football game, for example. how much of your experience has been already forgotten or muddled into a collective memory, a “football game day” jumbled mindset? 
i can vividly remember many second-semester senior year moments because i vowed to concentrate while relishing the final moments of my final student cam­pus existence by living at a slow-motion snail’s pace. during that lone semester, i latched onto my life like a dementor’s kiss consuming a soul. unfortunately, it was not until preparing for this column that i could recall my first home football experi­ence in notre dame stadium, which in those days began late — sept. 20. more to the point, the only game i routinely remember from my freshman year is the tie with the university of southern california. while standing dead center of the end zone above the tunnel as time expired, i watched an irish field goal at­tempt hit the upright and bounce away. it was such a nothing feeling that i never forgot that moment nor the final score: notre dame 14, usc 14. 
how well one preserves life’s memo­ries depends upon one’s understanding of life. every autumn, freshmen who know nothing lose their way on campus. sophomores — who believe they know everything simply because they are no longer freshmen — strut in with an im­mature, cocky mindset. seniors, who are the royalty on campus, merely do what they want before they either prematurely retire with a case of senioritis or just do not care anymore. consequently, it is the junior class that actually owns the cam­pus and is best equipped to encounter and ultimately appreciate its campus adventures.
 Too often in life, our surroundings and relationships go underappreciated until we lose a loved one or end a particularly enjoyable era. more importantly, how often do we settle into a routine that be­comes possessive of our souls and con­sumes our time? campus life at “catholic disneyland” is no different than any other place or time in the real world. it is only more restrictive if you let it be off-putting. it can be an unforgettable time if you em­brace diversity, seeking out those who are different than you and who own differing opinions. 
each new school year only provides an open window of about three weeks for students to easily and overtly seek new ac­quaintances. before your semester habits calcify into sterile mindless practices, sit in a different section of the dining hall or simply introduce yourself to some­one who appears interesting or atypical. with little effort, and certainly without help from the google glass optical head-mounted display or various smartphone apps, everyone can meet anyone. most importantly, on campus, everyone rep­resents a lifetime of walking, breathing poetry or prose. 
sometimes the most rewarding rela­tionships in life begin with the most ac­cidental and unintentional introductions. i recall my first freshman day on campus meeting fellow lyons hall resident, steve pallucca: The guy who became my best college friend. stevie passed away five years ago. his family owned a grocery store in Kansas and thus he looked (but also acted humorously) like John belushi. ironically, he arrived in the late afternoon just as we third-floor freshmen were about to caravan to the dining hall. “oh, just in time for the fat boy to go to dinner,” i thought as i first laid eyes on my rotund rascal of a roommate. 
with my notre dame campus days behind me — some might say long gone, but i disagree while clutching my vivid recollections — and my perspective of the golden dome now seen through my rear-view mirror, life never appears so short as when you look back upon it while regret­ting lost time. 
yet, ultimately, time passes all of us. That is why grasping onto the upcoming semester and school year with gusto as­sures you of rewarding moments, which become emblazoned as cherished memo­ries. it also assures you that you have not overlooked a friend’s tear or missed the pleasure of your roommate’s zany antics. nothing in today’s instant internet age can replace your conscious, deliberate memory preservation process. 
so while the countdown clock closes on your college career, regardless of how much time remains, it is never too late to better hone your senses on our diverse and timeless world. nobody thought back when i first met stevie that my embrace on life would someday lead to greeting the notre dame community with a Jewish wish for a good year, “l’shanah tovah.” 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
All that glitters is not gold 
Mia Lillis 
we are nd 

“when people ask why you aren’t participating in things on this cam­pus, you can’t tell them why. if you talk about money, then you’re horribly gauche. money never features into their equation, because they never have to worry about it. but it’s a part of my life. my lack of money influences almost everything in my life.” 
at the risk of sounding horribly gauche, let’s talk about money. The notre dame community often suffers from a lack of sensitivity to students who are not upper middle class. while ostracized students that i have spoken with indicate that such insensitiv­ity is not necessarily malicious but rather, due to ignorance, it is nev­ertheless problematic on a campus that claims to be an inclusive family. unfortunately, our campus is driven by a frequently erroneous assumption that money exists when it comes to social life, political discussions and general everyday concerns. 
participating in the social life at notre dame is undeniably expensive. want to celebrate a friend’s birthday by going out to The mark? That will cost you $10 to $15, especially if you plan on splitting the check. want to go out with friends to the bars? hope you are wearing something “cute” if you are a girl. at the very least, fail­ing to dress up will make you feel out of place among your girlfriends. at the worst, you will be told by a drunk individual to “go home and put nicer clothes on.” a cute outfit will cost $10 to $15. is that bar in walking distance? if not, you will have to spend $6 on cab fare. if the bar has a cover, you will lose another $3 to $5. if you plan on drinking at the bar, there goes an­other $3 to $30. and, of course, this is assuming you even have the time to go out with friends, which may not be the case if you are working 30 hours per week to pay for room and board. speaking of room and board, do you want to wear the new dorm hoodies the rest of your dorm is proudly flaunt­ing? That will be another $15 to $30. For some students, these expenses are no big deal, but for others who desper­ately empty childhood piggy banks and sell possessions in order to afford football tickets, these casual, “every­day” expenses are simply too much. 
in fact, many students with a tight budget opt out of buying football tickets altogether. while some stu­dents from lower income families may use the rector’s Fund to buy tickets, this fund grants a limited amount of money, and as one friend indicated, if you must choose between tickets and textbooks, the choice is obvious. 
but failing to buy tickets often elicits harsher judgment and derision than any other domer faux pas. i person­ally did not buy football tickets my freshman year, mostly because i was uninterested in football at the time and was not yet aware that football is an integral part of the social life here. gradually, friends and acquaintances discovered my absence, and the judg­ment i received from some of them was brutal. while one may argue that such harshness was directed toward my reasons rather than the act of opt­ing out itself, it is important to remem­ber that students who cannot afford tickets frequently use the same excus­es to avoid awkward discussions about their finances. such harsh judgment rubs salt into the wounds of students that would like to participate in notre dame tradition but cannot afford to do so. 
political discussions can also be a nightmare for students of lower socio­economic status, with them frequently finding their personal situations ob­jectified and reduced to generaliza­tions. For example, one friend found it difficult to endure a peer’s lambasting of american citizens on food stamps since his family had needed food stamps for a good portion of his life. another felt degraded when a peer that supported privatized health care called citizens left without health care a “necessary evil.” he has had dental problems for the past decade and has been unable to fix them due to lack of health care. 
every situation described above was based on a true story told to me by anonymous members of the notre dame student body. These are not merely hypothetical concerns. They are real, ostracizing experiences of students at notre dame. if we claim to be a family, perhaps we ought to re­examine our social and verbal habits. perhaps instead of planning section outings to gamestop, we can instead plan section mario Kart tournaments. perhaps instead of giving our friends a hard time when they fail to join us at the bars, we can host social gather­ings at our own apartments. perhaps instead of using charged rhetoric such as “handout seekers” in political dis­cussions, we can think twice before we speak. our individual actions have shaped the culture of insensitivity on this campus and our individual ac­tions can foster a more compassionate environment for all members of our family. 
Mia Lillis is a senior living in Cavanaugh Hall. She can be reached at mlillis@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY and ERIN THOMASSEN 
associate scene editor and scene writer 

on a beautiful, sunny south bend day earlier this week, we ventured around campus searching for our school’s best fashion trends. 
camera in hand, we scouted out the best dressed on campus and found plenty of material. with a season change ahead of us, we dis­covered that these students dis­played a perfect combination of summer and a slight touch of fall. coming from hometowns all over the united states and sporting ac­cordingly varying styles, these won­derful fashion experts were kind enough to model for The observer, so follow their example and keep our campus stylish. 
it’s only the second week of class, so yes, it is too early for workout clothes and nikes. let’s keep it classy, ladies and gentleman. who knows, maybe you will appear in the next Fashion Friday article! 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu and Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 







Photos courtesy of Maddie Daly and Erin Thomassen 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
DORM 
PARTY 

PLAYLIST 
If you’re looking for new, hip or different, you came to the wrong place. Get ready for the sweet, sweaty nostalgia-fest that is the Notre Dame dorm party experience. 
“Get Low” Lil Jon and East Side Boyz  
02  “Party in the U.S.A.” Miley Cyrus  
03  “Wagon Wheel” Old Crow Medicine Show or Darius Rucker  
04  “I’ll Make a Man Out of You” Mulan Soundtrack  
05  Something from a Musical Literally anything from any musical  
06  “Call Me Maybe” Carly Rae Jepsen  
07  “I’m Shipping Up To Boston” Dropkick Murphys  


Allie Tollaksen 
scene writer 

ladies and gentlemen, but especially fresh­men ladies and gentlemen, i welcome you to a new school year. The weather is wonderful (if you have air conditioning), the squirrels are frolicking around campus, and everyone is busy trying to figure out where their classes are and why there’s so much new shrubbery outside of debartolo. but amidst the chaos of these first few weeks, i would like to take a moment to talk about one of our most beloved pastimes at the university of notre dame 
— dorm parties. 

oh, dorm parties, where you can see nothing and feel everything. where there’s more sweating happening than did at rolf’s that day. where the party never stops, until it’s 2 a.m. and then appar­ently, the party moves to Taco bell. 
There’s not a whole lot that is comfortable about dorm parties, but one thing you can seek com­fort in is the music. There is undoubtedly some predictability to the dorm party soundtrack. so whether you’re in a new dorm or with new friends and things start to get weird, you can always rest assured that the students on campus will play the same 20 songs and you probably already know the words to all of them. 
For you sophomores and upperclassmen, you probably already have a playlist going in the back of your head (or maybe even created on your ipod), but to all you freshmen new to the dorm party scene, here’s what to expect. 
1. “Get Low” – Lil Jon and East Side Boyz 
This song was released 10 years ago (feel old yet?), but somehow we all love it just the same. “get low” is a go-to if no one in the party is danc­ing because it’s a scientific fact that no one can resist the urge to point to the window, then the wall. bonus points if you know all the words to the “explicit version” because that made you cool in middle school. 
2. “Party in the U.S.A.” – Miley Cyrus 
The only thing college partiers love more than singing pop songs is america. This song combines both of those things. i just ask that you refrain from twerking badly to this miley classic and save it for the bound-to-be-played “we can’t stop.” 
3. “Wagon Wheel” – Darius Rucker or Old Crow Medicine Show 
This is any notre dame student’s go-to song for when a party winds down, almost a celebration for the last ones standing. The debate over which version is better rages on. 
4. “I’ll Make a Man Out of You” from “Mulan” if it isn’t already clear, we love nostalgia around here, and there’s something about partying to disney that is so wrong and so right at the same time. whether this is morally reprehensible or not, you can hold your cup in one hand and point to all your friends with the other as you sing along and maybe ruin a small part of your childhood. 
5. Something from a musical 
it never ceases to amaze me how much notre dame students love singing to musical theater and how often it’s played at social gatherings. i’ve been to parties and watched a dozen people break out into “Joseph and the amazing Technicolor dream coat.” i’ve seen a group of men belt out some “les mis.” Fortunately, i haven’t heard any “cats” yet, but there’s still time. 
6. “Call Me Maybe” – Carly Rae Jepsen 
it’s possible that this phase has finally passed, but i’m almost positive that “call me maybe” fever hit harder at notre dame than anywhere else. i was once at a gathering where the song was played five times in a row and no one complained. no one. 
7. “I’m Shipping Up To Boston” – Dropkick Murphys 
particularly popular on football weekends, this pre-kickoff song is an easy way to get a party riled up. This song is even better when combined with the “here come the irish” intro used at games for maximum authenticity. even in those miserably hot and tiny rooms, school spirit is alive and well. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

to run it back over and over again — my first listen took close to an hour. 
The ep opens up with the project’s signature track, “dreaming,” which origi­nally vaulted the group to the masses after it was the no. 1 song on The hype machine, a collective music blog that gathers popular songs and reviews from just about every other music blog. 
but without a doubt, after listening to “dreaming” you’ll be humming the chorus and possibly up out of your seat dancing, or at least bouncing your head, for those of us who are jitterbug-deficient. 

                  Andrew Gastelum  
editor in chief 

Finally, The Kickback kicks back. 
This is how this space should work. 
you, the content-hungry reader, send me, the obnox­iously giddy writer, sugges­tions for music that you think should be featured. i will lis­ten to anything you send, and the favorites will make it here. 
This one, smallpools, comes courtesy of our resident un­derground music scavenger (and ad design manager) sara hillstrom (who cannot function, let alone work, without massive headphones that are descendants of those worn at nascar races). 
you may never have heard of smallpools, but that’s be­cause they’re new. not just first-release new, but they actually just formed a few months ago. 
incredibly, they’ve already been invited to tour the coun­try and have been building the buzz ever since releasing their self-titled ep in July. 
“smallpools” gives you four unbelievably catchy tracks that won’t take up more than 15 minutes of your day. That is, until you hear it and want 

and each song follows the same way: different tune, dif­ferent words, same feeling. 
every song is a jubilant, fun-loving ode to living care­free and happy-go-lucky. 
if Foster the people, passion pit and Two door cinema club all worked together, this would be their finished project. 
as sara told me, it’s re­ally, really, really poppy. but there’s never anything wrong with fun, and if it’s fun, you should share it. 
That’s what i’ll do here, and hopefully, it’ll be a result of what you have shared with me. 

“Smallpools” 
Artist: Smallpools Record Label: RCA Records Genre: Pop Rock 

EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

college football’s game of thrones 

Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
college football is back, and with it come the fall tradi­tions we all love. The roaring crowds singing fight songs, the clashing rivals with bad blood that run back for centuries, the gleaming helmets as two sides charge into battle, waving flags proudly displaying each sides’ unique sigils and colors. remind anyone else of hbo’s game of Thrones? 
The only season i anticipate as fervently as college football’s is game of Thrones, and i love them for very similar reasons. They both feature fascinating individuals, villains you love to hate, crumbling alliances, and, of course, a heaping helping of corruption. 
so, logically, in lieu of a nor­mal college football preview, i’ve examined a few similarities between the sport and the cha­os of westeros. For anyone who is not caught up on the third season of game of Thrones, read with caution. while i won’t flat out spoil anything, i will make reference to events that occurred at the end of last season. 
First up, the ncaa itself. a chaotic, poorly run organiza­tion that is inconsistent in its rulings and seems to be on the verge of coming apart at the seams? sounds like a perfect match for westeros. with the off-season comments by the sec, acc and big 12 com­missioners demanding major changes to ncaa procedures, it seems to be only a matter of time before the power confer­ences break away from the ncaa. like robb stark, balon greyjoy and the baratheons, the conferences believe they can govern more efficiently and fairly than the current regime, and they’re probably right. 
but for the time being, the kingdom remains intact, and it’s clear who the dominat­ing group is. The sec is the lannister Family of the ncaa. it has better warriors, smarter tacticians and more resources (gold for the lannisters, fertile recruiting ground for the sec). and at the end of last season, it was clearly in control, with Joffrey Football on the throne and its cold, calculating patri­arch continuing to dominate the game. 
like Tywin lannister, nick saban will pick apart your strategy and show you no mercy. and is there any better analogy for the petulant boy-king Joffery than the insuffer­able reigning heisman winner Johnny manziel? The one lik­able lannister, Tyrion, is more difficult to find a comparison to, but coach les miles at lsu fits the mold of a quirky genius who never quite gets the credit he deserves and isn’t afraid to speak his mind. in addition, sec fans tend to show some incestual tendencies similar to the lannisters, chanting s-e-c at their home games and boast­ing of alabama’s champion­ships like the whole conference won for some reason. 
so, who would notre dame be in this scenario? well, like the starks of winterfell, the irish are coming off a stun­ningly brutal defeat at the end of last season after a shocking streak of unexpected victories. They’ve lost several key leaders, and while there are returning members of the team/family, many expect the slaughter at the end of last season to mark the end of their opportunity to return to glory. both the starks and notre dame have been called honorable to a fault, and while hope remains in feisty younglings arya stark and Jaylon smith, only time will tell if they will ever be able to chal­lenge the lannisters or sec again. 
now for daenerys Targaryen, the mother of dragons. she’s separated from the rest of the main powers but enthralls viewers with her beauty, unique tactics and deadly fast dragons. in much the same way, oregon has emerged as a new football power based on the strength of the team’s flashy looks, inspired offense and unfathomably fast stable of athletes like de’anthony Thomas and Thomas Tyner. and just as daenerys barely missed a beat after losing Khal drogo, oregon seems to be do­ing just fine without chip Kelly, racking up more than 700 yards and 66 points in coach mark helfrich’s first game. 
elsewhere in the pac-12, stanford is adjusting to its new role as a national champion­ship contender. with its history as an academics-first institu­tion, it must be careful not to be corrupted by the football religion that develops at other schools. as stannis baratheon showed in Thrones, even the most honorable men will com­promise their values when facing the allure of ultimate power. 
i can’t wait to see another epic season of explosive bat­tles, brutal blows and brilliant tactical maneuvering, both in college football and in game of Thrones. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
BASKETBALL 

Congress debates new stadiums in California 
Associated Press 

sacramenTo, calif. — Two nba teams in northern california will be closely watching the final days of this year’s legislative session, when state lawmakers will consider measures that would aid con­struction of new arenas for the franchises. 
one proposal would assist the golden state warriors in their plan to move the team from oakland to a possible waterfront arena in san Francisco, a move that has drawn the ire of east bay lawmakers upset at jobs moving away. 
The other measure is a last-minute proposal from the state senate’s top democrat to make good on his promise to nba officials that the sacramento Kings will be able to build a new downtown arena with no unnecessary hassles involving california’s tough environmen­tal laws. 
in both cases, the plans would still require approval from several government agencies. while the warriors’ plan has faced mostly regional concerns, critics have blasted the Kings arena bill as the latest in a pat­tern of special legislation aimed at jump-starting a particular project. 
senate president pro Tem darrell steinberg, d-sacramento, disputes that as­sessment, telling reporters that aspects of his legislation would apply to projects beyond an are­na for the Kings. 
The proposed arena, to be located at a site currently occu­pied by a mall, was part of the pitch that sacramento made to the nba in its effort to keep the team from moving to seattle. The team’s new owners want to open the facility in fall 2016. 
Keeping the Kings in the state capital is “a once-in-a-generation 

FOR SALE 

Irish Rules! @ teangaleanga.com A Grammar of Modern Irish @ Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
CONDO FOR SALE - SEDGWICK HOUSE $119,900: Large beautiful 3 bedroom 2.5 bath condo. Great view of river and park. Underground garage. Individual storage units. Well maintained secured building. Lots of amenities. 
   Located in Mishawaka. Call Beth Sargent Re/Max 574-235-3088 or Estella 574-255-3862 
economic development oppor­tunity,” steinberg said. For big projects that bring jobs, particu­larly for urban redevelopment, steinberg said the state should “expedite the process and avoid undue litigation that can defeat what is otherwise a great oppor­tunity and a great idea.” 
his amendment to sb743 would still require the project to go through a full environmen­tal review process, but it would speed up consideration of law­suits and allow for mediation instead of legal battles. 
The effort comes as steinberg also aims to find consensus on broad changes to the state’s landmark environmental law, which some say has been abused to halt projects for non-environmental reasons. 
steinberg said his proposal builds on changes from recent laws designed to speed con­struction of large projects, in­cluding a bill intended to aid a new stadium in los angeles for an nFl team. 
critics say such bills amount to preferential treatment for well-connected developers and favored projects, allowing the work to bypass important rules such as the california environmental Quality act. 
“we’re disappointed to see yet another ceQa streamlin­ing bill for yet another sports arena popping up in the last days of the legislative session,” said bruce reznik, executive director of the planning and conservation league, in a state­ment. “while we appreciate the proposed bill doesn’t affect the actual environmental review undertaken, the streamlining provisions included in this bill combine to take away many of ceQa’s important enforcement mechanisms.” 
meanwhile, a measure await­ing a vote on the senate floor, ab1273, would help the golden state warriors open a proposed 18,000-seat arena at piers 30-32 in san Francisco. Team own­ers hope to unveil the facility for the 2017 season, though the san Francisco chronicle has reported that the project is be­hind schedule and cost esti­mates for repairing the pier have increased. 
The legislation from assemblyman phil Ting, d-san Francisco, would authorize the state lands commission to give its approval that the project is consistent with public trust laws for development along the shoreline. 
under the current plans, there would still be public access to the site, which would host events beyond basketball games and include open space around the facility. 
when the measure cleared the assembly in may, Ting said the piers are in need of expen­sive repairs and the warriors’ proposal would bring a project worth almost $1 billion into the city. That investment would benefit the entire region, he said. 
some east bay cities and law­makers have opposed the bill, which they say endorses shift­ing jobs from an economically distressed area to a region with a low unemployment rate. 
assemblywoman nancy skinner, d-berkeley, has said the legislation would give an ad­vantage to san Francisco with­out any trade-offs or recognition that oakland and the surround­ing areas would be impacted by the loss of the sports team. 
Ting’s bill could come up for a senate vote as soon as Friday and could then return to the assembly for a final tally before it could reach the governor’s desk. steinberg’s proposal on the Kings arena will await consid­eration by both chambers next week during the legislature’s final session days. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for 14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/text John 281­635-2019; email john.dimpel@ray­mondjames.com 
HOMES AVAILABLE FOR ND FOOTBALL: Please email for info and photos nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 

ND alum seeks 2 tickets for Oklahoma game. Phone 319-541­2099 or 319-337-2244 
    Want to make extra $$$$ with a neurotech company? Triple Domer needs a fluent Chinese-speaking stu­dent/grad student asap to assist in some translation work for a soon-to­launch company in China. Possible long term possibilities. Contact Dr. Fleming at kevin@kevinflemingphd. com 
PERSONAL 
Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults. 574-256-9836 
Music Lessons: Guitar, Bass, Mandolin, Dulcimer, Autoharp, Ukulele. 574-256-9836 



NFL 

Raiders revamp defense 
Associated Press 
alameda, calif.  — lamarr houston’s time in the shadows of the oakland raiders defen­sive line is over. 
after spending his first three seasons as the young guy on a veteran line dominated by richard seymour and Tommy Kelly, houston is being counted on to lead oakland’s front. 
he has moved from left de­fensive end to the right side, where he is being counted on as the primary pass rusher on a defense that has no proven player when it comes to getting to the quarterback. 
he has also stepped into the leadership void on a defense that will have nine new starters from last season. 
“Fortunately i was here with seymour and Tommy and they taught me a lot,” houston said. “i’ve been learning and i’m still learning. but being one of the older guys on the line, i just feel it’s my job to help the other guys to come along and get toward the vision we want as a team.” 
The raiders overhauled their defense after it struggled a year ago in the first season under defensive-minded head coach dennis allen and coordinator Jason Tarver. seymour, Kelly, rolando mcclain and michael huff were all cut. philip wheeler, matt shaughnessy and desmond bryant were among those who left in free agency. 

in total, the players who won’t be on the active roster for sunday’s opener against the indianapolis colts accounted for 79 percent of the defensive snaps a year ago. 
“he’s running that show there up front,” Tarver said. “we’re excited about what he’s doing. he’s the one that’s run­ning that group and he does a good job with it.” 
as much as the raiders need leadership, they really need a pass rush from houston. The entire defensive roster ac­counted for just 16 sacks in the nFl last year and lacks a proven pass rusher. 
houston rushed the passer from the left side more than 90 percent of the time last season, according to game-tracking by the website pro Football Focus. 
“he’s demonstrated that he’s got the best ability as a rush­er,” allen said. “he’s a little bit more of a power rusher than he is a speed rusher. but i really think he’s a guy that can help getting some pressure on the quarterback.” 
he was rated the 15th best 4-3 defensive end at pressuring the 
paid adverTisemenT 

passer with four sacks, 14 quar­terback hits and 35 quarterback hurries. his production picked up as the season went along with 25 of his 53 pressures and three of his sacks coming in the final five games. 
he will be counted on to be the team’s primary pass rusher to disrupt the opposing quar­terback from the blind side. 
“everybody takes pride in getting the quarterback down,” he said. “That’s one of al davis’ most famous quotes. Take the quarterback down in the first couple of plays and take him down hard. as a d-lineman i pride myself on trying to get to the quarterback.” 
houston has been at his best early in his career as an edge-setting defensive end in the run game. he has just 10 career sacks and is more of a power rusher than a typical speed guy who beats tackles around the edge to get to the quarterback. 
after cutting veteran pass rusher andre carter to get down to the 53-man roster lim­it, the current raiders defense has no proven pass rusher. 
The raiders need an upgrade from the pass rush after having a franchise-low 25 sacks a year ago if this defense is going to be able to slow down opposing offenses. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish open season at IU Fall Kickoff 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
Fresh off a spring season in which they won the big east title and placed 15th at ncaa regionals, the irish open their fall season sunday in noblesville, ind. at the iu Fall Kickoff. 
at the Kickoff, the irish will face a field of entirely midwestern teams that in­cludes Xavier, louisville, cincinnati and host indiana. 
notre dame’s main com­petition, though, will be purdue. The boilermakers finished third last year at the ncaa championships and are currently ranked fifth by golfstat.com and 13th in the nation by golf world head­ing into the fall season. The team is led by junior aurora Kan, who placed 15th at the national championships last year and finished 16th at the 2013 usga women’s amateur championship. 
leading the irish will be 
sophomore  Talia  campbell,  
who  also  played  at  the  
amateur  championship.  

although campbell did not advance to match play, she did come just one stroke short of making the cut, and irish coach susan holt thinks the experience will serve her well going into the Kickoff. 
“she fought back well that last day and just missed the cut,” holt said. “but i think there are still a lot of positives she can take away.” 
making their debut for the irish are freshmen Jordan Ferreira and Janie Fineis. holt believes both will make an immediate impact. 
“both girls have played a lot of golf,” holt said. “we need five scorers every tour­nament, so i think both will be very important for us this year.” 
Thirty-six holes are sched­uled for this single day event, making for an intense day of golf that holt says will pre­pare her team well for the year ahead. 
“it’s a long season,” holt said. “we want to get off to a good start because we face some good fields in the future.” 
The forecast for sunday calls for winds up to 10 miles per hour and temperatures in the mid-80s. without any recent rain, the greens will be fast and unforgiving, holt said. still, it will be one of notre dame’s few chances to play above the mason-dixon line before the fall weather sets in. holt, however, is not worried about her team’s preparation. 
“That’s what we have [the rolfs Family all-season varsity golf Facility] for,” holt said. “They enhanced the fa­cilities in the offseason, and i think it will help us prepare better.” 
overall, holt sees the Kickoff as a launching point for the rest of a season that she hopes will end with another champi­onship, this time in the acc. 
“no matter what, our goal is always to build toward a championship,” holt said. 
The irish begin their fall sea­son sunday at the purgatory golf course in noblesville, ind., at the iu Fall Kickoff. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish to test lineup at Valpo 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
The irish will look to final­ize their top running groups this weekend as the men’s and women’s squads travel to valparaiso, ind., for the crusader classic. 
but many of notre dame’s best athletes won’t make the trip to valpo. 
“we won’t be running our top guys this weekend,” irish men’s coach Joe piane said. “we want to see what some of these other guys can do. ... we want to do this for the sake of experience. a lot of these kids haven’t run much cross coun­try. it will be interesting be­cause we aren’t running with the top squad, but i am com­pletely confident that we will do very well. ” 
irish women’s coach Tim connelly said he plans to ap­proach the meet the same way. 
“This weekend, you won’t see all of our top athletes,” connelly said. “a lot of our runners will not have very much collegiate experience. it will be freshmen and also sophomores who were on the cusp of our top group last year.” 
both the men’s and women’s cross country teams are us­ing this initial meet to evalu­ate untested freshmen and sophomores looking to push into the top running groups. piane said there are definitely a few runners he will be sure to watch. For some, it could be their opportunity to move up. 
“absolutely, i am excited,” piane said. “i want to see se­nior pat lesiewicz, sopho­more Kevin durham, and freshmen scott milling and nick laureano run. i think milling will become a great 10,000-meter runner for us.” 
connelly said he has the same hopes for the women runners and noted the enor­mous progress many have al­ready made. 
“i feel confident that we have some very good kids who will be running this weekend,” he said. “i will be very surprised if they are not some of our top athletes come championship season. They are at a whole different level from a year ago. i’m excited to see them run.” 
and the runners are just as excited as their coach. 
“They have been working so hard all summer and they are really looking forward to running against someone who isn’t their teammate,” connelly said. 
notre dame begins racing Friday at 6 p.m. at valparaiso university. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

belles ride momentum 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 

coming off a dominating performance monday against illinois Tech, saint mary’s will attempt to carry that mo­mentum into another non-conference tilt when it faces wilmington on saturday. 
The Quakers (1-1-1), on the other hand, are trying to get back on the winning side of things after a 1-1 draw against wittenberg. 
in addition to trying to build some momentum for the upcoming miaa season, belles coach michael Joyce is using this match to better gauge possible line-ups for the rest of the year. 
“we’re still looking at play­ers, positions and trying to build chemistry on the field,” Joyce said. “we’ll use this weekend to finish sorting that out for the conference schedule.” 
Joyce says he believes the game against wilmington will be a solid tune-up for the conference season, point­ing out that the belles (1-1-0) and the Quakers share many similarities. 
“wilmington is a solid team with a lot of experi­ence,” Joyce said. “Their con­ference is very similar to the miaa. it’s very deep with a lot of talented teams and a strong history of consistently doing well.” 
in their blowout 4-1 win against illinois Tech, saint mary’s outshot the scarlet hawks 30-2, looking like a completely different team than the one that was shut out,1-0, against bethel to start the season. 
“as well as we’ve played offensively, we’d like to fin­ish a higher percentage of our shots on goal,” Joyce said. “we should be scoring more often with the num­ber of chances we’ve been creating.” 
on the other hand, Joyce said the team needs to play under control, especially against a talented team like wilmington. 

“The last couple of games we’ve played recklessly on the attacking side, which we can’t afford to do” Joyce said. “we need to bring back proper balance, especially in the back. wilmington will be very organized and aren’t go­ing to give anything foolish away.” 
The belles return to ac­tion at saturday at 2 p.m. at the charlie gilhart Field in wilmington, ohio. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
MLB 

Reds treat Little Leaguers to VIP experience 
reading about the July 16 acci-member of the team’s ownership ellis said the group will get the honestly just letting them have 
Associated Press 

dent in the newspaper. group — to set the wheels in mo-opportunity to go onto the field a good time,” ellis said Tuesday 
union ciTy, ind. — The “she read the article in usa tion for saturday’s events. before the game and mingle with from coors Field in denver, saying is “There’s no crying in Today, and we have a young “i used to work down in henny the players. where the dodgers were prepar­baseball,” but you can bet there daughter, her name is dylan, so penny in eaton, ohio,” conklin The little league team is also ing to play the colorado rockies. will be an exception to that rule that’s how it piqued her inter-said. “i just put a bug in (cobb’s) receiving its own helmets, cour-“let them enjoy a ball game, hop saturday at great american ball est,” ellis told The star press in a ear. i said, ‘you know, here’s what tesy of ellis and rawlings. on a bus and just enjoy being park in cincinnati. phone interview this week. “she you can do to help facilitate both “it’s about getting these kids around each other and just have 
The cincinnati reds are play-wanted to help, to reach out to teams to do something.’ “ out there and these families and a good day together.” ing host to the los angeles the family or to the community The plans for saturday’s game 
paid adverTisemenT 
dodgers in a matchup of two of and just see if there was any-plays out like a baseball fan’s the national league’s top teams, thing we could do.” dream trip for those from union although for one local group The ellises then got in touch city, a small community with a in the stands, the game means with union city mayor bryan population of about 3,500. much more than postseason conklin to see how they could erick williams, dylan’s fa-implications. help. ther, told The star press the 
more than seven weeks after “when i got the call from large group is meeting in union 8-year-old union city boy dylan sarah, they wanted to do some-city saturday morning and is williams’ tragic death after he thing, so i went on the website boarding a charter bus, where was hit in the neck by a baseball and saw they played the reds it will make the two-hour trek during an all-star team practice, on (saturday) and i said, ‘you southeast to the Queen city. williams’ family and his team-guys just need to get together,’” among those in attendance mates are being treated to a vip conklin told The star press will be dylan’s parents, erick getaway day to saturday after-(http://tspne.ws/17gpbvX ). and georgiana, dylan’s brother noon’s reds-dodgers game. conklin was able to use his and sister and both sets of his 
The event was the brainchild of connections within the reds grandparents. dodgers second baseman mark organization — namely steve also making the trip will be ellis and his wife, sarah, who felt cobb, president and ceo of dylan’s little league teammates compelled to do something after the henny penny corp. and a and coaches and their families. 



MEN’S GOLF 

Irish kick off season at Gopher Invitational 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
notre dame will step up to the tee for the first time this season when it travels to independence, minn., for the gopher invitational, a two-day tournament hosted by the university of minnesota. 
The tournament, now in its ninth year, features an impres­sive field, including no. 1 cal, which returns to defend the 2012 title. The bears led wire-to-wire, ultimately defeating smu by 14 strokes. The big Ten is well represented, with michigan state, penn state and minnesota in the 12-team field. The irish return for the first time in two years after not participating in the tourna­ment last year. 
irish coach Jim Kubinski said the team is not focused on the strong competition but instead on simply getting the season started on the right foot. 
“we play a sport where we can’t control our competi­tion,” Kubinski said. “instead, we want to come out and set a positive tone for the season,” Kubinski said. “To do that, we need to exhibit all the men­tal characteristics to be suc­cessful, by staying positive regardless of result, and keep moving forward throughout the round.” 
Kubinski said he also wants his team to play without stress, adding that they need to “com­mit to shots and don’t place too much emphasis on their consequences.” 
This year’s team looks very different than the one that com­peted at the 2011 invitational, with three freshmen — blake barens, liam cox and matthew rushton — in the starting five, something Kubinski couldn’t recall happening in his nine previous years at the helm. nevertheless, Kubinski seems confident in the youngsters’ ability, while also raving about the other two golfers in the starting five. 
“(senior) niall [platt] has looked great and posted a 65 yesterday,” Kubinski said. 

“(sophomore) cory sciupider this year. we’re really excited has as high a ceiling as any to get started.” player i’ve coached. The two-day tournament 
“it’s a great group of guys starts sunday at windsong 

Farm golf club. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

belles open two-match weekend at home 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The belles will play in their first home match of the fall Friday against conference ri­val albion as part of a two-match weekend that will also take them to alma, mich., to face alma on saturday. 
saint mary’s (1-4, 0-1 miaa) fell 3-2 to Kalamazoo on Tuesday in its conference opener, but this weekend’s matches offer the belles two opportunities to earn their first conference win of the season. 
Freshman setter clare mcmillan spurred saint mary’s offense with 53 set as­sists in the match versus the hornets (5-0, 1-0 miaa). belles coach Toni elyea praised mcmillan’s rapid development and her ability to collaborate with hitters, especially junior middle hitter melanie Kuczek. Kuczek recorded a .414 at­tacking percentage Tuesday against Kalamazoo. 
“being a first year setter, clare [mcmillan] has already shown consistency running our offense,” elyea said. “she has been able to produce great numbers, especially with melanie [Kuczek] in the mid­dle and both of our outsides.” 
The belles have an attack percentage of .118 on the sea­son and posted .178 against Kalamazoo, their highest sin­gle-match percentage to date. elyea said saint mary’s will continue to develop as an of­fensive unit in its matches this weekend. 
“we will be looking to make some offensive improvements moving into our weekend matches, as well as continue to play at a very high level,” elyea said. 
last year, albion (1-4, 0-1 miaa) posted a 2-24 re­cord under first-year coach Kristen slamer-de st. aubin. sophomore outside hitter halle Thom and senior middle hitter Jalyn ingalls anchor the britons as offensive threats, elyea said. 
“Kristen [slamer-de st. aubin] is a good coach that knows the game well,” elyea said. “They have some tall, physical kids that have a lot of experience playing together. halle and Jalyn are good play­ers that they will be relying on.” 
Thom leads albion with 2.28 kills per set and 41 total kills so far this year, and ingalls has pounded 1.89 kills per set for a total of 34 kills. as a team, albion has achieved a .139 at­tacking percentage. 
most recently, albion lost 3-0 to no. 2 calvin. ingalls and freshman outside hitter lauren outwater sparked the britons with three kills each against the nationally-ranked Knights (5-0, 1-0 miaa). 
after squaring off against albion, the belles travel to alma (3-2, 0-1 miaa) for a sec­ond conference challenge. 
scots coach sarah dehring has guided alma to a 35-22 re­cord since taking over as head coach in 2011. dehring pro­pelled the scots to a 20-12 re­cord in the miaa during that time. 
senior middle hitter lea Klooster provides a significant portion of the scots’ offense. Klooster has 53 kills through five matches and an average of 2.65 kills per set. 
elyea said dehring’s coach­ing and Klooster’s hitting drive alma’s success. 
“alma is coached very well,” elyea said. “we expect them to be aggressive and strong at the net. lea has really come out strong for the scots, so we know they will be relying on her for a lot of their offense.” 
alma last played against no. 5 hope and lost 3-0. but the scots narrowly lost the sec­ond game of the match 25-23. Klooster smashed eight kills and snagged nine digs as alma closely contended against the ranked Flying dutch (5-0, 1-0 miaa). 
elyea said she expects alma to maintain its competitive reputation. 
“it has always been a battle 


with alma during my time at 7 p.m., then embarks for here at saint mary’s,” elyea alma, mich., to take on alma said. “we expect more of the on saturday at 1 p.m. same.” 
saint mary’s plays its home Contact Samantha Zuba at opener Friday versus albion szuba@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
adjustments or change in game plan. when traveling, you just have to take those parts into consideration. Traveling isn’t easy, but we just have to get our guys com­fortable with it. 
“winning on the road is about adaptability and per­ception. if you go in thinking you are at a disadvantage, you will be.” 
both with dominat­ing defenses, the irish and north carolina will look to capitalize. 
“soccer is a funny game in general,” somoano said. “Taking advantage of our opportunities and that first goal is critical. if [we] get an opportunity, [we] take ad­vantage of it and go up 1-0. but what will help us win the game is the preparation.” 
clark said the irish hope to play their game. 
“[The Tar heels] are a good team,” clark said. “Their players are well coached. They play like ourselves. we are not going to shock them. it will be a tough match. we are very well aware of what we need to do.” 
The irish look to topple top-ranked north carolina on sunday at noon at alumni stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
it also worked to rebuild chemistry between that group and the rest of the players on the pitch. 
“i think everything re­volves still around our mid­field, and i thought we just didn’t have enough of a con­nection in there sunday with those three … [who] have to be very good in pulling the other players into the game,” he said. “so we re­ally spent a lot of time with that [wednesday] and we’ll spend some time on it this week.” 
The midfield will need to be strong against the Titans (1-2-1), who come to alumni stadium backed by the play of goalkeeper martha dunbar. after a strong, eight-save performance against san Francisco this weekend, the sophomore was named horizon league women’s soccer defensive player of the week. 
The match against detroit represents the final chance for notre dame to face a non-conference opponent this season, as the conference season begins against north carolina state on sept. 12 in raleigh, n.c. waldrum said taking the match against the Titans will be crucial for his team’s confidence heading into a tough acc schedule and for its chances of mak­ing it to postseason play. 
“[The match is] really im­portant for a couple reasons,” he said. “one is continuing to keep the kids confident. … anytime you play a good team [like ucla], there’s a risk of losing the game, so it’s important to get another win to keep the confidence that we’ve built in these first four games already. and the other part is the rpi. you need to keep winning the games you’re supposed to win and then win some of those big games you have in front of you.” 
before the irish set their sights on those big game opponents, they must fo­cus on their latest chal­lenge against detroit, which begins sunday at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 

irish will have an outside hitter they can rely on. 
along with the lineup changes, the irish hope to improve many aspects of play during their home tournament. 
“we are just looking to change things on our side of the net, like reducing un­forced errors,” brown said. “and then we will be in good shape.” 
but most of all, the irish are looking forward to their first game on home court. 
“it is great to play at home. we are very, very excited to be at home,” brown said. “we know we are going to have a good crowd and i think it is going to make a big difference.” 
The irish will kick off the tournament Friday at 7 p.m. in purcell pavilion. Their match saturday starts at 6 p.m., and sunday’s match be­gins at 2 p.m. 
Contact Meri Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: rose mcgowan, 40; dweezil Zappa, 44; mi­chael Keaton, 62; raquel welch, 73. 
Happy Birthday: let your passion drive you. don’t hold back when you should be lining up all the people and things you need in place in order to reach your destination. goals can be set and victory can be expected. Keep impulses in order and overspending in check, and everything else will fall into place as you climb the ladder to success. your numbers are 2, 13, 23, 29, 31, 36, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): put pressure on anyone standing between you and your professional goals. send out your resume, discuss job prospects with your current boss or consider effective ways to earn more cash. a change brought on by your own actions will be successful. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): use your expertise to teach others how you want things done. delegating work will free up time, allowing you to focus on what’s most im­portant to you. your confidence will ensure that your peers look up to you. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): easy come, easy go. be cautious handling cash and possessions. not everyone you deal with will be honest, and being left shortchanged will leave you in an awkward position. Take care of yourself emotionally and physi­cally. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): share your thoughts and plans, and the response you get will help you make a decision regarding your home, family and what you want to devote your time to. a joint venture will make a difference to your personal finances. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your changing attitude and desire for something new will lead to mixed emotions when dealing with friends and family. consistency will be required if you want to appease someone who depends on you. avoid secret deal­ings that can lead to a costly mistake. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): serious talks can spare an emotional mishap within a relationship. ask questions and work together to find common ground. plan to do things that will please both you and those you deal with. compromise and keep the peace.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let the changes going on around you influence the way you react. Keep a low profile and you’ll avoid being dragged into a no-win situ­ation. get your work done, your responsibilities taken care of and be on your way. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):size up your situation at work and at home, and explore the possibility of making moves that will increase your income and your ability to use your skills and the things you enjoy doing most. don’t get discouraged; get moving. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can make personal life changes, but you must keep your costs down and your wish list short and concise. Friends and family will judge your indiscretions harshly. don’t overspend on your lover -- you cannot buy love. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): physical health will suffer if you overindulge or take on too much. don’t miss out on an opportunity because you are not up to taking on the extra work involved. Farm out menial jobs and focus on what’s important to you. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put more effort into the relationships you share with others. whether it’s personal or professional, the way you handle others will be a major factor in where you end up living and working. an unexpected change will take you by surprise.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): relationships will play an important part in the deci­sions you make. listen to what’s being said and counteroffer with what you want. your ability to express your desires passionately will convince others to give you want you want. 


Birthday Baby: you are intense, detailed and practical. you are intelligent and goal-oriented. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Top notch teams clash 
No. 1 Tar Heels visit Alumni Stadium to take on No. 4 Irish in touted matchup 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
Two early-season power­houses will descend upon alumni stadium on sunday, as the no. 4 irish host no. 1 north carolina. 
The matchup against the Tar heels (2-0-0) will mark the first conference game for notre dame (1-0-1) in the acc, and both teams are taking similar approaches to an unfamiliar conference opponent. 
Tar heels coach carlos somoano said his team will not prepare for notre dame in any specific way since it’s so early in the season. 
“we have never played notre dame,” somoano said. “[notre dame] has been a great soccer program for years and it will just be another challenge that we face every day. it will be like playing any other competitive team. early in the season, most teams are probably focusing on them­selves. we have some video of [notre dame] and [notre dame] of us, so we will take a look at that. but right now, we have to define ourselves.” 
in a similar manner, irish coach bobby clark said the irish already have too much on their minds. 
“we don’t spend a lot of time worrying about the op­position,” clark said. “we look at ourselves, what we did in our last games and what we will do. we sort ourselves out and get ourselves in the right state of mind. we don’t have to worry about them.” 
although it was an exhi­bition game, the Tar heels earned a 1-0 win over defend­ing champion indiana on aug. 24. somoano said north carolina will not allow the early hype to get in the way of its play. 
“no, we don’t feel anything about the rankings,” he said. “it’s one week into the sea­son. we won’t know if we are no. 1 until later. it can only be proven over time.” 
even though it is early in the season, clark said every game against a no.1 opponent adds something for the players. 
“early season rankings don’t mean too much, but you don’t get to no. 1 without convincing people,” clark said. “The players will look forward to it, it adds a little spice. in the overall big pic­ture, i don’t think it means much, but to start in the acc this way, it adds a little spice.” 


The Tar heels will need to be in the right mindset on the road in order to come away from notre dame with a vic­tory, somoano said. 
“we don’t approach any­thing differently when we are away,” somoano said. “There are no psychological 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Squad looks to rebound 
irish host golden 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
after falling 1-0 to no. 3 ucla in their first loss of the season, the no. 8 irish will return to action sunday to face off in a night contest against detroit. 
The week of practices between the two sunday matches allowed the team to fine-tune fundamen­tals that were not as sharp as they need to be, irish coach randy waldrum said. he also said the upcoming one-game weekend came at just the right moment, as notre dame (3-1-0) looks to regroup from its loss. 
“you’ve got an extra day of training, you know, not having two games in the weekend,” waldrum said. “so the extra days will help 
— certainly came at a good time.” 
The irish struggled of­fensively against the bruins on sunday, recording only one shot in the entire 90 anchored by starters mandy minutes. waldrum said in laddish, a senior, sopho­response to those short-more cari roccaro and comings his squad worked freshman morgan andrews. on rebuilding the chemistry between the midfielders, see w soccer PAGE 14 


dome invitational 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
after a weekend away, the irish will host their first home tournament, the golden dome invitational, this week­end at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (1-2) will start off Friday against bowling green, then continue saturday against no. 22 purdue and fin­ish the weekend with a sunday matinee against dabrowa, a team from poland. 
The irish are coming off a hard weekend, losing two games and winning one, yet irish head coach debbie brown says she believes the irish can reverse their luck. 
brown said the team made too many un-forced errors last weekend but has gotten into a better rhythm during practic­es this week. 
“obviously, you learn a lot after the first week you play,” brown said. “we saw several errors we could improve on — our blocking, our defense 
— and we have been able to address a lot of the little things that we hope will go a long way for us.” 
brown said the irish also worked on alternative line­ups during practice this week because sammie brown, a senior defensive specialist, is injured. 
“we are just trying to get into a better rhythm with sammie being out,” brown said. 
The irish will continue to change the lineup throughout the weekend in order to play to their full potential, brown said. 
brown said she does not in­tend to replace sammie brown with one particular player, but rather, with a couple players. regardless, brown said the 
see volleyball PAGE 14 






