



Administration plans ceremony 
ndsmcobserver.com P.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556  By NICOLE MICHELS Assistant managing editor  ceremony for all of the students graduating in their college,” hurley said. “[The colleges  are allowed to bring as many guests as they want to the un­dergraduate commencement  athletic director — this isn’t something they normally do,” hurley said. “They’re normally  
Editor-in-Chief  The class of 2013 will gradu­ of science and engineering]  ceremony.  running football games and  
Andrew Gastelum Managing Editor  Business Manager  ate from notre dame this week- have elected to have a separate  “We have some students that  other athletic events, but they  
meghan Thomassen  Jeff Liptak  end as years of study culminate  ceremony for each one of their  bring no guests, but last year we  bend over backwards for stu- 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks  in 19 diploma ceremonies and  majors.”  had a student who brought 90  dents. … They do everything  
Asst. Managing Editor: marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels  more than 100 events celebrat- The University honors the  family members [because] she  they can to put on a beauti- 
News Editor: Ann marie Jakubowski  ing the accomplishments of the  advanced studies graduates  was the first person in her fam­ ful commencement for the  
Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach  University’s youngest alumni.  saturday with three com­ ily to graduate from college, …  students.”  
Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly  University registrar chuck  mencement ceremonies,  which is great,” hurley said.  At the undergraduate com- 
Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: Grant Tobin  hurley said although the pres­ hurley said. Law students  The undergraduate com­ mencement ceremony, at- 
Graphics Editor: steph Wulz  sure on everyone involved in  gather in the library mall, while  mencement ceremony was  tendees will listen to the  
Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song  the weekend is enormous, it  graduate business students  moved from the Joyce center  bestowment of the Laetare  
Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom  is one of the most rewarding  meet in Purcell Pavilion and  in response to student requests  medals, as well as addresses  
Controller: Peter Woo  times for the University.  other graduate students as- voiced to University President  by commencement speaker  
Systems Administrator: William heineman  “It’s a lot of pressure on stu­ semble in the compton Arena  Fr. John Jenkins, hurley said.  cardinal Timothy dolan and  
Office Manager & General Info  dents because they’re trying  to receive their diplomas.  After considering the move, in  valedictorian mallory meter,  
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927  to balance seeing their friends  The undergraduate com­ 2010 Jenkins moved the cere­ hurley said. After the recipi- 
Advertising  for the last time, moving out,  mencement is the highlight of  mony to notre dame stadium  ents are recognized, Jenkins  
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com  and dealing with family and  sunday’s celebration of under- for the first time since the  will confer degrees onto the  
Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu  guests while trying to organize  graduate achievement, hurley  1950s.  students.  
Managing Editor  things,” hurley said. “It’s a lot  said. students begin the day in  “We saw an almost tripling  “each dean steps forward  
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu  of pressure on the president  notre dame stadium for the  of attendance,” hurley said.  and asks Fr. John [Jenkins]  
Assistant Managing Editors  and the University and other  commencement ceremony  “That first year, I believe we  to confer the degrees onto  
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu  leadership because they have  and then attend their specific  had almost 27 or 28 thou- the students in his or her col- 
Business Office  a lot of events to go to. It’s a lot  diploma ceremonies in the  sand, and it was good for the  lege,” hurley said. “Then the  
(574) 631-5313  of pressure on our office be- afternoon.  University community.”  students from that college are  
News Desk  cause we have 22 people in the  The University hosts more  hurley said the primary  asked to rise, Fr. John says his  
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com  registrar’s office who are try- than 100 additional events,  logistical challenge involved  part and confers the degrees,  
Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com  ing to put in grades, … get the  such as luncheons and honors  with coordinating the under- and then the students go off  
Sports Desk  summer session running and  society dinners, for graduates  graduate commencement cer­ and in the afternoon ceremo­ 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com  put on a commencement for  and their families, hurley said.  emony is the need to respect  nies get their diplomas and the  
Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com  26 to 27 thousand people, with  he said the finalization of the  the football field.  handshake onstage.”  
Saint Mary’s Desk  over 100 events throughout the  events and ceremonies for this  “We can’t bring in trucks and  Although coordinating the  
krabac01@saintmarys.edu  weekend.  year’s commencement week- have them drive all over the  weekend’s events requires a  
Photo Desk  “It’s probably the most pres- end marked the first step in the  field turf. … We have to be very  lot of effort, hurley said it all  
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com  sure-filled time for the whole of  coordination process.  respectful of the field,” hurley  comes down to welcoming to  
Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839  the University community —  “We go through [the list of  said. “We put this field-cover­ notre dame those who con- 
but it’s worth it.”  events] based on the event size,  ing system — it’s like a plastic  tributed to their students’ jour- 
Policies  This year’s 19 diploma cer­ estimated number of graduates  jigsaw puzzle — over the field  neys to the University.  
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published  emonies — a one-ceremony  attending the ceremony and  and set up the stage, sound  “[on this weekend], indi­ 
in print and online by the students of the University of notre dame du Lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content,  increase from last year — will  estimated number of guests at- system and seating over that.  viduals who have made a lot of  
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the  include the law school, the  tending that ceremony, putting  “We have to be very careful  sacrifices for their students to  
administration of either institution. The observer reserves  graduate school and individual  them into various locations  of how we do that. Part of it is  attend notre dame visit here  
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as  diploma ceremonies for the  like [the debartolo Performing  done with forklifts [and] part  and are really awed by the in- 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the  college of Arts and Letters, the  Arts center] or recsports or  of it is done with taking pieces  stitution, by the aura of notre  
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, Assistant  mendoza college of business,  Jordan Auditorium,” hurley  off of trucks and carrying them  dame, and it gets very emo- 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not  the college of engineering and  said. “That’s one of the first  into the stadium by hand. It  tional for the family,” hurley  
necessarily those of The observer.  the college of science, hurley  things we do every year and  takes a little bit longer, but it  said. “It’s one of the best invest- 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free  said.  that is why it’s very important  allows us to make sure we’re  ments made at the institution.  
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact  The increase in diploma  that students fill out their ticket  respectful of the football field  … It costs a lot of money to put  
information.  ceremonies was due to the  requests. … on average, we’ve  and that we don’t destroy it.”  on a ceremony in the stadium,  
addition of the Applied and  found that each student brings  The Athletic department  but I think it’s some of the best  
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum.  computational mathematics  8.2 guests to [undergraduate]  has been an indispensible  funds spent at the institution  
Post office Information  and statistics (Acms) major to  commencement.”  partner to the office of the  because I think it’s important  
The observer (UsPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday  the college of science, hurley  Though the individual col- registrar while coordinating  that we send our graduates off  
except during exam and vacation periods.  
A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one  said.  lege and program diploma  this ceremony, hurley said.  so positively.”  
semester.  
The observer is published at:  “[The colleges of] Arts  ceremonies limit the num­ “I can’t say enough about  
024 south dining hall  
notre dame, In 46556-0779  and Letters, business and  ber of tickets available to stu­ dan brazo, stadium director,  Contact Nicole Michels at  
Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices  
PosTmAsTer  Architecture have one  dents, hurley said students  and mike branch, associate  nmichels@nd.edu  
send address corrections to:  
The observer  

P.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Schedule of Events: 

ROTC Commissioning Ceremony Graduate School Commencement Ceremony MCOB Graduate Ceremony Law School Ceremony Service Send-O˜ Ceremony Commencement Mass in Joyce Center          Graduation Dinner 

ND Stadium opens for guest seating Candidates Assemble for Academic Procession Commencement Ceremony at Stadium 
9:00 AM 
10:00 
AM  

10:00 
AM           


12:30 PM 
1:00 PM 
5:00 PM 
6:30 PM 
7:30 AM 
8:15 AM
 9:00 AM 1:00 PM 
4:00 PM 
6:30 PM 

8:30 AM 
12:00 AM 

Schedule of Events: 

Nursing Pinning Ceremony at                Church of Our Lady of Loretto Baccalaureate Liturgy in Angela                Athletic Facility               Baccalaureate Dinner & Senior Reception 

Graduation Brunch at Noble Dining Hall Commencement Ceremony in Court of
   LeMans Hall 
News 
Ann marie Jakubowski Kaitlyn rabach 

Graphics 
steph Wulz 

Photo 
Kevin song Grant Tobin 

Sports 
mike monaco Isaac Lorton brian hartnett 

Scene 
maddie daly 

Viewpoint 
dan brombach meghan Thomassen 


Corrections 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer STEPH WULZ | The Observer 




ND seniors react to commencement speaker 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
cardinal Timothy dolan will deliver the commencement ad­dress to the class of 2013, and the selection has prompted se­niors to reflect on dolan’s rel­evance to the student body and his ability to successfully con­nect with them. 
dolan, the Archbishop of new York and the president of the U.s. conference of catholic bishops, will receive an honor-not back down, and to use our gifts and our strengths to live out the gospel.” 
senior camille suarez said she initially reacted negatively to the announcement because she doesn’t believe dolan is the most relevant selection for the class. 
“I feel like this choice isn’t perfect for this moment,” suarez said. “I was hoping notre dame would use this op-the catholic church that needs to be promoted,” suarez said. “I hope he makes a call to the graduating student body and encourages us to use our [notre dame] degrees to promote catholic social Teaching and help the poor and suffering.” 
senior Katie Pryor said she is excited to hear dolan’s speech because he is a prominent fig­ure in both the catholic church and the world, as demon­strated by his mention in Time for pope, showing the great im­portance he has worldwide in the catholic church,” she said. 
seniors Julia Kohn and rachel chisausky said while dolan is a prominent leader, they are concerned the speech would be relevant only to stu­dents that identify as conser­vative catholics, leaving others disappointed. 
“I took a moment to look him up before I formed an opin­ion … and everything I’ve read student in the graduating body and not just to religious people.” 
Kohn said if the University wanted a “famous” speaker, they should have sought a more relatable figure. 
“For a school the caliber of notre dame, that has the name recognition of notre dame, I feel like we could have got­ten someone really exciting,” Kohn said. “I don’t know that cardinal dolan is as relevant to everyone as a different famous 
person would be.” magazine’s list of the 100 most seems to indicate that he ap­

ary degree from the University 
at the may 19 ceremony in 
notre dame stadium. 
senior Jason Kippenbock said 
he is thrilled by the selection 
because dolan’s charismatic Influential People of the World pears to have a political agenda senior colin campbell said 
in 2012. rather than just being a reli­he understands there isn’t a 
“When I heard cardinal gious figure, and I don’t agree speaker who can please every­
dolan would be the com-with any of the views that his one, but he is personally excited 
mencement speaker, I was very agenda suggests,” Kohn said. “I by the University’s decision 
pleased with the decision,” just don’t know what he’s going to give dolan a platform from 

Pryor said. “he is not just an-to talk about that’s going to be which many will hear him. background make him an ideal portunity to kind of move the other cardinal but a cardinal that relevant to my beliefs and “I hope cardinal dolan helps fit for the event. University forward, and I think that actually has a lot of sub-opinions.” us to understand the gifts that 
“When [dolan] speaks, he has this might be setting us back a stance in his views and beliefs chisausky said she hopes we have been given through always emphasized how impor-couple steps.” and a lot of wonderful things to dolan’s speech is not “homily our four years at notre dame tant it is to live out your faith suarez said she hopes dolan say.” style” and that it doesn’t alien-and then provides motivation fearlessly and not back down, will present an image of the With the ongoing discussions ate non-religious students. and support as we carry those like the way he lead the bishops’ church that is relevant and about the next pope, Pryor said “I was disappointed, because blessings with us and walk out opposition to the health care accessible to her and her dolan is an “especially exciting” I don’t really know much about of that football tunnel for the mandate,” Kippenbock said. classmates. choice because he is a member him but I’m not catholic or re-last time,” campbell said. “I’d expect his message to us as “I hope he talks about of the church hierarchy. ally religious at all,” she said. graduates of America’s greatest catholic social Teaching be-“cardinal dolan is even one “I just hope [his speech] is Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski catholic institution would be to cause I think that’s one image of of the people being talked about very open and applies to every at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
personality and intellectual 


CEO to address Saint Mary’s graduates 
of us to leave a positive mark on the “my peers and I are hoping to be with one another. action. 
By KELLY RICE 

news Writer world. In my case, I left my career as in her shoes someday, as women “What makes an all-women’s “We need saint mary’s gradu­
a lawyer to tackle the lack of books who know their potential to cre-education unique is the opportu-ates to make their impact felt in 
social entrepreneur Kyle and resources available to kids in ate something for the greater good nity to celebrate and develop each the world,” Zimmer said. “The im-Zimmer will speak at the com-need, co-founding First book with of all,” she said. “The college made woman’s leadership abilities and to portant thing to remember is that mencementceremonyfortheclass two friends more than 20 years an excellent choice, the class of gain an understanding of our own we all have contributions to make of 2013 at saint mary’s college on ago. And we’ve been working ever 2013 will be itching to go out and be value systems — what’s important and we can create positive change sunday. since to develop innovative, mar-the change ourselves after we hear to us, what drives us … and the op-on multiple levels: through our 
Zimmer, a 1986 graduate of the ket-driven models to address that Zimmer speak.” portunity to make our voices heard families, in our communities, in George Washington school of Law, need.” senior dani haydell said she and the mutual support we provide our places of worship, through our is the president and ceo of First silvia cuevas, senior class presi-expects Zimmer’s speech to be in-each other as we learn together.” work, and through our volunteer 
dent, said she is looking forward spiring because of Zimmer’s career she said she values each person efforts. The critical thing is to take 

to Zimmer’s address. cuevas said she expects Zimmer’s accom­plishments will allow her to craft a memorable commencement address. 
“The excitement beams from my face when I think of commence­ment and what’s to come after saint mary’s,” cuevas said. “Kyle as a woman working for change. 
“I am excited for Zimmer to speak at commencement because she is a good example of what women can accomplish when they put their time, effort, and heart into something,” haydell said. “Also, the fact that the company she is president of is working to make for her unique contributions and will encourage graduates to col­laborate with one another. 
“I value collaboration over com­petition,” Zimmer said. “We can make a bigger impact and devel­op better solutions together than we can on our own. I also believe there is huge creative power in fun action and not sit on the sidelines.” 
Zimmer will receive an honor­ary doctor of humanities degree from the college, according to a college press release. 
“saint mary’s’ focus on the im­portance of social responsibil­ity makes this honorary degree particularly meaningful for me,” 
book, a non-profit organization 

that provides books to children in Zimmer speaking during our com-the lives of others better is a good — and so fun has played a role in Zimmer said. “Knowing that I’m need. According to a college press mencement will be extraordinary example that women definitely my work.” associated with accomplished release, she founded and became — I am excited to listen about her are responsible for a huge part in Zimmer said she plans to ad-women of all ages who take this president of First book in 1995. path to leave a positive mark on the changing the world and making it dress the world’s need for smart charge to heart, to address prob-Under her leadership, the organi-world and become a pioneer for better.” and innovative thinkers in her lems at home and abroad, is zation has distributed over 100 mil-change.” Zimmer said she is happy to be speech. she said she hopes to en-both inspiring and profoundly lion books to children nationwide. cuevas said she hopes Zimmer’s speaking at an all-women’s in-courage graduates to work for so-humbling.” 
“I think we each have an obli-success in business and “inspir-stitution where women have had cial justice by supporting a cause gation to [support] social justice,” ing” career will motivate her peers the opportunity to develop their that drives them like her passion Contact Kelly Rice at Zimmer said. “It is critical for each to work for social justice. unique skills and to collaborate for education reform pushes her to krice02@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer would like to thank the following seniors for the countless hours they spent in the newsroom and on location to uncover the truth and report it accurately. 
Megan Doyle Sam Stryker John Cameron Kristen Durbin 
Jillian Barwick Bridget Feeney Mel Flanagan 




Notre Dame filed a lawsuit May 21, 2012, challenging the constitutionality of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) mandate that requires employers to provide contraceptive services in their minimum health insurance packages. 
The lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana. University President Fr. John Jenkins defended the University’s position in a statement made the same day, saying the lawsuit was filed “with sober determination” to defend religious freedom. 
U.S. District Court Judge Robert Miller Jr. ruled Jan. 2 that the lawsuit should be dismissed because the University’s claim is not yet “ripe,” meaning it is not ready to be litigated. Notre Dame argued the University needs to set aside significant funds for the costs it would incur in connection with the regulations, and those budget decisions need to be made now. 
In a compromise announced last year, the federal government had granted Notre Dame and other religious employers a year-long “safe harbor” before any regulations would take effect. In Miller’s written opinion on the case, he stated the defendants have announced they are working to refashion the mandate and its exemptions. He dismissed the case because Notre Dame remains under the safe harbor for the time they believe is needed for those changes to be made. 
Immediately after the dismissal, University Spokesman Dennis Brown said the administration was examining the judge’s ruling. The University ws considering its subsequent options, Brown said. 
The White House proposed a compromise to the mandate Feb. 1, introducing a deal that would potentially allow Notre Dame to issue a health insurance plan to its employees without directly providing birth control coverage or claiming it was indirectly paying for birth control coverage. 
The 60-day period for public comment regarding the proposed compromise expired April 8 without any public response from Notre Dame. 
Cardinal Timothy Dolan, president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and Notre Dame’s 2013 commencement speaker, said in February that the compromise fell short but the bishops looked forward to finding “acceptable solutions” to the mandate. 
HHS is now in the process of reviewing public comments and deciding whether this draft of the rule will become final. 

Mariel Zagunis, a former member of the Notre Dame fencing team, served as a flag bearer for Team USA at the Opening Ceremony for the 2012 London Olympics. 
Zaguinis, a two-time Olympic gold medalist with two World Championship titles and three consecutive Junior World Cup Championship title, said the role was an “honor and a privilege.” 
She took a year off prior to her freshman year at Notre Dame to train for the 2004 Olympics. A resident of Pasquerilla East Hall and an anthropology major, she said the University was “immediately supportive” of her Olympic aspirations. Five members of the Team USA fencing team were former or current members of the Notre Dame squad. 
Zagunis took a leave of absence prior to the 2008 Olympics and has not returned to Notre Dame, but she said she hopes to complete her undergraduate degree from the University. She has taken summer classes at Notre Dame and in Portland, Ore., where she trains. 
On Aug. 19, Saint Mary’s applied for its first United States patent, which is currently pending. The patent is for an inexpensive paper-based tool that can screen for counterfeit pain relievers. The paper analytical device (PAD), developed by an undergraduate chemistry research team at the College, is the size of a business card and offers results in less than five minutes. This technology could also ferret out other fake drugs that promise cures for everything from malaria to the flu. The researchers modified existing paper-strip technology to develop PADs that screen for substandard tablets of Panadol. 

Ziqi Zhang, a sophomore at Saint Mary’s, passed away Oct. 18 from injuries sustained in a car-bicycle accident outside the entrance to the College at State Route 933. Zhang was 19. 
A resident of Regina Hall, Zhang was a dual-degree student majoring in mathematics at Saint Mary’s and taking engineering classes at Notre Dame. She was a resident of Jiangsu Province in China. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney expressed her sympathy in a statement. 
“On behalf of the entire Saint Mary’s community, I want to express our shock and deep sorrow at the passing of Ziqi Zhang,” Mooney said. “We offer heartfelt condolences to her parents and sister and our prayers are with them. Death is never easy, especially when it is a young person with so much promise.” 
According to a release from the St. Joseph County Police Department, the accident occurred Oct. 18, just before 9 p.m. The driver, identified in the report as 34-year-old Erin Zick of Edwardsburg, Mich., told police she had a green light at the time of the accident. The report stated witnesses confirmed Zick’s account and that there is no evidence drugs or alcohol played a role in the crash. 





Graduate student Michael Thigpen died unexpectedly at his off-campus residence, where he was found Nov. 13. He was 23. 
Thigpen was a first-year master’s degree student in Notre Dame’s Global Health Program. The Monument, Colo., native completed his undergraduate education at the University of Colorado and came to Notre Dame in the fall of 2012. 
Dr. Joseph Bock, director of the Global Health Program, said Thigpen was interested in the humanitarian side of global health and clinical practice. He intended to go to medical school after completing the Notre Dame master’s program. 
Outside of the classroom, Thigpen was a member of the Climbing Club and a musician who had performed professionally. Bock said Thigpen had been working on a CD of Christian rock music with Bock’s son and was “a very talented musician.” 
Senior Shawn Steurer, president of the Climbing Club, said Thigpen participated in the club trip to Boulder, Colo., during fall break and “always had a positive outlook.” Friends remembered him as an avid climber, enthusiastic about life and always smiling. 

Despite the disappointing outcome of the BCS National Championship Game on Jan. 7, Notre Dame students and fans brought South Bend to South Beach to support the Irish against the University of Alabama Crimson Tide. 
Tens of thousands of Notre Dame fans descended on the greater Miami area in the days leading up to the game, which attracted an estimated 40,000 fans to South Beach and included a star-studded Jan. 5 pep rally featuring Irish legends Lou Holtz, Joe Theismann and Mike Golic. 
Alabama’s pep rally, which took place on the same stage at Miami Beach, attracted a fraction of the crowd the Irish drew three hours later. Thousands of Notre Dame fans began to line up yards from the ocean almost an hour in advance to secure the best view of the stage. 
Bill McCaughan Jr., president of the Notre Dame Club of Miami, said the club organized a bus between South Beach and Sun Life Stadium, a game watch at Monty’s Bar on South Beach and a pool party the Sunday before the game with food, drinks, live music and bagpipes. 
The game’s final score was Alabama 42, Notre Dame 14. 


On March 22, Saint Mary’s publicly launched “Faith Always, Action Now,” its largest endowment campaign to date, in hopes of raising $80 million for scholarships, professorships, academic programs and campus renovation projects. 
At a launch event, College President Carol Ann Mooney said she was pleased with the progress the initiative had made since 2007, when Saint Mary’s opened the campaign privately and began accepting pledges. Mooney said the campaign name is meant to convey the College’s ongoing commitment to advancing its mission. 
While $20 million of the campaign’s funds will go to scholarships and grants for students at the College, approximately $26.5 million will be dedicated to enhancing the academic and athletic facilities on campus. 

During the Boston Marathon on April 15, two pressure-cooker bombs exploded at 2:45 p.m., killing three people and injuring 264. The bombs went off near the finish line, approximately 13 seconds and 190 meters apart. The Federal Bureau of Investigation took over the investigation, and it released photographs and a video of two suspects April 18. The suspects were later identified as brothers Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Runners in this year’s London Marathon and a Chicago “unity run” honored the victims of the Boston bombings by wearing black armbands or “Runners for Boston” T-shirts as a sign of solidarity. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Notre Dame gives valedictory honor 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
mallory meter’s academic success at notre dame earned her the valedictorian honor for the class of 2013, but she said one of the most important les­sons from her college years did not come from the classroom. 
meter said her valedictory ad-with the Irish influenced her decision to come here. 
“my grandfather went here and played football in the 1940s for the national championship team,” she said. “he was one of the guys who was here, then had to leave for the war and came back. A few of my uncles went here, and then I have an aunt who went to saint mary’s. 
dress will reflect on ways to “ap-It’s big in the family.” 
preciate what’s happening while Though she said she has “ab­
it’s happening” to close the gap solutely loved” her time here, 
between past and present. meter said her best memory 
“The main theme of the as a notre dame student came 
speech is basically to try to during her one semester away 
learn at our young age how to from campus. 
live consciously and to be pres-“When I look back, I think go-
Saint Mary’s names 2013 Valedictorian 
By KELLY KONYA 
news Writer 
saint mary’s announced the valedictorian of the class of 2013 will be Allison sherman of batavia, Ill. 
sherman, a computational mathematics major, said she originally liked saint mary’s to other students who have not yet achieved the same level of understanding,” snow said. 

sherman said her experi­ences as a teaching assis­tant in the department have encouraged her to pursue a career in education. she is in the process of applying to several teaching certificate students.” 
sherman said her key to success is entertaining a healthy balance of friends, academics and extracurric­ular activities. she balances school with her roles as trea­surer of the mathematics club, president of the saint mary’s chapter of Pi mu epsilon and participant in 
programs and has not decid-the national mathematics 
ed which program she will honorary society. 
attend after graduation. sherman’s former room­
“In the future, I hope to mate erin masko said 
teach at the collegiate lev-sherman is a diligent 
el and further my study of student. 
mathematics,” sherman “she never puts off work said. “I want to always be 
for the next day but instead 
ent in the moment,” meter said. ing to London to study abroad “It’s this idea that we tend to go in the fall of my junior year was my most valued experience,” 
because of the professors’ learning new things and I tackles it right away,” masko commitment to teaching hope to inspire my own stu-said. “she is wonderful and the college’s small class dents to do the same.” and deserves this honor of 

through our day-to-day lives 
and they seem repetitive and dull, but then for some reason we look back at that experience and see it as perfect. I want to talk about how to change that disconnect.” 
meter, a psychology ma­jor from beverly hills, mich., graduates with a cumulative grade point average of 4.0 and a string of consecutive dean’s List honors from each of her semesters at notre dame. The former Lyons hall resident said her freshman year Introduction to Psychology course helped her finalize her choice of major. 
“I had always been interest­ed in something where I could work with people and some­thing more science-oriented,” she said. “For a long time, I thought I wanted to do pre­med, but after taking that first psychology class, I decided on that instead. 
“I enjoyed it so much, it made sense to me and it was really in­teresting to me, so that made up my mind.” 
Though the courses for her major have been difficult, meter said the most academi­cally challenging part of her time at notre dame was the broad range of required classes taken during her first two years. 
“To be honest, I think prob­ably the most challenging part was freshman and sophomore years when your classes cover a lot of different topics,” meter said. “Freshman year, you have to do the science, the math, the english, the philosophy. … I think having to switch between so many different modes of thinking was really hard. 
“once I got into my core psy­chology classes and I could really focus on just that, it be­came easier for me.” 
meter said her family’s links meter said. “I feel like living in another country pushes you to go outside your comfort zone, and you really mature while you’re there. being able to learn in a place that’s so rich in histo­ry and culture — you really feel like you’re living what you’re learning.” 
meter said she worked in several psychology research labs at notre dame, includ­ing a childhood/adolescent early education study involv­ing head start program par­ticipants. during her junior year, she worked with dr. david Watson and dr. Lee Anna clark at the center for Advanced measurement of Personality and Psychopathology, explor­ing the relationship between personality and psychopa­thology and the psychometric properties of various measures of mood and personality. 
“When I was working specifi­cally with dr. Watson, I was able to do actual clinical interviews with the participants, which is awesome because as a psy­chology major, you really can’t do a lot of one-on-one work with people until you have a master’s or Phd degree,” meter said. “The specific study was looking at how different traits and personality facets line up with different forms of psycho­pathology, … which refers to every mental health disorder from depression to anxiety dis­orders to schizophrenia.” 
meter’s ideal career would blend psychopathology and interaction with children, she said.  
“I’m going to the University of chicago to get my master’s in social work, and I hope to focus on the clinical track rather than administrative,” she said. “Afterwards, I hope to become a licensed clinical therapist working with people with mental health problems and someday, probably, I could see myself going back to get my Phd, too.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
sizes. 
“There is a strong sense of community and the personal attention that each student receives was very important in my final decision to at­tend saint mary’s,” sherman said. 
Professor Joanne snow, 
mary connolly, profes­sor of mathematics, said she helped sherman develop her love for mathematics and encouraged her to decide on a math major. connolly said sherman’s skills extend be­yond academics. 
“computational math-valedictorian.” 
sherman said she is grate­ful to be honored as her class’s valedictorian. 
“I was extremely sur­prised, and I feel incred­ibly honored to represent my class,” sherman said.  “I owe a great deal of gratitude 
to the entire mathematics department faculty at saint mary’s and in particular, Professor snow, who has en­couraged me throughout my collegiate career.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
chair of the mathematics department, said she hired sherman as a teaching as­sistant after having her as a “star student” in calculus III. 
“sherman has the rare ability to explain concepts that she clearly has mastered ematics is a major which combines significant com­puter science with higher-level mathematics classes,” connolly said. “Allison is a very talented computer sci­entist, but one of her truly outstanding qualities is her generosity towards other 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Seniors devoted to ND football 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
The class of 2013 navigated the ups and downs of notre dame football fandom during the past four years, but for the first time in a long time, the seniors will not leave the Irish at a low point. 
The class that saw the end of the charlie Weis era and the begin­ning of Irish coach brian Kelly’s time can leave saying their last game as students was the bcs national championship game in miami, Fla. 
senior Anthony Albert said for a while, his reaction to the 2012 season was, “Wow, what’s going on here?” 
“After three years, it’s vindicat­ing in a way to have had a season like this,” Albert said. “Going to the national championship game was extremely unbelievable after everything we’ve been through. 
“I know it was definitely one of the highlights of my four years here at notre dame, this senior season culminating in the nation­al championship.” 
Albert said this year’s game against stanford was the highlight of his four years in the football stu­dent section. 
“really, everything from the past three years seemed to lead into that game right there,” he said. “Going through the disap­pointments over the past three years, everyone in the senior sec­tion thought this was never going to happen. We thought we knew 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

how this was supposed to go … but that goal line stance was really something.” 
senior elliott Pearce began his season in dublin at the navy game and ended it in miami at the championship. 
“It was an epic journey,” he said. “It was incredible. The game where we beat oklahoma was the turning point for me; that’s when I started to think this was possible. We’re here, we’re for real  — it’s awesome.” 
Though the experience of the past season was fantastic, Pearce said he “wasn’t super surprised” to see the team’s success. 
“We had one great season after three disappointing ones. This was how it should have been all along,” he said. “I don’t honestly know where the last seven years came from, it was just bad luck. 
“The year Weis went six and six, we had michael Floyd and Golden Tate on the same team, we had manti Te’o starting at linebacker … it was a who’s who parade of high school All Americans. We’ve had great players the whole time and these guys made plays, but we could never get a string of them to­gether. “ 
Albert and Pearce both said the 2011 matchup against the michigan Wolverines was a major low point of the past four years. 
“There are plenty low points to pick from, but it’d have to be that michigan game under the lights last year,” Albert said. “I was watching it with friends and all the sudden denard robinson is chucking it down the field and Gary Gray can’t turn around and michigan wins.” 
Pearce said the 2011 loss to michigan was one example of the team’s faltering “emotional momentum.” 
“That game was the lowest of the low because you think to your­self, all right, charlie Weis is out, we had an okay first season with Kelly, so let’s see if we can make something happen,” he said. “And then we’re running over michigan in their own house, and all the sudden we lost.” 
Pearce’s favorite memory of the 2012 undefeated regular season was the night notre dame took the no. 1 spot, he said. 
“I’ll never forget spraying cham­pagne all over stonehenge after we realized we were going to be num­ber one. It was incredible,” he said. 
Albert said the aftermath of the nov. 17 game against Wake Forest was his favorite memory as well. 
“I was sitting in my dorm room after we won, watching the two games with [then no. 1] Kansas state and then [then no. 
2] oregon,” he said. “I think every student at this place was watching that game, praying for some kind of upset. I just remember that once stanford [beat oregon], the entire campus erupted. I sprinted to my friend’s room in Irish row and we celebrated.” 
notre dame football made an indelible mark on his four years here, Albert said. 
“I thought it really helped to shape my experience here,” he said. “Waking up every fall saturday morning at 8:30 a.m. with rudy music blasting, it put a smile on my face. If I hadn’t gone to a school where athletics were so huge I don’t think I’d have had nearly as much fun.” 
Pearce also said he found the four football seasons to be “a great community building experience.” 
“notre dame is a big football school; everyone rallies around that,” he said. “I’m a huge football fan, but that’s not why I came here. notre dame is a school with a stel­lar academic program and a good integrity and spirit in their athletic endeavors. We can have that here and still have football be a great way to bond and have fun in addi­tion to our academic work.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
seniors enter religious life 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news Writer 
notre dame seniors Kellie raddell and Jimmy White will choose a path less trav­eled as they enter religious life post-graduation. 
raddell will enter the nashville community of the dominican sisters of st. cecilia on Aug. 15. White will enter the blessed stephen bellesini Pre­novitiate, an Augustinian com­munity in Ardmore, Penn., this fall. 
Fr. James Gallagher, vocations director for the congregation of holy cross, also said six men who 
“[Notre Dame] provided the scaffolding for me to grow in the right direction.” 
Kellie Raddell 
senior 
came through the old college program at the University will continue their formation with holy cross. Additionally, three other graduating seniors will enter into formation with holy cross in the fall, he said. 
raddell said many opportu­nities at notre dame, such as daily mass, participation in the campus ministry ccd program and eucharistic Adoration, were conducive to her spiritual devel­opment. 
“[notre dame] provided the scaffolding for me to grow in the right direction,” she said. 
raddell first began to con­template the religious vocation while abroad, she said. 
“I was in France and I didn’t 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 
speak French very well, so I was very quiet,” she said. “but I had a lot of time for prayer, and I rec­ognized the universal church.” 
After visiting many orders, raddell said she chose the dominicans in nashville be­cause of their strong emphasis on tradition, as well their educa­tion-focused mission. 
“They’re a well-known com­munity, and I feel like God kept sending people into my life that would mention [the dominicans] or suggest them,” she said. “I’m looking forward to loving the children [who] God places in my care.” 
raddell said she also looked forward to entering the order with several other women her age. 
“A lot of [religious] commu­nities now are aging, so it’s re­ally nice that there are a lot of young people still entering this community,” she said. “We’ll be going through life together, as a community.” 
White said he attended an Augustinian middle school and high school, and considered the priesthood as early as fifth grade. 
“It was really when I got here to notre dame that I began to actively think about it,” he said. 
White said he began to discern with the holy cross congregation on campus but felt something was missing. The Augustinians’ emphasis on community, as well as dedica­tion to education in an active contemplative community, ap­pealed to him. 
“I realized that for most of my life, I was brought up with [an] Augustinian education, and that was really a part of who I was, so it just made sense. … The Augustinians are monastic in their roots but balance the monastic prayer life with an ac­tive way of life,” he said. “other than community and my love for Augustinian theology, edu­cation is what really drew me to the Augustinians.” 
The demands of being a resi­dent assistant (rA) in duncan hall this year helped validate White’s decision to enter the re­ligious life, he said. 
“I really had the opportunity to see what active ministry was like, since the rA role here is so unique — it’s not just the guy who unlocks the door or goes on rounds,” White said. “It’s really a pastoral position. 
“There’s been challenging moments, and I’ve had to have some difficult conversations this year. but to be able to be with residents in highs and lows and walk with them in those mo­ments has been really fulfilling for me and reassuring that this is something I could be called to do.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Seniors relish the final week on campus 
Notre Dame students complete bucket list items 

senior resident assistant (rA) eJ sanchez 
By WEI LIN 

news Writer said it was difficult to recall his favorite part 
of notre dame but that his friends defined 
As members of the class of 2013 check off the best moments of daily life on campus. items on their notre dame bucket lists, the “I really enjoyed doing stuff with my dorm soon-to-be graduates share the common and friends,” he said. “I hung out, watched goal of treasuring their final moments to-movies and talked with people I’m re­gether as students. ally good friends with. I will miss walking 
senior deirdre bartlett said her last week through [the LaFortune student center] and ideally would include walking around recognizing random but familiar faces.” the lakes and paying a visit to University sanchez said he fulfilled many of his President emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh. bucket list items during his time at notre 
“I’m going to spend my last week visiting dame, such as completing the holy half all the places on campus that are the most marathon, becoming an rA and participat­memorable to me, such as the Grotto, the ing in bookstore basketball. he said he had basilica [of the sacred heart] and various not been to club Fever yet and wanted to find buildings, with my friends,” bartlett said. a time to go. “mostly, [I want to] try to create memories “I haven’t thought of any crazy things to do with my friends before we are scattered [for senior Week], but I want to spend lots of across the globe.” time with friends,” he said. 
bartlett said she would miss the notre senior christina dollar said the best part dame community, including members of her of notre dame has “always been the people.” residence hall, her classes and the Liturgical “The people are what I will miss the most,” choir, where she served as president. she said. “I’ll miss the dome. I’ll miss the 
“The Liturgical choir has been a highlight campus and how everything is beautiful and of my four years at notre dame,” bartlett gorgeous. The buildings are cool, the classes said. “I’ll miss [my] friends within the choir are cool, the professors are awesome and the and [my] experiences shared with them. We stuff you learn is awesome. but I will miss the toured the vatican, the West coast and east people and the conversations I’ve had with coast. … I loved how we made friends during people the most.” our freshman year and were able to remain dollar said she never made a notre friends with them through senior year.” dame bucket list, even for her senior spring 
senior Jessica vallejo said her favorite part semester. of notre dame was the basilica’s “beautiful” “I decided that I’d rather just do what I do easter Triduum. bartlett and vallejo both and enjoy it,” dollar said. “[I want to] get the said they hoped to complete a “chapel crawl” most out of the normal time I have left [and] before graduation by attending mass at every spend time with people whenever I can.” chapel on campus, including all the chapels “I feel like I want to soak in this as much as in the residence halls and academic and ad-I can. I find myself taking my camera every­ministrative buildings. where and taking pictures,” she said. “I am 
vallejo’s plans will also take her off cam-noticing everything that’s around me and fo­pus to enjoy the greater south bend area, she cusing on what’s going around me, because I said. don’t want to miss anything.” 
“I’m going to the south bend chocolate dollar said she feels like “it’s too soon” for Factory,” she said. “There’s this car museum her notre dame experience to end. here in south bend and I’m going to go there, “I feel like I’ve had a pretty full experience,” too.” she said. “however, that doesn’t mean I want 
vallejo said she also wanted to thank the it to be over.” workers at north dining hall for being so great and friendly. Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s College organizes senior events 

can’t wait to give back to the college that 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor has shaped me so much.” on monday, the group also participat­
saint mary’s seniors celebrated their ed in the official “closing of the circle” last days on campus with a week of ac-ceremony outside of Le mans hall. tivities that allowed them to gather as a “We lit candles and did the opening as class one last time. a class when we were freshmen. It is just 
senior class president, silvia cuevas, fitting to do the closing as seniors,” se­said her class board tried to make this nior sarah mcLain said. “It is a tradition year’s senior Week events as universally and closing the circle in front of Le mans pleasing as possible. [hall] is just so saint mary’s.” 
“I have a total of 10 board members The group also attended a cubs game and I really tried to pick individuals in chicago. from each circle of friends on campus,” “Wrigley field is just awesome,” senior cuevas said. “I really asked for their in-Alyssa carty said. “I am a huge profes­put and opened the floor to them. I think sional baseball fan and that was by far we came up with some pretty good ideas my favorite senior Week event.” and events.” on Tuesday, the group enjoyed a party 
she said about 300 of her classmates, on the island outside of hager Parlor. double the amount of people who par-They also started a new tradition of plac­ticipated in the week last year, registered ing their painted handprints in the Le for the senior Week events, mans tunnel. 
“The majority of our class registered “We have officially left our mark on for the week’s events,” cuevas said. “We saint mary’s,” cuevas said. “our hand-only have 385 in our class, so it is exciting prints will forever be in the tunnel for that almost 300 people signed up. I call future classes to see.” that a success.” The group also toured the round barn 
cuevas said the week kicked off on Winery in baroda, mich. monday with the Alumnae champagne “I love wine and hanging out with brunch. my smicks,” senior caroline Keep said. 
“This is a tradition and is usually a “The two together make for a great lot of the seniors favorite event,” cuevas combination.” said. “The Alumnae Association offi-senior brittani hradsky said her favor­cially welcomed us as alumnae of the ite event will be the second city comedy college.” club event in chicago. 
senior sydnie corso said the alum-“hands down my favorite event will be nae brunch was emotional and she was second city,” hradsky said. “If Tina Fey glad she was able to spend it with her got her start there then it must be quality classmates. stuff.” 
“I couldn’t help but start crying during cuevas said she is blessed to be gradu­the belles of saint mary’s song,” corso ating from saint mary’s and could not said. “It really hit me. I am an alumna.” ask for a better class to celebrate this 
senior Alison meagher said she is look-week with. ing forward to carrying out the college’s “As a freshman we did icebreakers dur­mission as an alumna. ing orientation week, now we are break­
“This brunch was a great way to cele-ing out the tissues and celebrating our brate our last four years at saint mary’s,” many accomplishments,” cuevas said. meagher said. “It feels sad to leave, but I am looking forward to applying the skills Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at I have learned here to the rest of my life. I krabac01@saintmarys.edu 




ND, SMC award honorary degrees 
SMC gives Doctor of Humanities to entrepreneur 
gifts I was given and to use them to change
By KAITLYN RABACH 

saint mary’s editor the world,” Prikkel said. “I have tried to do that in all parts of my life. I have especially 
Jennifer mathile Prikkel, former saint tried to do that at saint mary’s because the mary’s board of Trustee member and college has given me so much.” alumna, will receive an honorary doctor of she said receiving this honorary degree humanities degree from the college during has taught her the meanings of ‘hard work’ the commencement ceremony saturday. and of ‘reward.’ 
Prikkel is a partner at mathile Family “For someone who almost didn’t get ac-enterprise, founder and president of cepted to someone who is now getting her bridging hope Farms and a member of the doctorate from her beloved saint mary’s, board of Trustees for the mathile Family I am not sure I can put words on what my Foundation. she said she is thankful for heart feels every time I think about it,” her saint mary’s education because it has Prikkel said. “In fact, if I think about it too shaped her many successes. much I might cry. I just hope I can make it 
“my saint mary’s education has shaped through the hooding without slobbering all all aspects of my life: my work, spiritual and over President mooney.” family life,” Prikkel said. “my time at saint Prikkel said saint mary’s “never forgets mary’s in the past and present isn’t some-her own,” so, after she graduated she wanted thing that goes away when you leave. It is to make sure she never forgot saint mary’s. ever-present in all I am and all I do.” According to a college press release, 
she said receiving this honorary degree Prikkel and her parents are significant means the world to her, because of the benefactors to the college, supporting the unique path that led to her time at saint campaign to build the spes Unica hall aca­mary’s. demic building and to renovate the science 
“In 1991, I was I was deferred and was hall. asked to wait until the end of my third quar-“I am a firm believer of ‘paying it for­ter grades before I would hear whether I was ward’,” Prikkel said. “I stay connected and accepted to the college,” Prikkel said. “so, in engaged with the college because saint the mean time I was going to do everything mary’s has given me so much and has en­

riched my life. I want to help her in any way I can. I want saint mary’s to be around for the next generation of women.” 
Prikkel said she is proud to support a col­lege with such “pure intentions.” 
“saint mary’s wants the best for its stu­dents,” Prikkel said. “no place can be suc­cessful and stand strong without a strong foundation. That foundation of course I could to put a good word in for myself. I comes from the sisters of the holy cross. made my parents drive me up one Friday still today the charisma of the sisters is alive and I met with the vice president of college because they laid a very good foundation for admissions. I had a private meeting with this college to stand upon.” her and insisted she accepted me to saint she said she is thankful because so many mary’s.” saint mary’s women have continued after 
Prikkel said after graduating in ‘95 with a their graduation from the college to work degree in religious studies, Prikkel said she toward making the world a better place. her education at saint mary’s nurtured her heart as well as her mind. Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at 
saint mary’s taught me to trust in the krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
jennifer Mathile Prikkel 
Founder and preseisdent bridging hope Farms 
ND selects six individuals to honor with degrees 
among other prestigious awards. her
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor novels, books, essays and articles have 
earned her a reputation for “rigorous rea­
commencement speaker cardinal soning and a salient moral vision, often Timothy dolan will receive one of six drawing from biblical narrative,” the re-honorary degrees awarded at notre lease stated. dame’s commencement ceremony morton schapiro will receive a doc-may 19, according to a University press tor of laws for his work as an expert on release. the economics of higher education and 
dolan, archbishop of new York and college finances and affordability, ac-president of the United states conference cording to the release. schapiro is cur-of catholic bishops, will receive an hon-rently serving as the 16th president of orary doctor of laws degree, the release northwestern University. he began his stated. career as a faculty member at Williams 
Gu binglin, president of Tshingua college in massachusetts in 1980 and University in beijing, will receive a doc-left in 1991 for the University of southern tor of science at the ceremony, according california, where he taught and served in 
administrative posts, the release stated. 
Kenneth stinson, a 1964 notre dame
“We select individuals 
graduate, parent and member of the 
for honorary board of trustees, will receive a doctor of 
degrees who have laws, according to the release. stinson is 
chairman emeritus of Peter Kiewit sons
made significant 
Inc., a large construction firm, the release 
contributions to 
stated. he earned his graduate degree society.” from stanford University before serv­ing three years in vietnam with the U.s.
Dennis Brown 
navy civil engineering corps.
University Spokesman 
University spokesman dennis brown 
said all are welcome to submit nomina­to the release. binglin has led the field of tions for honorary degree recipients to condensed matter physics and computa-the President’s office. tional materials science. he has taught “We select individuals for honorary physics and researched at Tshingua, degrees who have made significant con-after stints in the chinese Academy of tributions to society,” brown said. “They sciences, as dean of Tshingua’s Graduate are not selected on the basis of celebrity; school, and as vice president of Tshingua. some are more well-known than others, 
sister Antona ebo will receive a doc-but all of them are extraordinarily ac­tor of laws at the ceremony, according to complished in their fields.” the release. ebo has worked as an activ-brown said people are selected from ist for human rights, marching with rev. various fields, from law, the arts, enter-martin Luther King, Jr. in selma, Ala., tainment, education, the church, poli­and montgomery, Ala. ebo was also the tics, business, media and other areas. first black woman religious to lead a hos-University President Fr. John Jenkins pital. she later served as president of the makes the final decisions after consult-national black sisters’ conference. ing with board members and senior lead­
marilynne robinson will receive a ers of the University, he said. doctor of human letters for her work as an author, the release stated. she won the Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski 2005 Pulitzer Prize for her novel “Gilead,” at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

SMC celebrates Multiethnic Commencement 
By ANGELA BUKUR 
news Writer 
saint mary’s college hosted its sixth annual multiethnic commencement celebration on may 5 for 51 members of the college’s class of 2013. 
The office of student Involvement and multicultural services (sIms) hosted the cere­mony. The sIms office addresses the academic and personal needs of underrepresented students at the college, sIms assistant direc­tor Graci martsching said. 
“The sIms office decided to start the annual multiethnic commencement celebration be­cause of the many wonderful, but misrepresented, women who are a part of our community at saint mary’s,” martsching said. 
sonia manzano, who played maria on “sesame street,” ad­dressed those assembled at the event. 
According to a college press release, manzano was raised in new York city’s south bronx as a first-generation American of Latino descent. In her junior year of college at carnegie mellon University of Pittsburgh, she trav­eled back to new York to star in the original production of the off-broadway show “Godspell.” 
Within a year, manzano joined the production of “sesame street” and broke ground as one of the first Latino characters on nation­al television, the release stated. 
As a member of the “sesame street” writing team, manzano won 15 emmys and continues to create scripts for children’s pro­grams as well as other literary ventures. 
“some of the many reasons why we chose [manzano] is be­cause of her diverse background, many life achievements and in­fluential strive toward women empowerment,” martsching said. 
manzano has received the congressional hispanic caucus Award, the hispanic heritage Award for education and an hon­orary doctorate in fine arts from notre dame. According to the release, she was inducted into the bronx hall of Fame in 2004 and was voted one of the most influential hispanics by People magazine en español. 
senior class president silvia cuevas said manzano lives out what she sees as her responsibil­ity to encourage people not to let fear keep them from pursuing untrodden paths. 
[manzano is] an example of someone who saw her ability and used it, full force,” cuevas said. “I hope the rest of my classmates are also eager to go above and beyond and that they won’t allow fear or doubt [to] hinder them from doing so.” 
martsching said the multiethnic commencement celebration is meant to demon­strate the college’s special effort to celebrate the challenges con­quered by underrepresented stu­dents while at saint mary’s. 
Contact Angela Bukur at abukur01@saintmarys.edu 




ROTC seniors commission as officers 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news Writer 
As most members of the class of 2013 move on to employ­ment and further education, the participants of notre dame’s reserve officers’ Training corps (roTc) will commission as offi­cers in the United states military. 
saint mary’s senior and navy roTc midshipman devon Graham said because of roTc, her post-graduation plans are very different from those of her friends. “A lot of my friends are considering medical school, graduate schools or figuring out if they want to take a year off,” Graham said. “It is so nice to know that I have a job when I graduate and it isn’t just a job.” 
senior and Army roTc cadet Ted spinelli said officer com­missions place a burden on him and his fellow cadets that most men and women their age do not carry. 
“There is an immense weight of responsibility that comes with [officer commissions] because many of us will be in charge of the lives of others in less than a year’s time,” spinelli said. “In this line of business, to give anything less than 100 percent effort to physi­cal and mental preparation on a daily basis could be catastrophic or fatal. That is a responsibility that I do not take lightly.” 
senior and navy roTc mid­shipman brian van metre said the level of responsibility is hum­bling, but he and his fellow offi­cer candidates welcome it as an opportunity to make an impact on their communities. 
“I don’t believe that there is any job outside the military where I would have as much responsi­bility at 22 years old,” van metre said. “I think all of us who are about to commission are both humbled by that fact and ex­tremely excited to start making a difference.” 
spinelli said the bonds he formed with his fellow cadets through their commitment to the program enriched his roTc experience. 
“I loved roTc here at notre dame,” spinelli said. “The young men and women I have had the privilege of working with are fantastic students, leaders, and individuals. 
on a personal level, the Army roTc program at notre dame surrounded me with people who share my same ideals. It provid­ed an immediate, loyal group of friends that I now consider to be my family.” 
Graham said she greatly en­
“There is an immense weight of responsibility that comes with [officer commissions] because many of us will be in charge of others lives in less than a year’s time.” 
Ted Spinelli 
senior 
joyed her experience in navy roTc [nroTc], and the friend­ships she gained more than made up for the difficult times. 
“There are always hard times, and we all go through a time that we question if this is the right path for us, which you should because it is a huge decision,” Graham said. “I couldn’t be hap­pier that I am in the nroTc pro­gram at notre dame. The friends and contacts I have made are unforgettable.” 
van metre also said the friend­ships he made with his fellow midshipmen helped sustain the rigors of participating in roTc. 
“It’s a very big time commit­ment during the school year. Waking up early for [physical training] and having an extra one to two classes every semester can drain you towards the end,” van metre said. “Luckily, you’re generally not alone and can rely on friends in the same boat to help get you through.” 
Graham said navy roTc provided her with exciting op­portunities, such as “driving a submarine or flying a c-130,” while 
courtney said he shadowed a field artillery lieutenant in hawaii for three weeks. van metre said through the navy roTc summer training pro­gram, he performed aerial acro­batics in planes, fired guns with the marines,  trained with navy seALs and flew in a v-22 osprey 
van metre said he and the other navy roTc seniors will commission may 18, after which he will report to the Uss mobile bay, a cruiser stationed in san diego, calif. 
courtney said beginning July 19, his commission will take him to Fort benning, Ga., where he will participate in the Armor basic officer Leadership course), Army reconnaissance course and ranger school on his way to a post in an armored unit. once she receives her commission, Graham will attend flight school in Florida, where she hopes to re­ceive her wings as a naval flight officer. 
spinelli said beginning in the fall, he will attend the engineer officer basic course and the United states Army Airborne school. he will then report to Fort bragg, n.c. in April 2014. 
courtney said commissioning is not an end for roTc seniors but rather, a meaningful mo­ment in their continued efforts to become accomplished leaders. “[commissioning] represents a big honor as well as a tremen­dous responsibility to continue to work and prepare ourselves so that we can be the best leaders of soldiers possible,” he said 
By Christian Myers at                         cmyers8@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 
club connects alumni worldwide 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
notre dame seniors will disperse across the country after graduation, but thanks to the Alumni Association, every single zip code in the 
U.s. is associated with a notre dame club. 
Annie duffy, worldwide clubs program director for notre dame’s Alumni Association, said there are 270 notre dame clubs across the world, 200 of which are in the U.s. 
“We can pretty much guarantee that once you leave campus, you’ll be in a place where there’s a notre dame group,” duffy said. “These clubs are made up of alumni, family and friends, they’re completely inclusive. They’re based off of every­one’s love for notre dame.” 
The Alumni Association encourages seniors to up­date their information re­cord with the University once they know where they will live after graduation so they can automatically be associated with the notre dame club in the area, duffy said. 
“our clubs will hold events throughout the year, ca­maraderie events like game watches or networking hap­py hours,” she said. “A lot of our clubs have catholic spir­ituality events like mass and breakfast, and a lot provide support for current students, like a send-off in August where everyone can wish them well as they go back to campus.” 
duffy said the Alumni Association’s website, mynotredame.nd.edu, can connect graduated students with clubs in any particular city, and alumni are wel­come to be a part of as many clubs as they want. often 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
times, the clubs are instru­mental in helping graduates settle into their new lives, she said. 
“We strongly encourage [graduates] to get proac­tively involved in the clubs,” duffy said. “It can never hurt to reach out to them to see what they have go­ing on. You can connect with recent graduates about where the best places to go are and what young gradu­ates do in the city. It’s a great way to meet people and form friendships.” 
The alumni clubs mark just one example of the notre dame family’s expan­sion off campus, duffy said. 
“everyone really shares a passion for notre dame,” she said. “It’s tough for young 
“Everyone really shares a passion for Notre Dame. It’s tough for young alumni who are just graduating.” 
Annie Duffy 
director 
Alumni Association 
alumni who are just gradu­ating, you’ve been here for four years, you’ve formed this family and it’s always very sad to leave here. 
“but knowing you have this common connection with alumni wherever you go is unbelievable. I think it’s that shared value and that love for notre dame that keeps everyone con­nected and gives us the strongest alumni network in the country.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski ajakubo1@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

STEPH WULZ  | The Observer 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



                  Andrew Gastelum  
editor In chief 
over the last four years, there have been plenty of memorable kickbacks. some because of the friends, some because of the memories and some special ones because of the music. 
sometimes, in those incredibly unique circumstances, music can define full periods of time. Passion Pit’s “manners” represented the jubilant fun loving antics of junior year of high school. sleigh bells’ “Treats” was the letting loose of the summer following graduation. 
It’s funny how that works out. After all, it’s just music bumped over car speakers and beach radios. but it’s a melody that sticks in the mind, prodding memories of different events that would have otherwise remained dormant. 
so with that in mind, here are the best four albums of the last four years. seniors, kick back and let the memories run rampant. 

Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix 
Artist: Phoenix Genre: Alternative 
This album is senior year of high school. It’s an album for anything, jamming, cruising, dancing, head bobbing, and rocking out. It’s a change in di rection from the Phoenix of old, changing alternative music and, even rock, for the better. 
It’s such a complex sound, that even on your fifth listen (or if you’re like me, 250th listen), you come away refreshed. In music, the gift that keeps on giving is rare. but in the world of “Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix,” it’s christmas morning all the time. 

My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy 
Artist: Kanye West Genre:  Hip Hop 
Where do you even begin with “my beautiful dark Twisted Fantasy?” It is all of the above: soothingly beautiful, ominously dark, refreshing twisted, and iconic to send the listener into a fantasy world that rap has never seen before. 
It’s a masterpiece about the American dream, the struggle, the search, the grasp, the celebration and the subse quent fall. 
And surely, it will go down as one of the greatest rap albums of all time. It’s the perfect work. 

It doesn’t get much more beautiful than bon Iver’s pastoral portrait. It’s a whirlwind of emo tion, nature, introspection and observation wrapped into one. 
The swirling melodies, the resonating falsetto, the deepening base, the subtle acoustics all com bine to a zone of tranquility unlike many others in the field of music. 
many feared the self titled album would be too much of a departure from bon Iver’s acous tic, folky sound, but this ship ended up expanding the map to broader horizons. 

he’s Kendrick Lamar. And this, his first studio album, is his mas terpiece. The potentially limiting factor about music is that it is solely an audio medium. but with “good kid, m.A.A.d city,” Kendrick should win an oscar for best Picture for his depiction of life in compton. 
And that is the ultimate com plement for an album. he tells a complete story, with matching beats and rhythms to not just fit the chapter, but complement it as well. 
he makes macklemore look like a chump at amateur hour. 

STEPH WULZ  | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 
This is not the end 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief emeritus 
I’ve been dreading writing this column for a long time, because it seems like an impos­sible task. “how,” I’ve asked myself countless times, “could I ever hope to capture four years of notre dame in 500 to 600 words?” 
The answer, of course, is that I can’t — be­cause the last four years have been filled with experiences that simply defy description. 
I’ll never forget embracing my classmates and proudly singing the Alma mater after football games, whether in the pouring rain (stanford, 2012), or glorious sun (nevada, 2009). but how could words really capture what that’s like to those of us who were there? 
I’ll always be stunned by how extraordi­nary the people I’ve met at notre dame have been. From my professors to my best friends, from administrators to classmates, I’m con­stantly impressed. Yet how could I ever fully describe this community to those of us who have been a part of it? 
There will always be pictures of campus 
— the Grotto, the dome, the basilica, the stadium. These places have shaped me and my classmates. but how could a picture fully represent the peace of the Grotto at night, the energy of north or south Quad on a sunny day or the way the Golden dome gleams no matter the weather 
Then again, maybe we don’t need to cap­ture everything. 
maybe it’s enough to remember that football saturdays showed us how tradition can be passed down to bind people together through the generations. 
maybe it’s enough to see a picture of the Grotto and remember there’s always time for a quiet moment or a picture of the dome and remember that there’s always hope and beauty, no matter how dark or ugly a day we may be having. 
no matter how hard we try, we’ll never be able to capture the spirit of notre dame. but the spirit of notre dame has captured us. After these four years, this place has made a mark on us in ways we don’t yet understand 
Yes, we’ll always miss this place, but no, it isn’t the end, as much as it feels like it. 
Perhaps what I was dreading wasn’t writ­ing this column, but instead was the idea that in doing so, I’d be accepting that I was done with notre dame. but that’s not true, and it really shouldn’t be a surprise. because on sunday, when my classmates and I sing the Alma mater one last time together, the final line will ring out and remind us that our hearts will — forever — love thee, notre dame. 
Allan Joseph is graduating with a degree in economics and Arts & Letters Pre-Health Studies and will be attending medical school at Brown University in the fall. He’d like to warn his future classmates not to attempt speaking with him on fall Saturdays. Allan would like to thank too many people to fit in this space, but they know who they are. He can be reached at ajoseph2@alumni.nd.edu, as weird as that is to type. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Megan Doyle 
managing editor emeritus 
I am a terrible storyteller. 
my friends will vouch for that. They have listened to my ramblings for four years, nodding along with patient interest and sometimes even laugh­ing at the punch line when I finally get there. I actually find $5 at the end of all my stories now without their prompts. 
In the four years that my friends have listened to those long-winded stories, they have also starred in the stories that I will someday tell my coworkers and kids (as we sit around the Tv watching the Irish crush some inconsequential team for a national championship and then celebrate my firstborn child’s acceptance into notre dame). 
They will hear stories about domerfest and “Ain’t no mountain high enough.” stories about Justin bieber and stealing gummy worms from the LaFun candy wall (I actu­ally need to apologize to all the nice ladies who work in the huddle). I will tell stories about gold body paint, about standing in the middle of the end zone drenched in the pour­ing rain and overwhelmed with joy. stories about an administration that sometimes failed us and sometimes raised the bar for us even higher. 
stories about the way the Grotto is the warmest place on campus, even in the cold of a south bend winter, even in the cold of loss. 
They will hear stories about cookie monsters and breakup wine. stories about the Lyons hall storage closet (well, maybe not). They will hear sto­ries about cigars on the bridge and Flat Tuesdays. I will tell stories about my favorite observer coworker cindy. stories about 90s night at Legends and stories about belting out Avril Lavigne songs on the stage at Finny’s with reckless abandon. stories about jumping into the lake naked with my best friends in the middle of the night (“catherine, I saw your butt!”). stories about probability. 
They will hear stories about the four women who have earned sainthood for living with my alarm clock. stories about Aurora, who picked me up when I wiped out in front of hot brad From dillon during our Frosh-o scav­enger hunt, who has been picking me up ever since. stories about eileen, who will always be my all-time favor­ite romcom partner, who truly earned the Lyons hall spirit Award. stories about catherine, whose brain isn’t wired for science like mine, but will someday deliver my babies. stories about Lauren, who by some amaz­ing miracle is still my friend after all these years, who can’t ever use the correct form of “you’re,” but who always is my person anyway. stories about these four women who put up with the thousands and thousands of words I wrote in this paper — and if this column has turned into more long-winded rambling about how much I love them, then so be it. They deserve all the words, all the world. 
I will leave this school with a de­gree (I think), and I’m pretty psyched about that (thanks, mom and dad). but I’m also leaving with four years of stories. I have many more than four years of stories ahead of me, stories that will star those coworkers and kids, stories that will change me even more than finally earning this degree will. I can only hope those years will make me a better storyteller as they continue to shape me, because these four years are a story I’m never going to stop telling, no matter how much I ramble or how badly I massacre the punch lines. 
(And then I found $5.) 
Megan Doyle is graduating with a degree in English, as well as a minor in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She would like to thank Starbucks and Nutella for everything they both have done to get her here. Megan can be reached at megandoyle823@gmail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

college memories without the fluff 


Samuel Stryker 
Assistant managing editor emeritus 
When I started to think about putting fingers to keyboard for this column, I tried to think of some big sweeping theme that defined my notre dame experience to elaborate upon. nope, that won’t work. 
There have been so many highs and lows, twists and turns in my time at notre dame, that to characterize my experience under the dome in 600 words or less would be impossible. so I decided to streamline, remove all the fluff. I would like to think that the people who made my experience here what it is know exactly what I’m talk­ing about. so here we go. 
Finding out I got into notre dame sitting next to Lauren. standing next to the basilica when I found out she got in. chuck and blair take notre dame. “Go Irish, beat Wolfpack.” Falling asleep in freshman math class (or skipping to buy Lady Gaga tick­ets). Applying to transfer. The fruit/ vegetable comic. Alexis. st. Patty’s day. bringing 200 lbs. of luggage back over christmas break freshman year. meeting Farrah from “Teen mom” at the airport. 
Teenage dream Week. “Go harry, beat voldemort!” headbands. Tony the Tiger and Toucan sam. observe and report. delta news. mr. Fishy. sbcs. “bridesmaids.” Winsome mak­ing eggs in ndh. 
news Writer. Production one. 
Production Two. Assistant news editor. news editor. Assistant managing editor. seth meyers. “Gay students discuss coming out at notre dame.” boston for the elec­tion (barely). meeting Fr. hesburgh. IcPA. The observer office. deb. Gandc4ever. Leaving dark chocolate in my mailbox. bruno’s night. sYs. beer Pong Tournament. The rover and scholastic — LoL. 
Appalachia. new river Gorge. ranger mark. The demon horse. country roads. “It’s a thing.” “breaking” parietals. Water olympics. s’mores. The Tampa Girls. GW. sleeping over in the dining room. 
rome. Italy. Absinthe. Joutfits. Joccupy rome. Google Translate. “booK IT!” The booze cruise. The eiffel Tower (both types). Food pic­tures. selfies with the mona Lisa (actually in general). Frizzante. 201 minutes in siena. “here’s the thing … ” nutella. ryanAir. Waking up in Paris, in class in rome two hours later. As roma. Giolitti. dar Poeta. bottom bunk. JcU Gladiators. The heineken experience. Karlovy Lazne. 
“Good Girls Go bad.” “bad romance.” “Tik Tok.” “Teenage dream.” “moves Like Jagger.” “born This Way.” “Where dem Girls At.” “Titanium.” “call me maybe.” “Young & beautiful.” “What dreams Are made of.” “die Young.” “dancing on my own.” “Unwritten.” 
every syllabus Week. “happy senior Year to YoU!” blackout swans. Finny’s stage. $2 sex on the beaches at Fever. cJ’s (just kidding). vesuvio’s determining how well your night went. 
ccd and the A-Team. nbc, new York in the summer. san diego in the fall. 
The Ireland game. disneyland and the Usc game. being sick in bed when K-state and oregon lost. Florida with the Jupiter crew. south bend to south beach. The best day of our Lives (be­fore roll Tide happened). 
Killing it at the holy half. Finishing the hesburgh challenge. Freaking out about jobs. cats, pizza, being single 
— they’re all linked. sWUG. basic. #blessed. Pigtostal. civil War. “The hills” marathons. “Let’s get one thing straight … ” 
Long runs around campus. The second floor of the library. Tailgating on Game day. The basilica and the Golden dome at sunset. Four years (actually a lifetime) of friends and family. 
Go Irish, beat the real World. 
Sam Stryker is a senior majoring in Film, Television & Theater and Medieval Studies (and isn’t sure which makes him a more attractive job applicant). He would like to thank his family for all the love, support and sassiness that have pushed him these four years. He would like to remind everyone to live every week like it’s Shark Week. Sam can be reached at sbstryker@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
My journey began with a simple phone call 

Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor emeritus 
I can still remember the date and where I was. 
It was may 6, 2009 when I received a phone call from admissions counselor Leshane saddler. For the previous month, I had badgered him with emails, letters and phone calls of my own expressing my desire to go to notre dame after being placed on the waiting list. 
When I picked up the phone, he identified himself and asked if I still wanted to attend notre dame. 
I said, “Yes, absolutely.” 
he asked if I would commit right then if a spot were hypothetically offered. 
I said, “Yes, absolutely.” 
Then Leshane told me that notre dame would like to offer a spot in its class of 2013 to me. 
All the sudden, I was lost for words and started crying tears of joy — something I have no shame in admitting. 
After a few seconds of silence on the phone, Leshane asked if I was still on the line. I mustered up the strength to respond and tell him that I of course accept the offer. 

The dream I had spent my entire life working to­ward had been achieved. 
many times, our vision of a goal is inaccurate, or skewed by our desire. many times, we realize our perception of what we wanted so desperately does not align with its reality. 
After spending four memorable years here, I can proudly say that was not the case at notre dame. my expectations were grand, but my experience was even grander. 
Looking back at that day a little more than four years ago when I received the phone call, I never could have imagined that the notre dame experi­ence would include as much as it has for me. 
I never would have predicted becoming dorm president, covering a national championship game, traveling to Ireland or meeting the incredible people I’ve developed friendships with the past four years. 
When I was home for easter, my aunt asked me how I felt about the looming graduation date and departure from notre dame. After telling her I wanted it to slow down because the time has flown by too quickly, her reply stuck with me this past month: 
“It’s a good thing that it went so quickly, because that means you’ve truly enjoyed it.” 
And that is truly the case. 
It turns out the vision I had for notre dame be­fore becoming a student wasn’t entirely accurate. A college admissions pamphlet can only include so much, instead it’s the shape your four years take 
— and the spontaneous moments within that time-frame — that make it so memorable and rewarding. 
As much as you try to plan out your future, it’s the unexpected journey  — and occasional phone call — that remain with you. 
Andrew Owens is graduating with a degree in Political Science and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He would like to thank his family for all of their love, support and sacrifices. He would also like to thank all of his friends, especially those at Carroll Hall, for an unforgettable four years. Andrew can be reached at aowens2@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

roam under the dome 

Kristen Durbin 
news editor emeritus 
When I chose to enroll at notre dame four years ago, a major factor in that semi-spontaneous decision was the school’s perfect distance from my home in the northwest suburbs of chicago. back then, “going” to notre dame sim­ply meant hopping on I-294, following its gradual transition into I-80 and ending on this beautiful campus, 121 miles and two hours away from 408 cherry creek Lane. 
Throughout my first two years as a notre dame student, my conceptualization of this University, its work and its influence barely extended past douglas road and Angela boulevard. In my mind, it simply occupied the physical 1,250 acres of campus space in notre dame, Indiana, as the place where I went to class, wrote papers, engaged in discus­sions, cheered in the student section and interacted with classmates from all over the world. 
by the end of sophomore year, I was an expert at navigat­ing life within the much-maligned notre dame bubble and balancing schoolwork with weekly dorm parties in 133 duncan hall like it was my job. That life was comfortable, easy. 
2011 was the year that all changed, when notre dame became something bigger than its collegiate yellow brick buildings and the iconic Golden dome. 

That summer, I spent eight weeks working in Idaho as part of the center for social concerns’ summer service Learning Program. In a distant, sprawling western state I previously only associated with potatoes, I found homes away from my home under the dome among my three host families, two of which were notre dame alumni couples and the other the parents of two recent alumnae. 
A month after leaving my new homes away from the dome, I jetted across the Atlantic to study abroad in Toledo, spain, with 26 other domers. After three and a half months of gallivanting across europe together from France to Florence and everywhere in between (namely the camelot dance floor), the “speople” had become some of my best friends at notre dame. 
When we returned from our carefree continental cavort­ing to the south bend permacloud, I felt confined by the finite borders of campus that previously comforted me in their steady security. I needed to get away again, to find another home away from dome to fill part of the void that emerged as soon as I left the madrid airport. 
I got my wish last summer when I spent two months in el salvador through the International summer service Learning Program. notre dame brought me to this tiny, un­familiar central American country, where I was surprised to find the familiar spirit of the University alive and well in a recent alumna who started a new chapter of her life in el salvador after graduation. 
If there’s anything the past four nomadic years have taught me, it’s that no matter how far I roam away from my home under the dome, notre dame will be there. From Austria to Australia, Idaho to Italy, members of the notre dame family welcome fellow domers with open arms. As graduates of our Lady’s University, we carry the unique academic experiences, social mishaps and journeys of per­sonal growth with us as fond memories of our fleeting four years here wherever we go. I may be leaving this hallowed northern Indiana campus this weekend along with my fel­low seniors, but I’ll leave knowing notre dame will never leave me. 
Kristen Durbin will graduate with a fairly uncommon pair of degrees in American Studies and Pre-Health Studies, which she firmly believes have made her into the ideal dinner conversation partner and taught her that knowledge really is power. Kristen wouldn’t be where she is today without coffee, Daft Punk, Easy Mac, the incredible friends she met at Notre Dame or her family’s all-encompassing support. Kristen can be reached at kdurbin@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Seniors, we’re all still works in progress 

John Cameron 
news editor emeritus 
rounding out my four years at notre dame, I feel like I’ve seen it all. I’ve learned a lot about myself, other people and the world: both through an academic lens and otherwise. That being said, I’m not going to impart some groundbreak­ing wisdom. Frankly, I’m still a work in progress. 
Up until college, it seems like life is a series of checkpoints, always with a designated “next.” Whether your domer par­ents indoctrinated you at birth or you wandered your way here, there’s a certain designated path, or at least expecta­tion, to take the next step toward adulthood prevailing in the educational system. 
Then the “real world,” as so many call it, hits. While it seems like a fitting description relative to the notre dame “bubble” we see ourselves in, I struggle with the question: If we’re heading into the real world, what world have I been living in for the past four years? 
From the vantage point of (as I write this) 12 days before commencement, I can tell you I feel like I’ve got the world a whole lot less figured out than I thought I would by now. Yes, I got the job I wanted in the city I wanted to live in surround­ed by the friends I wanted, but I feel anything but settled. 

At least for me, the saddest thought throughout the latter half of college is that we’re reaching some sort of endpoint: That there’s graduation and then it’s all downhill. It may be naive for me to say I choose to — have to — believe this isn’t necessarily the case. sure, life will probably never be as care­free and fun. but it wasn’t the nights at Finny’s or the Game days that have made me into the person I am today (or at least not entirely). It’s the challenges and struggles, the ups and downs; we know the real world has no shortage of those. 
Life up until college is exciting because, while there’s so much certainty in the short-term, we have our “whole lives ahead of us,” with infinite potential and opportunity. once we’ve taken our first step into the adult world, many of us — myself included — can’t help but feel a sense of loss for all the doors that we might have forgone in choosing the one door we did. 
The problem with looking at life as a succession of achievements and diplomas before the final drop into the real world is that it implies we’re no longer growing and changing. college is called the formative years — and no doubt, they’ve been the most formative of my life thus far — but we’re not formed at 22. 
The kid who got dropped off at Keough hall in 2009 and the person walking across the stage sunday are profoundly different, and that’s not a bad thing. my greatest hope for life after my undergraduate years at notre dame end is that the coming years continue to present opportunities and chal­lenges that leave me just as changed by 2017, 2021 and 2025. 
John Cameron is graduating with a degree in Finance and Political Science. He would like to thank his family for guiding him along the path to Notre Dame and supporting him throughout, his roommates from freshman year to the present for putting up with his stress attacks and messy living spaces, his professors for equipping him with the skills and ethical sensibilities to succeed and the University of Notre Dame for the best four years of his life. He can be reached at jcamero2@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Snapshots of my college experience 

Chris Allen 
sports editor emeritus 
The assignment to write a senior retrospective column made me realize a shortcoming in myself. I can’t provide any sort of bigger context for the four years the class of 2013 has spent at notre dame. I can’t possibly neatly sum up the 1,367 days between Aug. 21, 2009, when we rolled into campus from every corner of the country and the world, and may 19, 2013, when we will depart with diplomas in hand. 
That sort of big-picture nostalgia is not for me. 
And it’s probably better that way, as words couldn’t do that time justice. Instead, I like to think about snapshots in time. These four years are made up of thousands upon thousands of snapshots in time. These indelible moments are what will stick with us in vivid memory no matter where we go after may 19. We will remember whom we were with. What we did. What we saw. What we achieved. how we felt. 
In the hopes that you too will pore over old memories and reminisce with friends this weekend, and in the future about the snapshots in time that made life at notre dame so incredible, I present the snapshots that made my under­graduate career memorable. 

Less than a month into my freshman year, I made the trek from Alumni hall to riehle Fields behind stepan center on my first assignment as a sports writer at The observer. I covered a women’s interhall football game between badin and Walsh in a driving rainstorm with a pen and a spiral notebook. The ink bled on the page, but it felt like progress toward something bigger. That night marked the beginning of a journey that would lead me to the editorship of The observer’s sports department and the press box of college football’s biggest game. Along the way, I met and worked with some of the best people I have had the pleasure to know. 
In sept. 2011, I was already well into my semester of study in London, england. After an arduous 10-hour overnight bus ride across the english channel, through France and into belgium, I arrived in bruges. With my fellow Alumni dawgs dan morris and carlos herrera, I hiked 45 minutes to my hostel around this medieval city at 6 a.m. with little to no sleep and nothing on my agenda but discovery. That day, and really that whole semester, I learned the lesson we are often reluctant to learn here — that there is a world beyond the boundaries of our campus ready to teach us and enrich us. It was a pleasure to explore that world with other notre dame students for four months. 
Finally, on nov. 17, 2012, I went to my last football game as a student in notre dame stadium. As a sports-crazed student and later as a football beat writer, my life as an un­dergraduate student was always somewhat linked with the football team. so on this day, as a 10-0 Irish team readied to take on Wake Forest, I did something a little different. As soon as the stadium opened, I went in. I remember not who was with me, but who wasn’t with me, because I sat alone and let the sights and sounds that exemplify our University soak in. I sat and reflected on the remarkable opportunity that these years have been. To have studied and lived with the class of 2013. To have cheered on the most storied foot­ball program in America. To have been a student at the University of notre dame. 
here’s to the snapshots in time. 
Chris Allen will graduate with a degree in accountancy and head to work in June for Johnson & Johnson. He wants to thank his family for letting him be one of the few in the family to not go to Rutgers. He can be reached at callen10@nd.edu, but only for a few more weeks. After that, maybe send him a Snapchat.
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Leaving our mark on saint mary’s college 

Jillian Barwick 
saint mary’s editor emeritus 
“Well-behaved women seldom make history.” 
The famous words of Laura Thatcher Ulrich, also at­tributed to marilyn monroe and eleanor roosevelt, have proved that women across the globe have left their mark in the history books. 
so here I am, four years later, and what have I done to leave my mark at saint mary’s college? The answer to that question is still unfolding as graduation festivities begin. 
have I left any marks? 
This is my final chance to do so in this fine publication we call The observer, so here it goes. 
To my fellow belles, the class of 2013, the last of smicks to bask in the glory of co-exes, the seniors that felt the heat from the Great moreau Fires of 2013 and my classmates, this final column is for us and all of the marks we have made at saint mary’s over the past four years. 
This one is for you. This is our mark. 
Looking back down The Avenue, I see the memories, the laughs, the tears, the senior comprehensives, the tests, quizzes, papers and a lasting legacy that will never be forgotten by my sister belles. 

how surreal is it to think that just four short years ago, we were new to this place we now call home? We were unknowing, naïve and even a bit shy to allow ourselves to open up to this wonderful place. 
This brings me to our stellar education at saint mary’s. 
In the last 169 years of higher education, saint mary’s has produced many wonderful women who have be­come some of the brightest minds out there. 
do you remember Annie camden from “7th heaven,” otherwise known as catherine hicks? she is a smick. how about Adriana Trigiani, famous author and screen­writer? Also a saint mary’s graduate. 
If they left their mark on saint mary’s, well, so can we. 
As I sit here during my final finals week and think about what I have done to be part of this wonderful in­stitution, I think back again to leaving a mark on saint mary’s. 
maybe it was never meant to be a mark left by me, but rather, saint mary’s leaving a mark on me. 
This place, so beautiful and vibrant, is a place that will forever be my home away from home. While it may be terrifying that we belles must leave our home soon, the excitement of knowing we are always welcome back will forever remain. 
This time when we drive down The Avenue for the fi­nal time as students, remember to take a look back at the trees that line the road, holy cross hall, Lemans front lawn and lastly, the Welcome center. 
After that final glance back, then you will know saint mary’s has left its mark on you forever and it will always be inviting you back. 
As my parting words to my belles of 2013, President mooney knows best. 
“We alumnae know what a profound mark the college has made in our personal and professional lives.” 
congratulations to my smicks. We did it. 
Jillian Barwick is graduating with a degree in communications with a concentration in mass communications and a minor in public relations and advertising. She would like to thank her parents for encouraging her to pursue her perhaps unconscious dream of being a Belle, her Saint Mary’s sisters and her Kegacy Krawlers, for without them, there would have been less fun in her life. She can be reached at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Never be afraid to stray off the beaten path 

Brandon Keelean 
Graphics editor emeritus 
Anyone who has ever ridden in a car with me knows I am directionally challenged. It is so bad that my parents made me wait until two months after my 16th birthday to get my license. They were concerned one day I would end up in detroit by accident. 
but despite my less than stellar ability to navigate the streets of Zeeland, mich., I at least had my life on track the summer before I left for college. I was going to major in design and political science, go to law school and work on copyright and trademark infringement cases as an intellec­tual property attorney. 
Along the way, though, I strayed from my rigid life plan. And now, as a graduating senior, I am more lost than ever. 
somewhere amidst the spring foliage and my finals, I realized how off the path I am and how unsure I am about where my current path will take me. I have a number of theories about why I got off track, but my favorite is a simple one: Life just happens that way. If there is one thing I have learned at notre dame, it is that knowledge does not always present the right answer. more often than not, it just opens my eyes to more information I need to learn. 

so, I am lost. not lost in a panicked, “I am going to die in the desert” sort of way, but rather in a “let’s see what hap­pens” way. 
I should have seen it coming. everyone told me I would lose my way at some point. I was constantly reassured by friends and family that it is okay to change your major, be­cause not everyone chooses correctly the first time. I was told and am still told that no one knows what they are going do when they grow up. 
When I started at notre dame, I did not believe any of that. To me, a hyper-driven college freshman, uncertainty was not allowed. I did not see a reason to stray from the path I was on. And at the time, I did not realize how narrow the road I set for myself was. 
but I soon found out. during my four years as a student at notre dame, I have been embraced by the most wonderful, loving people. They opened my eyes to the world around me and helped me through the undergraduate experience. Like any liberal arts student, I was exposed to a wide variety of disciplines, ideas and perspectives. my experiences at notre dame shaped me as a person and made me the lost soul I am today. 
Thus, I get to my pearl of wisdom: Give yourself the liberty to wander. constricting yourself to one path is fine. but if you forget to turn left at the light, keep going down that road a little longer. You might discover something better — an­other trail with different opportunities. I kept going and got lost, but right now I could not be happier. 
There is a catch to unrestricted freedom, however. I learned of it when my parents finally allowed me my driver’s license. on that day in August, my mom told me why she waited. she said it was because she loved me and she needed to make sure that no matter how far off the beaten path I strayed, I could always find my way back home. 
Brandon Keelean is graduating with Bachelor of Fine Arts in Design and without a degree in Political Science. He will not be attending law school in the fall. He dedicates this column and his undergraduate career to the family and friends that gave him directions along the way. He will always call Notre Dame home. Brandon can be reached at brandonkeelean@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Thank you. I’ve been extremely lucky. 

Sarah O’Connor 
multimedia editor emeritus 
I’ve been putting off writing this column for almost a week and a half now. Anyone who knows me well knows I am not a creative writer. I really dislike it and would prefer to do almost anything else. I’m a computer science major and my job at The observer dealt strictly with tak­ing photos and making videos — nothing involving a lot of writing talent. I procrastinated as much as humanly possible each time I was required to write a column for The observer for the sole reason I dreaded having to write it.
 This column is different. 
It’s due in only a couple of hours, but for the first time, the reason I delay writing it isn’t a loathing of writing. 
This time, it’s for something more. 
Writing this column is accepting that my college career at notre dame is coming to an end. It’s accepting that in no time at all I will be graduating and will be having to say goodbye to this place. 
It’s a goodbye I’ve been trying to avoid. A goodbye that, honestly, I’m not quite ready for. 

The reason I’ve been avoiding the finality of the next coming weeks is because of the love I have for this won­derful place. my unwillingness to say goodbye validates the impact this University, the people and the experience have had on my life. 
each and every moment here has made notre dame what it is to me today, and for that I will be forever grate­ful to everyone who contributed to my experience here. 
I am lucky to have had wonderful professors who chal­lenged and inspired me, who have helped me succeed in receiving the best education imaginable and have taught me far more than just academics. 
I am lucky to have had such great classmates who have constantly humbled me by their brilliance and who have been my companions as we’ve struggled through 8 a.m. exams, ridiculous assignments, challenging group proj­ects, all-nighters and stress-induced mental breakdowns. 
I am lucky to have had such terrific co-workers at The observer who have impressed me with their talent and dedication, who I’ve shared late nights in the office with, who have been my travel companions everywhere from dublin to miami, who have given me some of the most unbelievable opportunities of my life and helped make the office my second home while on campus. 
I am lucky to have spectacular friends, both old and new, who have given me countless unforgettable memo­ries and who have been continuous sources of support, compassion, happiness and humor. I’ve been lucky for the ones who have kept me sane, who I’ve been able to lean on and who have become family. 
To all these extraordinary people who have molded my experience at notre dame, I have been incredibly blessed to have known you these past four years. 
so now, instead of saying goodbye, I say thank you. 
Thank you for the memories, the friendships and the smiles. Thank you for making notre dame the place that I love so much, and thank you for making this experience one that is so hard to say goodbye to. 
I’ve been extremely lucky. 
Sarah O’Connor is graduating with a degree in Computer Science. She would like to thank her family for their love and support, her friends for al­ways being there and everyone who has been a part of her Notre Dame experience. Sarah can be reached at sarah.a.oconnor.1@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

notre dame will always be my home 

Suzanna Pratt 
Photo editor emeritus 
I come from one of “those” notre dame families. You know, the kind where at least 16 people have attended, participated in every activity under the sun and lived in nearly every dorm. 

In many ways, the notre dame family is the same thing as my actual family. my parents met here, my older brother lived in the dorm next to mine for two years, countless aunts and uncles and cousins are notre dame graduates and I inherited my grandmother’s class ring. 
some of my earliest memories are 

of notre dame. I remember walking around the lakes to visit the site of my father’s old dorm, finding the windows of the rooms my mother lived in and lighting candles at the Grotto. I re­member sitting in the stadium before it was renovated and playing with my Polly Pocket toy instead of paying at­tention to the football game below me. 
I remember crying 
about spilling my apple juice in the stands. Two decades, later, football still makes me cry, but so does the thought of leaving the place that gave me so many opportunities. 
I found The observer my first weekend on campus when I didn’t know a thing about pho­tography. over four years, my job took me from a private tour of the tunnels to an awards ceremony on the 14th floor of the hesburgh Library and from dublin to miami. I declared an anthropology major and discovered a pas­sion for archaeology, literally getting my hands dirty on an ex­cavation in Albania. I devised an independent research proj­ect and slaved away all year producing a senior thesis longer than every other term paper I have ever written com­bined. I studied abroad and fell in love with rock art and quokkas and watch­ing the moon rise. 
I get chills walking around campus at night, not because the sound of the basilica bells playing the alma mater to a silent quad is chilling in and of it­self, but because this campus is where I feel at home and where the best ex­periences of my life have taken place. As seniors, the only thing we want to do is rewind four years so we can live through our time as undergraduates again. of all the things I’ve learned in four years about anthropology, about life, about myself and about others, the most important thing I’ve learned is notre dame will forever be the place I call home. no matter where the future takes me, I can always look down at my class ring and see the golden dome. In our hearts forever, love thee, notre dame. 
Suzanna Pratt is graduating with a degree in Anthropology and Peace Studies and will be pursuing a master’s in Applied Anthropology at the University of South Florida next year. She would like to thank her family for putting up with her. Suzanna can be reached at spratt2@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A pro-life perspective on Obama speaking 
I am a roman-catholic, pro-life and middle-upper class citi­zen with strong leanings toward the republican Party. oh, and one more thing: I am ecstatic that the President of the United states is coming to speak at my graduation commencement. 
Within hours of the big announcement on mar. 20, 2009, I was receiving infuriating emails from my fellow pro-lifers calling for the immediate repeal of President obama’s invita­tion to notre dame. “We must stand against evil,” said one message.” “he supports gay marriage, which is an affront to the family,” read another. “he should not be given this oppor­tunity to confuse our youth.” one message went so far as to compare obama with history’s most hated villain. 
The email read: “The German people supported hitler because he was dynamic and promised jobs and food. There is more to a man than his charisma.” There is also more to a man than his views on the single issue of abortion. such rash and radical comments not only fail to promote the end of abortion, they undermine the entire pro- life movement. 
In an emergency press release issued by the Pro-Life Action League, national director and notre dame alumnus Joe scheidler made the following statements: “over the first two months of his administration, barack obama has established himself as the most pro-abortion president in U.s. history. my alma mater should not be providing a platform for this presi­dent. Father Jenkins cannot expect pro-life catholics to stand back and allow the most pro-abortion president in U.s. history to make a mockery of notre dame’s catholic identity.” 

As a pro-lifer myself, I understand where scheidler is coming from; I, too, am concerned for the pro-life movement under the obama administration. I simply cannot agree, however, with the idea that notre dame, one of the finest academic institutions in the nation, should deny the President of the United states a platform to speak solely because of his views on abortion. obama is not coming to notre dame to speak about abortion, nor is his speech supposed to play a pivotal part in the formation of our catholic identity. 
It is our responsibility, not our commencement speaker’s, to continue to cultivate our catholic identity and apply it be­yond graduation. The role of a commencement speaker is to welcome college graduates into the real world, arm them with knowledge of complex and evolving issues and inspire them to be passionate and influential citizens of a global community. 
I simply cannot think of anyone more qualified to do these things than the leader of the free world, President barack obama. 
Thus, to my fellow pro-lifers: let us battle the president on each and every issue pertinent to life, but let us not under­mine our intelligence and our patriotism by forsaking other important issues in the reckless pursuit of one. The world will not stop turning for the abortion issue to be resolved. We as catholics are therefore called to be dynamic citizens who take a multi-dimensional approach to making our world a bet­ter place; this means listening and learning from influential world leaders such as barack obama. 
To disinvite the President of the United states based on a single issue, even one as important as abortion, would be a disgrace both to our catholic identity and to this great catholic University. 
Mark Weber 
senior off-campus march 21, 2009 

Thank you, declan sullivan 
I have, from time to time, lost faith in my notre dame com­munity. I have loved this school for my entire life, so take the former statement as all the more profound. I have felt that our campus is divided against itself in 80 different ways. I have felt that our campus is at war with itself. I have felt that the people on this campus care more about the lack of success that plagues our football team than they do about issues of hu­manity that affect the world every day. I feel that we are slowly slipping away from the ideals that notre dame was built upon, survived on and currently promotes as the true spirit of our student body. 
Two hours ago, all of that changed. Two hours ago, the me­morial service for mr. declan sullivan commenced. As the entire campus knows, the student body flooded the basilica, overflowed into the Lafun ballroom and even had to listen outside. others, like myself, watched the memorial service from the live feed online. For an hour, the entire campus stood still as we all came together to celebrate the life of declan sullivan and to help his family and friends begin the mourn­ing process. 
I never had the privilege to meet declan, but I have spent the last several hours thanking God for this soul that could be so inspiring. For though I never met this man, he restored my faith in this University. Though I never knew him, I found myself crying through his service as if I had known him my entire life. I found my heart was aching for his family, and as I scanned the faces in the crowd that filled the basilica, I knew that the entire group felt the same way. I felt the power of the entire student body spreading their prayers over his family, his friends and his dorm mates. 

For the first time in a long time, I felt this community united. on this day, we didn’t belong to a race. We had no political standing. We were not gay or straight. We were not A-students or the “c’s get degrees” crowd. We weren’t pro-life or pro-choice. We weren’t pro-brian Kelly or anti-brian Kelly. We just were. For a brief moment, we were undivided. We were the notre dame community that I so long to be a part of. I chal­lenge the student body to remain that way in honor of the man who had a soul so strong to call us back to who we are. remember that we must support one another, not tear each other down as we are so often tempted to do. remember that we are united through all, and that our minor disagreements should never be allowed to prevent us from standing together as one community. And when one of our community falls, re­member that they are always one of our own. We feel the pain of a family’s loss because we have indeed lost a family member. 
remember declan sullivan, whose influence is so strong that an entire community of 8,000-plus people came together to celebrate his life. For this, he is truly the embodiment of the notre dame spirit. 
To his family: thank you for sharing such an amazing per­son with the notre dame family. my prayers and the prayers of the entire community are with you. 
To declan: Thank you. Thank you for restoring my faith in my notre dame family. Thank you for reminding us of who we are. 
For at the end of the day, we are but one simple thing: We are nd — united in the memory of one of our faithfully fallen. 
Jim Ropa 
sophomore siegfried hall october 29, 2010 

Let’s act on GLbTQ issues 
As a recent alumnus and member of the 2006-07 student senate, it is dishearten­ing to witness the actions — or, rather, in­action on the part of this administration 
— taking place on our Lady’s campus. 
The student senate passed a resolution in march, 2007 requesting the University add “sexual orientation” to its non-dis­crimination clause. While I do not per­sonally identify as GLbTQ, I remember strongly supporting the social concerns committee chair during senate proceed­ings. I was shocked such wording did not already exist. And I remember being a part of the 25-1-1 majority that voted to pass the resolution.
 This publication, The observer, re­ported at the time that both the student senate and Faculty senate had passed similar language in 1998. Two holy cross schools, King’s college in Pa. and holy cross college in Ind., already included the language at the time. I recall students on campus having civilized and intelli­gent debate regarding the issue.
 Yet, three years later, we have not pro­gressed. students, faculty and alumni continue to support measures to be more inclusive with regard to our GLbTQ brothers and sisters, but nothing is done. It is not news that the administration can be selectively deaf regarding student is­sues, but 12 years of repetitive voices and increasing volume must have an effect. 

notre dame, it is time to act. Alumni, students and faculty have done all they can. now, it is up to this administration to stop dismissing the issue and step up to the plate. Take bold steps to live your “spirit of Inclusion” in word and deed. Include “sexual orientation” in the University’s non-discrimination clause. Allow the student Union board to recog­nize groups of gay students on campus as legitimate student groups. And if you won’t, you at least owe 12 years of the notre dame community an explanation of your reasoning. refusing to address the issue — hoping that ignoring it will make it go away — will not cut it any longer. 
Chris Beesley 
alumnus class of 2008 January 29, 2010 
no regrets, one request 
We have no regrets. We booked our hotels after the Pittsburgh game. We booked our flights after Usc. We prayed we would win tickets in the lottery. 99 percent of us didn’t. We appealed to our spouses and better sensibilities that this was a once in a lifetime event. They submitted. And then we paid way too much for tickets. We begged our parents to take the grandkids for a few days. They couldn’t say no. We had used up our fun tickets for the year by Jan. 7. We flew from places like r.I., s.d., Idaho and Texas. We arrived in south Florida to eternal sun and optimism. We may have had a cocktail (or two). We saw dear friends we haven’t seen in 10, 15 or 20 years. We felt an energy, a passion and a part of something that we haven’t felt in a long, long time. It felt like home. We tailgated like champions. The blues and greens outnumbered the reds at least three-to-one. of the 55,000 domers in the sta­dium, we were the 40,000 who stayed until the clock hit 0:00. We have no regrets. We would do it all over again, even if we already knew the ending. We thank you. 
We have one request. At one of the greatest games in our history, we failed to acknowl­edge maybe our greatest tradition, and that is standing together as one family and singing our praise to our beloved Lady of the Lake. our feeling of emptiness in the stands grew ever deeper when we could not acknowledge the good fight and send off our team properly for having one of the greatest seasons we can remember, and for giving all of us alumni the op­portunity to experience what we did. maybe it was the overwhelming grief of the moment. maybe it was the bureaucracy of the orange bowl committee and their stages and ensuing presentations. but I ask you, next time, make it happen. Give us the opportunity to thank the team for a tremendous season, and show us a little love for the sacrifices we all made to be there in support. misery loves company, and we all could have used a little family love around about 0:00. We are nd. 
Andrew Nachman 
alumnus class of 1997 January 16, 2013 


University recognizes LGBTQ group 


For more than 25 years, notre dame and saint mary’s students have asked the University to formally recognize a stu­dent organization designed to address the needs of the gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning (GLbTQ) individuals in the nd-smc community. 
The requests have taken many shapes, including student government resolu­tions, a report to the board of Trustees and applications from student organiza­tions requesting to be officially recog­nized as a club by the student Activities office (sAo). 
members of the campaign for human dignity petitioned University President Fr. John Jenkins to add sexual orienta­tion to the University’s nondiscrimina­tion clause in Jan. 2010. The University did not initially change the clause, which states that it does not discrimi­nate based on “race/ethnicity, color, national origin, sex, disability, veteran status or age.” 
community groups asked administra­tors to review the University’s non-dis­crimination clause and the club status of Alliancend, notre dame’s unofficial gay-straight alliance, in the spring of 2012. The University declined to add LGTbQ individuals to the nondiscrimi­nation clause and deferred its decision on Alliancend until the fall. 
In a dec. 2012 press release, notre dame announced the results of a “com­prehensive review” of support services for GLTbQ students. The release stat­ed that University president Fr. John Jenkins accepted the suggestion by the office of student Affairs to “expand and enhance” these support services, agree­ing to form a University-recognized stu­dent organization.  The specific details of this group, including its name, are still under negotiation. 

Seven ND, SMC students lost in four years 

Two students died in unrelated cases in 2010. elizabeth “Lizzy” seeburg, committed suicide sept. 10. Friends said seeburg, a first year stu­dent at saint mary’s, always had a smile on her face. 
Junior declan sullivan died oct. 27 after the scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. sullivan, a Fisher hall resident, was a student videographer for the football team. 
sophomore sean valero died in April 2011. Friends described valero as easygoing and a dedicated student. 
Fifth-year student and former Zahm house resident Xavier murphy died after a short batle with leukemia in oct. 2011. Zahm residents honored him with their “raisen an X for X” campaign. 
saint mary’s sophomore Ziqi Zhang died oct. 18, 2012 from injuries sustained in a car-bicycle accident outside the college entrance at state route 933. she was a dual-degree stu­dent majoring in mathematics at saint mary’s and taking engineering classes at notre dame. 
First-year master’s degree student michael Thigpen passed away at his off-campus resi­dence nov. 13, 2012. he was a professional mu­sician and an avid climber. 
Eddy Street Commons opens 
August 2009 

Eddy Street Com­mons opened for busi­ness at the begin­ning of the 2009-2010 school year. Five Guys Burgers and Fries and Chipotle opened and other tenants were added since, includ­ing Kildare’s Irish Pub, Nicholas J. Sa­lon and Spa, Camellia Cosmetics, The Mark, O’Rourkes Irish Pub and Urban Outfitters. 
Notre Dame sues HHS over mandate 
August 24, 2012 

Notre Dame filed a lawsuit to challenge the constitutionality of the Department of Health and Human Servivces (HHS) man­date that requires em­ployers to provide con­traceptive services in their minimum health insurance plans. 
The lawsuit was dismissed in January 2013. 

Spike in off-campus arrests causes tension 
August 2010 


After a spike in off-campus arrests for un­derage drinking in fall 2009, the trend of ar­resting rather than citing students for underage drinking caught the at­tention of both students and the University. 
The number of arrests declined after campus leaders began to meet with South Bend law en­forcement and educate students about local laws. 

Students witness papal election 
March 19, 2013 


After Pope Emeri­tus Benedict XVI re­signed Feb. 28, Pope Francis was elected as the 266th pontiff March 13. Notre Dame students abroad in Europe witnessed the historic turnover. 
Pope Francis is no­table as the first Latin American pope and the first Jesuit to hold the office. 
IOSHA fines Notre Dame March 15, 2011 

The Indiana Oc­cupational Health and Safety Admin­istration (IOSHA) found Notre Dame guilty of six viola­tions after an in­vestigation into the death of Declan Sul­livan. 
Notre Dame en­tered discussions with IOSHA to re­view the investiga­tion’s results. 
Mendoza spends four years at No. 1 
March 27, 2013 

Notre Dame’s Men­doza College of Busi­ness earned Bloomberg Buisnessweek’s No. 1 ranking for undergrad­uate business schools in March. 
Mendoza’s new dean Roger Huang said the sucessful continuation of the ranking speaks to the ethical committ­ment of Mendoza and its academic prestige. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT PAId AdverTIsemenT PAId AdverTIsemenT 






class of 2013 graduates enter a stronger job market 

Notre Dame Career Center will continue to offer services for seniors after graduation 
“We have a very loyal alumni base, but 
By NICOLE McALEE 

news Writer we also have very loyal employers because 
of the quality of our students,” centilli 
despite the economic ups and downs said. “even when the market was down, of their four years in college, this group recruiting didn’t really see that fluctuation of graduating seniors enters a job mar-here because of the fact that they wanted ket with excellent prospects, according to to continue that partnership.” career center director hilary Flanagan. Flanagan said approximately three per­
“This year’s job market really is good,” cent of seniors typically graduate without Flanagan said. “When [the seniors] came future plans, but she noted that they may in as freshmen, it was a really different continue to use career center services. picture in terms of the national job market “We don’t cease and desist,” she said. than it is now.” “When they walk across the stage, it 
statistics about the class of 2013’s post-doesn’t mean that the University is done graduation plans are not yet available, but with them. If they’re within one year of Flanagan said the career center will col-graduation, it’s basically, as far as we’re lect that data at graduation ticket pickup. concerned, like they didn’t leave.” 
career counselor robyn centilli said she Flanagan said the career center has expects most graduating seniors to have a many resources to prepare students to en-job or other plans for after graduation. ter today’s unpredictable job market. 
“I would say, without having all of the “[We are] getting the students ready to numbers and the data, … [the hiring rate think about how to market themselves is] probably going to be pretty compa-in terms of [their] own unique personal rable to last year or previous years, where brand as a student,” she said. “how you a higher percentage of our students are market that in 2013 and beyond is a lot graduating with some type of future less about getting your foot in the door plans,” centilli said. “I don’t want to say somewhere and being there for 60 years. just jobs, because we have a large percent-That’s not the world of work that you all age of our student population that will do are entering.” service for a year or two, or are going to centilli said the career center’s services graduate school in some form.” are available to all students. The center 
notre dame graduates typically face performs résumé and cover letter reviews, many job opportunities, Flanagan said. and it helps students with networking and centilli said she expects graduates to interviewing skills. build on relationships with alumni and employers despite the volatile economic Contact Nicole McAlee climate. at nmcalee@nd.edu 
Majority of Saint Mary’s seniors entertain               post-graduate plans 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
As the saint mary’s class of 2013 eye life after the cap and gown, most belles plan to don a suit and tie to enter the workforce, ac­cording to a recent college survey. 
stacie Jeffirs, director of the college’s career crossings office, said current seniors attempting to enter the job force will be aid­ed by an economy that has steadily gained strength over the past four years. 
“I would definitely say that the job market is up three to five percent for college gradu­ates entering the market,” Jeffirs said. “This is a slight gain and [that] will definitely ben­efit graduating seniors. An Increase is always good.” 
Jeffirs said the college recently adminis­tered a survey titled “Graduate destination survey” to seniors. 
“This survey gives a pulse on where se­niors are at right now,” she said. 
Jeffirs said the survey reported an esti­mated 60 to 75 percent of graduatesoindicat­ed they will be employed full-timt, while an estimated 30 percent reported they intend to pursue some form of graduate degree. 
“There is an overlap in numbers because some will choose to enter the workforce and pursue a degree in higher education at the same time,” Jeffirs said. 
“one-third of this year’s graduates report­ed going on to some sort of advanced educa­tion,” Jeffirs said. “This is a pretty substantial amount.” 
senior maria malm will be pursuing a graduate degree in speech pathology at northwestern University. she said the small class size at saint mary’s offered her the skills and opportunities she needed to stand out in the graduate school application process. 
“I would say going to a small school opened up some pinnacle opportunities for me,” malm said. “It really allowed me to stand out in the application process and because I was able to get to know my professors so well I had some pretty good recommendations.” 
Jeffirs said a small percentage of students will volunteer and an even smaller amount will enter into the military after graduation. 
she said since saint mary’s is a faith-based, liberal arts institution, students de­velop unique skill sets that set them apart in the job market. 
“I think the liberal arts education is key in graduates finding jobs, especially in this market,” Jeffirs said. “our girls have built the skills that are in demand by employers. They have worked on their communication, writ­ing and problem solving skills. They are also at an institution where values are at the heart and center of their education. employers want employees that have a strong set of val­ues they can contribute to the world.” 
Jeffirs said the United states economy looks different than it did four years ago, at least in part due to the influx of new indus­tries and the more-interconnected global economy. saint mary’s prepares students well to take on the challenges associated with the new shape of the national economy. 
“Approximately 50 percent of our students participate in some sort of study abroad program,” Jeffirs said. “This is another skill that can really let an applicant stand out.”
     A lot of saint mary’s graduates are offered a position after working at summer intern­ships, Jeffirs said. 
“many of our students are involved with experiential learning and our office helps sophomores and juniors find quality intern­ships,” Jeffirs said. “It is very important to have these hands-on learning experiences. I see that it is very critical in students developing experience in the field they want to go into.”
 Jeffirs said the college offers learning expe­riences inside and outside of the classroom. 
“Leadership opportunities are extremely important, especially for women in the workplace,” Jeffirs said. “here at saint mary’s, leadership opportunities can be found everywhere. students have a strong foundation to build off of when they leave here.” 
senior class president, silvia cueveas said saint mary’s prepared her well for her new job at Target headquarters in minnesota because she took advantage of the college’s many leadership opportunities. 
“I am very hopeful for all of my class­mates,” cueveas said. “We have been given the tools we need to succeed and if you are a go-getter you will get the job. saint mary’s creates go-getters.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

cuevas receives outstanding senior Award 
Award recipient reflects the soul, this year. assistant director of the center participate,” vihtelic said.  “I 
By KELLY KONYA 

news Writer the outstanding senior Award “I found my niche with for Women’s Intercultural expect silvia to do very well in embodies the heart of saint student Government, the Leadership and Intercultural her future, for her the sky is the 
saint mary’s senior silvia mary’s,” o’brien said “silvia’s Intercultural Leadership Progra, Leadership certificate chair, limit.” cuevas, a business major with combination of intelligence, and the spark Program,” cuevas said cuevas was a joy to have in cuevas said after graduation concentrations in finance and spirit and determination are said. “People are right about the program because she was she will join the Target team international business, received 
saint mary’s: small campus, big willing to offer her insights ong-in minneapolis as a business the outstanding senior Award 
opportunities.” how to create a more inclusive Analyst. 
for her work as a student exem­class of 2013 vice president community “I would eventually like to be­
plifying the spirit and values of Ambreen Ahmad said cuevas “I have extremely high hopes come the mayor of hammond 
the college. 
perfectly embodies the mission for silvia,” derakhshani said. and get involved with the 
According to a college press 
of the colleg.. “With her skills at working with economic development in 
Silvia Cuevas
saint mary’s                                outstanding senior 


they set their hearts to,” Ahmad justice, she will change whatever to where I’m from with corpo­“heart of the college” during said.  “she has such a positive context she is in for the better.” rate experience under my belt to her four years. director of me-what make her stand out as she spirit and is not afraid of any Jill vihtelic, professor of busi-make my neighborhood a better dia relations Gwen o’brien said graduates.” challenge.” ness, said she shared that high place for future generations.” the outstanding senior Award is cuevas, a native of hammond, cuevas said she enjoyed form-degree of respect for cuevas after cuevas said she will miss saint one of three honors bestowed on Ind., has been involved in many ing relationships with different knowing her as both her profes-mary’s, which will remain one of seniors who personified quali-different activities on campus professors and faculty who have sor and academic advisor. her favorite chapters.in her life. ties essentially saint mary’s.“As throughout her four years at inspired her during her four “silvia has an infectious smile the valedictorian represents the saint mary’s, culminating in her years at saint mary’s. that warms the classroom cli-Contact Kelly Konya at mind and the Lumen christi term as senior class president mana derakhshani, mate and invites others to kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
nior who worked to embody the 
release, the Alumnae Association “silvia really encourages others, organizing projects and northwest Indiana,” cuevas 
board bestows the award to a se­people to strive to do anything her passion for bringing about said. “I cannot wait to return 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Seniors commit to volunteer work 

schirtzinger said he is motivated by a 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 

news Writer desire to improve his local community of 
columbus, ohio. 

Following graduation, more than 10 “I like the columbus area,” he said. percent of notre dame’s class of 2013 “I tutored low-income students during will participate in volunteer programs, high school and realized that there are ranging from teaching underprivileged a lot of people who don’t have the pack­grade-schoolers to building wells in the age of benefits that I had growing up, developing world. and I thought that service work would 
The number of students participating be a good way to help people to get to the in post-graduate service has increased same place where I am.” tremendously in the past few decades, The Alliance for catholic education according to the center for social (Ace) is another service opportunity concerns [csc]. In 1985 2.8 percent of notre dame graduates have gravitated graduates went on to participate in ser-towars in recent years, according to the vice, while 10 percent of the class of 2003 center for social concerns. since its cre­did. ation in 1994, Ace volunteers have ac-
senior Aaron Lorton  plans to partici-counted for approximately a quarter of pate in a year of service and then attend the notre dame alumni involved in ser­medical school. he said he is consider-vice directly after undergraduate studies. ing several service programs, includ-senior mary Pullano will be among ing the André house of hospitality, these Ace participants. she said several which serves the poor in his hometown undergraduate courses provoked her in-of Phoenix, Ariz. Lorton said he is also terest in education, as she learned about drawn to a specialized teaching program the massive inequities in the American at the nativity Preparatory school of new schooling system. bedford, mass. As Pullano sought to channel her in­
“I like the idea of being able to work in terest in education into service, she said all facets of the students’ lives,” he said. she singled out the Ace program in “The program wants its volunteers to particular. be involved in coaching, leading tutor “I chose Ace because of the strong groups and mentoring.” preparation they provide with the 
Lorton said his motivations for post-master’s in education program,” she graduate service and for medical school said. “The support from the teaching are linked. communities and emphasis on spiritual 
“The reason I want to do service is the growth were also important to me, same reason that I want to go into medi-senior Katherine baglini said she cine,” he said. “It’s the feeling you get chose to participate in Ace because of its when you help someone without looking emphasis on fostering community. for a reward.” “I think Ace stands out because of the 
senior matt schirtzinger also plans to benefit of the large Ace family and the complete a year of service before enter-community support, living with other ine medical school. he said he chose to first- and second-year teachers,” she serve through Americorps because the said. program gives him flexibility in choosing baglini said she believes  even a single a locations. volunteer can implement this changed. 
“I’m looking at a couple of options “It doesn’t happen all at once,” he said. around the central ohio area, — tutor-“It is a steady effort, and its effects might ing in reading programs as well as out-not be easy to see in the moment. but I reach to people with hIv and AIds,” he do think that an individual can bring said. “The hIv outreach interested me in about change in the world.” particular as a different but equally im­portant approach to public health [com-Contact Charlie Ducey at pared to medical school].” cducey@nd.edu 
Catechists awarded Laetare Medal 
can go outside the box to figure out ways 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
new s Writer to include them in worship settings,” 
harrington said. 
The three founders of the special The sPred groups in each parish religious education development function with six “friends,” or people network (sPred) were shocked to find with disabilities, and six sponsors, the out they were this year’s recipients of volunteer catechists. each group has a the Laetare medal, sr. mary Therese parish chairperson who is accountable harrington, a medal recipient, said. to the parish priest. 
The University will present the medal In this way, harrington said sPred is to harrington, sr. susanne Gallagher very parish-based and parish-operated. and Fr. James mccarthy at the University she, mccarthy and Gallagher serve as re­commencement ceremony this may. source people for the individual groups. 
The medal, established at notre dame harrington said sPred also offers in 1883, is the oldest and most prestigious continual training at its center, where honor given to American catholics. It is catechists can continue to observe awarded annually to a catholic, “whose teaching methods and discuss difficul­genius has ennobled the arts and scienc-ties they are experiencing. es, illustrated the ideals of the church “It’s a very trim, decentralized opera-and enriched the heritage of humanity,” tion,” harrington said. “We can keep it according to a University press release. moving well and quickly because it is 
harrington said the Laetare medal decentralized.” will bring much-needed recognition to The sponsors at each parish meet once their organization, which provides re-per week, harrington said. during the ligious education for parishioners with first week they prepare a syllabus for the intellectual disabilities. second week, when they put on a two­
“our work is very hidden because not hour class for their friends. At the third too many people pay that much attention week’s session, the catechists reflect on to people with disabilities,” harrington the previous class and ways they can im­said. “The fact that someone thought we prove it for the following week, when the were doing a good job just blew us away. friends attend class again. … That’s very affirming for us.” The goal of the sessions is four-fold, 
mccarthy, a priest in the Archdiocese harrington said. The catechists aim to of chicago, first conceived the idea for instill within the individuals a sense of sPred in 1960 when he read letters the sacred, a sense of christ, a sense of from parents expressing their difficulty the Father and a sense of the spirit as liv­in finding ministries for their children ing within the church. with intellectual disabilities, harrington “We’re not working with heavy duty said. concepts, we’re dealing with much more 
he began working on the project in his intuitive and contemplative aspects,” off time, and in 1963 harrington joined harrington said. “We use a lot of the arts, mccarthy when he requested a mem-like music, gestures, silence, to illustrate ber of her congregation, the society of points.” helpers, for assistance. To aid parents of the intellectually dis­
“Theology for people with intellectual abled, harrington said the volunteers try disabilities was very bleak, you teach to educate their children to a level where them their prayers and that was about they are able to participate in a normal it,” harrington said. “so many had a ca-worship setting. pacity, but you had to figure out a differ-“some families are afraid to bring ent way.” their children to church because they 
The pair began to work with catechist have been treated disrespectfully there,” volunteers to implement a more con-she said. “The child is not prepared, and templative and liturgical approach to re-the assembly is not prepared.” ligious education better suited to people sPred works to overcome that, with these disabilities, harrington said. harrington said. In addition to prepar­she said they based the approach off the ing the disabled individuals for worship, prior research and practice of French she said many parishes have installed priests from Lyons, France and Quebec, several liturgies throughout the year canada. that may appeal to those who are intel­
“We didn’t know how to introduce lectually disabled. [the method] to the [United states],” Although some people have criti­harrington said. “We started working cized the process as too labor-intensive, in rooms with one-way viewing mirrors. harrington said the method has proven The volunteer catechists could observe successful. us working, then do the same thing.” In a press release, University President 
Gallagher, a member of the sisters of Fr. John Jenkins praised sPred’s com-Providence, joined the organization in mitment to educating people with 1967 to design a montessori environ-disabilities. ment for the groups. With the envi-“Insisting that a developmental dis­ronment, syllabus and observational ability neither tempers christ’s invita­teaching method in place, sPred began tion nor restricts one’s right to respond, multiplying its centers across the United they have ushered countless people to states the following year, harrington their rightful place at the eucharistic said. table,” Jenkins said. 
Today the chicago sPred center has being awarded the 2013 Laetare medal trained volunteers for 156 parishes in allows sPred to demonstrate the fruits the Archdiocese of chicago, 15 other of its efforts to others, harrington said. dioceses in the country and parishes in “We see there’s a real person inside, Australia, south Africa, scotland and and they really respond,” she said. “not other english-speaking nations. in a way a regular child would, but in 
“What [the catechists] are really look-their own way.” ing for is the basic mentality or basic at­titude toward people with intellectual Contact Mel Flanagan at                                     disabilities that is very respectful but mflanag3@nd.edu 


The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
observer exclusive 
swarbrick reflects on busy semester 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
notre dame director of Athletics Jack swarbrick is a busy man. 
but in the past semester, swarbrick has been especially busy. There was a bcs national championship Game, the manti Te’o saga, the move to the Atlantic coast conference (Acc), pro­posed renovations to notre dame stadium and the contract exten­sion with nbc. 
The observer sat down during finals week with swarbrick, who said while all the major events were finalized over the span of a few months, decisions such as the nbc deal and the stadium reno­vations are really the product of years of work. 
“You know, it’s hard to distin­guish them because if you take the big things — the bcs, con­ference realignment, the nbc deal, the stadium — they’ve all sort of played out over a two­and-a-half to three-year period,” swarbrick said. “so, it’s hard to draw distinctions between one six months of that and another. It has been an incredibly dense few years. counting on it not being that way next year.” 
changes to notre dame stadium 
on may 2, the University an­nounced it was exploring the fea­sibility of turning notre dame stadium into “a hub for, among other possibilities, a student cen­ter, media center and classroom and conference center.” The feasi­bility study is expected to take be­tween six and nine months. 
“Well, the feasibility study is re­ally important because there is a lot we don’t know,” swarbrick said. “It’s conceptual at this point. but the momentum and the enthu­siasm is real. People are excited about the concept. They recognize the various needs that are being addressed, so I’m very optimistic about it, but from concept to final implementation, [the process] always contains things you can’t 
see sWArbrIcK Page 2 
football 
Irish return to relevance 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant managing editor 
The 2012 season was not sup­posed to go this way for notre dame. 
The Irish were facing one of the toughest schedules in the country, breaking in a new quar­terback and waving goodbye to their all-time leading receiver. notre dame was never supposed to have a heisman Trophy finalist or win 12 games on its way to an undefeated regular season and a berth in the national title game — but that is what happened. 
The Irish (12-1) ended with a thud, though, with a 42-14 drub­bing by Alabama in the bcs national championship Game. 
crimson Tide running backs eddie Lacy and T.J. Yeldon ran through and around the Irish defense for 248 yards and two touchdowns while redshirt junior quarterback A.J. mccarron added four touchdown passes. 
“We were beat today by a better football team,” Irish coach brian Kelly said after the game. “They beat us today, and we’ve got an­other step that we have to take in the development of our program, and it’ll be left up to those that have been led by these seniors, and that’ll be the challenge mov­ing forward. 
“As for the game, it was pretty clear. I mean, we had a hard time getting off the field, and a lot of that had to do with Alabama.” 
The Irish defense that had al­lowed less than 11 points per game in the regular season was gashed for 42 points and 529 yards of total offense. 

on the game’s first possession, the crimson Tide (13-1) needed just five plays and less than three minutes to travel 82 yards for a touchdown. It was the first touch­down drive of more than 75 yards notre dame had allowed. 
“I think coach Kelly told us be­fore the game that there are eight minutes that are very important 
see FooTbALL Page 2 
outstanding senior athletes 

Legends leave a lasting legacy 
By ANDREW OWENS Assistant managing editor  get and the more support we feel, the better we’re go­ haruno, who attended Punahou high school with  By VICKY JACOBSEN sports Writer  notre dame’s all-time leading scorer never brought home a title, but her career  
emeritus  ing to play.  Te’o and has also lived in  was far from a failure.  
“I  definitely appreciate  dillon hall during his time  Editor’s Note: A version of this story  “she’s a champion,” Irish coach muffet  
Editor’s Note: A longer  all the support we get from  at notre dame. “It’s been  originally appeared in the Irish Insider on  mcGraw told the media after the Final  
version of this article was  the students, and I feed off  kind of a reciprocal thing  April 5.  Four loss. “We didn’t win it, but what she’s  
published in the Nov. 16  the energy and I know the  that has grown the past  done for us has been amazing. she leaves  
Irish Insider senior edition  players do, too.”  four years where now he’s  “ G AAAAAAAAAAAAA m e  notre dame as the most celebrated and  
before Manti Te’o’s final  The swelling of mutual  superman.”  dAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY!!”  decorated player, the best player ever.”  
home game.  admiration  between  the  but Te’o, who will suit up  It’s how senior guard skylar diggins  
student body and Te’o ex- for an Irish home game one  greeted her 388,501 Twitter followers  hometown girl  
This  saturday, for one  ists because the heisman  final time saturday, found  The recruitment of skylar diggins, the  
last time,  proud south bend native, has become a  
familiar story for Irish fans. but assistant  
ncAA tournament April 7. The  coach niele Ivey, who was charged with  
defeat  put  an  end  to  bringing diggins to  notre  dame, said  
diggins’ chances of  she wasn’t sure she had made the sell un­ 
home  football  winning a national  til the then-high school senior made the  
championship  announcement in the Washington high  
8,500  classmates  after  mak­ school library.  
hort them  to  ing  three  “I was sweating it out to the end,” Ivey  
kickoff.  st r a ig ht  said. “I always felt like we had a chance,  
At notre  trips to  you could say. I always felt like this is  
t  h  e  home for her, it would be hard for her to  
actions, but the  Final  leave. I guess I was always nervous.”  
Four.  Ivey and Irish coach muffet mcGraw  
his peers as well.  were successful in recruiting diggins to  
Manti te’o  notre dame, but it was diggins herself  
who brought a new crew of fans to Purcell  
Pavilion.  
“I feel like I met everybody in the  
team is a direct  crowd,” diggins said. ”There are so many  
with our  skylar diggins  fans that have been familiar faces that  
the students. The  I’ve been with since Washington, since  
port we’re going  see sKYLAr Page 3  


The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

swarbrick What role does video play? how do these things fit together? That’s 
conTInUed From PAGe 1 
all ahead of us here. We’ve made anticipate right now.” no decisions.” 
swarbrick said he and executive swarbrick did say he believes vice President John Affleck-the shamrock series games have Graves were the two different converted many of those fans who forces who came together in con-were initially opposed to putting a structing the stadium plan. While videoboard inside the historic sta­Affleck-Graves was more focused dium. Those fans, swarbrick said, on locating university assets, now realize the boards are about swarbrick said he was concerned endorsing notre dame and telling with maximizing the value of its story as opposed to pursuing notre dame stadium as a piece of commercial interests. real estate. 
“one [factor] was my interest in football success and its nfl addressing various issues with the implications stadium but recognizing, prin-In the days after notre dame’s cipally driven by the notion that loss to Alabama in the bcs we had to make it more of a year-national championship Game, round facility,” swarbrick said. reports surfaced and rumors “And as campus has grown up swirled about the possibil­around the stadium, you can’t af-ity of Irish head coach brian Kelly 

injury, rees stepped in to lead tossed the game-winning score ford this real estate and not use it. jumping ship to the nFL with the 
football 
the Irish on the game-winning in overtime, hitting junior re­conTInUed From PAGe 1 And so that was the starting point Philadelphia eagles. Throughout 

55-yard drive. sophomore kicker ceiver TJ Jones on a 7-yard slant. for me from which over the past the whole process, however, 
Kyle brindza nailed a 27-yard The Irish held the cardinal few years I’ve been sort of going swarbrick said he was entirely 
in the game,” Irish senior line-field goal with seven seconds re-(12-2) to 272 total yards on their down this path.” comfortable with the communi­
backer manti Te’o said after-maining to secure the win over way to a 6-0 start. swabrick’s views coupled with cation between the involved par-
ward. “The first two minutes of the boilermakers (6-7). “It’s great anytime you can get Affleck-Graves’ preferences, and ties and confident Kelly would 
the game, the last two minutes in The Purdue touchdown in the a win,” rees said. “The atmo­the two processes came together return to notre dame. 
the second quarter, the first two final minutes would be the only sphere was great tonight. The “in a great notre dame way,” ac-“It worked very much the 
minutes of the third quarter and offensive touchdown the Irish students did a great job. The de­cording to swarbrick. way I would have wanted it to,” 
the last two minutes of the game, defense would allow in the next fense obviously played really, re­swarbrick said. “really good com-
and obviously the first two min-40-plus days, a stretch spanning ally well again, and it feels good new videoboard in the munication between brian and I. 
utes of the game didn’t pan out four games. to get the win.” stadium? Good communication between 
the way we thought it would go.” The Irish earned a 20-3 win After dispatching bYU (8-5) While swarbrick acknowledged the eagles and I, both of which 
notre dame fell behind 35-0 at michigan state on sept. 15, the next week with a tough 17­fans and alumni are eager to hear you would hope happen and did 
and only got within four touch-marking the first time in a de-14 Golson-less victory in which about the possibility of adding in this case. 
downs after senior running back cade notre dame started 3-0. riddick ran for a career-high 143 a videoboard to the stadium, he “so I was very comfortable with 
Theo riddick’s 6-yard touch-The win over the spartans (7-6) yards, the Irish were set for a date said the process is not nearly that the process and I know it caused 
down snag with 7:51 left in the was the first win over a top-10 at oklahoma. The sooners had far along at this point. some of our fans and supporters 
fourth quarter. opponent since 2005. only lost in norman, okla., four “I know people love to talk about discomfort, but I not only had con­
“We’ve got to get physically Te’o led the Irish on defense times under coach bob stoops. videoboards or suites or playing fidence in the outcome, but I think 
stronger, continue to close the with 12 tackles and a fumble The Irish broke open a 13-13 surfaces,” swarbrick said. “none your most committed employees 
gap there, and just overall you recovery after a week in which game late in the fourth quarter to of that is addressed in this at this are the employees who know they 
need to see what it looks like,” he was believed to lose both his run away from oklahoma (10-3), moment. We’re more focused on have the freedom to explore other 
Kelly said. “our guys clearly girlfriend and his grandmother. scoring 17 points in less than four the use concepts. Will we build a opportunities. It’s not limited to 
know what it looks like. When A week later, in a 13-6 win over minutes. Te’o put on another fine stadium where we can commu-coaches. It’s true of everyone. so 
I say, ‘know what it looks like,’ michigan at notre dame, stu-performance, tallying 11 tackles, nicate more effectively with fans throughout I was very comfort-
a championship football team. dents donned leis to support a sack and an interception, and as we do this renovation? sure. able with how it was handled.” 
They’re back-to-back national Te’o. he responded with eight the Irish defense clamped down Absolutely. What form that takes 
champs. so that’s what it looks tackles and two interceptions despite giving up the first rush­… Is our focus broadband? You all conference affiliation and 
like. measure yourself against in notre dame’s first win over ing touchdown of the season. will be bringing devices into the scheduling 
that, and I think it was pretty michigan (8-5) in three years. The Irish survived a triple-stadium that you want us to serve, 
clear across the board what we “I mean, it all revolves overtime threat from Pittsburgh what role does broadband play? see sWAbrIcK Page 11 
have to do.” around him, his personality, the next week before easily top­
notre dame began its best sea-his strength,” Kelly said. “he’s a pling boston college and Wake son in 25 years (when the 1988 special guy. Take advantage of Forest. notre dame was ranked Irish won the national champi-him while you’ve got him now, no. 1 in the country and all that onship) in unfamiliar territory because I’ve never been around stood between them and a na­
— Ireland. The Irish returned to a kid like that.” tional title game berth was Usc. the emerald Isle for the first time The Irish defense totalled brindza hit five of six field since 1996 and dominated navy six takeaways and stifled goals to lead the Irish past the on their way to a 50-10 win. Wolverines senior quarterback Trojans, 22-13, and onto miami. 
Te’o notched eight tackles and denard robinson, making up Usc senior quarterback matt his first career fumble recovery for two years of torment by the barkley was sidelined with a and interception. he would end michigan signal caller. rees shoulder injury, which pushed the season with 113 tackles and relieved Golson again and pro-redshirt freshman max Wittek seven interceptions as the run-vided the only touchdown of the into the starting role and into the ner-up for the heisman Trophy. contest with a 2-yard dive in the spotlight. 
sophomore quarterback second quarter. The Irish made life difficult for everett Golson earned his first After a 41-3 domination of Wittek, yielding only 186 passing start in an Irish uniform and miami (7-5) at soldier Field in yards while snagging two inter-completed 12 of 18 passes for 144 chicago on oct. 6, the Irish re-ceptions. riddick paced the Irish yards, one touchdown and one turned to south bend to take on offense with 146 rushing yards interception. stanford and for the first time and a score. 
The Irish running game rum-since 2005, “college Gameday” “We’ve brought a lot of pride bled for 293 yards on the ground was on campus. back to notre dame,” Te’o said. despite the absence of senior notre dame held on to a 20-13 “I’m grateful to be a part of it. running back cierre Wood, who, overtime win in the rain after “We’re the best team. We’re along with junior quarterback stuffing stanford senior running no. 1.” Tommy rees and junior defen-back stepfan Taylor four con-In 2013, the Irish return eight sive end Justin Utupo, was sus-secutive times inside the 5-yard starters on defense and, for the pended for the opener. line. first time in the Kelly era, will 
rees returned in a big way the “It comes to fruition in the way have the same starter at quar­next game, in a 20-17 victory over the game ended and our team terback for consecutive seasons. Purdue on sept. 8. Golson’s fum-coming up with a great goal-line The Irish open the 2013 season ble with less than four minutes stand,” Kelly said. “classic.” against Temple on Aug. 31. left led to a Purdue game-tying rees replaced Golson, who touchdown. suffered a concussion on a hit Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
After Golson sustained a wrist in the fourth quarter, again and mdefrank@nd.edu 





notre dame a better person.” natalie Achonwa and this team 
skylar 

According to coaches and is going to be okay for years to 
conTInUed From PAGe 1 

teammates, diggins is taking come because of her.” my middle school days. And it’s that motto a step further, leav-Loyd says teammates will just a great feeling, to be from ing the program itself stronger remember diggins as a team-here and to see the support, at her departure. mate, not as a celebrity or icon-knowing people are in your “I try not to think of it,” Ivey ic player. corner and want you to win.” said when asked what the team “At my second workout or 
mcGraw said the backing would be like if diggins had not something me and her were from local fans was palpable. come to notre dame. “I knew in the gym and she was like, 
“I think people like the that that piece of the puzzle ‘Want to work on your ball home talent. They appreciate for us was basically program-handling?’ I was like, ‘sure, I’ve that kids stay close to home,” changing. she draws so much got nothing better to do,’” Loyd mcGraw said. “When we went attention, even from other said. “We worked out and joked to Indianapolis for the Final recruits. around and listened to music, Four [in 2011] we got a huge “recruits want to come here and that’s how we really start-crowd. The entire state was because they could be a part of ed our bond. And that’s some-cheering for us. so, I think it’s a this with her. Like anyone who thing that I’ll cherish forever, bonus to have a player like that looks up to Lebron, they want because not a lot of upperclass­stay close to home and help us to go play for the heat. That’s men will embrace the fresh-grow our fan base and create what she brings for us.” men, but she definitely does.” more interest in the women’s diggins has also been instru­game.” mental in the development of shocking developments 
It was during that ncAA the players who will try to take diggins had hardly any tournament in 2011 that her place after she graduates. downtime after her playing diggins, then a sophomore, be-“she’s always a competitor, career ended. on April 15, just gan to attract attention outside and it helps a lot,” freshman more than a week after her fi­of michiana. guard Jewell Loyd said after be-nal game, the Tulsa shock se­
“Probably my biggest mo-ing named national freshman lected her with the no. 3 overall ment [from diggins’ career] of the year April 4. “she makes pick in the WnbA draft. was when we beat Tennessee everyone around her better, diggins made her profes­in the elite eight and made and that’s something I always sional debut in a 72-58 exhibi­real-life stuff. I was shy my 
Manti 
freshman year, but he intro-our first Final Four since 2001,” want to have in my handbook tion loss to the Atlanta dream 

conTInUed From PAGe 1 

duced me to all his friends. … tal stage for us. It was the first diggins is as effusive in points and collected three as-Ivey said. “It was a monumen-to do as well.” on may 9 and scored nine 
*** he would pick me up when I was time beating Tennessee, first praise of her teammates as they sists to go along with an elbow 
When Te’o’s faith led him to down … and had a very positive time beating [then-Tennessee are of her. to the mouth. 
commit to notre dame in the impact on my college career.” coach] Pat summitt at the head “I’m so proud of Jewell,” And though she has gained 
winter of 2009, he swapped manti said it was never an ob-of the program. That was the diggins said. “she’s somebody five stitches, 50,000-odd 
sandcastles for snow shov-ligation or an extra effort to be-year skylar became a house-that I really tried to take under Twitter followers and has 
els and left the only home he friend non-athletes. It’s simply hold name.” my wing, and just, her growth changed teams, the message 
had ever known for northern who he is. this year has been so amazing, remains. 
Indiana. he said the transition “I love to make friends,” he senior leader and she’s done so much for our “GAAAAAAAAAAAAAme 
tested his resolve. said. “I love to include people. I The inscription on the statue team and for our program. I dAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY!!” 
“I was homesick and I really don’t like people to feel exclud­of former Irish football coach know next year that I can kind 
missed my family,” Te’o said. ed from anything and I have dan devine reads: “Leave the of pass the baton to her and Contact Vicky Jacobsen at 
“Freshman year I definitely some friends that are still in field a better player. Leave (juniors) Kayla mcbride and vjacobse@nd.edu 
couldn’t have called this place dillon who are seniors.” home. It was totally different.” Fr. Paul doyle, dillon hall rec-
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
he said he eventually em-tor and football team chaplain, braced notre dame and de-said in both roles he witnessed cided to make the most of his manti making a difference in collegiate experience. people’s lives. 
“I could call this place home “he doesn’t even realize [sophomore year],” he said. what an impact he had,” doyle “This year solidified the feeling said. “I know he helped some of this place being my home and people make good choices who I’m definitely going to miss it.” might’ve been inclined to be do-
his father, brian Te’o, noticed ing things they shouldn’t be do-the change during christmas ing, but manti was in the midst break of manti’s sophomore and they didn’t go that way and year in hawaii. they’re better for it.” 
“he came up to my wife doyle recalled a moment in (ottilia) and I, and said, ‘I have the locker room after notre to get ready to go back home,’ dame’s overtime victory over and my wife and I are saying stanford in october that ex-to each other, ‘You are home,” emplified the senior captain’s brian said. “That’s when he grace and humility. started to feel like notre dame “We come in after the game was home. It was a place of and the players are hugging comfort and notre dame has each other,” doyle said. “manti’s become physically, spiritually over there doing that too, and and emotionally, his home.” then he breaks away from the 
pack and thanks [University *** President Fr. John Jenkins] for When manti was placed in letting him come to school here dillon hall leading up to his and gives [director of Athletics freshman year at notre dame, Jack swarbrick] a big hug. That he relished the opportunity to kind of presence is noteworthy.” meet new people, regardless of before manti made the de­whether they were scholarship cision to return for his senior athletes or not. season, brian researched the 
“It was like having a normal possibility of manti declar­roommate, except that he was a ing for the nFL draft. When football player,” said Long Tran, presented with the informa­manti’s roommate for fresh-tion, manti asked his father for man and sophomore years. “he advice. took his religion very seriously. I “At his age I was a dad with thought a football player would two kids, so I would’ve gone be partying [all the time], but [to the nFL],” brian said. “but I he didn’t do that. 
“he helped me out a lot with see mAnTI Page 4 




The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

woMen’s basketball 

Irish return to Final Four, fall to UConn 
along this quickly,” mcGraw said 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports Writer of Loyd. “I don’t think you ever ex­pect a freshman to play so well so The third time did not prove to early in the season.” be a charm for no. 2 notre dame. After playing a reserve role the 
despite losing three starters past two seasons, Achonwa be-from a 2011-2012 squad that fell to came notre dame’s main threat undefeated baylor in the national in the paint. The 6-foot-3 forward, championship game, the 2012-who played for the canadian na­2013 Irish (35-2, 16-0 big east) put tional team in the 2012 summer together one of the most success-olympics, averaged 13.8 points ful seasons in program history, and 9.5 rebounds per game and rattling off a 30-game win streak, recorded a school-record 19 dou­earning a no. 1 seed and booking ble-doubles on the season. their third consecutive trip to the “[Achonwa] came in with a lot of Final Four. confidence having played on the 
In the end, however, notre canadian olympic team, which dame came up empty-handed really helped her,” mcGraw said. yet again, as the Irish lost to fellow “she gained some confidence and no. 1 seed and eventual national aggressiveness and was assertive champion connecticut, 83-65, in on offense. she did so many great the national semifinals in new things that we needed, and we orleans. expect great things from her next 

despite the disappointing end-year.” ing, Irish coach muffet mcGraw mcbride was no stranger to the said she was proud of the way starting lineup, but she nonethe-notre dame’s players weren’t and win the big east tournament. shooting less than 30 percent her team defied expectations less took on an increased role in the only ones earning accolades, We’ve never won the big east from the field, and had no answer throughout the season. the offense and improved her as mcGraw took home both the tournament before, so that was a for connecticut’s star freshman 
“nobody expected us to be in scoring numbers. mcbride fin-Associated Press national coach moment we really treasured.” forward breanna stewart, who the Final Four,” she said. “We ished second on the team with of the Year award and the UsWbA Although notre dame went finished with 29 points. graduated three starters and an average of 15.9 points per national coach of the Year award. undefeated in big east play, the “[The worst part of the season] thought we were rebuilding, game and earned third-team All-The Irish began their season Irish faced their share of scares was just losing to connecticut,” but I think the core of the team, America honors. in the most unusual of locations from conference opponents. The mcGraw said. “It was incredibly the veterans — [junior forward] “[mcbride] had a phenom-— aboard the Uss Yorktown in team pulled out a narrow 75-disappointing to have to lose that natalie Achonwa, [junior guard] enal season to get to be an All-charleston, s.c. There, they de-71 overtime victory over south one after having beaten them Kayla mcbride and [senior guard] American,” mcGraw said. “she feated then-no. 19 ohio state, Florida on Jan. 8 and battled to three times.” skylar diggins — really stepped wasn’t even on the All-big east 57-51, on a cold, windy playing the final whistle in close wins over next season, the Irish will be up and had great seasons.” preseason team. she made so surface. notre dame would go on villanova and syracuse. without diggins, who was se­
notre dame entered the season many big shots for us this year.” to win its first five games, includ-mcGraw said her team’s men-lected by the Tulsa shock with the charged with the task of replac-From the start of the season, ing a road victory over then-no. 19 tal strength allowed it to get past third overall pick in last month’s ing guards natalie novosel and most of the attention around the UcLA on nov. 23, 2012. many challenges over the course WnbA draft. but mcGraw said brittany mallory and forward team was focused on diggins, notre dame’s first stumble of the season. she thinks diggins’ legacy will be devereaux Peters from a team who entered the season as one of came against then-no. 3 baylor at “mental toughness comes from reflected in the team’s returning that finished as the national the most accomplished players Purcell Pavilion on dec. 5, as the everybody,” mcGraw said. “I think players. championship runner-up. And in notre dame history. diggins Irish fell to the bears, 73-61. the whole team had tremendous “I think [we can be successful] although the Irish entered the capped off her final season in an The Irish wouldn’t lose again mental toughness, and you cer-because [diggins] left us an atti­season coming off two consecu-Irish uniform by averaging 17.1 until April, as the team went on a tainly need that throughout the tude,” mcGraw said. “she taught tive title game appearances, only points, 6.1 assists and 3.1 steals 30-game win streak that included season, to put away your feelings us how to have a little big of swag-three of the big east’s 16 head per game. three victories over connecticut and play another overtime.” ger in our step, and I hope that’s coaches predicted notre dame to diggins was a unanimous first-(35-4, 14-2). The Irish held on to entering the ncAA tourna-something we learned and will win the conference title in a pre-team All-America selection and top the huskies, 73-72, on Jan. ment as the no. 2 ranked team carry on in the future.” season poll. received the big east Player of the 5 and gutted out a gritty 96-87 in the country, the Irish survived mcGraw said the results of 
but notre dame found a num-Year award for the second straight three-overtime victory when the early challenges from no. 16 seed the past season solidified notre ber of different contributors to season. diggins became notre teams met again march 4. Tennessee-martin, no. 9 seed dame’s status as an elite program help fill the scoring and rebound-dame’s all-time leading scorer, As the series shifted to hartford, Iowa and no. 12 seed Kansas rela-but added that the program still ing void left by the trio of departed breaking the record previously conn., for the big east tourna-tively unscathed. has not reached its ultimate goal. seniors. held by Irish assistant coach beth ment, the Irish continued their notre dame’s matchup against “I think for us to look back and 
Freshman guard Jewell Loyd cunningham, and also became success against the huskies, beat-no. 2 seed duke in the elite eight go to three Final Fours in a row stepped into the starting lineup the program’s all-time leader in ing connecticut, 61-59, in a tightly was a little more difficult, as the is an accomplishment that not almost immediately and took an steals, games started and minutes contested tournament champi-blue devils took a 37-31 lead many programs in the country active role in notre dame’s of-played. onship game. With the victory, into halftime. but notre dame have ever done,” she said. “I think fense, finishing the season averag-“she’s the best player to ever notre dame earned its first big battled back, going on a 15-2 run we’ll look at the moment of three ing 12.5 points and 5.2 rebounds play here,” mcGraw said of east postseason title in program early in the second half to take the [Final Fours] in a row and the per game. Loyd was named the diggins. “I think without question history. lead and punch its ticket to new great win streak. United state basketball Writers the contribution that she made “We won 30 games in a row, orleans with an 87-76 win. “but our goal is still the national Association (UsbWA) national was amazing, and it exceeded ex-which is a record that even our In new orleans, the Irish faced championship and until we get Freshman of the Year, as well as pectations. I think she was able to [2000-2001 national] champion-the huskies once again, but this that, we won’t be satisfied.” the big east Freshman of the Year. accomplish what no one was able ship team couldn’t accomplish,” time they were not able to repli­
“I thought she would contrib-to do before here and a lot of the mcGraw said. “[It was great] to cate their regular season success. Contact Brian Hartnett at ute, but I didn’t expect her to come records she set will remain.” beat connecticut three times notre dame went cold on offense, bhartnet@nd.edu 

Manti 
conTInUed From PAGe 3 
looked him in the eye and said, ‘son, you are not me, and you are not in my position. You’re a young man with  your whole fu­ture ahead of you.’ 
“he looked at me and said, ‘dad, I want to stay. I want to experience my last year at notre dame.’ Given the presentation of a secure future for himself and his family, he went deeper and made a decision that was much more fulfilling: to com­plete his goal and get a degree from notre dame.” 
brian said manti, a design major, has fully immersed him­self in his academic and ath­letic crafts this year in ways he hadn’t always before. 
manti said the realization of impending graduation and a farewell to notre dame has helped motivate him. 
“I try to embrace everything, experience everything and not count my days and try to make my days count and live every day like it’s my last,” he said. “I think, as a young guy, you don’t understand that because you see you have four years and you think it’s such a long time and I can postpone things and lounge around. 
“When you know you have less than two months left, it puts a fire under your butt to stay in­volved and try to experience as much as you can because it’s going to be over.” 
Irish coach brian Kelly said manti’s example permeates the program as young players watch the star’s every move. 
“I think it’s important manti understood [the importance of education],” he said. “hopefully he can be the guy that says, ‘Look, you can be a great play­er. You can still lead your team and have a degree, and have a degree from a place like notre dame. … I think it’s a great case in point of a guy that under­stands and recognizes the value of a life versus a career. 
“his life is set up because he’s got a degree from notre dame.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



hockey 

In final CCHA season, ND claims conference crown 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports Writer 
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times and then it got better for notre dame. 
or as Irish coach Jeff Jackson said, notre dame (25-13-3, 17-8-3 cchA) saw the entire spectrum of winning and losing. 
“It was a tale of three seasons,” Jackson said. “We had a great first half, a tough middle coming back from winter break and a great fin­ish. of course it was a disappoint­ing way to go out before we reached the Frozen Four again, but it was great to win the cchA. I think we played our best hockey of the sea­son going into the ncAA tourna­ment. so it was nice to finish up stronger.” 
notre dame began the season 14-4 and went into winter break as the no. 3 team in the country. After the break, the Irish went 2-6 in January. Jackson said the strength and leadership of the senior class held the team together through the times of adversity, both during the trying January stretch and through the four years overall. 
“[The seniors] all had different stories,” Jackson said. “A few guys left for pro hockey, but they all in their own way found a way to overcome adversity over their four years here. [defenseman sam] calabrese broke his leg freshman year and then came back. [Goalie mike] Johnson lost his starting position after leading a team to the Frozen Four [as a sophomore]. [right wing Kevin] nugent was in and out of the lineup. They over­came their adversity and stayed positive. They all helped lead our team. Two of them weren’t in the lineup every night, but they made sure everyone was doing the right thing at all times.” 
nugent was the one who put a stop to the five-game losing streak Jan. 26 and sparked the Irish to a 5-2 win over Ferris state. With the game locked at 2-2, nugent threw a wrist shot on net at the end of a shift and broke the tie. The eventual game-winning goal was nugent’s first career goal in 64 games and it reversed notre dame’s January slide at the time. 
“To be honest at the time, I was just happy to get that goal,” nugent said. “We were in a bad place at that point in the season and I was just happy because it was a good boost. Looking back, I would be a little disappointed if I didn’t score my whole college career.” 
notre dame surged in the re­mainder of the regular season, going 5-2-3 down the stretch. Then in march the Irish won the last ever cchA tournament. notre dame defeated bowling Green twice, ohio state and then michigan in the championship matchup at Joe Louis Arena in detroit. It was the fifth time the Irish defeated the Wolverines in the 2012-13 season and capped off a season sweep. The seniors said it was an incred­ible experience. 
senior defenseman sam calabrese said the cchA champi­onship win was a special time for the team. 
“beating michigan at Joe Louis, for the fifth time, is something I will always remember,” calabrese said. “To go out on top of the cchA, it is a great way to go out and see the nd banner hanging up in Joe Louis.” 
Junior captain and All-American center Anders Lee said the best part of winning the cchA title was sharing it with his teammates. 


“I was happy to be able to win the conference and be together as a team to celebrate the joys of win­ning,” Anders said. 
With the victory over the Wolverines, the Irish entered the ncAA tournament but lost 5-1 in the first round to st. cloud state. 
“We ran into a really good st. cloud team,” calabrese said. “I don’t think we played our best game of the season, but it was a good ride.” 
Lee said that although the Irish fell short there were many positives in the season. 
“We have a caliber team that is capable of and wanted to compete for a national championship,” Lee said. “It was a disappointment that we fell a little short, but we won the cchA and took down a lot of top-ranked teams this season.” 
nugent credited the team’s success to the camaraderie and closeness of this season’s group of athletes. 
“overall, we bonded more as a team more than any of the other four years I was here,” nugent said. “This translated to our success and unfortunately we lost in the ncAA playoffs, … I’ve been lucky to get to know these guys so well.” 
calabrese said his teammates and future Irish hockey players should embrace the moments like the cchA championship and the ncAA tournament. 
“enjoy the moment,” calabrese said. “You don’t really think of yourself as a senior and you ex­pect to get back, but embrace those championship moments — con­ference finals and ncAA tourna­ment — because you never know if you will be back. so, enjoy your time at notre dame and as a notre dame student athlete.” 
After the season, the Irish named Lee — who went on to help the new York Islanders make a playoff run in the nhL — the notre dame monogram club mvP. The Irish coaching staff awarded Johnson the charles “Lefty” smith coaches honor as the unsung hero of the team. sophomore right wing Peter schneider was awarded the notre dame club of st. Joseph valley’s rockne student-Athlete Award as the player with the top grade-point average on the team, and sopho­more defenseman robbie russo earned the William donald nyrop defensive player of the year. 
Looking back on the season and his career, calabrese said the team is a family, which made for an in­credible four years. 
“These were special times,” calabrese said. “It’s a family here. being with these guys for four straight years, you learn so much about them. They are there for you and they celebrate with you the joys of being a student athlete. I still keep in touch with the seniors and juniors from my freshman year and I know I will keep in touch with these guys too.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Men’s basketball 

Solid regular season marred by early tourney exit 
have that many turnovers.” 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor Irish junior guard Jerian Grant, who committed a team-
For the seventh straight sea-high five turnovers, said the son, the Irish reached the 20-win ball-control issues were un­mark. For the fourth straight characteristic, and the loss was season, the Irish reached the 10-especially disheartening. win mark in big east play. but “You know, it hurts. All sea-for the third time in four years, son, it felt like we had a team notre dame failed to reach this year that could make a deep the second round of the ncAA run in march, and I really be-tournament. lieved that,” Grant said after the 
The Irish (25-10, 11-7 big east) game. “I just feel like we picked put together a 23-8 regular sea-the worst day to have our worst son, reached the semifinals of game. All through the year, I felt the big east tournament and like we turned the ball over less earned a no. 7 seed in the ncAA than 10 times a game. To do it 14 tournament. but notre dame times in the first half is some-fell to no. 10 seed Iowa state, 76-thing that’s hard to come back 58, on march 22, and extended from. It’s something we don’t its sweet 16 drought to 10 years. normally do, is turn the ball 

“I really would think it’s the over, and that really hurts.” next step for our program,” Irish Throughout the season, the coach mike brey said after los-Irish were not a team prone to ing to the cyclones. “We’ve been coughing up the ball. heading so consistent in the regular sea-into the Iowa state game, notre son, and we haven’t been able to dame was tied for 24th nation-do much here. That’s what keeps ally in fewest turnovers per up right where he left off after a stretch culminating in a 63-47 on. I can’t even remember all me up at night and keeps me game at 11.1. The Irish, behind breakout junior campaign. The loss to Georgetown at Purcell of the big plays different guys trying to figure out how we can the typically stellar backcourt 6-foot-9, 246-pound workhorse Pavilion on Jan. 21. made to get us to where we’re at be better at it. That’s what’s very play of Grant and fellow ju-racked up 19 double-doubles Irish graduate student for-with a win like that. We’ve had a extremely disappointing about nior guard eric Atkins, ranked and earned a spot on the All-big ward scott martin was limited lot of good wins in this building tonight. Go back to the drawing second nationally in assist-to-east first team while averaging to 18 minutes against the hoyas, but I can’t remember one more board and try and figure it out.” turnover ratio at 1.54 and sixth 13.1 points and 10.1 rebounds and brey said after the game thrilling or dramatic with dif-
Against Iowa state, the Irish in assists per game at 17 per for the season. cooley was the that martin’s knee was clearly ferent twists and turns.” shot just 4-for-17 from 3-point contest. only player in the conference to bothering him. martin, who The Irish would meet the range, while the cyclones Grant, who was named to the average double figures in both battled multiple knee injuries cardinals twice more before the drilled nine of 21 trifectas en All-big east second team, led scoring and rebounding. throughout his career at both season’s end, but Louisville got route to the victory. notre dame the Irish in scoring (13.3 points After being named to the all-Purdue and notre dame, would revenge on both occasions. In got down early after commit-per game) and assists (5.5 per league team, cooley said he not play again. on Feb. 28, brey the second of the two meetings, ting 14 first-half turnovers, game) while averaging over 36 thinks opposing coaches were announced the Irish were shut-the cardinals knocked notre and Iowa state led 35-23 at the minutes a night. Atkins, mean-particularly impressed with his ting down martin for the re-dame out of the big east tour-intermission. while, spearheaded the offen-tenacity and relentlessness. mainder of the season. nament in the semifinals for the 
“off those turnovers, they sive attack and finished with “every coach comes up to but the Irish responded as a third consecutive year. The Irish were able to run and get easy one less assist than Grant over me after every game and tells reinvented team. Knight was will head to the Acc next season points,” Irish senior forward the course of the entire season me they appreciate how hard I inserted into the starting lineup having never reached saturday Tom Knight said after the game. while averaging 11.2 points per play,” cooley said. “It means a alongside cooley, and the Irish night’s championship game at “We were trying to limit that, game. lot to just have it come true and morphed into a bruising, de-madison square Garden in new but with 14 in the first half, it’s While the junior duo con-this award. It means so much.” fensive squad at times. Without York city. really hard to stop them from trolled perimeter play, Irish se-cooley and the Irish broke martin, the Irish ripped off sev-“I’m very disappointed we scoring easy points when you nior forward Jack cooley picked out to a 12-1 record against the en wins in nine games during could never get to saturday,” 
nonconference portion of its late Jan. and Feb. one of those brey said after the 69-57 semifi­schedule. A 64-50 victory over wins came against eventual na-nal loss. “I guess I got to say can then-no. 8 Kentucky, the de-tional champion Louisville on we get to sunday afternoon now fending national champions, Feb. 9 in arguably the greatest in the new league or whatever. highlighted the opening stretch college basketball game of the but I’m thrilled that we played for notre dame. Powered by season. in the semis in such a magical Grant and Atkins in the back-The Irish trailed by eight night here.” court, the Irish thoroughly points with 44 seconds remain-Following the big east tour-outplayed the Wildcats in the ing in regulation, at which point nament, the Irish received a no. first half and opened up a 36-Grant scored 12 points in 23 sec-7 seed in the ncAA tournament 25 advantage at the half. For onds to erase the deficit, tie the for the second consecutive year. the game, notre dame limited game at 60 and force overtime. Yet again, however, notre dame Kentucky to 40 percent shooting It certainly wouldn’t be the couldn’t advance past the open-from the field. only time the game advanced ing round, much less the open­
“I’m really proud of our to an extra period. notre dame ing weekend. group,” brey said afterward. and Louisville battled through “now we’ve got to maneuver a “We really prepared like an ex-five overtimes as saturday new league next year,” brey said perienced team the past two turned to sunday at Purcell after falling in the first round. days. I thought we played like Pavilion. The Irish took the lead “We’ve got to come out of a new an experienced group, defended for good when Atkins scored a league. but that’s like the unfin­excellently for 40 minutes and layup with 1:20 remaining in ished business for this program. got into our offensive rhythm the fifth overtime, holding on It’s really well respected nation-when we really needed to. our for the thrilling 104-101 victory. ally. It had a great identity in the guards were fabulous, control-“Where do you want me to big east. It will be interesting ling the tempo of things. but start?” brey asked after the mar-to see what it is in the Acc. We [it’s] something for us to build athon. “because I don’t know even got to the semis of the big on.” where to start. Unbelievable. I’m east [tournament] four years in 
The Irish vaulted off the vic-really proud of my team because a row. tory over the Wildcats with many times we were down and “but this is a hump we can’t seven more wins, which took in the overtime and kept fight-get over yet. but we’ll keep try-them into big east play. but af-ing back. everybody was part of ing to figure it out.” ter winning its first two league it tonight. It’s one of those magi-tilts, notre dame dropped three cal nights in our building. They Contact Mike Monaco at of four conference matchups, a were really good, hard to score jmonaco@nd.edu 




The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Men’s lacrosse 

Irish stand out as model of consistency 

By SAM GANS 
sports Writer 
The no. 2-seeded Irish are still alive in the ncAA tournament, but no matter what happens in sunday’s quarterfinals, notre dame has established a con­sistency nearly unmatched in ncAA lacrosse. 
The Irish (11-4, 4-2 big east) have advanced to four straight ncAA tournament quarterfi­nals, the second-longest active streak in the country behind only sunday’s opponent, duke. 
“I think [the streak] says great things about the consistency of our program,” Irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “I think that’s something our guys should be very proud of because a lot goes into that every year and they 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 

certainly know what the level of competition is, so it’s a great ac­complishment for them.” 
The quarterfinal appearance comes off a 9-7 victory against detroit in the tournament’s first round last saturday at Arlotta stadium. corrigan said he was grateful for students’ showing of support in the win over the Titans (5-10, 3-3 mAAc), a game in which notre dame rallied from a four-goal fourth quarter deficit. 
The Irish had one of the tough­est schedules in the country this season, with 10 games against opponents that were ranked when the game was played. corrigan said the tough schedule benefitted the Irish going into the tournament both in seeding and in preparation. 
“We didn’t ever get a chance to kind of relax and just groove into the season with great confi­dence,” he said. “but at the end of the day, I think it’s better to have to fight your way through the sea­son, because at the end you real­ize where you are, and when you do start playing with confidence, you’ve earned it … and you know where your weaknesses are.” 
notre dame was able to slide through the tough slate thanks in large part to freshman attack-man matt Kavanagh. Kavanagh led the Irish in points and ben­efitted from playing alongside fifth-year sean rogers and sophomore conor doyle, both of whom returned as starting at­tackmen this season. 
“It was great for [Kavanagh] to come in, as confident as he is, [and] not have the weight of hav­ing to do everything, because he had two experienced guys with him – who are both very confi­dent as well – and the value of their experience, which they could share with him and have throughout the year,” corrigan said. 
Kavanagh and rogers both earned all-big east honors, as did seniors goalie John Kemp and defender matt miller and juniors midfielder Jim marlatt and de­fender stephen o’hara. 
Though the Irish advanced to the quarterfinals, they did not repeat as big east champions in their final season in the confer­ence. despite the loss, corrigan said there wasn’t much time to dwell on the negatives and said notre dame’s body of work set it up for a strong postseason run. 
notre dame faces the blue devils (13-5, 2-1 Acc) this week­end with a chance to make its third Final Four in four seasons. notre dame has won four con­secutive regular-season games against duke, including a 13-5 win Feb. 16, but lost in 2010 and 2011 to the blue devils in the ncAA tournament. 
corrigan said duke has most­ly kept the same scheme from three months ago, but its young personnel has matured, and the blue devils have shuffled some players around, starting a new attackman and goalie. he also said he’s not concerned about notre dame’s last two postsea­son matchups against duke. 
“[The blue devils are] a very, very good team and probably playing as well as anybody in the country right now,” corrigan said. “There’s always that chal­lenge in playing them, but I don’t think there’s a mental hurdle to beating them, because we’ve beaten them three times in the last three years, so I don’t think our guys look at it that way.” 
The Irish and blue devils are set for a 2:30 p.m. start sunday at Lucas oil stadium in Indianapolis. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Men’s soccer 

Team earns No. 1 overall seed, falls to IU 

By ISAAC LORTON 
sports Writer 
Though the season began with uncertainty and ended with dis­appointment, notre dame put together a stellar campaign and earned the no. 1 overall seed in the ncAA tournament. 
The Irish (17-4-1, 5-2-1 big east) found out in the preseason that senior captain and midfielder michael rose was out for the sea­son with a knee injury. Then, in the season opener against duke, senior midfielder Adam mena also went down with a knee in­jury and was unable to return to the pitch. despite the devastat­ing loss of two veteran seniors, Irish coach bobby clark said notre dame responded well to adversity. 
“When you lose two top play­ers like that and still do what we did as a team, there is a lot of sat­isfaction in that,” clark said. “It was a good season. We had a lot of injuries and our senior class responded well. … We had the second-hardest schedule in the country and we only lost four [games]. … our senior class did a fantastic job this year leading the team. 
“[Forward] ryan Finley, [mid­fielder] dillon Powers and [de­fender] Grant van de casteele were fantastic this season. You have to give it up to these guys, guys like [midfielder/forward Kyle] richard, [midfielder bob] novak and [midfielder/forward danny] o’Leary, who were sup­port guys and became very im­portant. They filled in for rose and mena when they got hurt and they came together and led the team.” 
The Irish went into the ncAA tournament with the no. 1 over­all seed and, after downing michigan state in the second round, met no. 16 seed Indiana in the third round at Alumni stadium on nov. 25. After a first half controlled by the hoosiers, notre dame came out early in the second stanza to take the lead on a goal from richard. but 56 seconds later, Indiana junior midfielder nikita Kotlov struck back to knot the score at one goal apiece. The teams finished off regulation dead even and went into golden-goal overtime. 
Two minutes into the second overtime, Kotlov flicked on an incoming cross to sophomore forward eriq Zavaleta, who bur­ied a wide-open header into the back of the net for Indiana’s 2-1 victory. 
clark said the loss to the even­tual national champion hoosiers was heart-wrenching. 
“some people call it sudden victory, but when you lose it is definitely sudden death,” clark said. “It’s agonizing to lose in that final moment. And it wasn’t so much that we lost in double overtime to Indiana, but we felt like we didn’t do as well as we could have in that game. our program is at that stage, not just where we want to win, but we ex­pect to win.” 
despite the loss, clark saw sil­ver linings in the season. 
“If you look back, there were so many positives,” clark said. “At the end of the day, if you don’t win, obviously, you are going to be disappointed going out in the third round to the would-be champions. There are positives to take out of the season. We ended the regular season as the no. 1 [team] in the country and even after the loss, we were still no. 1 in [the] rPI rankings after the season.” 
The Irish lost four players to the mLs draft. The columbus crew selected Finley with the ninth overall pick and Powers went two picks later to the colorado rapids in the mLs superdraft. rose and mena were later chosen in the supplemental draft by the vancouver Whitecaps. 
After three years of playing alongside Powers, Irish junior forward harry shipp said he will miss the standout midfielder for the example he set to the whole team. 
“I am extremely happy for [dillon],” shipp said. “he has been exceeding expectations away from campus, adjust­ing to the new lifestyle. I look at him as a role model as I plan to make that transition next fall. I don’t look to him as a role model just as a soccer player but for his lifestyle.” 
shipp also said the team is seeking more than just a no. 1 ranking next season. 
“We will continue to build off of last year and have a success­ful regular season,” shipp said. “I think it is time, though, for us to gain success in the postseason.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
nd woMen’s soccer 

Laddish, Roccaro lead ‘Baby Irish’ to Elite Eight 
but there were also some bright peaking at the right time of 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 

sports Writer spots for the Irish, such as a vic-year, and I think this was one of tory over then-no. 24 santa clara those years when we did that,” 
With 12 freshmen on its roster, and a draw with then-no. 19 Waldrum said. “once the ncAA notre dame entered the season Portland. tournament started, we were as one of the youngest teams in “I think we played a difficult playing our better soccer toward program history. schedule and that prepared us for the end of the year, and I think 
Although the team, dubbed the the kind of games we were going that’s the way you’d want it.” “baby Irish,” struggled against to get and prepared us for hav-Waldrum said the biggest chal­a tough early non-conference ing to [play] on the road as well,” lenges of coaching a young team schedule, it hit its stride for the Waldrum said. were inconsistency and the lack ncAA tournament and won Just before the start of big east of veteran leadership. three games before losing 1-0 to play, notre dame received two “[We had problems] just getting then-no. 7 Florida state in the boots in junior midfielder mandy the week-in and week-out and tournament quarterfinals. Laddish and freshman forward maybe even the day-in and day­
“I think the expectations we cari roccaro, who both missed out consistency,” he said. “We always have here is that we want the early part of the season to also had so many young kids that to get back to a Final Four,” Irish play for the gold-medal winning were key players for us this year, coach randy Waldrum said. “We United states squad in the FIFA and we talked about the stan­always want to have our program Under-20 Women’s World cup. dards of the program, but there to a point where the goal should bolstered by the additions of weren’t a lot of people to show be the college cup every year, Laddish and roccaro, the Irish them what the standard was be-and I think we were probably 30 tore through the early part of their cause we were so young.” minutes away from that against conference schedule, winning despite their occasional incon-Florida state. Getting to the elite their first seven league matches. sistency and inexperience, sev­eight, especially with a very notre dame finished second in eral first-year players stepped up young team, I think we were right the big east’s national division for the Irish. Freshman forward on target with where we’d hoped and advanced to the conference crystal Thomas led the team dame still has strides to make. season. The team will also be-to be at the beginning of the year.” tournament’s semifinals, where it with 10 goals, while roccaro was “I’ll always remember just how gin play in the Acc, a conference 
despite the shift in the team’s lost to then-no. 15 marquette, 1-0. third on the squad with six goals much fight and competitive-which had nine teams selected composition, the Irish (16-6-2, The Irish received a bid to the in just 16 games and was named ness this group had as a group of for last year’s ncAA tournament. 8-1-1 big east) had little time ncAA tournament, where they the soccer America Freshman of young players,” Waldrum said. “We’re going to get a chal­to acclimate to the start of the beat Wisconsin-milwaukee, the Year. Freshman goalie elyse “even though we were playing lenge every single week, and that season, as they faced a strong 3-1, in the first round. The team hight was a consistent presence our best soccer at the end of the wasn’t the case with the big east,” non-conference slate. notre then traveled to Gainesville, Fla., in net for the Irish, posting a year, I think we’re still miles away Waldrum said. “I think kids will dame endured some difficult where it upset then-no. 10 Wake goals-against average of 0.63 in 16 from playing the way we want to really have to rise to the occasion growing pains early in the sea-Forest, 2-1, in the second round starts. play.” because it’s going to be a battle all son, as the Irish dropped games and blanked then-no. 8 Florida, Waldrum said he was im-The Irish lose only one starter, the way through.” to Wisconsin, Washington and 2-0, to advance to the elite eight. pressed with the development senior defender Jazmin hall, to then-no. 19 and eventual nation-“You hope you have your sea-of his team over the course of graduation and will return the Contact Brian Hartnett at al champion north carolina. son planned in a way that you’re the season but added that notre majority of their roster for next bhartnet@nd.edu 




woMen’s lacrosse 

After torrid start, Irish stumble down stretch 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

record to 5-3, but that mark wasn’t enough to put the Irish in the big east’s top four teams and qualify for the big east tournament. 
however, the Irish were still se­lected to be part of the 26-team ncAA tournament field, the only team not to play in its conference tournament to do so. notre dame faced a rematch with stanford in the first round, but came up just short the second time around, as the cardinal scored a free-position goal with four seconds remaining to steal an 8-7 win. 
The loss ended notre dame’s season and was its fifth defeat in seven games. but while the team was discouraged by the losing streak, halfpenny said the Irish learned valuable lessons from both victory and defeat. 
“As much as you want to learn from wins, I thought we really learned from our losses this year,” she said. “It’s proven to make us stronger.” 
halfpenny said her team also learned from its graduating se­niors, who set a strong example for assets to our team, and have been the young squad both on and off great at developing our more the field. youthful players and helping us get 
“our seniors have all been such to this point. We couldn’t ask for 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports Writer 
notre dame had an up-and­down season, and it came largely in that order. 
After opening the season with the best start (10-0) in program history, the Irish (12-5, 5-3 big east) lost five of their last seven games, missed the big east tournament and fell in the first round of the ncAA tournament. 
notre dame lost several key players from last year’s squad and Irish coach christine halfpenny brought back a team filled with youth and inexperience for the 2013 season. With that in mind, halfpenny put an increased em­phasis on getting back to the ba­sics, which allowed the team to explode out of the gates. 
“starting out the year we had a lot more preseason than usual, and we really worked hard on our fundamentals,” halfpenny said. “We built off what we did last year, and each class matured during that preseason and during that run. That’s what allowed us to start 10-0.” 
That run started with a key win in the season opener at stanford and was highlighted by big home victories over no. 13 ohio state and no. 19 rutgers. The 10-game streak tied notre dame’s best ever start to the season and put the Irish in front of a very competitive big east title race. 
The schedule’s difficulty steadi­ly increased as the season came to a close though, and game after game against top competition took its toll on the Irish. notre dame’s first loss of the season came in a 14­13, double-overtime heartbreaker against no. 17 Loyola, and the Irish went on to lose three of their next four games — all against top-20 competition. 
halfpenny said the competi­tion may have exposed her team’s inexperience, something that may have made the difference in those tight games. 
“We had seven or eight fresh­men and sophomores on the field at times this year,” halfpenny said. “heading into those heavyweight showdowns, I think our youth caught hold of us a little bit.” 
notre dame closed out its regular season with a win over marquette to bring its conference 
more out of our senior leadership.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

swarbrick 
conTInUed From PAGe 3 
When notre dame finalized its move to the Acc on march 12, the immediacy of the transition — the Irish will play in the conference beginning next season — made scheduling incredibly difficult, swarbrick said. 
swarbrick said football schedul­ing, in particular, has been chal­lenging as notre dame balances its independence as well as its five-game Acc commitment. 
“We’re in a different position than anyone has ever been in, be­cause when everybody else has had some change in affiliation, they’re just swapping one confer­ence schedule for another confer­ence schedule,” he said. “And then you just have to worry about the three other or four other games they have. All 12 of our games are independently-contracted games, so it has a complexity to it that’s hard to describe to people and hard for people to appreciate. 
“You take on a five-game com­mitment from the Acc — which we think is absolutely the right solution — you’ve got 12 potential schools that are impacted by try­ing to make those five games fit in and work. It’s complicated.” 
The complications begin in 2014, when Irish football is scheduled for five games with Acc opponents. notre dame reportedly has lined up a 2014 matchup with Florida state, which could force the Irish to drop their scheduled game with Arizona state. 
Arizona state athletic director steve Patterson has been critical of notre dame’s handling of the on­going situation, but swarbrick de­clined to delve into any specifics. 
“I’m going to avoid the specif­ics of it for exactly the reasons I said: You can’t predict any one of [the 12 game slots] without hav­ing conversations with three other schools,” swarbrick said. “We’re working to try and be good part­ners and protect relationships, but it’s very complicated. At the end of the day, it’s hard to imagine a result where everybody is happy.” 
If and when a slot does open up, swarbrick said notre dame would love to schedule an annual match-up with an sec foe. 
“Yeah, we’d like to because we think that would be good for the program,” swarbrick said. “but at the same time, we’re — in the near years of this commitment, it’s go­ing to be really hard we just have more teams than we have slots right now, so we’ve got to work through sort of the contracts that are in place. but we would very much like to figure out how to play an sec team, different teams from the conference once a year.” 
student seating policy 
on April 17, the Leprechaun Legion announced it would be launching a new seating policy for students at football games. swarbrick said he played no role in consummating the new gen­eral admission policy, which has drawn the ire of many students on campus. 
“I must say I haven’t been en­gaged in that but I’m not trying to avoid the issue it’s just I wasn’t,” he said. 
swarbrick said former senior athletics director for guest rela­tions and event marketing Josh berlo managed the discussion with the Leprechaun Legion. berlo was named the athletic director at the University of minnesota­duluth on April 3 and began his new job may 1. 
As for feedback on the new plan, swarbrick said if there has been negative reaction, none has been directly brought to his attention. 
basketball practice facility 
swarbrick said neither the move to the Acc nor the proposed foot­ball stadium expansions have changed anything regarding a bas­ketball practice facility. According to swarbrick, the facility remains a priority. 
“We did some site visits to un­derstand the magnitude of what we thought we wanted to create,” swarbrick said. “We’ve had some preliminary discussions about what it would look like and where it might go. but we haven’t started having conversations with people who might be interested in sup­porting it.” 
swarbrick said securing fund­ing is the next step in the process. The university’s building policy re­quires 100 percent of the money to be committed and 75 percent to be “in hand” before any more prog­ress can be made, swarbrick said. 
From the site visits, swarbrick said he learned two keys to a prac­tice facility are having plenty of space and being in close proximity to the gameday arena. 
The building would have equal facilities for both the men’s and women’s squads in order to avoid odd practice times. 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum contributed to this report. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



baseball 

Junior-powered squad cracks top 25 

ALLY DARRAGH | The Observer 

Irish junior closer Dan Slania prepares to deliver a pitch in a matchup against Quinnipiac on April 21 at Frank Eck Stadium. Notre Dame went on to win the game 5-1 en route to sweeping the Bobcats in a three-game series. Slania set the Notre Dame record for saves, notching 27, on April 24 in a 7-3 home win over Michigan State. 
By JOHN SANDBERG 
sports Writer 
In baseball’s history, the game’s fascination with numbers has al­ways shone through. Fitting then, that in notre dame coach mik Aoki’s third season, a trio of juniors shone brightest for the Irish. 
Junior infielders eric Jagielo and Trey mancini powered the offense and regularly sat among the offen­sive leaders in the big east. on the mound, junior right-hander dan slania was everything as adver­tised in the closer’s role, leading the big east in saves throughout much of the season en route to breaking former Irish closer Kyle Weiland’s school record of 25 career saves. 
“I think … when it’s all said and done, there’s going to be a huge buzz about [all three of] them in June,” Aoki said at the start of the season. “They’re phenomenal kids who’ve worked their rear ends off. … I’d probably be foolish to think we’ll have them for their senior year, but it’d be nice if we did.” 
Aoki, of course, was speaking in reference to June’s mLb draft. Jagielo, mancini and slania have all been mentioned by the national media as potential early-round draft picks. 
While talk about bright futures might have distracted some teams, notre dame had a demanding schedule to keep it busy. 
The Irish began the season by winning two of three games in Fla. on Feb. 16 and followed with a sweep of Tulane in new orleans. notre dame then won three of four games at the Irish baseball classic in cary, n.c., before hit­ting the road again over spring break for a weeklong trip through­out california. Through the first month of the season, notre dame rose as high as no. 15 in the nation­al top-25 rankings. 
In march, the Irish began big east play with series wins against seton hall and villanova, but suf­fered road sweeps to Louisville and Pittsburgh. notre dame finished April on a hot streak by winning eight of nine games, including a home sweep of connecticut. 
on may 3, Irish fans witnessed history as south Florida and notre dame battled for 19 innings before notre dame ultimately fell to the bulls, 8-2. The matchup tied for the longest game in big east history and was the longest game in the history of Frank eck stadium. 
Aoki praised the six seniors on his team for “doing things the right way” throughout their time at notre dame. 
“Academically they are a very high-achieving class and on the field they’re a very high-achieving class,” Aoki said. “They’ve taken the steps to help this program get back to where we all want it to be, back to that 2002 college World series.” 
maybe no senior has been more impressive in his final season than Adam norton. The right-hander ranks among the best big east starters with a 9-3 record and 2.00 erA (as of may 15). 
Aoki said norton will be espe­cially missed after this season. 
“he’s a great kid and a ton of fun to be around,” Aoki said. “regardless of the wins and losses we’re really going to miss that kid.” 
The Irish conclude regular-season play with a game against cincinnati and will look toward the big east tournament, which begins Wednesday in clearwater, Fla. Aoki said with the amount of talent notre dame has, the key will losing,” Aoki said. “Just constantly tournament and make a run at be for his players to maintain the attack the other team. … If we do that.” right mental approach. that we’re talented enough to make 
“We need to go out there to play a run at [the big east champion-Contact John Sandberg at to win rather than playing to avoid ship] and make it into the ncAA jsandbe1@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




nd volleyball 

Hot start, cold finish leave squad feeling dissatisfied 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports Writer 
Going into the season, notre dame wanted to win the big east championship and make a run deep into the ncAA tournament. After early wins over top-ranked opponents and an 11-match win streak toward the end of the sea­son, the Irish looked primed to do just that. 
notre dame’s season ended in disappointment, however, with four straight losses, including a three-game sweep at the hands of ohio state in the opening round of the ncAA tournament. 
Irish coach debbie brown said the early exit from postseason play left her team with a feeling of dissatisfaction. 
“We were all really disappointed because we had higher expecta­tions,” brown said. “We had a real strong performance through the middle of the season, so it kind of left a bad taste in our mouth to end that way. [We] just really wanted to advance deeper and felt like we had the talent to do that and we just hit a slump at the wrong time.” 
despite its late struggles, notre dame (20-10, 13-2 big east) fin­ished the season with 20 wins for the first time since 2009. 
brown said the team’s early sea­son triumphs over big 12 power Kansas and then-no. 10 Louisville stuck out in her mind. 
“[Kansas] was a significant win over a top-ranked team early, but then we followed that up with Louisville, which is our biggest conference rival, and at the time I think they were top-10, so both of those were key to keep the mo­mentum and let our team know we’re moving in the right direc­tion,” brown said. 
The win over Kansas provided a spark for the Irish, as they went on to win 14 of their next 15 matches. In consecutive matches against Louisville and cincinnati, the Irish battled back from a 2-0 deficit to win 3-2. 
brown said those two matches were crucial for building the team’s confidence. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

“early on, we had some come-from-behind wins that were just really instrumental in the devel­opment of the team and [helped us] know that we could play at a really high level when our backs are against the wall and come out on top,” brown said. “I think those types of experiences just go a long way in terms of confidence.” 
brown said the Irish were suc­cessful largely because of their passing and hitting efficiency. 
“I’d say probably one of the things that kept us in matches was our passing. our serve-receive was really consistent,” brown said. “When you get the pass right where you want it, it just makes the offense that much better. We actually ended up being 27th in the country in terms of hitting effi­ciency, and that’s probably the stat that most closely correlates with winning.” 
The 11-match winning streak culminated in a 3-2 victory over cincinnati on senior day at Purcell Pavilion, which brown pointed to as the highlight of the season. 
“The crowd was phenomenal, and we just played inspired,” brown said. “There’s a play that sticks out in my head of [sopho­more outside hitter] Toni [Alugbue] going over the scorer’s table to get a ball. There was just a lot in that match, and I think when you have a match like that for your seniors at the end, it’s pretty cool to be able to do that.” 
The team will lose senior right side hitter marie roof and senior middle blocker hilary eppink. brown said the two girls made a major impact over their four years on the squad. 
“It’s hard to put into words,” brown said of the seniors’ contri­butions. “[roof] was somebody who did anything we asked her. she set her freshmen year, she played right side, she played mid­dle, she played back row, she just was so versatile and always will­ing to do whatever she could for the team. With [eppink], she’s just super steady and a strong middle hitter for us. In terms of what she could do on the court, she could hit outside, she could hit in the middle, so she again was versatile for us.” 
While the disappointing finish still stings, brown said the season was ultimately successful for the program. 
“I felt like we made progress for sure,” brown said. “We didn’t reach our goals and in the world of athletics, that happens so you just have to reset and regroup. I like the progress that we made as a team, [and] we’re excited about enter­ing the Acc and starting fresh. overall, I know we improved and I know we got better. I know the program is moving in the right direction.” 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
nd softball 
Irish advance to ncAA regionals 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports Writer 
As they prepare for the ncAA regionals, the Irish look to build on their already successful season. 
notre dame finished regu­lar season play with an over­all record of 41-12, including a 19-3 mark in big east play, and claimed the big east regular season champion­ship. but at the outset of the season, the Irish dropped five of their first nine games. notre dame soon turned its momentum around and won nine straight contests in non-conference play. 
The Irish then swept league series against seton hall and Georgetown before stalling against villanova on April 6. After winning the first game 4-1, the Irish struggled at the plate in the nightcap of the twin bill and lost 1-0. The following day, the Irish man­aged to turn their luck around and win the final game of the series 9-3. 
After a loss to northwestern on April 9, the Irish found their groove and ripped off 11 straight wins before falling to dePaul in the final game of a three-game set April 28. 
notre dame entered its final series of the season against Louisville tied with the cardinals for first place in the big east. After inch­ing out a walk-off 5-4 win in the first game, the Irish fell to the prolific Louisville offense 15-1 in the second game. In the rubber game sunday, the Irish pulled off a 3-1 victory to win the series and the big east regular season title. 
senior catcher Amy buntin said the high-stakes series was the most difficult of the season. 
“As a team, they have very disciplined hitters and hit the ball hard,” buntin said of the cardinals. “They took one game from us, but we won the series with two timely wins.” 
buntin said the series win against Louisville gave the Irish momentum heading into postseason play. 
“We aren’t done yet,” buntin said. “In a way, the season is just beginning, with the postseason just a couple of days away.” 
After falling to south Florida, 1-0, in a 10-in­ning thriller in the big east championship final, buntin said the Irish are ready for the ncAA regionals, which begin Friday. The Irish will square off with virginia Tech in the Lexington regional at cropp stadium on Friday at 5 p.m. 
Though buntin and four other seniors are preparing to play their last games in their Irish careers, buntin said she knows the program will con­tinue to thrive. 
“I am confident the future of notre dame softball will continue to grow as a pro­gram,” buntin said. “The team is full of young talent and potential.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Men’s tennis 

Irish win last nine matches and Big East title 
By PETER STEINER 
sports Writer 
In a season filled with big matches, the Irish cap­tured their greatest moment of the year when they swept Louisville, 4-0, to claim the last ever big east conference cham­pionship in Irish coach bobby bayliss’ final season. 
notre dame’s season ended in the opening round of the ncAA tournament may 10 when the no. 28 Irish (19-8) lost a four-and-a-half-hour thriller to no. 37 Washington, 4-3. despite the loss, notre dame still finished its spring season strong by win­ning nine straight matches, in­cluding three home victories, en route to its ninth big east championship. 
“The big east [title] was prob­ably the biggest highlight be­cause of the timing,” bayliss said. “For our seniors, it was their last opportunity to play at notre dame. For me, the last home match I would coach. 
“We not only won it, but we won it convincingly. We re­ally overpowered Louisville in the finals and that’s a team has given us difficulty over the years.” 
In addition to claiming the team championship, the Irish swept the big east regular sea­son awards as bayliss won the big east coach of the Year, ju­nior Greg Andrews captured big east Player of the Year and freshman Quentin monaghan earned big east Freshman of the Year. 
Leading up to the big east championships, the Irish had won six straight — a streak that began after notre dame fell to then-no. 3 Usc, 6-1. notre dame faced top-ranked oppo­nents like Usc the entire spring season, finishing with a 6-7 re­cord against opponents ranked in the top 50. 
Although the Irish lost tough matches to top-10 opponents such as Usc and duke at home, they claimed victories over no. 21 michigan, 4-3, and no. 13 Illinois, 4-0, at the eck Pavilion. 
“beating michigan and Illinois here … stick out in my mind as highlights,” bayliss said. “They are traditional pow­ers and we had really exciting matches against them. 
“We played well against [Usc] in a match we lost. Although the score was 6-1, there were a whole lot of three-set matches.” 
In a fall season usually geared more toward individual play, the Irish had a once-in-a-life­time opportunity as a team to play Ireland’s davis cup team in dublin, Ireland on Aug. 31. notre dame lost the exhibition match, 9-3, but the entire trip was still a remarkable experi­ence, according to bayliss. 
“Another thing that stood out [from the fall season] was the fantastic opportunity to go to Ireland to play the Irish davis cup players and see the navy­notre dame football game,” bayliss said. “What a great opportunity that was for our team.” 
on may 10, the Irish fell to Washington in the ncAA tour­nament in columbus, ohio. While the team’s season is fin­ished, Andrews will continue his season at the ncAA singles Tournament, as the junior earned the big east’s automatic qualifying spot. 
“Greg’s really had a great year,” bayliss said. “he’s played 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports Writer 
oh so close. That’s the refrain echoed by notre dame after the team fell just short of a fourth com­bined ncAA championship. 
sophomore foilist maddie Zeiss said the second-place finish to Princeton does not tarnish stellar efforts by the team this season. 
“regardless of how the sea­son ended, we grew as a team so much this year,” Zeiss said. “It all started with our captain, [senior foilist] Grace hartman, who was amazing.” 
While the team fell just short of its national championship aspira­tions, notre dame still turned in a successful campaign. The Irish finished as the ncAA midwest region champions and nine Irish fencers were named All-Americans, including senior foilist, 2012 olympian and midwest region individual champion Gerek meinhardt. on the men’s side, junior foilist Ariel desmet and junior sabreur Kevin hassett also earned All-American honors. 
on the women’s side, all six fenc­ers who qualified for the ncAA championships were named to the All-American team. 
Freshman foilist Lee Kiefer and senior epeeist courtney hurley went a step further and claimed individual ncAA championships in their respective weapons. Kiefer matched meinhardt — whose only loss was in his semifinal bout — and former Irish foilist Andrea Ament’s 2002 champion­ship performance for the second best win-loss record (22-1) by a team formed and the unselfish­notre dame fencer at the ncAA ness across the squad. championships. “none of what we did this sea­

hurley became the program’s son would have been possible first four-time All-American since without everyone’s support,” Zeiss 2005. said. “From day one, we knew we 
While Zeiss, a first team All-loved each other and were going to American herself, said she will be there for each other no matter remember the individual awards, what happened.” the meet wins and the ncAA championships, she said she will Contact A.J. Godeaux at especially treasure the bonds the agodeaux@nd.edu PAId AdverTIsemenT 


squad finishes runner-up 

fencing 

a lot of the better players in the with a bang.” country and he has been a whis-Andrews will play in the open­ker from some great wins that ing round of the singles tourna­would elevate him to a very high ment may 22 in champaign, Ill. ranking. And hopefully this will be the stage to put him over the Contact Peter Steiner at top and he can finish the year psteiner@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



four years in review 
Football makes title game, loses to Tide 


Undefeated on Nov. 24, 2012; Streak ends Jan. 7, 2013 

In Irish coach Brian Kelly’s first emotional 13-6 victory over Mich-tory over USC on Nov. 24. two years, Notre Dame turned in igan, an overtime goal-line stand Traveling to Miami to face off a pair of 8-5 seasons. against Stanford, a road victory against Alabama in the national 
Despite losing players to the over Oklahoma and a come-from-championship game, the Irish NFL, the Irish were more suc-behind three-overtime win over struggled to contain the Crimson cessful in Kelly’s third season, Pittsburgh. Tide’s offense, as Alabama rolled going undefeated against their The Irish reached No. 1 in the out to a 28-0 lead at halftime. regular season schedule. polls after a Senior Day victory In the end, Notre Dame fell to 
Regular season highlights in-over Wake Forest and sealed a the Crimson Tide, 42-14, ending cluded a rout of Navy in Dublin, a berth in the BCS National Cham-the program’s first national title 20-3 upset of Michigan State, an pionship game with a 22-13 vic-run since 1988. 
Weis fired, 
Kelly hired 
Nov. 27, 2010 

After firing head coach Charlie Weis on Nov. 30, 2009, Notre Dame hired Brian Kelly on Dec. 11, 2009. Athletic Di­rector Jack Swarbrick named Kelly as the 29th head coach of Notre Dame football. 
Kelly brought Bob Diaco, offensive coor­dinator, and Charley Molnar, offensive co­ordinator. 
Te’o finishes second in Heisman voting Dec. 8, 2012 After a stand-out season, middle line­backer Manti Te’o fin­ished second in the Heisman Trophy vot­ing behind Texas A&M freshman QB Johnny Manziel. Te’o ended with 321 first-place votes and Manziel received 474. Te’o tied for second-most interceptions in the NCAA with 7 and tallied 11 tackles. 

Men’s hoops makes four straight tournaments March 22, 2013 Despite losing gradu­ate student forward Scott Martin to a knee injury midway through the season, Notre Dame survived Big East play and made  its fourth consecutive NCAA tour­nament. Led by senior forward Jack Cooley, the Irish earned a No. 7 seed before falling to Iowa State, 76-58 in the  first round. 


Women’s basketball makes Final Four thrice 
April 7, 2013 


After tournament runs that culminated with  title game losses in 2011 and 2012, the Irish made another deep run in 2013. 
Led by senior guard Skylar Diggins, Notre Dame won 30 straight games and made its third consecutive Fi­nal Four. The Irish lost to Connecticut, 83-65, in the national semifinals. 

Irish leave Big East, join ACC 
Sept. 12, 2012 


Notre Dame ac­cepted an invitation to join the the Atlan­tic Coast Conference in all sports except for football, after being a member of the Big East since 1995. 
Notre Dame agreed to play five games annually against ACC oppo­nents in football starting in 2014. 

Compton Family Ice Arena opens 
Oct. 21, 2011 


Thanks to a $15 mil­lion donation from the Compton family, the Irish hockey program had a new place to call home — the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Notre Dame had played all of its hockey games in the Joyce Center before moving to the new facility. The Irish opened the build­ing with a 5-2 win over RPI. 
Women’s soccer wins national title 
Dec. 5, 2010 

After four consecu­tive trips to the College Cup without a title, the Irish finally broke through with a 1-0 victory over previously undefeated Stanford. 
Notre Dame re­ceived strong efforts from its freshmen, who scored the last four goals of the season and helped shut down Hermann Trophy win­ner Christen Press. 
Hockey reaches Frozen Four 
April 7, 2011 

The Irish reached the first Frozen Four in program history in 2008. The fresh­men on that squad were seniors on the team that reached the 2011 Frozen Four; the seniors shepherded an ex­ceptionally young team (loaded with 12 freshmen) to another Frozen Four berth in St. Paul, Minn. 
Men’s lacrosse reaches title game 
May 31, 2010 

Despite being unseeded in the NCAA tournament, Notre Dame rode a stalwart defense to a berth in the national championship game against Duke. 
The Irish and Blue Devils finished a low-scoring regulation tied at five. The Irish gave up an early goal in overtime to lose 6-5. 


The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

track and field 

Women win Big East titles, men come in second 

By GREG HADLEY 
sports Writer 
All season long, the Irish had one main goal: win the big east title, both indoors and out­doors, men and women. While the women captured both ti­tles, the men fell short of their goal, finishing as runner-up at both the indoor and outdoor championships. 
but according to junior cap­tain and long jumper Logan renwick, the squad has more reasons than not to be proud of its season. 
“obviously, to have the women win both indoors and outdoors is very impressive,” renwick said. “It was disap­pointing for the men not to win, but it’s made us hungry to finish off the year strong and head into next season, es­pecially in the Acc, where the competition will be that much better.” 
The Irish started off the year at the blue and Gold Invitational at the Loftus sports center on dec. 7, 2012, and do not finish off their year until June 8 at the ncAA outdoor championships in eugene, ore. such a long sea­son, renwick said, has allowed several athletes to make enor­mous improvements, such as sophomore sprinter and hur­dler Jade barber. 
After an impressive fresh­man year in which she earned all-big east accolades in the 100-meter hurdles and both the 4x100 and 4x400-meter re­lays, barber was even better in her sophomore campaign. she won the 60-meter hurdles and 4x400-meter relay at the big east indoor championship and was named most outstanding Track Performer. Later, at the national championship in Fayetteville, Ark., barber earned all-American honors in both events. 
barber’s outdoor season has been equally impressive with big east titles in the 100-meter hurdles and 4x100-meter relay. she is currently preparing to compete in the ncAA regional qualifying meet, with a chance to advance to the national championship. 
“Jade had an immediate im­pact for the team as a fresh­man, but she’s really put herself on the national stage this year,” renwick said. “her progress has been incred­ible and she has a very bright future.” 
on the men’s side, junior Pat Feeney and sophomore chris Giesting are not only two of the nation’s top 400-meter run­ners, but also roommates in Knott hall and friendly rivals. 
“chris and Pat are both great competitors who have a very healthy rivalry,” renwick said. “Watching them go back and forth all year has been very ex­citing, and it pushed us all to do better as well.” 
Feeney and Giesting spent much of the indoor season one-upping the other, continu­ally lowering the school record in the process. Feeney ended up with the record at 46.03, but both earned indoor all-Amer­ican honors. Giesting has had the advantage during the out­door season, winning the big east title. both sprinters are currently ranked in the top 25 nationally and will be compet­ing at the ncAA regional meet. 
The Irish next compete at the ncAA regional meet, which will take place in Greensboro, n.c., on may 22-25, before they conclude their season at the ncAA national championships in eugene, ore., on June 5-8. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
nd woMen’s tennis 

Irish take conference title, fall in NCAAs 
program’s sixth straight big east 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports Writer title by beating south Florida, 4-1, on April 21 in notre dame’s 
some seasons are dominated last big east tournament before by one player. some are defined leaving for the Acc. by a key win or loss. And some “To win it, down at south will be remembered for the way Florida against south Florida, they put every onlooker on edge. took a great effort from our kids,” 
The Irish didn’t dominate ev-Louderback said. “We played on ery match this spring, but they a hot-weather day down there, never failed to keep it interesting. which we definitely weren’t used 
notre dame’s wins weren’t al-to because of the spring we had ways pretty. of the 21 full match-weather-wise. I think that was es the squad played —where the probably the biggest highlight of doubles point and all six indi-the spring so far.” vidual matches were completed Junior britney sanders unani­
— nine were decided by a score mously was named the big east of 4-3. Player of the Year, while fresh­

“I really feel like these guys man Quinn Gleason and ju­overachieved a lot this year,” nior Jennifer Kellner were also Irish coach Jay Louderback said. named to the All-big east team. “I’ve never had teams come back “When you lose your top as much this year’s team. We had two who were really good you two matches we were behind 3-0 worry about that following and won four straight matches year,” Louderback said in ref-to win, 4-3, and we had two erence to Kristy Frilling and matches where we were down shannon mathews, two All­3-1 and came back to win 4-3. It’s Americans who graduated in just a group that never quits.” 2012. “Probably the biggest sur-not including notre dame, excited to have a chance to go in “chrissie mcGaffigan has 
After a successful fall cam-prise was how well the players currently ranked in the top 25 and play such good schools.” done a great job for us this year,” paign, the no. 24 Irish (18-9) at the top of our lineup played. by the Intercollegiate Tennis Although the Irish will Louderback said. “she’s won a lot ended the spring season with The kids who played three and Association — but Louderback lose senior captain chrissie of singles matches and is proba­a 4-0 loss to michigan (23-5) in four last year really stepped up said he is excited for the coming mcGaffigan to graduation, bly our best doubles player. We’ll the second round of the ncAA to play one and two and won a seasons. they add several freshmen and miss her a lot, but we have a good tournament may 11. notre lot of matches. It was great to see “The big east was good for us hope to see Julie vrabel remain group of freshmen coming in. I dame beat n.c. state, 4-1, in Ann them do well.” while we were in it,” Louderback healthier in her sophomore sea-feel like we have the chance to Arbor, mich., the day before in The Irish will face significant-said. “but we’re really excited son. vrabel is now fully recov-be very, very good.” the opening round. ly tougher competition when about going Acc. It’s a tough, ered from shoulder surgery that 
Louderback said the highlight they enter the Acc next year tough league, a tough confer-occurred in her senior year of Contact Vicky Jacobsen at of the season was capturing the — there are five Acc schools, ence, but for us we’re really high school. vjacobse@nd.edu 




nd woMen’s swiMMing and diving 
Men’s swiMMing and diving 

ND has best finals finish ever 
Irish excel and 
By MATT UNGER 
sports Writer 
With a second-place finish at the big east championships and the best finish in program history at the ncAA champion­ships, notre dame reached new heights this season. 
The Irish had a strong show­ing at the conference champion­ships in early march, earning 35 all-big east scrolls, but they fell just short of a title, as they fin­ished second to Louisville. 
A few weeks later, the squad took 16th place in a field of 43 schools at the ncAA champion­ships to obtain its highest fin­ish ever at the national college swimming event. 
“I think that [our finishes] show a lot about the girls that were there and how far deter­mination and hard work can get you,” sophomore swimmer emma reaney said. “We really wanted to prove ourselves on the national stage, and I think we’re beginning to do that.” 
reaney completed a stand­out season by saving her best performances for the big east and ncAA championships. At the conference meet, reaney won six of the seven events she competed in and shattered conference records in 200-yard Individual medley and 100­yard breaststroke events. For her achievements, she received the big east’s most outstanding swimmer award. 


her success continued at the ncAA championships, as she earned four All-American hon­ors and finished fifth overall in the 100- and 200-yard breast­stroke events. 
meanwhile, the conference’s most outstanding diver award went to senior Jenny chiang. she became the first diver in big east history to win championships in the same event four years in a row, as she won four consecutive titles in the 3-meter dive event. 
The Irish also bid farewell to another senior diver, Kimmie Lisiak, who competed in the 1­and 3-meter dives throughout her notre dame career. 
senior Kim holden returned from double shoulder sur­gery in 2011 to earn titles in three events at the conference 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
win big east 


championships. she set a school record with a time of 52.57 sec­onds in the 100-yard fly at the big east championships. 
senior swimmers Gracie Fredlake, Jamie malandra and Lauren scott will also graduate from the squad. 
The Irish will look to build on the momentum from their suc­cess at the ncAA champion­ships as they prepare for next season. 
“As far as recruiting, [the suc­cess] will bring a lot of very fast girls to look at the team and school that probably wouldn’t have otherwise,” reaney said. “It’s great to watch this program grow and to be part of it.” 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

By MARY GREEN 
sports Writer 
With another year of experi­ence and training under their belts, the Irish had one of the best seasons in program history, recording only one dual-meet loss, winning the final big east championship and sending a team-record nine swimmers to the ncAA championships in Indianapolis. 
notre dame finished the regu­lar season with an 8-1 record, including close wins over strong Purdue and Louisville squads in november, and suffered its only loss coming to Iowa at the northwestern Invitational. 
In Indianapolis at the confer­ence championship meet from Feb. 27 to march 2, notre dame scored a meet-record 991 points, 
139.5 ahead of second-place Louisville, to capture its second consecutive league title. The Irish finished each night of the meet in first place, staying steady from day one to day four and display­ing their depth. Thirteen swim­mers and two divers picked up a total of 41 All-big east honors in 17 different events. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh, who was named the 2013 men’s big east coach of the Year, said earn­ing the final league title was a memorable part of the year, but only one of several high points from the season. 
“[The big east championship] was certainly one of the high­lights of the season,” he said. “I think that our mission from the university is to compete on a na­tional basis, so it was also great having our largest team ever at the ncAA championships, and to have two new people [John Williamson and Zach stephens] score at the meet, both sopho­mores so they’ll both be back, and to have a relay team score.” 
Williamson and stephens both earned All-American honors for their swims in the 200-yard butterfly and 200-yard breast­stroke, respectively. Williamson and stephens represent part of a strong and still-improving soph­omore class that claimed four of the team’s nine qualifiers. 
Welsh also said the devel­opments he saw this season, which showed during his team’s string of championship meets, proved that the Irish are ready to compete with some of the country’s best teams, especially during next year’s transition to the Atlantic coast conference (Acc). 
“The concluding month was the month that kind of solidified in our minds the fact that we are ready to play at a national level,” he said. “We’re not hoping to get there anymore. We have to do the work and we have to improve ev­ery year and that’s what we ought to do, but it’s kind of solidified in our minds that when we do the work and when we improve, we will play at a national level.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd woMen’s golf 

ND takes individual, team conference titles 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports Writer 
In golf terms, no. 26 notre dame finished its season under par, as the Irish took home their fifth big east championship in program history. 
“We had a really solid season for the program as a whole,” Irish coach susan holt said. “We had a really great team record, the lowest team score [in big east tournament history] and going out of the big east like we did was awesome.” 
The Irish posted solid finishes in their four-tournament fall sea­son, as the team came in second at the susan maxwell berning classic in norman, okla., and third in the mary Fossum Invitation in east Lansing, mich. 
notre dame struggled at the start of its spring season, con­cluding its first tournament 
— 
the seminole match-Up Invitational in Tallahassee, Fla. 

— 
with a seventh place finish. 


notre dame continued to im­prove its performance as the season progressed, finishing fifth and third respectively in its next two tournaments. 
The team captured its first team title of the season at the briar’s creek Invitational in John’s Island, s.c. on march 26, and sophomore Ashley Armstrong finished as the tour­nament individual champion with a one-over-par score of 217 (74-71-72). 
After an eighth place finish at the smU dallas Athletic club Invitational in dallas, the Irish then headed into the big east championship. 
The team posted a six-under­par score of 861 (294-285-282) in the 54-hole tournament, and freshmen Lindsey Weaver and Talia campbell both shot six-under-par totals of 210 to share medalist honors. 
“Winning the big east tile was certainly a goal,” holt said. “It is a great accomplishment and solid success, and our program will definitely be able to make the transition to the Acc and be a competitor.” 
Weaver said she considers the big east championship victory to be her team’s greatest success of the season. 
“since we lost by one shot to [south Florida] last year, it was very important to redeem our­selves this year,” Weaver said. 
Following the champion­ship, Weaver was named both big east Player of the Year and third time in her career at notre 908 (292-304-312) over 54 holes big east Freshman of the Year. dame. to finish tied for 15th out of 24 campbell and Armstrong were The team earned the no. 9 teams. both named to the All-big east seed in the ncAA east regional team, while holt was named big at the Auburn University club Contact Kit Loughran at east coach of the Year for the in Auburn, Ala., where it shot a kloughr1@nd.edu 

Men’s golf 

Young Irish team finishes third in Big East 
for the prospects of this team.” finished in third — Kubinski 
notre dame posted sev-was proud of his team’s 
eral top finishes in the four-perseverance. 
tournament fall season, as “I thought the highlight 
they came in second at the of the year for the team was 
Georgetown Intercollegiate the final round of the year,” 
and fourth at the macdonald Kubinski said. “To play our 
cup. best round of the season, when 
The spring season had an it was really do or die, I thought 
inauspicious start for the Irish that was really good for a team 
as they finished 15th, 15th that headed into the year 
and 11th in three of their first needing some experience. The 
four tournaments, respec-guys said they didn’t see it as 
tively. Kubinski singled out the last round of this year, but 
the last tournament of that rather the first of next year, to 
opening quartet as a high-build some momentum.” 
light for the Irish, with notre The Irish will return all 
dame tying for fifth at the starters next year except 
c&F bank Intercollegiate in senior Paul mcnamara. 
Williamsburg, va. Freshman sciupider, Lane, junior niall 
cory sciupider led the way, Platt, freshman Zach Toste 
firing a 67 to tie for first place and sophomores Tyler Wingo 
individually, while junior and Patrick Grahek will all 
Andrew Lane wasn’t far be-return with experience, and 
hind with a 68 in third place. Kubinski said he expects the 
but as the season progressed, three incoming freshmen to 
the Irish never put together a have an impact as well. 
consistent three rounds until Kubinski said his team’s 
their performance at the big weakness this year will be a 
east tournament in late April. strength in 2014. 
The Irish came out shooting “I think we can take the 
well in round one and led the momentum of [the big east 

knew his team was in for a a stepping stone,” Kubinski field with a score of 288. notre tournament] and say ‘we can 
By CASEY KARNES 

sports Writer rebuilding year after losing said. “This year, I was frus-dame fell behind in round do this,’” Kubinski said. “Let’s three seniors from last year’s trated because I thought we two, but shot a tournament-take this into next season After a season of growing big east championship squad. were better than we were play-best and season-low 280 for and we can shoot some great 
pains, the Irish hope  a strong Kubinski also said this year’s ing. When we finished up this the final round — led again by rounds.” 
finish will vault them to a re-ups and downs bode well for season playing the way we did, a 67 from sciupider. While the 
turn to glory in coming years. the future of his program. I’m more excited right now round was not enough to pro-Contact Casey Karnes at Irish coach Jim Kubinski “I think [this season] was than I’ve been in a lot of years pel the Irish to a title — they wkarnes@nd.edu 



nd cross country 

Men’s and women’s squads qualify for NCAA meet 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports Writer 
both the men’s and women’s squads concluded the 2012 sea­son at the ncAA  championship meet in Louisville, Ky., on nov. 
17. The men, who qualified as a team for the third year in a row, finished 28th out of 31 teams, while the women finished 15th, their best showing since 2005. 
“We moved forward in terms of competing at the national level,” women’s coach Tim connelly said. “We finished 15th and we really weren’t too far away from being 10th or 11th.” 
As was the case throughout the year, the women’s team stuck together at the champion­ships, as senior rebecca Tracy, sophomore Gabby Gonzales and juniors Alexa Aragon and Kelly curran all crossed the line within two seconds of each other. 
“We had a team that didn’t have a whole lot of front-run­ners, so we really emphasized finding each other and racing with each other,” connelly said. 
“And I thought we did a really good job of that at the ncAAs.” 
The men’s team qualified for the national finals despite los­ing senior Jeremy rae the pre­vious weekend to an injury at the Great Lakes regional. 
“When you lose your no. 1 runner, it’s a tough nut to crack, but they did and they did very well,” men’s coach Joe Piane said. “You have to under­stand that there’s 321 division I teams, and only 31, or 10 per­cent, make it into the national championship. so that’s a pret­ty formidable obstacle to over­come, and they did. They did a great job.” 
The women’s team benefitted from decorated track athletes who found their footing on the trail. 
“Kelly curran really took a big step forward for us in terms of being a cross-country runner,” connelly said. “she’s done a re­ally good job her first two years on the track,  and this year as a junior she really stepped up and did a great job in terms of cross-country. rebecca Tracy was the same way. she had been an All-American on the track and really took a big step forward in cross-country as well.” 
The injury bug also bit the women: connelly said his big­gest disappointment of the year was that sophomore hannah eckstein was injured after a great performance at the re­gional meet and was unable to compete at the ncAAs. 
The outlook for next year remains strong, however, as Tracy is the only senior leav­ing the women’s top-five, and Jeremy rae and J.P. malette will both return for fifth years on the men’s side. 
“We lose one fella, [senior] Jeff macmillan, and other than that everybody’s back,” Piane said. “We did not run michael clevenger this year, nor did we run Tim ball, nor did we run Kevin durham. All were very, very good freshmen, and so they’re basically freshmen again next year. It’s going to be a very, very good team.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
rowing 
Irish finish atop the big east 
By BRENDAN BELL 
sports Writer 
Throughout the fall and spring seasons, no. 11 notre dame worked to po­sition itself to win its 10th straight big east champi­onship and to compete at the ncAA championships in June. 
notre dame’s season started in the fall, when the team had a series of races and training routines in preparation for the spring season. 
sophomore stella Willoughby said the fall season was critical for the team’s development, which allowed them to attain positive results in spring competition. 
“In the fall, we had a larger group of rowers to begin with than [we did] last year,” Willoughby said. “And then we began to re­cruit walk-ons as well, who are critical for the team’s success as they give the team a huge pool of depth and also competition. Training was definitely harder this fall than [it was] in the past.” 
The work ethic of the Irish before fall events like the head of the charles regatta paid off in the spring, when the team be­gan to line up against some of the country’s stron­gest competition.  At the Lake natoma Invitational in sacramento, calif., the Irish tied for third in a field consisting of some of the top teams in the country, including no. 1 Usc, no. 2 california-berkeley, and then-no. 9 stanford. 
“The california trip was amazing because we had the opportunity to go to a different climate and dif­ferent environment to train in,” Willoughby said. “We tied stanford, and being on that level with the top teams gave us the ability to grow as a team.” 
next, notre dame com­peted in the dale england cup in bloomington, Ind. where they dominated the competition, placing first overall with a score of 118 points. 
“At the dale england cup, we were the top performers … winning the majority of the events gave us a great deal of momentum for the big east and ncAA champi­onships,” Willoughby said. 
Willoughby said the Irish are looking forward to the upcoming big east and ncAA championships. The big east champion­ships will be held in mercer county, n.J., on may 19, while the ncAA champi­onships will take place in Indianapolis from may 31 through June 2. 
For the first time, the win­ner of the big east champi­onship will automatically qualify to compete at the ncAA championships.  The Irish are currently the top-ranked team in the big east. 
“All fall and spring [work] will culminate in these end of year races,” Willoughby said. “We expect to win the big east championship this year and get a spot at the national championship.” 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 


Saint Mary’s: Year in Review 
Soccer sets wins record, Faller first-team All-MIAA for tennis, Golf finishes second in MIAA fall season 
basketball 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports Writer 
belles coach Jenn henley had only one way to describe the year: a “learning season.” 
however, despite a 5-20 final record, henley was quick to point out that “learning season” doesn’t mean failure. In fact, henley insist­ed the year was far from a failure for a team featuring two seniors and seven freshmen. 
“When you lose five seniors from the year before, we didn’t start over, but we were so inexperienced,” henley said. 
What the team lacked in wins 
— the belles also went 3-13 in the mIAA — it made up for in growth as a team, henley said. 
“We were a completely different team at the end of the year,” henley said. “We overcame a lot of adver­sity, with these young kids growing so much just to compete. The dif­ference from the start of the year to the end of the year was huge.” 
Junior guard shanlynn bias led the new-look squad toward the end of the season. bias, senior guard Kayla Wolter, junior forward Katherine Wabler and sophomore forward Ariana Paul entered the season with 22 combined starts. And while all four set career high single-season marks in points and assists, bias stepped up and led the belles in points, steals and assists. bias was also named second team All-mIAA, the sole belle named to the all-conference team. 
seven of saint mary’s losses were to teams that made the ncAA division III tournament. Four of the defeats came at the hands of conference foes calvin and hope, top-five teams for most of the season. Ten more losses came by single digits, including a two-point heartbreaking loss to Aurora on dec. 29, 2012.
 “I don’t think we had any de­fining moments in the traditional sense,” henley said. “When you’re that young, the defining moments for me were seeing these young kids having success for the first time at the college level. That’s what’s going to set the tone for next season.” 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
softball 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports Writer 
behind its strong veteran lead­ership, saint mary’s finished the season tied for fourth in the mIAA, narrowly missing out on a spot in the four-team conference tournament. 
The belles (19-17, 9-7 mIAA) began their season with a spring break trip to Florida, losing their first three games. The team recov­ered to win five of its next seven games and end its Florida trip with a 5-5 record. 
saint mary’s got off to a hot start in conference play, winning seven of its first nine games. The belles, however, faltered down the final stretch and lost five of their final seven games, including their last four. 
In the end, the team did not qualify for the conference tourna­ment, losing the tiebreaker for the final tournament spot to hope. 
The belles received notable con­tributions from senior co-captains shortstop emily sherwood and catcher morgan bedan. sherwood batted .300 and had 20 rbIs, while bedan hit for a .304 average in 36 games. 
saint mary’s coach erin sullivan said the team’s two seniors excelled at leading the team this seaaon. 
“morgan and emily have bal­anced each other so well and left our returners with a great sense of our team culture,” sullivan said. “I’m very proud of how they stepped up to lead such an incred­ibly young class.” 
bedan and sherwood both were honored with senior awards from the saint mary’s athletic department. sherwood won the competitive spirit Award, while bedan won the marvin Wood outstanding senior Athlete Award. 
next season, junior pitcher callie selner will return as the team’s lone senior. The belles’ two other upperclassmen will be sophomore outfielder victoria connelly and sophomore catcher cecily medina. selner was the team’s top hitter with a .429 average and 64 rbIs and also sported a 2.10 erA in 23 ap­pearances on the mound. 
“I see all three of them stepping up to lead in their own way [and] the way that accommodates them best and really shows off their strengths,” sullivan said. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 
swimming 
By D.H. KIM 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s capped its final season in program history with a seventh place finish at the mIAA championships. 
The belles (1-5) had a difficult start to the season, as they lost their first four consecutive dual-meets. 
despite its struggles, there were several bright spots for saint mary’s. In the team’s dual-meet against Albion, freshman diver Andrea canacci scored a 189.95 in the 1-meter diving for the fifth-best score in program history. In addi­tion, senior swimmer ellie Watson, sophomore swimmer Anna nolan and freshman swimmer carolyn neville each won individual events against Albion. 
The belles took home their first win of the season when they de­feated olivet, 153-105, in February. The team won 10 of the meet’s 16 events, and Watson swam the fifth-fastest time in program history in the 200-yard butterfly event. 
A week after the olivet meet, the belles traveled to mIAA champi­onships at Jenison high school in Jenison, mich., where they finished last in the field of seven teams. 
on march 19, saint mary’s vice president of student Affairs Karen Johnson announced the school 
see smc YeAr Page 22 
PAId AdverTIsemenT PAId AdverTIsemenT 




The observer | friday, May 17, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

sMc year 
conTInUed From PAGe 20 
would end the swim program, ef­fective at the end of the 2012-2013 academic year. 
belles coach mark benishek, who left the team at the end of the season for a job in seattle, said he was disappointment at the termi­nation of the swim program. 
“my heart especially goes out to the juniors, sophomores and fresh­man that will not be able to finish out their careers at saint mary’s,” benishek said shortly after the announcement of the program’s cancellation. 
saint mary’s senior swimmer Genevieve splitter said she would always remember her time spent on the team. 
“This is devastating for all of us, but we are still a team and we will have the memories we made and our accomplishments to keep us going,” splitter said.  “my fondest memories were the teammates and the hardship we went through as a team.” 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
tennis 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports Writer 
The belles brought a lot of po­tential into this season, but they couldn’t quite capitalize on it. 
belles coach dale campbell said saint mary’s (10-8, 4-4 mIAA) could have accomplished much more. 
“We underachieved, and I un­derachieved,” campbell said. “I need to ask for more, and the team needs to believe that they can do the work necessary to play at a higher level.” 
The belles opened the 2013 sea­son with losses to case Western and ohio northern. 
over spring break, the belles de­feated Illinois Wesleyan, 6-3, and Wisconsin Lutheran, 8-1, but saint mary’s then lost two in a row. 
The belles, however, broke their inconsistent streak by stringing together four straight victories and pulling their record to 6-4 overall and 2-0 in conference play. 
After an 8-1 loss to Albion on April 10, the belles racked up three more wins, including a win over Alma that campbell said was among the best performances of the season. 
“I think our best matches were our 6-3 and 5-4 victories [over Trine and Alma] midseason and taking care of our other conference oppo­nents,” campbell said. 
As the season wound down, the belles found themselves in the hunt for one of the mIAA tourna­ment spots. 
saint mary’s fell to hope on April 
20. A narrow 5-4 loss to calvin fol­lowed four days later, and the belles closed out their season with a 7-2 loss at the hands of Kalamazoo. 
The three losses dropped the belles into a tie for fourth place with calvin (6-11, 4-4 mIAA) in the mIAA. since calvin had just de­feated saint mary’s head-to-head, the Knights earned the fourth and final spot in the mIAA tournament. 
campbell said he will set the bar higher next season. 
“We didn’t reach our goal of mak­ing the tournament, so that was disappointing,” campbell said. “I just want to take away that we can work harder, play with more enthu­siasm and set the bar much higher. We have the talent to do it.” 
After a disappointing season fi­nale, the belles received some good news. mIAA coaches named junior mary catherine Faller to the all-conference first team. 
campbell said he wants saint mary’s to build on this past season and its positives. 
“We will have seniors and a lot of juniors next year, so experi­ence should start to work in our favor, but we must prepare better,” campbell said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu. 
volleyball 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports Writer 
It was a roller coaster ride of a season for the belles.
 The squad started the season on a four-game win streak and won six of its first seven. It followed its hot start with a four-game losing streak and played inconsistently the rest of the season en route to a final re­cord of .500. 
The belles (14-14, 7-9 mIAA) opened the season with four wins for the first time since the 2006 sea­son and took home the north Park classic tournament title, as sopho­more outside hitter Kati schneider and senior setter dani brinks were named to the all-tournament team for their performances. 
The belles went 4-1 in open con­ference play, which marked best five-game start to conference play since the team joined the mIAA in 1997. 
saint mary’s boasted several strong individual performances this season. 
sophomore middle hitter melanie Kuczek, a transfer from Lewis University, made a major im­pact in her first season for the team, leading the belles with 61 blocks and 20 solo blocks. schneider was named the mIAA Position Player of the Week twice and selected to the All-mIAA First Team for the first time in her career. brinks was also named the mIAA Position Player of the Week. With her team-leading 812 assists, brinks finished her ca­reer second on the all-time list for assists in program history. 
The team fought until the last day of the season, when the belles forced then-no. 5 ranked hope to four sets before losing 3-1 and then the belles rallied to topple Wheaton in three consecutive sets. 
Thirteen players from this year’s belles squad, including schneider and Kuczek, will return next year. Freshman Katie hecklinski, who led the team with 351 digs in her first season, will also be back when the team returns to action in the fall. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
cross country 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports Writer 
Although saint mary’s struggled to meet its lofty preseason expecta­tions, belles coach Jackie bauters said the team’s season was a suc­cess in many ways. 
“There were several girls that had lifetime-best races this season, which is what we try to focus on and improve upon for next year,” bauters said. “While we had hoped to finish higher in the conference rankings, the competition was tough and the results were not a re­sult of lack of effort.” 
The belles began the season ranked 10th in the Great Lakes region in the United state Track and Field and cross country coaches Association poll, marking the first regional ranking in pro­gram history. 
despite their high preseason ranking, the belles struggled against conference competition and finished sixth in both the mIAA Jamboree and the mIAA championships. saint mary’s ended its season with a 19th place finish in the ncAA Great Lakes regional race. 
Junior Jessica biek paced the belles with several top finishes and recorded the squad’s best time of the season when she ran a 23:06 at the mIAA championships. The vet­eran belles team, which included six seniors, also received strong contributions from seniors emma baker, Julia Kenney and elizabeth majewski. 
bauters said the impact of the team’s seniors extended far beyond their performances in competitions. 
“The biggest positive that I be­lieve came out of the season was the amount of team cohesion and chemistry that developed, largely as a result of our six senior leaders,” she said. “They did an exceptional job of preparing the foundation for our team to grow from next year.” 
Looking forward to next sea­son, bauters said the belles would definitely miss the contributions of their seniors, but said she is op­timistic about the team’s incoming freshman class. 
“hopefully, collectively we have prepared the other athletes to step up and fill the positions [the se­niors] are leaving,” she said. “We have a solid group of talented ath­letes coming in next fall. From what I can tell, it’s going to be a great fall.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
golf 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s put together anoth­er strong season, both in terms of overall success and improvement. 
belles coach Jason Kolean re­peatedly stressed the improve­ment his team made this year. 
“A lot of the girls met their expec­tations and we still have some stuff to build on for next year,” Kolean said. “Four out of my five girls took off at least a half stroke from their [average round’s] score.” 
Those improvements showed early in the spring season, when the belles fired a 322 in the second round of spring-opening George Fox Phoenix Invitational. 
In addition to its tangible im­provements on the course, the saint mary’s has also become stronger mentally and grown as a team, according to Kolean. 
“[over the offseason], we had our head coach resign, so we had a lot of turnover and change from that,” Kolean said. “The coaches love to see these girls interact on the course. They’ve gotten so much stronger mentally.” 
over the course of the season, the belles established themselves as a talented, young team poised for success. by season’s end, their hard work had culminated in a second-place finish in the mIAA ncAA Qualifiers, a finish that the team will look to improve next year. 
“We’ve set ourselves up for next year, and I think we can really go out there and succeed,” Kolean said. “one of our biggest expecta­tions is to beat olivet next year, and take first in the mIAA. We’re going to really push to improve and hope that that is enough to beat olivet or whoever else next year.” 
In the fall season, the belles con­cluded a strong campaign by turn­ing in another second-place finish in the mIAA at the two-day mIAA end of season Jamboree. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 
soccer 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports Writer 
The 2012 season proved to be the most successful in program history as the belles finished with a record 13 wins. 
sophomore goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum said she took great pride in helping saint mary’s (13-5­2, 10-5-1 mIAA) to a historic season. 
“It’s an awesome feeling,” rosenbaum said. “We’re always going to be in the [record] books.” 
In addition to setting the re­cord for wins, the belles, led by rosenbaum in net, recorded a pro-gram-best 10 shutouts. 
The season started off strong and saint mary’s rolled to a 4-0-1 start, highlighted by a 2-1 home victory over conference power Adrian on sept. 15. Junior forward Kaitlin Teichman said the win gave the team the momentum it needed to be successful in conference play. 
“It was a great game to win,” Teichman said. “They are always a really good team and the game gave us a lot of momentum for the season as a whole. Wins at home especially bring us a lot of great energy.” 
Following the win over Adrian, the belles suffered their first loss, falling 2-1 to Alma. A 1-0 loss to calvin brought saint mary’s record to 5-2-1, but the belles quickly re­bounded by winning five straight games in pursuit of a conference title. 
saint mary’s closed out its sea­son with a 13-5-2 record and fin­ished fourth in the mIAA. 
Teichman said the keys to the team’s success were depth and versatility. 
“We had a deep team with good camaraderie,” Teichman said. “You could put anyone out there and feel comfortable about playing with them. There was so much talent this year.” 
despite the strong season, the belles vacated their position in the mIAA tournament due to a viola­tion of saint mary’s department of Athletics policy. 
however, rosenbaum said the belles are eager to begin their 2013 season and build off a program-best campaign. 
“I’ve never been so excited to start a season in my entire life,” rosenbaum said. “I’m excited to see how far we go and how well we compete against these teams.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 




crossword | WILL shorTZ 


Muse & fuse | snorLAx 

sudoku | The mePhAm GroUP 
horoscoPe | eUGenIA LAsT 
Happy Birthday: Pick and choose what you do carefully. Your motives must be good if you don’t want to experience interference. An imaginative approach to the way you make and handle your money will help you stabilize your finances for future investments. What you learn this year will encourage and help you secure a better future. Give and take will be necessary. Your numbers are 5, 12, 22, 24, 36, 40, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take advantage of the changes going on around you. It’s the perfect time to implement something into your schedule that you’ve always wanted to pursue. don’t limit what you can do. being adaptable will result in per­sonal opportunities. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Focus on money matters and how you can earn more. Upgrade your skills or take a course that will train you to do something specialized. Keeping a secret will protect you; telling a lie will not. Know your boundaries. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do something you feel passionate about and you will be successful. share your thoughts and plans with people who have something to contribute. Greater security can be yours, but get what you want in writing, as empty promises are apparent. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): emotions will escalate based on the information you fall privy to receiving from an unreliable source. don’t jump to conclusions or make the mistake of acting too quickly. Put more into self-improvement projects, not trying to change others. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Problems dealing with a partner, lover or your job will cause worry and anxiety. Answer questions cautiously to avoid jeopardizing your reputa­tion. honesty mixed with a little Leo charm and the willingness to compromise will improve your situation. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): do your best to please others and you will get favors in return. What you learn from participating in an exercise, seminar or event will help you diversify what you have to offer. don’t let an emotional relationship stand between you and success. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional matters will surface. deception, misinter­pretation or mistaking what’s actually intended or being offered to you will be a problem. Ask questions and do follow-up to avoid an error that can leave you or someone else in the lurch. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A short trip to visit an old friend, relative or neighbor will help you learn more about your roots. You may want to rethink your strategy and come up with a plan that fits your changing lifestyle. A business partnership looks promising. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You’ll gravitate toward adventure, but make sure that you don’t spend or react impulsively. being fair is the key to making the changes that will suit your needs, budget and whatever personal relationship you are in or contemplating. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): make improvements to your surroundings. discuss your plans with someone who shares your concerns and recognizes the impor­tance of maintaining a strict budget. don’t let love turn into a costly situation. Invest in you, not in someone else. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): not everyone will be accommodating. Keep your plans a secret for the time being until you have worked out the details. expand­ing your interests will lead to an encounter with someone who will become quite special to you. Love is highlighted. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): stick to the people, places and pastimes you know well. be honest about the way you feel and avoid anyone trying to pressure or use you to get ahead. offer suggestions but don’t donate, invest or offer cash. decep­tion will lead to sorrow. 

Birthday Baby: You are determined, disciplined and imaginative. You are just and protective. 
JuMble | dAvId hoYT And JeFF KnUreK 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
P.o. box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 

indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





