The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 103 | TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘We won’t tolerate it’ 
Student leaders find voice on racial discrimination in Call to Action movement 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the first of a three-part series about the Call to Action movement and the ex­periences of minority students within the Notre Dame campus community. 
one year ago today, members of the notre dame community gathered in a town hall meet­ing to discuss incidents of racial discrimination experienced by the black students association (bsa) and the african students association (asa) and to devel­op a plan to move forward. 
students learned from a Feb. 24, 2012 email that during the span of one week, fried chick­en parts were placed in both organizations’ mailboxes in the laFortune student center. members of the community shared similar stories of ra­cial tension and exclusion at the town hall meeting march 4, 2012, which made it appar­ent that the harassment direct­ed towards the bsa and asa were symptomatic of a larger problem. 

emerald woodberry, current president of the bsa, said the intense emotion shared at the first town hall meeting indicat­ed minority students had kept a lot of their thoughts bottled up. 
“The first [town hall meeting] took people by surprise — no one knew what was coming,” woodberry said.  “That’s what i’m worried about, the fact that students were living with this emotion, holding onto it and not sharing it with anyone. … i’m worried about that and the im­plications that has on a student and their experience at notre dame.” 
another town hall meeting will take place march 26. but woodberry said the steps stu­dent leaders have already taken have begun to develop support frameworks and help minority students navigate life at notre for students to come and talk dame. and express these things and 

“i think it’s our responsibility know that something will come to make sure this doesn’t happen again, that we have platforms see call PAGE 5 


students celebrate pope emeritus 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
news writer 
The resignation of pope benedict Xvi, now known as the pope emeritus, has domi­nated world headlines since 


his official announcement three weeks ago. For three saint mary’s students, these 
see pope PAGE 4 



Club pairs student mentors with local kids 
is as easy as taking in a movie, brothers big sisters, said. “but at his or her “little” meet at least for them,” cummings said. 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

news writer shooting baskets or playing vid-the same time, you see the trans-once every two weeks to spend “you’re meeting with them on a eo games. formation before your eyes.” time together and catch up, regular basis and they can count 
For many notre dame and “you don’t feel like you’re do-mentors are paired with chil-cummings said. on you as someone to share their saint mary’s students involved ing community service at all,” ju-dren ages 6 to 14 after an applica-“it’s having somebody to look stories with.” in big brothers big sisters, serv-nior peter cummings, president tion and interview process. after up to, somebody that they can ing the south bend community of notre dame/saint mary’s big that, a big brother or sister and count on for support who’s there see service PAGE 3 


registration opens for holy half marathon 

By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
The time for training sea­son has officially begun for people running in the holy half marathon this year. The student union board (sub) has opened registration for the ninth annual half marathon that will take participants on a scenic route through notre dame’s campus march 23. 
“The holy half is one of the biggest student-run events on campus and has quickly become a notre dame tradi­tion,” maria murphy, a sub representative, said. 
murphy, who is also a holy half programmer this year, said the best part of the holy half is that not only do run­ners train and compete in a 
13.1 mile race, but they also get make a difference in the south bend community on be­half of the university. 
“all proceeds from the race go to the women’s care center (wcc) and the Family Justice center of st. Joseph county,” murphy said. “our goal this year is to raise $40,000 for these awesome organizations.” 
This year, the holy half will include a new course for runners, murphy said. she said the event will also fea­ture mike collins, the voice of notre dame stadium, as the emcee. 

“runners will get a 2013 holy half T-shirt and a bunch of other free goodies from our sponsors,” murphy said. “all volunteers will get lots of food and our undying thanks.” 
sponsors for the 2013 holy half include gu energy, blistex, Jimmy Johns, dunkin’ donuts, harper cancer 
see holy halF PAGE 3 


Transpo app PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 mens baskeTball PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How is this week’s workload for you? 


Hank Sikorski 
senior 
off-campus 

“Three midterms, one project and two homeworks.” 

Jorge Cortez 
freshman 
o’neill hall 

“Two midterms and two essays.” 

Brian Calcutt 
sophomore 
sorin college 

“a lot of homework, an exam on wednesday and a lab report.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Jenna Heidcamp 
freshman 
welsh Family hall 

“i plan on doing a lot of sleeping and hanging out.” 

John Sontag 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 

“insane. lots of homework, no tests thankfully.” 

Weston Neirmeyer 
sophomore 
duncan hall 

“couple of exams, couple of homeworks, couple of labs.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jillian barwick issac lorton Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
bridget Feeney aJ godeaux sarah swiderski sam gans 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
steph wulz Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Basketball Physics Colloquium Hospitality Lunch Writing Workshop Men’s and Women’s 
sarah o’connor caroline schurz 
Joyce Center Nieuwland Science Geddes Hall Coleman-Morse Fencing 7 p.m. Hall 11:45 p.m.-1 p.m. Center Joyce Center The Irish face off 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Proceeds benefit 1 p.m.-2 p.m. All day 
Corrections 

against the Red Storm. Presentation by Dr. the Catholic Peace Discuss strategies for NCAA Regional 
in the march 3 issue of The observer, Fernando A. Montes. Fellowship. large writing projects. championships. the incorrect headshot accompanied the article “huang chosen as dean.” 
Four:7 Catholic Film: “Even the Rain” Zen Meditation Film: “The Master” Women’s Lacross 
engineering professor yih-Fang 
Fellowship DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing Arlotta Stadium 
huang was pictured instead of 

Cavanaugh Hall Arts Center Center Arts Center 3 p.m.-5 p.m. 
mendoza college of business dean 
8:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8:50 p.m. Notre Dame takes on  
roger huang. The observer regrets 
Student-led Catholic A Spanish director Practice sitting and A Naval veteran the Boston University 
this error. 

fellowship. makes a film in Bolivia. walking meditation. returns from war. Terriers. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | The observer 


App enables users to track Transpso buses 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
students, faculty and other members of the campus com­munity will see the wheels on the bus go round in a whole new way, as Transpo now of­fers an online bus tracking service. 
The service allows anyone in the university commu­nity to track Transpo buses in real time, giving riders a 
“You can stay inside and track the bus, then step outside just as it arrives.” 
Brett Rocheleau 
student body president 
better idea when a particu­lar bus will arrive at a giv­en location, student body president brett rocheleau said. This information is available online via http:// nd.doublemap.com/map or through the doublemap bus Tracker app for iphone and android phones. rocheleau said the application overlays icons of buses on a map of the Transpo routes to show where the buses are at all times. 
The service will be valuable for people who want to avoid waiting outdoors for the bus during harsh weather, he said. 
“you can stay inside and track the bus, then step out­side just as it arrives,” he said. 
The service will be espe­cially useful for students who use the sweep route Friday and saturday nights and stu­dents who rely on Transpo buses to visit or work in south bend, rocheleau said. he said the service is provid­ed by doublemap, an organi­zation based in bloomington, ind., that offers gps bus-tracking applications for per­sonal computers and mobile phones. 
rocheleau said he and other members of student government worked with doublemap representative peter servaas, who brought a similar service to indiana university while he was stu­dent body president there for the 2009-10 school year. 
rocheleau said he and stu­dent body president emeri­tus pat mccormick looked into the possibility of such a program during the 2011-12 school year, but it wasn’t un­til servaas contacted notre dame’s student government 

“she feels comfortable talking 
Service 
with me.” 
conTinued From page 1 
cummings noted that the 

Junior yana Jones said her little dynamic between bigs and lit-sister talks with her about issues tles can be quite different from with school and her home life. that of other mentor-mentee 
“she tells me different issues relationships. that she’s having that she can’t “it’s a relationship that goes talk about with her family, and beyond one thing like school or i think that’s something that i homework — it’s one thing to went into big brothers big sisters meet with a tutor for an hour be-hoping i could do,” Jones said. cause you have to,” cummings 
paid adverTisemenT 

that the doublemap system was implemented. 
“pat [mccormick] and i looked at this issue a little bit last year, and we worked with Transpo to consider in­stalling this sort of system,” rocheleau said. “Then peter 
said. “it goes beyond that; you spend several hours with this kid just doing what you like to do. … it’s a relationship that goes be­yond trust.” 
Jones said the friendships often live up to the program’s name. 
“when they tell you that you’re like a real big sister and they wish you were their real big sister, it’s the best feeling in the world,” she said. 
The effects of this care have been measured by the big brothers big sisters of st. Joseph county, with which nd/smc big brothers big sisters work very closely. its website notes that mentored children are less likely to skip school, use drugs and drink illegally than children without mentors. 
cummings said he witnessed a change in his little brother af­ter they were paired together cummings’ freshman year. 
“he was just showing more respect to adults, please and thank you and stuff like that,” he said. “you really build special relationships with these kids and you can tell it’s having an impact on them.” 
Jones noticed a similar change [servaas] came to us and was able to set it up at no charge, so it was perfect.”according to the doublemap website, the service is in place at sev­eral other universities, in­cluding suny cortland and the university of cincinnati. 
The new service will bs one of the final projects of the outgoing student government administration, rocheleau said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of Peter Cummings 
Junior Peter Cummings, president of  Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s Big Brothers Big Sisters poses with “little brother” Shamond. 
in her little sister. 
“she just became a lot friend­lier, a lot more open. … i think she’s gained confidence in herself.” 
cummings said most of the littles live in single parent house­holds or in families in which one or both parents are unable to spend significant amounts of time with his or her family. 
“most of these kids are fac­ing adversity in their lives and they need a role model. … They need someone they can rely on to provide them with support,” he said. 
cummings noted the network is growing and that an upcom­ing Five guys fundraiser apr. 4 will attract potential big brothers and sisters as well to raise aware­ness of the program. 
interested students can visit the st. Joseph chapter’s website or email peter cummings for more information. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 


Pope 
conTinued From page 1 
headlines refer to events right outside their door. 
sophomores nikki charter, lauren osmanski and Tori wilbraham are participating in the college’s study abroad semester in rome. The pro­gram began in mid-January and finishes in april. 
“This has been such an ex­citing time,” wilbraham, a religious studies major, said. “massive amounts of people are coming to both rome and vatican city. The hotel we are staying at is fully booked for the next couple of weeks. people from all over the world are coming to be in this holy city at this special time. 
“The crowds have been so large the city even had to re­paint all the street lines to accommodate all the traffic coming through.” 
because this is the first pope to resign in six centuries, doz­ens of reporters from major networks have come to report the climate of the city. 
“a couple of weeks ago lauren [osmanski] and i were interviewed by nbc,” charter, a communications major, said. “a reporter pulled us aside as­suming we were american and quick asked us a few questions about the pope’s final public mass.” 
osmanski, a business major, said it was at his final mass that she realized the significance of his resignation. 
“we went to his last public mass on ash wednesday. he was honored with three stand­ing ovations,” osmanski said. “The most emotional part of the mass for me was when the curtain fell in front of him. people around us were yelling ‘papa, papa’ and right then and there it hit me that he was ac­tually resigning. i thought to myself ‘This is happening.’” 
For wilbraham, that mo­ment came at the pope’s final 
“When you are standing amongst a crowd of 125,000 people, that is when you are truly moved by the Holy Spirit, or at least I was.” 
Tori Wilbraham 
sophomore 
blessing Feb. 3. This blessing was said in eight languages including english, italian, german, mandarin, spanish, polish, portuguese and French. 
“when you are standing amongst a crowd of 125,000 people, that is when you are truly moved by the holy spirit, or at least i was,” wilbraham said. “i realized how special the catholic community truly is. it goes beyond saint mary’s and notre dame. it expands worldwide crossing barriers of language, culture and so much more.” 
charter said that the at­mosphere of vatican city and rome is dreary since the resignation. 
“as exciting as it is there is actually a dreary aura around the environment of vatican city,” charter said. “it is a very unique experience to be in vatican city without a pope. here we feel as though we are essentially fatherless.” 
all three students at­tend morning masses at The pontifical north american seminary. They said recent homilies have been centered on praying for both the current and future state of the church. 
“sunday’s homily talked about how important of a time this is not only for the pope emeritus, but also for the fu­ture of our church,” osmanski said. “in mass, we were en­couraged to acknowledge how exciting this time is, but we still need to pray for the pope emeritus and we need to send our prayers to the conclave.” 
osmanski said pope benedict Xvi’s stepping down will affect not only his legacy, but she also believes it will af­fect the future procedure of the church. 
“Toward the end of pope John paul ii’s life, pope benedict was essentially his right hand man. he saw the effect his sickness had on the church and the pope,” osmanski said. “i think this experience played a significant role in his deci­sion to resign. i also think that this will become a pattern. The head of our church is es­sentially our father figure and this man must be fit to travel and undergo the pressures of the position.” 
The pope’s last official day was Thursday, and on monday, the cardinals met informally to discuss when the conclave will begin. wilbraham said normal­ly the conclave cannot start un­til 15 days after the pope is out of office, but clauses were altered to allow the conclave to begin sooner. 
“The gossip in vatican city and rome right now is not about who is going to be the new pope. no one can gauge it,” wilbraham said. “we can have our opinions on who we would like to see as the new pope, but cardinals are unable to speak to anyone until the conclave is over. until the moment the smoke is in the sky we will not know.” 
all three students said they hope for this next pope to be non-european. 
“The church is not only european,” charter said. “The catholic church represents the entire world. The talk of the town right now is the con­clave is looking at cardinals from the americas and africa. essentially, there is talk about this being the first pope that is not from europe. This then is allowing the public to ask the question of how europeans, specifically italians would react to a non-european pope.” 


The students said no matter who is named the next pope, they will be ready to celebrate and honor this next era of the catholic church. 
“From here on out it is sneak­ers only,” wilbraham said. “when we see or hear of the smoke rising we will be ready to run to vatican city with our saint mary’s flags in hand.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Holy Half 
conTinued From page 1 
research institute, hagerty, Zone perfect and abro industries, murphy said. 
For those runners who aren’t prepared to run 13.1 miles, there is also a 10k race option that will take place 15 min­utes after the half marathon begins. murphy said there is a capacity for 1,300 runners. 
For students who aren’t runners but still want to get involved, there are plenty of spots open for student volun­teers to help set up the race, run water stations and cheer on runners. 
“by volunteering, i gained so much respect for people who were able to run that long,” ann kebede, a 2012 vol­unteer for the event, said. “it was especially cool to watch the girls who kept such a fast pace. i also liked seeing peo­ple i knew run past while i cheered them on.” 
kebede said volunteering was a great way to get involved in the event because she knew she wouldn’t want to partici­pate as a runner. 
“a lot of what i did was cheer people on and give them moti­vation to keep going,” kebede said. 
The holy half is a great way for notre dame and the sur-community,” kebede said. the holy half a lot of free-rounding community to be “since athletics is such a big dom this year. she added that able to physically participate part of notre dame, this is a sub plans to make the race in the athletic culture of the great thing that is open to ev-fun for all and, most impor­school, she said. eryone and gives people the tantly, raise money for wcc 

“it is an athletic event opportunity to be active for a and the Family center of saint that the whole campus can day.” Joseph’s county. do, as well as the outside murphy said sub has given “we are so happy with how 
paid adverTisemenT 


the race is coming together and cannot wait for march 23,” murphy said. 
The deadline for registra­tion is on march 14. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com |TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | The observer 


Call onyeador said. “now we’ve gotten the diversity council 
conTinued From page 1 

involved, members of other of [their story],” woodberry said. minority groups have par­
ticipated in the communities, ‘The voice to make a some of the students who teach difference’ the contemporary Topics class 
students themselves have the — it’s a really diverse group of power to demand that better students, that’s definitely diver-support frameworks are created, sified a lot more than last year.” asa president chinelo onyeador several administrators have said. been instrumental in the move­
“without the students, noth-ment, but none more so than iris ing would have happened,” outlaw, director of multicultural onyeador said.  “we can do any-student programs and services, thing we want it we really want and assistant vice president of it — we really do have the voice student affairs dr. david moss, to make a difference on campus. woodberry said. i think students have so much “both ms. iris and [moss] re-power, that’s the bottom line.” ally helped us to focus in on all of 
The movement began with the things we need to do without one person: former bsa presi-being overbearing,” woodberry dent and 2012 graduate brittany said. “we took all the things that suggs, woodberry said. we got from the town hall meet-cleofe said. their dorms’ Frosh-o staffs be-cards after every interaction 
“initially when the [items ing, and started to collaborate cause they had had bad experi-with students, onyeador said. were placed in the bsa and asa with student government and ‘Just the place where I live’ ences and wanted to make it “a lot of students have had mailboxes], both clubs’ officers different offices on campus to onyeador said minority stu-better for someone else.” issues with ndsp in the past, reported the incidents to notre see what we can do. … as things dents often struggle to find a efforts to improve dorm life for whether in questioning whether dame security police (ndsp) fell into place, we had commit-“home under the dome” through minority students affect more they are actually students here and there was an official report tees in place that were planning on-campus dorm life. than just freshman orientation, or accusing them of something, filed,” woodberry said. “shortly things, then coming back and “i think that’s one of the things onyeador said. so we’re trying to hold these of-thereafter [the Feb. 24, 2012] reporting to us.” about dorm life — minority stu-“They are changing resident ficers accountable,” onyeador email came out [from then vice The efficient collabora-dents don’t always feel it’s for assistants’ (ra) training; that said. president of student affairs Fr. tion between student and them,” onyeador said. “That’s also started this past year,” Tom doyle and vice president administrative leaders and im-why so many leave campus so onyeador said.  “last year, i Looking to lasting change and associate provost don pope-mediate commitment by the soon — many minorities move had a really great ra, but i just it’s been one year since the davis] with brittany’s name administrators to the students’ off-campus after their freshman feel like sometimes ras feel un-town hall meeting when the signed [as well]. goals allowed the movement to year — which is quite unusual for comfortable because they don’t ball began rolling on these ini­
“That was huge.  it basically successfully pursue its initia-the typical notre dame student. know how to interact with some-tiatives. Though the initiatives said we won’t tolerate it, this tives, woodberry said. “i’m still on campus but that’s one who is not the typical notre have already produced some 
“i’m not sure how things have not my choice, that’s been my dame student — it’s not like tangible results, students will be 
happened in the past, but i’m not parent’s choice. overall my dorm they’re intentionally trying to the ones to affect lasting change 
sure there has ever been such leave anyone out, they’re just not in their perceptions of diversity, 
a strong coalition between stu­
used to it.” cleofe said. 
“I’m not sure 
dents and administrators where 

“That’s the worst “it’s an overall change on the how things have students have led the way,” 
thought ever Holding each other part of the student body that is happened in the woodberry said. 
accountable really going to change the way 
that someone, 

past, but I’m not after beginning their terms as as the call to action move-diversity is treated on campus,” 
somewhere on our 
this year’s leaders from the bsa 
ment continues, ndsp has also cleofe said. 
sure there has ever 
and asa, onyeador said they 

campus doesn’t developed a more comprehen-cleofe said he hopes people been such a strong spent a semester learning the 
feel a part of sive reporting system for any remember the principles be-coalition between progress suggs had made during 
type of harassment on campus, hind the idea of the notre dame 
this Notre Dame 
the 2011-12 school year. 
woodberry said. “family.” 
students and 
community — this 
“There was a lot that brittany 
“we’ve also started creating a “personally, it’s something i
administrators 
did by herself, [so] emerald and Notre Dame family new website called report@nd, feel really strongly about — not 
where students 
i spent the first two [or] three 

that we harp on which is going to be launched just [in terms of] racial diver-have led the way.” months of figuring out all she 
in march,” onyeador said. “on sity, but people from all differ-
all the time.” 
did,” onyeador said.  “The first 
it you can report any incident ent backgrounds accepting each 
Emerald Woodberry 
Emerald Woodberry 
months of school were basically 
of harassment — racial, sex-other and being a family, which 
senior senior 
transition months, after that we 
ual, sexual orientation, what-is what notre dame is supposed 
BSA president BSA president 
looked at what we had and where 

ever it is. it’s a one-stop shop for to be all about,” he said. we had to go from there.” 
reporting.” woodberry said the move-student government diversity creating a venue so that stu-ment focuses on the needs of in-council liaison ernst cleofe said experience hasn’t been horrible, dents can more easily report dividual students by working to happened but it won’t end here. student government partnered but it’s just the place where i live, harassment works hard in hand reach both majority and minor-we’re going to keep pushing and with call to action committee it doesn’t feel like a community with efforts to strengthen the ity students and clearly express keep fighting.  we sat down [and] members as the movement set to me.” relationship between ndsp and what constitutes unacceptable, literally brainstormed what we its agenda. he participates on the This sense of exclusion for the rest of the campus commu-discriminatory treatment. she can do, how we can get students movement’s steering committee minority students often starts nity, onyeador said. said she hopes this continual involved and where this is going with outlaw, moss, woodberry during freshman orientation, “sometimes we forget that conversation will help the call to go.” and onyeador, cleofe said. onyeador said. they are here to serve us and to to action leaders to continue 
That initial meeting prompted “i didn’t want to be the stron-“a lot of students — not just help us but the relationships working on initiatives that will the groups and the other collab-gest voice in the room, but stu-minority students, majority stu-that students have with [the of-improve the ability of the notre orators to arrange the town hall dent government … wanted a dents too — have complained ficers] are not always positive,” dame community to welcome meeting, woodberry said. role that is step by step in every about Frosh-o being really awk-onyeador said. “ndsp is trying all of its members. 
“if things like this happened single process in any capacity ward and really uncomfortable, to show us [what their role on “That’s the worst thought ever at other times we need to know they needed,” cleofe said. “we not that welcoming,” onyeador campus actually is] — they have that someone, somewhere on about [those incidents] — that’s don’t want to be at the forefront said.  “i know they try to foster a pamphlet that they’re work-our campus doesn’t feel a part of not going to cut it, that’s not go-because we don’t think that’s our community … but it’s not com-ing on that explains our rights this notre dame community — ing to work for us.” place.  The call to action move-fortable for anyone, let alone as students and their rights as a this notre dame family that we 
ment is a student-driven orga-the one hispanic girl or the one police department. harp on all the time,” woodberry Shaping a movement nization, and i think the way black girl in the dorm.” “we don’t know what we can said. “Talking to those margin-
by collaborating with the ad-student government views it is onyeador said reworking do and what we can’t do — we alized students and taking their ministration, student leaders that we’re here to help.” freshman orientation training don’t know our rights. This pam-opinions seriously is the most within the bsa and asa united some of the most significant allowed this year’s program to phlet is trying to do a better job important part of all of this. to formally create the call to developments fostered by the run more smoothly. of explaining that to students,” even if it’s just one student that action movement, onyeador movement will affect students “we’ve gotten a lot better feed-she said. this reaches, that one student is said. from the first moment they step back from the freshmen [than ndsp also instituted a new really important.” 
“The bsa and asa were onto notre dame’s campus and in years past],” onyeador said. policy per the recommendation the groups targeted so we be-begin residence life in the dorms “a lot of the people who were on of the movement, which will re-Contact Nicole Michels at came spearheads of the group,” through freshman orientation, Frosh-o staffs said they were on quire officers to offer business nmichels@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

you say tomato... 

Nicole McAlee 
news writer 

being a born and bred east coaster makes life at notre dame a pretty in­teresting change of pace. it’s a wonder to drive around and spot mysteriously named grocery stores (“meijer? how do you pronounce that?”) and a challenge to dress for weather that changes approxi­mately every 10 minutes. but the most interesting thing is the amazing micro­cosm of the world that i get to mingle with every day. The people i’ve met here have consistently prompted me to think about nearly everything in a different way. 
There’s one specific and unique curios­ity that i find fascinating: The breadth of accents i encounter on a daily basis. 
Take my friend amber from the bronx, who asks for my “oh-pen-yon” instead of my “opinion.” Then there’s my room­mate, laura from milwaukee, who says the word “bag” in a way that is impossible to spell phonetically. i did a double take the first time my friend emily from Texas said “y’all” without a hint of irony. 
and then there’s me. 

i hail from the suburbs of philadelphia. it’s something i’m quite proud of; after all, philadelphia has contributed much to the world, like american freedom, kevin bacon and cheesesteaks. 
The place has also contributed a few strange quirks to my speech patterns. 
my generations-bred philadelphia ac­cent has conditioned me to call h2o, aqua and that stuff that makes up 65 percent of the human body “wooder.” i’m mocked for complaining about the cold wooder in the shower and filling my wooder bottle at the wooder fountain. The wooder/water confusion is, in fact, the hallmark of the philadelphia dialect. 
The way i say them, the words “mad” and “sad” don’t rhyme. “mary,” “merry” and “marry” have three different vowel sounds and, to complicate things even more, i say the name “murray” and the word merry exactly the same way. unless i make a concerted effort, my pronuncia­tion of “tomato” might sound a bit more like “tomatuh.” 
The first 18 years of my life were spent in blissful philadelphian ignorance: everyone i knew shared the same dialec­tical quirks. it was something admittedly inconsequential that i took for granted. 
going to notre dame is awesome for a whole host of reasons, but one of them is the way in which i’m constantly re­evaluating myself. my view of the world is broader because i’ve met people from all over it (and have carefully assessed their accents). 
i hope that chick from philadelphia who calls water “wooder” has broadened someone else’s horizons. 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The GreenMan 
ask the greenman 
dearest domers, 

i’m feeling unusually energetic to­day, and not just because of my brisk swim through st. Joseph’s lake this morning. 
no, i’m feeling energetic for a dif­ferent reason, a special reason. but what is it? hmm ... special ... special k ... cereal ... milk ... cow  ... mad cow disease ... disease ... mania ... mania? mania! That’s it! recyclemania! 
That’s right, ladies and gentlemen! recyclemania is here! i can’t believe it’s been a year already, but you know what they say: Time flies when you’re a mute, green-skinned humanoid. 
what is recyclemania, you ask? it’s an eight-week competition among 522 universities in the u.s. and canada to reduce waste and increase recycling efforts. There is an array of categories to compete in, includ­ing grand champ (just as the grand canyon’s formation was heavily based on the rate of water flowing through the colorado river, this category is based on overall campus 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
recycling rate), per capita classic (more classic than shakespeare, this category is based on the total recy­cling per person), gorilla (based on the total weight recycled. if a team of gorillas can’t lift your school’s weekly recyclingyou’re in pretty good shape) as well as several other categories. 
last year we finished 108th out of 266 in the grand champ category and 63 out of 296 in the gorilla cat­egory. while these results aren’t terrible, they do leave a bad taste in my mouth. almost as bad as selena gomez’s taste in men! 
similar to dJ khaled, all i want to do is win, win, win. however, khaled and i differ in that we have different things on our minds. while he has money on his, i have a different kind of green on mine (both literally and figuratively): sustainability. you can help notre dame win and be more sustainable by ramping up your own efforts to recycle. 
Those dead batteries from your calculator? They’re recyclable. That plastic bag your cheesy gordita crunch came in? That’s recyclable. That paper you just got back? That’s recyclable. This copy of The observer telling you to recycle? ooh you better believe that’s recyclable! cardboard, plastic, aluminum, styrofoam, glass, you name it! if it isn’t a food or liq­uid, chances are it’s recyclable. 
no matter where you go and what you’re doing, try and remember to recycle. with each empty starbucks cup in the recycling bin we help our planet and step closer to a notre dame victory. 
with so many other universities competing, the task at hand may seem daunting, but as bon Jovi al­ways tells us: don’t stop believing. 
until next time, 
greenman 
p.s. or was that Journey? 
Email your predica­ments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustain­able twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“if everything seems under control, you’re not going fast enough.” 
Mario Andretti American automobile racer 


Racial entitlements? 
crusaders and our political process have faced. the government can justify intervening in state and 
Shaaya Ellis 
reason will prevail 

on Feb. 27, the supreme court heard the case shelby county vs. holder. The county argued before the high court that congress exceeded its constitu­tional authority when, in 2006, it reauthorized sec­tion five of the voting rights act of 1965 for another 25 years. The county adamantly claims that reau­thorizing section five of the voting rights act ex­ceeded congress’ authority under the 14th and 15th amendment thus violating the 10th amendment and article iv of the united states constitution. 
during the midst of the oral argument, united states supreme court Justice antonin scalia pro­claimed, “each time the voting rights act has been reauthorized in the past 50 years more and more senators supported it, even though the problem of racial discrimination at the polls has decreased over that time. now, i don’t think that’s attribut­able to the fact that it is so much clearer now that we need this. i think it is attributable, very likely attributable, to a phenomenon that is called per­petuation of racial entitlement. whenever a soci­ety adopts racial entitlements, it is very difficult to get out of them through the normal political processes.” 
hearing scalia declare that the voting rights act of 1965, the cornerstone statute of the black american freedom struggle, was a racial entitle­ment left some of those in the courtroom includ­ing Jesse Jackson, al sharpton, rachael maddow, John lewis and other civil right dignitaries livid. while at first scalia’s comments might be seen as insensitive and incendiary, his comments point to a pervasive problem that both current civil rights 
if we are truly to live up to the meaning of the black freedom struggle, which was to strive for equality for blacks in america, then we must extin­guish outdated laws and the supreme court must strike down this provision of the voting rights act. current civil rights crusaders such as Jackson and sharpton would have people believe that they can wipe out the last vestiges of discrimination. doing this has cost the country and is impossible without ushering in a police state. 
some might say that section five of the voting rights act is necessary to prevent injustice in the political process, however, what was once a statute meant to alleviate the burden of overt discrimina­tion has now become a mechanism that impedes the electoral process. shelby county claims, “immense progress since 1965 in rooting out of­ficial discrimination renders pre-clearance an unwarranted burden on those jurisdictions that must comply, unjustifiably subjecting some states to unequal treatment and violating their constitu­tional prerogative to regulate elections within their borders.” 
Forcing a group of people to deal with an unnec­essary burden when simply redrawing an electoral map causes injury and is grounds for terminating this provision. we either have all counties in the united states seek pre-clearance when redrawing their electoral maps or we have no counties in the united states seek pre-clearance when redrawing their electoral maps. 
The issue in shelby county vs. holder is whether congress can have a set of rules and procedures for a select few whilst other counties, cities, mu­nicipalities and states go untouched by the Justice department. moreover, another issue is whether local voting laws when politicians seek to adjust their voting maps. The voting rights act and its several provisions was meant to prevent things like poll taxes and literacy tests from being enacted that have the effect of suppressing the vote on one seg­ment of society. 
if we are truly an equal nation where we judge one another on the content of character and not the color of one’s skin, then all should be treated as equals in front of the law. in the words of supreme court Justice clarence Thomas, “our constitution is color blind and no special treatment should be given to a selected group over another.” 
The voting rights act of 1965 abolished Jim crow segregation laws and other measures designed to impede or otherwise disenfranchise black voters. it has been renewed four times, most recently in 2006 when it passed congress near-unanimously 98-0 in the senate and 390-33 in the house. The supreme court should do what congress has not had the te­merity to do and strike down this burdensome pro­vision. clarence Thomas once called section five of the voting rights act “an antiquated provision that can no longer be justified as a constitutional way to enforce the 15th amendment, the reconstruction amendment that protects all citizens from race-based voting discrimination.” The pervasive and overt racial discrimination prompting the creation of section five no longer exists, hence the law has outlived its usefulness. 
Shaaya Ellis is a sophomore political science ma­jor with a classics minor. He can be contacted at sellis2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Faith informing politics 
mr. rooney, 

Thank you for your thoughtful and interesting piece in Friday’s observer (“(political) science and faith,” mar. 1) it is clear to me that you are indeed being very thoughtful. i do think though that there are a few errors in your logic. First and foremost, i believe that it is very important to keep one thing in mind as catholics or persons of any faith tradi­tion: we should have faith inform our politics and not try to fit faith into one political scheme. This means not that “in order to be good, conscious christians we must be liberal,” but rather as good, conscious christians we need to weigh each policy on its own with our faith and vote for the candidate that best matches up with our beliefs. 
now, that being said, there are certain values that we hold as paramount. one of these is the right to life. as you and i agree, life begins at concep­tion, thus this life must be protected as it is outside the womb. being a fellow man, i agree that i do not know and will never understand the incredibly dif­ficult decisions that expectant mothers go through. This is why it is so important for us as a society to build a community that is welcoming and sup­portive of all its members, including the unborn. being pro-life does not mean trying to impose re­strictions on what women do with their bodies, but rather providing the support needed  so that every child can be born into a loving community. 
as life begins at conception, it has to be pro­tected from conception.  The ‘problem’ in unin­tended pregnancies is not the unborn child, it is the society that refuses to protect it and support both the mother, father and child. This is the key to building a culture of life, and i welcome anyone who wishes to discuss these issues further to con­tact me. 
Thank you for your thoughtful piece, and remem­ber there are 2,000 years of thought that have gone into the church’s teachings; they are there to guide us in our search for truth. 
sincerely, 
stephen wandor 
Stephen Wandor 
senior siegfried hall 



By COURTNEY COX 
scene editor 

when the weekend rolls around this Friday, we will all be free of academic strife and released into the wild for one week of stress-free existence. what’s the best way to celebrate this newfound freedom? dress like it, of course. 
if you’re heading somewhere warm and tropical it should be easy for you to embrace this call to action. 
but first you have to get to your desti­nation. don’t allow the airport to be an excuse for bad fashion. like all true rock stars, you must use the airport as the ul­timate runway. 
stay comfortable, but look chic while doing it. no sweatpants allowed. Try a pair of black leg­gings with this loose off the shoulder grey me­tallic top. add a pair of ankle boots and you’re set to be the toast of the security line. 
Then it’s time to hit up the beach in style.  use this as an opportunity to 

Image courtesy of nordstrom.com Image courtesy of nordstrom.com 
try out accessories that 
would seem out of place in the chill of south bend. 
Try out this floppy straw hat to protect your precious face from the elements. it’s just bohemian enough to be interest­ing without being off-putting. it’s also the perfect complement to your sea-salt tou­sled wavy hair. 
classic ray bans might be good enough for early fall tailgating, but this spring break it’s time to experiment with some­thing a little more edgy. go for something with a bit of a retro feel like these two-toned oversized cat-eye stunners. it’ll be floral print. This version has a smaller floral pattern that isn’t distracting and the interest­ing bodice makes it original. accessorize it 
snowboarding, your wardrobe may involve 
considerably more coverage, but you’re still 
free to experiment with clothes that aren’t your typical outfits for class. The first thing you’ll need is a classic parka to keep out the chill. instead of go­ing for the traditional, slimming black, go for something bright so that your friends can easily spot you on the moun­tain. This red down parka is trimmed with luxe fur to keep you even warmer. you’ll look like you came straight from the swiss alps. no amount of fashion aptitude can make ski boots look attractive, so you’ll have to make up for it après ski, presum­ably by a fire in a warm cabin. 



Image courtesy of saksfifthavenue.com Image courtesy of asos.com 
These Fair isle leg­gings are the perfect complement to a warm mug of hot chocolate and are a more interest­ing way to incorporate this interesting pattern than a standard crew-neck sweater. 
another way to spice up your winter ward­robe is to choose a hat with some form of em-
Image courtesy of shopbop.com 
bellishment that marks 
you as unique. This studded knit beanie is the perfect way to look like you don’t really care about your ap­pearance and you just happen to look this awesome all the time. 
it’ll also keep your locks under wraps if you find they aren’t looking stellar after a day of intense skiing. 
wherever you plan to go, be it sun­ny or snowy, don’t let this style op­portunity go to waste. Try something new and exciting without the pres­sure of an entire campus judging your choices. who knows — you might just 

just the thing you need to protect your eyes with a bold necklace and some platform wedg-come back all the more bold and ready to in-from the scorching sun while you’re out soak-es and your daytime cover-up can double as a corporate something new into your everyday ing up plenty of rays. playful outfit for a night out. life. 
instead of your standard shapeless beach if you’ve decided to fully embrace the cover-up, go for a strapless romper in a fun cold and hit the slopes for some skiing and Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


Mac Hendrickson 
scene writer 

i am seven years old, and my older brother Johnno and i are having a very politically incorrect time lis­tening to puff daddy and the Family’s “no way out.” Johnno has somehow convinced my mother to buy us this album. it’s the edited version, but my brother helps me fill in the blanks. i am still at a loss for how my brother was ever introduced to the genre. whoever this nike-sporting peer was, i wonder if i would be more inclined to kiss him on the forehead or kick him in the groin. For these reasons, i have never sought him out. 
“no way out,” the title track, blasts from Johnno’s boombox in the corner of our parents’ bedroom. over its mournful humming, helicopters, police sirens and puff daddy’s unconvincingly dramatic prayer, Johnno and i are running around the room, imagining we are thugs in the ghetto, running away from the police for one reason or another. 
and, of course, this is all being imagined in the most ignorant sense. a sense which only prepubescent sub­urban kids can achieve. To us, the ghetto isn’t a symbol of modern american poverty. The ghetto isn’t a loaded political issue. To us, the ghetto is just about adventure. about running from the powers that be and trying to realize rags-to-riches dreams in any way possible. 
my hip-hop love affair, or some sort of affair whose true signifier i have yet to determine, is beginning. 
in a way, we can’t be blamed for this simplistic evalu­ation of urban culture. everything we knew, we were learning from our rap music. we had yet to traverse the lyrical masterpieces of nas and Jay-Z or explore the twisted mentality of the wu-Tang clan. That is, we were hip-hop amateurs. Things hadn’t gotten serious yet. we were listening to the cool rap. The rap that refused to explore the moral no-man’s land between police brutal­ity and complete ethical disregard. in the world of the rap we consumed, everything was black and white. us vs. Them. get rich or die Tryin’. and everything was inexcusably danceable. 
“no way out” is puff daddy’s “The chronic,” if he ever made one. when i listen to it now, 15 years later, it still manages to be a ton of fun. puff daddy and his hitmen production team steal (excuse me, “sample”) their way into some funky jams. and the whole thing wraps up with “i’ll be missing you,” puffy’s ode to his recently killed golden goose, The notorious b.i.g. The late rapper even makes a few appearances on the al­bum, rendering the whole fiasco something akin to a one-night celebration of the life of biggie smalls. 
my brothers and i jumped on the rap bandwagon at an interesting time. rap, for one reason or another, decided around 1997 to become (almost exclusively) a good time. bad boy records, who was responsible for four out of 10 of the most successful songs of 1997, was releasing larger-than-life dance jams. rap was sound­ing less like Queensbridge and more like a day party in the middle of Times square. in other words, rap was becoming what it needed to be in order to take its place as one of america’s most influential genres. before the manufactured thug style of 50 cent, etc., rap needed to be as radio-friendly as possible. my brothers and i were the inheritors — or victims, depending on how you look at it — of this hip-hop explosion. 
around the turn of the century, we ditched the bad boy dance party and moved onto a crew even more invested in its material acquisitions. Johnno, my other brother pat and i began scooping up every edited cash money cd that sam goody had in stock. For anyone who was doing anything slightly productive with their life in 1999 and inevitably missed cash money’s minute in the sun, the now-dispersed new orleans crew had one simple ethos: the key to happiness was bling. The rap crew spent most of its time rapping over lush south­ern productions about their watches, cars, helicopters and, occasionally, illegitimate children. in terms of bad boy records, cash money was mostly a step backward. The rhymes were less intelligent, and the morals were even further divorced from our own. however, it caught our attention nonetheless. 
our strange interest in urban culture clues one into the defining reason why hip-hop has been so impor­tant. hip-hop was a gateway to another world. a world we otherwise had no connection with, though it was very much a part of american culture. hip-hop brought the perversities, horrors and intricacies of urban america to suburban america’s doorstep. but it wasn’t in a pamphlet asking for money. it wasn’t in the form of a psa warning about gang violence. it was over a break-beat that made you dance while you thought about it. The first step to change is exposure, and rap music was urban america exposing itself, for better or for worse. 
my brothers and i were ahead of the music curve, as most of our friends busied themselves with limp bizkit or the backstreet boys for a few years while we were into hip-hop. but by the time high school arrived, ev­eryone was on the rap bandwagon. some parents even joined in, stocking up on sean paul ringtones and ac­companying their children to Jay-Z concerts. 
however, most parents, including my own, were re­volted. rap snuck in under their noses during the early part of the 1990s, but by 2000, they had started to sniff it out. To parents who, seven years prior, had seen los angeles tear itself apart during the rodney king riots, a genre that advocated violence and misogyny was certainly something to abhor. Their frustrations culmi­nated during eminem’s rise to fame at the turn of the century. 
eminem’s lyrics were not only blatantly violent and misogynistic, but his rise to fame afforded suburban white parents the opportunity to oppose the genre on race-irrelevant grounds. This wasn’t a racial or socio­economic issue. it was simple: rap was violent and poi­son for the entire culture, let alone the american youth. 
as i matured into my teen years, i began to adopt my parents’ concerns. Though i continued to love the genre, i began to feel ethical confusion as to why i loved it. should i give up hip-hop? is it poisoning my mind? am i simply making excuses for why hip-hop is socially acceptable, when all i really want is the music itself? what was it about rap that made me feel so ahead of the game? i was a 12 year old who had the same morally confused feelings toward hip hop that most 60 year olds had towards the atomic bomb. i disobeyed my par­ent’s orders and bought explicit albums. in fits of guilt i would throw them in the trash, and then recover them several days later before it was too late. 
i tried some of the lightweight rappers. i bought will smith’s “willenium” and pretended it was ruff ryders. but it seemed the more morally repugnant the rapper, the more i desired to tune in. eminem, Jay-Z, dmX. Those were my favorites. now that i am older, i realize that this ignoble desire to listen to grittier rap had more to do with the fact that Jay-Z was one of the best rappers in the world while will smith had the artistic faculty of a doorknob. in other words, i didn’t like these artists only because they were more explicit. 
it was around this time, when my crisis of conscience was reaching a meltdown, that rap started to do me fa­vors. having been ahead of the game, i began to appear cool to my friends. The popular kids in class wanted to come over and here my dr. dre album. likewise, i, un­like most others, had been watching “rap city” on beT the previous night and could elucidate my opinions about the new snoop dogg video. 
when rap’s novelty wore off and i could no longer wear my rap knowledge as a badge of ‘cool,’ i still found a personal sense of fulfillment in hip-hop. For one reason or another, rap made me feel cool. There was something inexplicably wonderful about the hip-hop attitude. it was a carefree rejection of vanity. it was a denunciation of the powers that be, and an appraisal of rivalry and achievement through hard work, and yes, selfishness. 
i have since realized that there were, no doubt, countless others to whom hip-hop surely meant consid­erably more. i was never bullied. i was rarely depressed or made to feel worthless. my upbringing was devoid of any major issue. hip-hop simply made me feel better on the rare occasion that i was, so to speak, down in the dumps. how important, then, must this feeling have been to those constantly against the ropes? 
i have recently spoken to several younger friends who affirmed their indebtedness to rap. ironically, their favorite always tends to be eminem. despite his objec­tionable content, eminem’s body of work is largely con­cerned with his troubled younger life. bullied by both peers and his mother, eminem’s attitude can be read as a concurrently humorous and spiteful response to our mean and selfish culture. when one plays “my name is,” eminem’s first major radio single, one can hear the wonderfully careless tone eminem takes in provoking a society that let him down. in a weird way, it’s beautiful. he is making america upset for strange and occasion­ally vane reasons, and subsequently exposing how hypocritical and backwards modern society can be. “hey kids, do you like violence?” “yeah!” i pity anyone who doesn’t find that lyric hilarious. 
eminem is being cool in his own way. it’s the anthem of anyone who never fit in. anyone without a clear way to the top. eminem, the least likely of all heroes, found a way. “my name is” is eminem sticking his tongue out at everyone who told him he’d never make it. 
no, eminem wasn’t a cultural genius. nor was he a role model. and to be fair, he never claimed to be either. in fact, i think most hip-hop artists are idiots. Their words can be as cavalier as they are senseless. if any cultural force has tested the legitimacy of free speech more than the westboro baptist church, it has been hip-hop. 
but free speech stands strong, and reminds us that even what criminals and pimps have to say might make a difference. in fact, most of hip-hop’s finest have been at one time or another disregarded or cast aside. Their poetry exposes our own cruelty and neglect. There is clearly something worthwhile in the hip-hop attitude. something very palpable to not only me, but also the millions of listeners the genre has won since its birth. 
so no, rap has never been easy to love. it has caused headaches, stomachaches, groundings and an un­healthy amount of time and money. but it has very much been worth it. hip-hop continues to fascinate and thrill me, in addition to making me feel the occa­sional burst of cool. 
Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The Golden Boy still shines 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the eighth in a 12-part series dis­cussing the defining sportsman (or woman) of this century. In this installment, Peter Steiner argues for Tom Brady. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #DefiningSportsman. 
The transformation of Tom brady is quite remarkable. near the beginning of the century and with most of the nation behind him, this sixth-round draft pick led his team to an improbable super bowl victory by orchestrating a last-minute drive over the 14-point favor­ites st. louis rams. 
Two mvps, three super bowl victories and 12 years later, brady is one of the most respected, but largely disliked players in sports. his ascent to the top of the nFl and stay there, coupled with his polar­izing stature has made him the defining sportsman of the 21st century. 
one of the best benchmarks for a defining sportsman is to imagine how the trajectory of a sport would have changed without that athlete. The ques­tion then becomes, which athlete’s absence would have changed the landscape of the sport the most? 
when looking at the history of the nFl over the past 13 years, the answer is pretty ob­vious — Tom brady. 
with the help of bill belichick, brady has estab­lished the patriots as the nFl’s most consistent powerhouse of this century. he has led his team to 10 division champion­ships, a perfect regular season and five super bowl appear­ances. and over the past de­cade, even casual sports fans knew the patriots were the team to beat. 
along with his team’s suc­cess, brady is also arguably the best individual player in the nFl since the turn of the cen­tury. Two regular season and two super bowl mvps, the sin­gle season passing touchdown record and eight pro bowls are the accolades at the top of his list. in addition, brady has been at the forefront of the evolution of the passing game, mastering the no huddle offense and the newest offensive schemes that many teams now employ. 
however, the biggest way brady has shaped the land­scape of the nFl is the role he has played in america’s biggest game. Three super bowl rings places brady in elite company, as he is tied with Troy aikman, and needs one more ring to join Joe montana and Terry bradshaw on top. 
in terms of championships, brady has also defined another nFl team by playing the an­tagonist in the story of the new york giants. The giants over­came brady twice in dramatic fashion to win super bowls in 2008 and 2012. 
of course, brady and the patriots have not won a super bowl since 2005, which hurts his current legacy in the ‘what have you done lately?’ sports world in which we live. but the goal is to identify the century’s defining sportsman and the thinking suddenly changes if you flip brady’s career from back to front and you start his career with the most recent loss in the aFc championship game. suddenly, he becomes an athlete who overcame a slew of playoff losses to finally win the big game three times in four years. The exercise serves as a reminder of Tom brady’s dominance, not just in the past five years, but also especially during his greatest stretch. 
The name Tom brady typi­cally invokes feelings of dislike shared by many sports fans outside of new england. while he began as an underdog to cheer for, his success and aura of superiority transformed him into the player to beat in both the eyes of players and fans. 
but love him or hate him, you have to respect the player that is Tom brady. his successful career has spanned the entire 21st century and he is one of sports’ most recognizable figures. 
Tom brady has shaped america’s most popular sport and, as a result, is the defining sportsman of the 21st century. 
Contact Peter Steiner at   psteiner@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Zags no. 1 for first time in school history 
Associated Press 
The to-do list for the gonzaga basketball team got shorter monday: For the first time, the Zags were ranked no. 1 in The associated press Top 25 poll. 
sweet, but it may get bumpier from there. 
next: avoiding the potholes that have stopped every other no. 1 this season, then finding a way to the Final Four. 
“it’s an honor that people would think this highly of all of us in the program,” coach mark Few said in a prepared statement monday afternoon. “it’s great for the pro­gram, great for the school, great for the city of spokane and the region and the entire northwest. 
“we still have a lot more to ac­complish starting this weekend in las vegas and moving forward to the ncaa tournament,” said Few, who reportedly went fishing on monday. “we’re looking for­ward to the rest of the season and making it last as long as we can.” 
The fact that Few would skip perhaps the biggest day in pro­gram history to go fishing says much about the priorities of the coach who helped build and has sustained gonzaga’s success. Few has repeatedly said he enjoys the balance between work and fam­ily time that gonzaga provides, a major reason he has not left for a bigger program. 
students celebrated the no. 1 ranking on the downtown campus monday, and the food services department wheeled out a 20-foot cake that said “congratulations Zags.” 
staying no. 1 has been tough this season, with gonzaga the fifth school to hold the spot after replacing indiana this week. The others were duke, louisville and michigan. 
“we don’t believe there is any jinx,” assistant coach Tommy lloyd said earlier monday. 
gonzaga, a small Jesuit school in spokane, is where crooner bing crosby went and where 

FOR SALE 
110 E. Pokagon, Large home near ND. 574-277-3910 ask for Jackie 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“I’ve never lost a game. I just ran out of time.” -Michael Jordan 
“I don’t want to shoot my mouth in my foot, but those are games we can win.” -Sherman Douglas 
“I owe a lot to my parents ,espe­cially my mother and my father.” -Greg Norman 
“I scored a 1600 minus 800 mi­nus 200 on the SAT, so I’m very in­telligent when I speak. -  Shaquille O’Neal 
“I thought lacrosse was what you had in la church.” -Robin Williams 

John stockton threaded pinpoint passes. it has the best record in division i at 29-2 following weekend wins against byu and portland. The hoosiers, beaten by minnesota last week, dropped to no. 2. 
The Zags are the 57th school to be ranked no. 1 since the ap poll began in January 1949. The school is considered a mid-major and reached no. 2 for the first time last week. now it will play for the first time at no. 1 on saturday night in the west coast conference semifinals. 
gonzaga’s rise to the top comes 14 years after the school burst onto the national scene with a surprise run to the final eight of the ncaa tournament. since then, Few has guided the Zags to 12 conference titles, 13 trips to the tournament and four trips to the round of 16. 
along the way, gonzaga has produced a slew of nba players, including dan dickau, adam morrison, ronny Turiaf, austin daye, robert sacre and Jeremy pargo. The team features players from canada, France, germany and poland along with stockton’s son, david. 
kelly olynyk, the 7-foot canadian center, leads the team in scoring at nearly 18 points a game and averages seven re­bounds. he calls the no. 1 rank­ing a “great milestone.” 
olynyk never dreamed that he would be playing for the no. 1 team in the nation when he chose gonzaga over other offers. 
“it never even crossed my mind,” he said. 
at the time of gonzaga’s run to the final eight, the school had fewer than 5,000 students and was struggling with enrollment and budget issues. 
Today, enrollment is at 7,800 and new buildings are popping up on campus all the time. The 6,000-seat mccarthey athletic center, which opened in 2004, has been sold out for all but one game. The Zags have rewarded their fans with a 120-8 home re­cord there. 
“we’ve had our struggles and battles, but we’ve made the right adjustments and calls,” lloyd said. “we must be doing some­thing right.” 
For now, the Zags, newly anointed no. 1, head to the league tournament in las vegas. lloyd knows such honors go only so far. 
“i don’t think those teams are going to care where we are ranked,” he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
In an average lifetime, a person will walk five times around the equator. 
It is believed that Shakespeare was 46 around the time that the King James Version of the Bible was writ­ten. In Psalms 46, the 46th word from the first word is shake and the 46th word from the last word is spear. 
Lucy and Linus (of Peanuts’ fame) also had a little brother named Rerun. 
The international dialing code for Anartctica is 672. 
Best known western names in China: Jesus, Richard Nixon, and Elvis 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | The observer 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Buckeyes prepare for Big Ten showdown 

The no. 14 buckeyes trav-evening for the hoosiers, michigan on sunday. 
Associated Press 

el to play second-ranked that’s for sure. They’ve al-at least half of the big Ten 
columbus, ohio — This indiana on Tuesday night as ready captured a share of will be hoping that doesn’t 
has been a season of may-the conference’s wacky reg-the conference title. To win happen. 
hem in the big Ten. ular season winds down to it outright for the first time “They’re not the only ones now ohio state would like its final week. since 1993, they need to beat playing for something,” ohio to scramble it even more. it’ll be a crimson-letter the buckeyes or win at no. 7 state point guard aaron craft said. “we’re also play-
paid adverTisemenT 
ing for something, too.” 
ohio state, michigan, 22nd-ranked wisconsin and no. 10 michigan state all still have a shot at getting a piece of the regular season championship — but only if the hoosiers lose their final two games. 
That makes for some strange bedfellows. 
a year ago, ohio state stunned big Ten-leading michigan state on a last-sec­ond shot by william buford on the final day of the reg­ular season to drop the spartans into a three-way tie for the conference title with the buckeyes and michigan. 
a week later, before ohio state and archrival michigan played in the big Ten tourna­ment, wolverines coach John beilein said to buckeyes coach Thad matta, “i’d nev­er seen a group of michigan guys rooting so hard when buford made that shot.” 
The big Ten has a se­ries of tiebreakers if two or more teams end up atop the standings. but none of those mean much if the hoosiers (25-4, 13-3) have their way with ohio state (21-7, 11­
5) like they did in an 81-68 beatdown on Feb. 10 at ohio state’s value city arena. 
in that game, the buckeyes were done in by the then-no. 1 hoosiers’ three-head­ed monster of versatile swingman victor oladipo, who scored a career-high 26 points, center cody Zeller, who had 24, and distance-shooting christian watford, who added 20, to account for 86 percent of indiana’s offense. 


That defeat was part of a swoon that saw the buckeyes drop three out of four big Ten games to fall out of the race for first place. a lop­sided win over minnesota (which then turned around a few days later and upset indiana) and an impor­tant 68-60 home win over michigan state helped ohio state climb in the stand­ings while one highly ranked team after another ahead of them was upended. 
heading into the final week of play, indiana has a two-game lead — with michigan, michigan state, ohio state and wisconsin all hoping that they can win their final two games while the hoosiers are los­ing twice. 
“This league is so (good), and there’s a lot of upsets,” said ohio state’s deshaun Thomas, the leading scorer in the big Ten. “now it comes down to us. we’re in a great position now.” 
There’s a feeling among the buckeyes that, since they were seemingly out of the league race just a week or two ago, this is a pleas­ant surprise to have so much riding on the final week. 
“a couple of weeks ago we got down and kind of took a step back,” said craft, who in his two previous years at ohio state has won two reg­ular-season big Ten titles. “we hadn’t really been in that position since i’ve been in college. we’ve kind of al­ways controlled our own destiny. but as a team we did a good job of really pick­ing ourselves up and under­standing there’s still a lot to play for.” 
The buckeyes look back at the big upset they pulled off on the road a year ago and figure why not do it again? 
“we did that last year at michigan state, and we feel like we can do that again at iu,” Thomas said. 
Few ohio state fans thought the buckeyes, in the wake of their cold spell, would still be playing a meaningful game in the fi­nal week of the season. but matta wasn’t so quick to slam the door on a tight finish. 
“This is my ninth year; we’ve won (the big Ten reg­ular-season title) five times and it’s always come down to the last week,” he said. “i had a pretty good sense it would come down to some­thing like this.” 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish look to remain unbeaten against Detroit 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
no. 7 notre dame started slowly in each of its three games thus far, but battled back from first half defi­cits in each to remain un­beaten. now, the irish are tasked with continuing that winning streak — and with putting together a consis­tent performance from start to finish — when they host detroit this evening. 
notre dame’s latest come-from-behind win came against duquesne on saturday, as the dukes (2-2) jumped out to a 4-0 lead just three minutes into the game. The irish (3-0) rallied back, outscoring the competition 7-3 in the second half to se­cure a 10-8 win. 
in that game, irish coach christine halfpenny said her team got away from much of what it wanted to do on offense, and that would need to be improved upon to avoid another slow start against the Titans (1-3). 
“we want to work on our dynamic ability on offense because i thought we lost a little bit of that on saturday,” she said. “so we want to get back to being a bit more dy­namic on offense, moving the ball a little bit quicker, attacking a little bit harder and fine tuning some of our transition game as we match up against detroit.” 
That matchup with the Titans will be a new one for halfpenny and the irish, who are entering their fifth 


paid adverTisemenT 
will have to deal with fatigue in addition to the Titans. Tonight’s game will be notre dame’s third in the course of a week. 
but halfpenny said the stretch is a positive for the 

“They’re an opponent that we’ve never played before, so it’s going to be a new opponent coming in, another mid-week game during midterms.” 
Christine Halfpenny Irish coach 
year of varsity competition. The barnstorming Titans have yet to play a game at home, so they should be ac­customed to playing in a hostile environment. 
halfpenny, meanwhile, said her staff has thoroughly scouted detroit.  still, she said she is  focused mainly on seeing her players con­tinue to improve from game to game. 
“They’re an opponent that we’ve never played before, so it’s going to be a new op­ponent coming in, another mid-week game during mid­terms,” she said. “our main goal is going to be to get out there and do better, to be better on Tuesday than we were during this past saturday.” 
improvement may be dif­ficult though, as the irish irish because her players are excited to play, and need to prepare for the crowded schedule they’ll encounter in postseason play. 
“i think we’re excited about getting that opportu­nity right now to get com­fortable with games that are back-to-back because with the big east this year, we’ll ultimately be having Friday­saturday matchups and that’s a tournament-like set­ting,” halfpenny said. “you play a game, you wrap it up and then you move forward to the next one.” 
That mentality will be test­ed when the irish battle the Titans at 6 p.m. this evening. The game will be played at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | The observer 


MEN’ S TENNIS 

Notre Dame takes on familiar foe at home 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The no. 29 irish return home tonight, hosting no. 17 illinois after a win against no. 59 wisconsin on sunday afternoon. 
notre dame (7-5) will face the illini (6-3) with fresh feet, while illinois will face illinois state earlier in the day. The irish have a long history with illinois, leading the overall series 23-22. 
The irish come off a 5-2 win against wisconsin, a match fueled by five wins in singles play after dropping the doubles point. Junior greg andrews, senior blas moros, freshman Quentin monaghan, sophomore wyatt mccoy and senior michael moore each contributed a point to the irish victory. 
“i think the match against wisconsin was pretty impor­tant,” monaghan said. “it will give us confidence knowing that, with our backs against the wall after a bad doubles point, we came up big in sin­gles and produced five solid matches and got the win.” 
notre dame will continue seeking leadership from its top competitors. andrews, moros and monaghan have contributed points to wins throughout the season. 
“going into illinois, it’s go­ing to be a very tough match and a lot of it will come down to our belief,” monaghan said. “we can definitely win the match but we’re going to have to battle and compete hard.” 
The irish have struggled in doubles play this season, but continue to focus on areas of improvement. while the squad has proven its ability to bounce back after losing the doubles point, it hopes to start on a better foot this weekend. 
“it’s going to be a fun at­mosphere and being at home definitely helps,” monaghan said. “we’re going to have to focus on doubles going in.” 
The illini are on a three-match winning streak, defeating no. 6 kentucky, iowa and no. 20 northwestern. The wildcats, illinois’ most recent opponent, defeated the irish 4-3 earlier in the season. 
illinois’ top competitors are underclassmen. in sin­gles play, illinois boasts no. 

38 freshman Jared hiltzik, sophomore Tim kopinski and sophomore ross guignon, who all went 2-0 in singles competition last weekend. 
“once the match starts it’s all about who competes the hardest and who is ready to take the match from the op­ponent,” monaghan said. 
doubles play against illinois will begin at 6 p.m. tonight in the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Cycling A team wins first mass start race 
Sophomore Pratt leads cycling; equestrian team medals; ultimate frisbee team wins championship 
chasers behind. Jim snitzer rode into the dis-finish in open fences, followed day against st. louis university, 
Special to The Observer 

biding his time until the fin-tance and delivered notre by junior stephanie nearhos the irish built an 11-7 lead, but a 
on a frigid saturday afternoon, ish, pratt moved to the far side of dame’s second win of the week-also placing second in interme-series of mistakes and uncharac­through the snow glazed fields the street in the closing meters, end. cleaning up the leftovers, diate fences. walsh then started teristic turnovers led to a 12-11 and around the frozen lakes of keeping all rivals in sight. when Tilmans (seventh, and chifala off the flat portion of the day with loss. despite the defeat, notre greencastle, ind., notre dame’s the sprint began, pratt was fast to (12th) also scored major points a third place finish in open flat. dame still finished second in men’s a team broke through the respond and none could match for notre dame. senior whitney preisser took the pool and advanced to the varsity barrier and scored its his turn of speed to the line. with the seal finally broken, third place in intermediate flat. quarterfinals. first ever mass start victory in back in the field, magro quick-and hungry for more success, Three riders competed in The loss meant a tougher road school history. raising his arms ly recovered from his early ef-notre dame was active and at walk-Trot-canter and all had sunday, and led to an opening in triumph at the conclusion of forts and followed another chase the front of the men’s a criterium great finishes. sophomore round matchup against Truman the 73-mile event, sophomore group after the leaders. First all afternoon. magro bore the shannon noonan took third state. notre dame closed the John pratt accomplished what dropping two from lindenwood, standard for the irish early, chas-place, ellen moriarty finished door on Truman winning 15­few non-scholarship athletes then a third from indiana, magro ing after potential breakaways fifth and senior catie hrabrick 10 to advance to the semifinals achieve in a collegiate cycling found himself alone, over a min-almost constantly for the first 20 came in sixth. Freshman annalis against top-seeded washington career, besting professional rid-ute ahead of the peloton, but still minutes of the event. cigarroa finished the day with university. ers, national champions and well behind pratt. soloing the fi-passing the baton to pratt a great win in walk-Trot, going The game against washington olympians alike. nal 14 miles to the finish, magro while resting, magro was not dis-undefeated in that division this started poorly. Trailing in the 
composed of nine circuits held off a charging field at the appointed by the speedy sopho-season. second half, 11-7, nd started a around an eight-mile loop, the line, putting an exclamation on a more, who worked his way into walsh, nearhos and cigarroa furious comeback to take a 12­men’s a race began with a flour-great day in men’s a. the winning move with 30 min-move on to Zones for the irish in 11 lead. The two teams traded ish, as athlete after athlete tried other notable results from utes of the hour-long race gone. open fences, intermediate fences points setting up double game to ride out of sight on winding, saturday’s road race included se-although magro was forced to and walk-Trot, respectively. point at 13-13. notre dame re-wooded roads. with an aver-niors pat handy and phil palmon abandon the race with a flat tire, ceived the pull, but turned the age pace of 27 mph over the first finishing eighth and 11th in pratt again rode strongly for the Ultimate Frisbee: Midwest disc over. after washington three laps, none succeeded until men’s c, respectively. irish, and notched another top-Throwdown moved the disc to midfield, se­midway through the fourth when criterium racing sunday was five for the team with his fourth-The irish finally began their nior collin mackett made a piv­irish senior cyclist Joe magro delayed due to icy conditions, place effort. season last weekend in st. louis otal layout block to get the disc sprinted clear with two riders but notre dame wasted little with the double victory and at midwest Throwdown. The back to the irish. from marian university, two time getting on the scoreboard numerous top-10 results, notre a-team played exceptionally well after a couple more turns from lindenwood university with palmon’s career best sev-dame is firmly in control of the in the cold, windy conditions by each team, irish senior dan and one from ohio state. enth place in the second race of d2 conference and individual and won the 20-team tourna-bolivar found junior conor 
despite achieving nearly a the morning, men’s c. races. The irish will take the line ment, while the b-Team, facing hanney in the endzone to win two-minute advantage over not to be bested, the Fighting again in st. louis the weekend of exclusively a-teams from other the game 14-13. the field, magro’s breakaway irish “b musketeers” provided march 23. schools, finished 19th. riding the high from the semi-was undone by the efforts of an encore performance of their The no. 3-seeded a-team final, the team jumped out to wisconsin, and the race came domination at lindsey wilson Equestrian opened saturday pool play an early lead against nebraska back together with three laps re-just one week earlier, controlling The nd/smc equestrian team with comfortable wins against and never allowed them to pull maining. sensing opportunity to the race from start to finish. competed saturday in the re-wisconsin-milwaukee b, within two points after halftime, be gained from a tired pack, pratt with junior luke Tilmans and gional competition in culver, western illinois and drury by eventually winning the game 15­followed a second wave of riders sophomore mike chifala block-ind.  Junior katie walsh started scores of 13-1,13-2 and 13-3, re-10 and sealing the tournament up the road, and they soon left all ing from the rear, sophomore the day with a second place spectively. in the last game of the championship. 

The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

UConn 
conTinued From page 16 
overtime games, but this was the first triple-overtime game in program history. 
“i’m absolutely thrilled with the resilience of this group,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “They refuse to lose. we were done in regulation, in the first and second overtime. we just kept clawing away.” 
notre dame had not hit a 3-point shot all game, but ju­nior guard kayla mcbride calmly dribbled down the court and hit a game-tying bomb with less than six sec­onds left in the first overtime. 
“i saw they were double-teaming [diggins],” mcbride said. “i was taking the ball out so it was basically a one-on­one situation. i saw an opening and took it.” 
Trailing by five with two minutes left in the second overtime, notre dame mount­ed another comeback, even­tually tying the game to force triple overtime. 
mcbride fouled out in over­time with a career-high 26 points. but to say she sat on the bench would be a stretch. mcbride stood, jumped, waved her hands and pleaded with the irish defense to get stops for the rest of the game. 
in the third overtime, the irish outscored connecticut 15-6. The huskies were with­out two of their best players, junior guard bria hartley and junior center stefanie dolson, who both fouled out at the end of regulation. 

The huskies had several chances to close out the game. in the first overtime period, leading by six, connecticut missed the front end of a one-and-one on three straight trips to the free throw line. 
“we couldn’t finish it off,” connecticut coach geno auriemma said. “every oppor­tunity we had to put it away, we let it slip away from us.” 
notre dame forced 35 turn­overs monday, a number that baffled auriemma and the huskies. but mcgraw attrib­uted that number to notre dame’s aggressive style of defense. 
“our help side was pretty good,” mcgraw said. “but generally when we ran at the ball and threw some double teams at them, that was most effective.” 
notre dame shot just 30 percent from the field in the first half, making none of its six attempts from behind the arc. but diggins and mcbride both managed 11 first half points to keep the irish close. connecticut led 34-28 heading into the locker room. 
connecticut sophomore forward kaleena mosqueda­lewis led all scorers with 13 points in the half. 
“she’s a tremendous offen­sive player,” mcgraw said. “she has so many things she can do. she was 3-for-4 [from behind the arc] in the first half and i felt like we never found her. she was wide open on all four of her threes in the first half. i thought we did a much better job in the second half guarding her.” 
after two early fouls by irish junior natalie achonwa, notre dame primarily utilized a four-guard lineup. The 6-foot­5 dolson managed eight points and five rebounds in the half. she also picked up two early fouls, but auriemma kept her in the game. 
irish junior forward ariel braker finished with a ca-reer-high 10 rebounds and achonwa returned to score 17 points in the second half and overtimes. 
with the win, notre dame captures the big east regu­lar season title for the second straight season. its 23-game winning streak is its longest since the 2000-01 season when the irish won the national championship. 
The irish have now won six of their last seven matchups with connecticut. Their last loss to the huskies came in the big east tournament champi­onship game last season. 
The big east tournament starts Friday in hartford, conn. as the no. 1 seed, notre dame has a double-bye through the first two rounds. its first game will be sunday at 2 p.m. in the Xl center. it is highly likely that notre dame will see the huskies again march 12 in the championship game. but the irish have a full head of steam right now. 
“we’re going to find a way to win,” mcgraw said. “we’ve got it rolling right now. whatever it takes, we’re going to find a way.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Overtime 
conTinued From page 16 
championships since geno auriemma became head coach in 1985. names like Taurasi and moore have worn a connecticut uniform on their way to national player of the year awards and ncaa titles. 
however, ever since diggins suited up for notre dame in 2009, the balance of power has begun to change. it has not come suddenly, but rather over the course of four years. 
as a freshman, diggins led the irish to a 29-6 record, but their games against connecticut showed the still-present talent gap. The huskies defeated notre dame twice in the regular season and once in the big east tournament. none of the games were close. 
notre dame lost twice to connecticut in the regular season the next year as well, but only three points decided the game at home in purcell. notre dame was inching closer. despite another loss to the huskies in the 2011 big east tournament, the irish rolled through the ncaa tournament and met their nemesis again in the Final Four. This time, diggins and company topped maya moore and the huskies to punch their ticket to the national championship game. The irish were on their way. 
in her junior year, diggins led the irish to a 35-4 record and orchestrated victories over connecticut during both of the schools’ regular-season meet­ings. although notre dame lost to the huskies in the 2012 big east tournament, they once again beat connecticut in the Final Four. notre dame had arrived. 
This season, diggins and the irish have again completed a regular-season sweep of the huskies. it wasn’t always pretty. notre dame’s best player shot 11-for-31 from the floor, including 0-for-5 from the 3-point line, and turned the ball over eight times. but as anyone who has watched diggins for the last four years can tell you, her game is not about numbers. it’s about winning. 
with one minute remaining in the third overtime, diggins tied up huskies senior guard kelly Faris, turning the ball over to the irish and all but sealing the victory. she let out a scream as the crowd roared and jogged to the sideline to high-five former irish center ruth riley. in a game replete with symbolic moments, this move topped them all. notre dame’s current all-american connected with its former all­american, who led the irish to the program’s only national title in 2001. 
on her final night in purcell against her longtime rival, diggins announced loud and clear: This game was about more than one year or one team. it was about the swan song to a legendary collegiate career and the desire to con­tinue winning until it is capped with the ultimate prize. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Red Storm 
conTinued From page 16 
notre dame’s 13 turnovers in the loss. 
“[one] thing that really hurt us was nine first-half turnovers,” brey said. “Turnovers in the first half gave [marquette] a lead that was just too hard of a hole to dig out of in the second half.” 
when notre dame faced off with st. John’s on Jan. 15 at madison square garden, cooley was similarly limited. The dou­ble-double machine logged just 18 minutes due to foul trouble as the irish fell 67-63 to the red storm. st John’s has won the last three clashes with notre dame. 
saturday’s loss to marquette jettisoned the irish into a tie for fifth place in the conference with syracuse. The orange (22-7, 10-6), however, own a tiebreaker over notre dame. For the irish to improve their standing in the conference, they would need to win each of their last two games 
— notre dame concludes the regular season against no. 8 louisville on saturday — and receive help from other teams. 
as for handling their own business, the irish, led by their seniors, have been historically stout in their four years in south bend. The group has compiled the most big east victories in a four-year stretch since notre dame joined the conference in 1995. The crew is also three wins away from becoming the pro­gram’s all-time winningest class overall. 
Three notre dame seniors have already played their fi­nal games in an irish uniform. guard Joey brooks has not played this season, and the 6-foot-6, 223-pounder will suit up at tight end for the notre dame football squad during spring practice. Forward mike broghammer has been hampered by knee injuries throughout his career and was ruled out for the season in the preseason. graduate student forward scott martin, who has been dealing with knee injuries of his own, is out for the season as well. 
nonetheless, the irish will be looking for some of marquette’s magic. 
“This is the winningest senior class in big east [school] history with 47 big east wins,” brey said. “They’re three away from being the all-time winningest class. 
“we need to send them out like marquette just sent their se­niors out.” 
The irish tip off against the red storm on Tuesday at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2013 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &  paTrick cross 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: chaz bono, 44; patricia heaton, 55; mykelti williamson, 56; catherine o’hara, 59. 
Happy Birthday: concentrate on personal finance, medical or legal matters. you can accomplish a lot and improve your overall position, reputation and status if you are diligent in the way you handle these matters. Focusing on relationships with others will help you receive the help or favors you require in order to make your life easier. love is highlighted. your numbers are 3, 10, 14, 22, 27, 30, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): consider what’s available. learning something new will help you get ahead, but staying in the same position of being overworked and underpaid will drag you down. start planning for the future. Take the steps that lead to a better position. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you can make a difference. stop thinking and start doing. offer suggestions and hands-on help. a little can go a long way. don’t let emotional situations cost you financially. it’s best to have a plan and to stick to it. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): elaborating will be frowned upon if you make some­one look bad or if you stretch the truth. Taking on a cause you cannot handle on your own will make you look bad. don’t donate or offer more than what you can handle comfortably.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): step up and follow through. you’ll have great ideas and a captive audience. love is on the rise, and mixing business with pleasure will help you advance. a business trip will result in experience, knowledge and worthwhile connections. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): connecting with people from your past will be costly but informative. a move or change of scenery will bring you more opportunities to explore old goals. don’t take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. Take care of personal paperwork.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): partnerships will weigh in heavily when it comes to making a decision. you must feel comfortable with the outcome, or back away. don’t overreact, but do speak up regarding what’s acceptable and what’s not. emotional turmoil is likely to develop at home. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Finish whatever job you are given quickly and ef­ficiently. you are likely to face criticism if you fall behind. you will discover valuable information if you sign up for a cultural event. an unexpected change regarding a partnership will end up being beneficial.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): working from home can help you save money. changes to your living arrangements will help you pay off an investment. Follow your heart when it comes to personal and domestic matters. personal enhance­ment and romance are on the rise. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Tread carefully when dealing with friends, relatives or people in your community. you will be misinterpreted or blamed for something if you are too open or aggressive. Focus on how you can make your home more inviting. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let a meddler influence a partnership or deal. stick to your game plan regardless of what anyone else decides to do. an old friend or lover will be a reminder of how to handle your current situation. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): reconsider before making changes. you are likely in a better position than you realize. bide your time and focus on how you can make your home or your job more to your liking. present your ideas and the service you can offer. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): uncompromising individuals will lead you astray. don’t let your heart and emotions rule your head. consider the pros and cons and make a decision based on what you will gain in the end. smart moves will ensure future success.  

Birthday Baby: you are persuasive. you have poise and a mystical appeal. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


ND WOMEN’S  BASKETBALL | nd 96, uconn 87 
Notre Dame pulls out triple-overtime victory 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
Fueled by 29 points and 11 rebounds from senior captain and guard skylar diggins, no. 2 notre dame mounted a series of late comebacks to defeat no. 3 connecticut 96-87 in triple overtime monday in purcell pavilion. 
diggins made the most of her final game in front of her home­town crowd and remarked this win will be especially memo­rable, as the victory clinched an outright big east championship for notre dame (28-1, 16-0 big east) and prevented a share of the title with the huskies (27-3, 14-2). 
“it’s bittersweet for me, this being my last game,” diggins said. “but what a way to go out. i think we showed we’re not too good at sharing.” 
every time notre dame seemed like it was out of the game, it came firing back. The irish have won their last four 
see uconn PAGE 14 

Going out strong 

Irish clinch Big East title, solidify dominance 

Cory Bernard 
sports writer 
This game was about a lot of things for the no. 2 irish. it was about finishing undefeated in the big east and earning a conference title. it was about further strengthening notre dame’s resume for a no. 1 seed in the ncaa tournament. it was about beating a fellow top-10 opponent in prime time in front of a packed purcell pavilion and a national television audience. 
but more than anything else, this game was about the culmi­nation of a steady rise to domi­nance in south bend. This was senior guard skylar diggins’ final regular-season victory in an irish uniform and it came after three overtimes against rival connecticut. you could not have scripted a better finish. 
in the past two decades, the huskies have been the undis­puted top dog in the big east. They have won seven national 
see overTime PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish honor seniors in matchup with red storm 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
Though the no. 24 irish fell 72-64 to no. 15 marquette on saturday — senior day for the golden eagles — notre dame hopes to embody some of the eagles’ mystique during the game as they head into their own senior night matchup to­night with st. John’s. 
“well, they had a little senior day magic, didn’t they?” irish coach mike brey said saturday in a postgame interview with und.com. “one thing i said [in the locker room] was ‘i’d like to enjoy a senior night on Tuesday like these guys enjoyed a senior night. so let’s get on back and get to practice.’” 
For the final time of their ca­reers, the notre dame seniors will take the familiar floor at purcell pavilion when the irish (22-7, 10-6 big east) square off with the red storm (16-12, 8-8). 
irish senior forward Jack cooley will likely return to the notre dame starting lineup af­ter being sidelined for much of saturday’s game due to illness. 
cooley played just 15 minutes, took one shot and was held scoreless as the golden eagles rolled to victory behind the in­terior play of senior center chris otule and junior forward Jamil wilson, who combined for 35 points. 
irish junior guard eric atkins said notre dame had to change its approach without cooley on the floor. 
“That’s our horse inside,” atkins said saturday of his fel­low tri-captain. “we can go pass it to him when they’re do­ing a good job up top, and he can go get a basket for us. but [saturday] he wasn’t there for us, so it made it a little different. we have to use the ball screen a little more, do a couple different things.” 
without their workhorse down low, atkins and fellow junior guard Jerian grant com­prised the bulk of the notre dame offense, combining for 37 points and hoisting nearly half of notre dame’s shots. The guards also committed seven of 
see red sTorm PAGE 14 





