ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVEr NEWSPaPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE daME aNd aNd rEPOrT SaINT Mary’S IT aCCuraTEly 

VOluME 47, ISSuE 27 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
Professors analyze federal shut down 
Impasse over budget legislation results in furloughs of government employees, closing of parks 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The u.S. government began to shut down for the first time in 17 years early Tuesday morning af­ter a divide in Congress over the affordable Care act (aCa) kept the institution from compro­mising on a budget, therefore, leading to an absence of appro­priations, david Campbell, pro­fessor of political science at the university of Notre dame, said. 
Campbell said the funda­mental issue resulting in a shut­down is that members of the republican Party have taken a stand against the affordable Care act and have decided to use what would normally be a routine extension of government financing as a way to try to lever­age their power of the purse in order to either stop or delay im­plementation of the aCa. 
“Back in the Clinton admin­istration there was a showdown and the government was shut down,” Campbell said. “The consequence of that was the republicans suffered quite badly because they were blamed by the public for the shutdown. I expect the same will happen this time.” 
Patrick Pierce, professor of political science at Saint Mary’s, credits the shutdown to a grow­ing divide within the republican Party itself, specifically amongst members in the house. 
“I think the key issue is an intraparty issue within the republican Party,” Pierce said. 
“Even further, it is an intraparty issue in the house. The Tea Party republicans who really want to go to the wall on the affordable Care act and do everything they possibly can to eliminate it, are opposed, but not actively op­posed by the rest of the party in the institution. 
“There is not an out-and-out war going on there, but folks that are more in the mainstream of the republican Party in the house are certainly very conser­vative, but they don’t want to go as far as the Tea Party will go.” 
The Tea Party is not a for­mal organization in that some republicans are officially card-carrying members and others 
see ShuT dOWN PAGE 4 

EMILY VOORDE | The Observer 
The Lincoln Memorial is just one of the many tourist sites closed to the public due to the federal government shut down. 



Author reviews research 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
News Writer 
Pulitzer prize-winning author, historian and public speaker Taylor Branch came to campus to discuss civil rights, journal­ism and politics in the hesburgh Center auditorium Tuesday. 
Branch is best known for his narrative history of the civil rights era, a trilogy titled “america in the king years,” according to his website. Branch spent 24 years conducting intensive research to write the books. 

Branch’s talk focused on two topics: his research on dr. Martin luther king and his latest book “The king years: historic Moments in the Civil rights Movement” as well as his relationship with President Bill Clinton as discussed in his mem­oir “The Clinton Tapes: Wrestling history with the President. 

Civil rights history 
Branch said the civil rights era was a great time to be a journalist. 
“It was the golden era of jour­nalism, the civil rights move­ment,” Branch said. 
Branch said while writing “The king years” he drew from a wide range of sources, but the most vital of all were he interviews he conducted. he said it was diffi­cult to convince people involved in the movement to give him the real story he was looking for, and even to simply agree to an interview. 
see BraNCh PAGE 5 


Engineer uses silver in fuel cells 
By HENRY GENS 
News Writer 
When it comes to the field of chemical engineering, silver may soon be worth more than platinum. 
Suljo linic, associate profes­sor of chemical engineering at the university of Michigan, pre­sented two major innovations making extensive use of silver in fuel and solar cell technology in the department of chemical and biomolecular engineering’s an­nual Thiele lecture Tuesday. 
linic began by outlining the need to approach problems in the field of chemical engineering by relying on theory and models to guide experimental design, rather than trial-and-error 
see SIlVEr PAGE 5 


Rector recounts history of Log Chapel 

By MEG HANDELMAN 
News Writer 
Positioned on the edge of St. Mary’s lake, the log Chapel at Notre dame stands as a physical landmark of the university’s sto­ried history. 
The location serves as the gravesite for the first priests to serve the South Bend commu­nity and represents the long commitment of Notre dame to the people of this area, Fr. Peter rocca, rector of the Basilica of the Sacred heart, said. 
“[The log Chapel cemetery] is filled with people who have just given themselves to this place and really believed in the mis­sion of Notre dame,” rocca said. 
Today, the log Chapel is fre­quently used for weddings, bap­tisms, Masses, morning and afternoon prayer by the Old College seminarians and other small gatherings, rocca said. 
“It’s a small place. We have a number of bigger chapels on campus,” he said. “But if you want something more intimate, then this is the perfect place for 
see ChaPEl PAGE 3 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 9 MENS BaSkETBall PAGE 16 FOOTBall PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen  Peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: William heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMaSTEr Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the associated Press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is one thing you hope scientists invent this year? 

Andrew Geist 
graduate student 
Off campus 
“Coffee that doesn’t give you jitters.” 
Michael Glynn 
junior 
keenan hall 
“uninstall iPhone updates.” 
Rachel Bohac 
sophomore 
Welsh Family hall 
“a cure for diabetes.” 


Elizabeth De Waard 
graduate student Off campus 
“Warp drive.” 
Victoria Babcock 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“Indestructible iPhones.” 
Ethan Holland 
freshman 
Sorin College 
“a cure for cancer.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Christian Myers kit loughran Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: rebecca O’Neil Brian hartnett abi hoverman Vicky Jacobsen 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Sara Shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Free Flu Shots Yoder Dialogues: Discussion: Hyper-Mara Fox 5K Run Family Film: “My 
ashley dacey Tabitha ricketts 
Stepan Center “Building Just Peace Incarceration Series Lyons Hall Neighbors the 9 a.m.-7 p.m. in Columbia” Geddes Hall 10 a.m.-1 p.m. Yamadas” Bring I.D. card and Hesburgh Center 12 p.m.-1 p.m. $15 registration fee DeBartolo Performing 
Corrections 

wear short sleeves. 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Drinks and dessert includes long-sleeved Arts Center 
The Observer regards itself as Featuring founder of provided. shirt and breakfast. 3 p.m.-4:45 p.m. a professional publication and 
Justapaz. Anime comedy. 
strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, 
ND Volleyball Women’s Soccer Feast of St. Francis Film: “Blue Jasmine” Hockey Exhibition 
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center Alumni Stadium South Quad DeBartolo Performing Game 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1 p.m. Arts Center Compton Ice Arena 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Irish take on Duke. Game against Wake Forest. Bring your bicycle to 6:30 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 5:05 p.m.-7:05 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

be blessed. Directed by Woody Allen. Game against Guelph. 

NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

doctor treasures Mother Theresa’s service 
By CATRIONA SHAUGHNESSY 
News Writer 
It may come as a surprise that Mother Theresa had something to teach a cardi­ologist about medicine, but dr. Paul Wright, a prominent cardiologist and Notre dame graduate, spoke at hesburgh library auditorium Tuesday about his journey through medicine and how his expe­riences with Mother Teresa changed the way he practices medicine. 
Wright said at the beginning of his medical career, his prac­tice in California was ground­ed in his strong educational background. he said, however, his life and career lacked a sense of purpose, which ul­timately left him dissatisfied and lost.  
“The eternal question en­dured … Why are we here?” Wright said. 
Spiritually distraught, Wright sought out the wisdom of Mother Teresa, who was staying in a nearby homeless shelter at the time. although Mother Teresa was incapaci­tated due to a recent heart at­tack, she agreed to meet with Wright. Wright said he was “brought to his knees” upon witnessing Mother Teresa’s insistence on humility and compassion despite her weak physical state. 

“In all my years as a physi­cian, I had never seen anything as breathtakingly beautiful as Mother Theresa emanating compassion,” Wright said. 
Mother Theresa introduced Wright to the ideology of com­passion, he said. Mother Teresa addressed Wright’s questions 
“Christianity is being compassionate.” 
Dr. Paul Wright 
cardiologist 

about the meaning of life by reducing his complex con­cerns to the simple practice of alleviating the pain of others. Wright said he was astounded by the clarity of her advice. 
“Something so unique, so special. … This compassion. her compassion,” Wright said. 
Wright said he went forth from this meeting with the aim of adopting a new dynamic ap­proach to his practice of medi­cine, one which reflected the self-giving of Mother Teresa and her fellow missionaries. 
Wright said Mother Teresa told him to remain aware of the full spiritual import of his efforts to heal people. 
“don’t forget who you’re 

touching,” Wright said, quot­ing Mother Theresa. “you’re 
touching  humanity.  you’re  
touching  Christ  within  
humanity.”  

Wright said he continued to work with Mother Teresa, as­sisting in her efforts to initi­ate a medical clinic in Tijuana, Mexico and ultimately travel­ing with her to Calcutta, India. 
Through his witness of the intense suffering of the poor­est of the poor at the moment death and the Missionaries of Charity’s awe-inspiring re­sponse, Wright said he came to understand compassion in a way that he would not have been able to otherwise. 
Wright said in this way Mother Theresa healed him spiritually. 
“She turned out to be my physician,” he said. 
Wright said all people have a human responsibility to at­tempt to alleviate the suffering of other people and, by do­ing so, manifest the example which Mother Theresa has provided. Most importantly, for Christians it is a matter of living out a faith identity, he said. 
“Christianity is being com­passionate,” he said. 
Contact Catriona Shaugnessy at cshaugh2@nd.edu 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 
Chapel 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 
it. It is filled with history.” 
rocca said Jesuits set up St. Joseph’s Mission in the South Bend area, but in the wake of the French and Indian War, the British forced all of the priests out of the area. as a result, the Mission lacked a resident priest from the late 1750s until around 1830. 
Fr. Stephen Badin, the first Catholic priest to be ordained in the united States, eventually took over the Mission, rocca said. Badin built the chapel in the 1830s, after the united States government forced the Potawatomi Native americans out of the area. 
“at this mission, St. Joseph’s Mission, the government had decreed that all Native americans would have to have a forced migration from this area all the way west of the Mississippi river,” rocca said. 
rocca said once the Native americans were forced out, all the land in the area where St. Joseph’s Mission was located came under government au­thority. Badin bought some of the land in order to maintain the Mission’s independence. 
“So, in order to have some au­thority and have some land that the government did not own, Fr. Badin ended up buying about 650 acres here,” rocca said. 
Badin built the original log chapel within those 650 acres, rocca said. In Nov. 1842, Fr. Edward Sorin arrived in South Bend and took up residence in the log Chapel. 
“That was the first chapel and residence,” rocca said. “So then, soon after that, Fr. Sorin and the [holy Cross] brothers built the Old College building.” 
rocca said before Sorin ar­rived, Badin and his colleagues worked hard to aid the Catholic population of South Bend. But it was Sorin whose vision for a university led to the founding of Notre dame. 
“Fr. Sorin’s principle aim in coming here was to start a col­lege,” rocca said. 
The original log chapel fell into disuse in 1848 and then burned to the ground in 1856, rocca said. It was not until 1906 that a replica of the original chapel was constructed. 
“There are four people bur­ied in the log Chapel,” rocca said. “Fr. Badin is buried there. he died around the year 1853, and he was buried for 50 years in Cincinnati, Ohio. But his dream, his wish, was always to be buried under the shadow of the golden dome. So, after 50 years, his body was exhumed and brought back here.” 
Three of Badin’s succes­sors are also buried in the log 
“Fr. Badin is buried [in the Log Chapel]. But his dream, his wish, was always to be buried under the shadow of the Golden Dome. So, after 50 years, his body was exhumed and brought back here.” 
Fr. Peter Rocca 
rector 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Chapel: Fr. louis deseille, Fr. Benjamin Petit and Fr. François Cointet, rocca said. deseille and Petit were Jesuits, while Cointet was a holy Cross priest. 
rocca said when the govern­ment forced the Potawatomi out of the area, Petit accompa­nied the Indians on their forced migration, which has since been referred to as the “Trail of Tears.” Petit got sick when he returned from the infamous march and died at the age of 29. 
rocca said the legends of these men and their everlast­ing presence in the log Chapel heighten the site’s significance for him. 
“For me, it is very moving to be able to celebrate in a place where you have buried right in the middle aisle — I mean, they’re right there where you can’t miss them — the person who really started this place and then his successors, includ­ing a holy Cross priest, who helped continue it.” rocca said. “and to see what it has grown into today, I mean, it’s pretty awesome. Its overwhelming.” 
Contact Megan Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 



ThE OBSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

Shut down 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 
are not, Campbell said. however, he said over the past few election cycles there has been an increasing number of republicans elected who are fa­ther to the right than the mem­bers of Congress they have replaced. 
To add to this, Pierce said the big question now is how the republican Party will deal with this rising division within its entity. 
“This has been an ongoing is­sue just manifested in different ways within the Party for a while now,” Pierce said. “This division within the party got manifested in the 2008 campaign where McCain had to deal with the more extreme right of his party. It then got manifested again in 2012 when romney has to deal with the extreme right of his party. 
“This has got to get resolved or the republican Party is going to face some real difficulties.” 
The shutdown resulted in 800,000 federal employees being furloughed and national parks, monuments and museums, as well as most federal offices, being closed down, while essential fed­eral services stayed up and run­ning, Pierce said. 
uniformed members of the military are included in the list of essential federal government personnel, Pierce said. 
“Nobody wants to be seen as harming the military, nobody,” Pierce said. “There is nothing more patriotic than the american military, so you had to figure if there was one group that the democrats and republicans could get together on and make sure didn’t get hurt it is going to be the american military.” 
Non-essential government per­sonnel were asked to not come to work on Tuesday, affecting work­ers across the nation, Campbell said. 
“It is easy to rail against the fed­eral government without maybe stopping to think about what that really means,” Campbell said. “Even if it is not all government employees affected it is a big chunk of government employees. 
“We think of government employees as only working in Washington, but think about the park rangers up at the Indiana dunes National Park. Those park rangers aren’t getting paid … This is not just going to affect Washington, this is going to have an effect across the nation.” 
Pete Buttigieg, mayor of South Bend, said he is encouraging Congress to act so his constitu­ents will not continue to be nega­tively affected by a lack of federal funds. 
“I am concerned about the im­pact the shutdown will have on the local economy, and urge the house to put an end to this before it hurts South Bend even more,” Buttigieg said. 
Pierce said the furloughs are probably the most acute impact the shutdown with have on stu­dents at Saint Mary’s and Notre dame. 
“My bet is there are a number of students whose parents work for the u.S. government and may end up furloughed and that is a 
“I am concerned about the impact the shutdown will have on the local economy, and urge the House to put an end to this before it hurts South Bend even more.” 
Pete Buttigieg 
South Bend mayor 
considerable hardship,” Pierce said. “I know of a student at Saint Mary’s whose mother works for the federal government and she was very concerned about the shutdown … There are folks with­out paychecks and that harms their personal finances.” 
With less available to circulate, Pierce said the shutdown will have a negative effect on the na­tion’s economy. 
“If you think about it more broadly that means it [the shut­down] hurts the entire economy because now you have less mon­ey circulating in the economy,” Pierce said. “That means less money being used to purchase cars, homes, food, and vacations. Those purchases are what drive the economy. 
“That is why President Obama keeps harping on the poor tim­ing of this. It is not as though the economy is rocketing forward just yet, this will slow the economy down, not totally, but it will slow.” 
Pierce said in order for President Obama to have an effective presi­dency, he must stay firm on his decision to not “give in” to the republicans. 
“I think maybe most folks don’t get is that Obama is noticeably more conservative than most of the members of his party in the house and the Senate and they have kind of gone along with him for the most part, but they have been terribly disappointed in the fact that he did cave in on a num­ber of earlier issues,” Pierce said. 
Junior Mark gianfall, president of College republicans, said he blames partisan politics on the fact the government is currently living “paycheck to paycheck”, but also believes house republicans were ready to compromise. 
“I think in this situation you have republicans willing to com­promise,” gianfall said. “The bill they passed was to delay Obamacare for a year, not get rid of it completely. The democrats in the Senate just have too big of an ego to even consider anything like that which is really not some­thing against Obamacare be­cause we are not trying to get rid of it at this point we were trying last night [Monday night] to delay it for one year, so the government could keep working in existence, I guess keep working at its full capacity.” 
Junior Sean long, president of College democrats, said the 800,000 furloughed employees are often lost in this blame game and they are the ones seeing the direct effects of the bickering cur­rently going on in Washington. 
“For me, this whole thing, although I am coming from the democratic perspective, is a mess for us all, democrats or republicans,” long said. “I would call myself a college stu­dent before I would call myself a democrat and this is just hor­rible to have our lawmakers hold things like annual flu shot vac­cinations, the Women, Infants and Children Food and Nutrition (WIC) program … all of these things are going to be cut. This is so much larger than what a lot of people are making it out to be ... It makes me angry.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 



NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

Branch 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 
Branch said his experience in writing the trilogy left him with a greater admiration for king than he had when he began the project. 
“he was dealing with much more difficulty on a much [more] profound level than we realize,” he said. 
When asked if he struggled with whether or not to include certain details about king’s personal life, Branch said he was faithful to the events but used balance in his presentation of the details. 
“I guess that’s the journalist’s faith really: that unflinching truth in details, if told in balance, will not subvert any cause that you have,” Branch said. 
Branch said during the civil rights movement, journalists largely ignored african american issues. leaders of the movement faced the major challenge of gain­ing the attention of people making a deliberate effort to ignore them. 
“Black news was simply not part of the news,” Branch said. “It was hard to break a veil that kept seg­regation in the south essentially out of view.” 
The movement’s commitment to non-violence also made it diffi­cult to gain the attention of a news media more responsive to violent events, he said. 
“Civil rights in a journalistic sense was how do we make news in a media environment that is at­tracted to violence,” Branch said. 
Branch said the civil rights movement was kick-started and catalyzed by people in college and younger, so it was significant  that young people were in the news for the first time, he said. 
“Even in the NaaCP, the civil rights organizations had a hard time accepting the notion that young people could be doing any­thing serious,” he said. “It took a while for people to be able to say, ‘Okay, these are serious people.’” 
The march on Washington 
This year marks the 50-year anniversary of king’s March on Washington, which was celebrat­ed with a huge parade in the na­tional capital last month. Branch said he spent all day watching the coverage in honor of the anniversary. 
Branch said the celebration re­flected the profound legacy of the march and the civil rights move­ment overall. 
“you had representatives from every subsequent collateral movement that grew out of the civil rights movement standing there,” Branch said. “The civil rights movement opened the door. It was the gateway. When america addressed race it could do anything.” 
he said the civil rights move­ment was focused on race but because of their efforts so many other issues, such as women’s rights and gay rights, were brought to the fore, which allowed for a great deal of progress. 
Buddies with Bill Clinton 
In 1972, Branch lived and worked with Bill Clinton while the two worked for the Mcgovern campaign in Texas. Branch said it was the beginning of a deep friendship between the two men. 
“he [Clinton] called me up and asked if he could bring his new girlfriend, hillary, which he did. The three of us shared an apart­ment together for six months,” Branch said. 
When Clinton became President, the two continued their friendship and Branch was a close confidant of the President. 
Branch said he was particularly impressed with Clinton as pres­ident-elect because of Clinton’s concern over documenting the work done in the White house. 
“Most of our history and what we know about what really goes on inside the White house is done by psychological projections on the part of journalists who weren’t there. Its guess work,” Branch said. “So I thought it was signifi­cant that a president-elect was worried about documenting.” 
Branch said he became President Clinton’s personal sounding board. he drove down to the White house once or twice a month to talk with the President about different issues he was fac­ing. Branch said in this capacity he met with Clinton for 79 long sessions. 
“he [Clinton] would talk about what he really did. It started off as a historical project for the histori­cal record to make up for the fact that he wasn’t going to tape his telephone calls,” Branch said. 
When writing the “The Clinton Tapes: Wrestling history with the President,” Branch said he strug­gled to determine what his role was in telling the story. 
Branch said he had to think about his duty as a citizen versus a recorder of history, and also con­sider what sort of duty he had to Clinton as a friend. 
“It was an amazing experience of what its like to be President, which is the purpose of that book. It is a memoir of what it’s like to be a personal sounding board for president of the united States.” 
Branch said he is proud that he produced a unique window of how a President balances so many things going on at once. 
Branch said their project was kept entirely secret — President Clinton hid the tapes from their sessions in the back of his sock drawer. Branch said that he would bring an extra tape to dictate all the way home what Clinton seemed like, what they discussed, and what Clinton said. 
Branch said during the process of publishing the book his rela­tionship with Clinton became somewhat strained, mostly due to the reaction of Clinton’s staff. 
“We had some arguments. he and I had arguments during the sessions. I put the arguments in the book and the staff really didn’t like that,” Branch said. “That re­ally ended our relationship on a kind of nasty note until about a year and a half later, he called out of the blue and said, ‘you were right and I was wrong.’” 
Branch said Clinton feared that some of the writing about hilary and Chelsea would be distorted by journalists, but that did not happen. 
Clinton continues to contact Branch every so often, most re­cently before his speech at the March on Washington anniver­sary last month, Branch said. 
Contact Megan Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 
Silver 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 

attempts which lead to only in­cremental improvements. 
linic said throughout his ca­reer he has challenged himself to use this method in his work with chemical transformations. 
“When I joined the university of Michigan, I defined a difficult chal­lenge for myself — and I think that this is a problem for most people who work in this field — which is to try and develop some models of heterogeneous catalysis,” linic said. “I want to try and use these models to design materials that can perform certain chemical about 10 to 15 times lower rates than platinum. But what we like about silver is that it’s very cheap, about 50 times cheaper than platinum, and when forming silver nanoparticles it allows for a high density of active sites in the material.” 
linic said up until recently sil­ver would have been useless in the acidic environment of fuel cells, but advances in new membrane technologies in the last decade al­low for silver to be used in basic fuel cells without being prohibitively expensive. 
after extensive testing of a va­riety of silver-based candidate compounds, linic found that a silver-cobalt alloy achieved the 

PaId adVErTISEMENT 

desired level of efficiency, he said. his team set a minimum thresh­old efficiency of 10 percent of pure platinum’s potential for a viable candidate. 
“The silver-cobalt alloy actu­ally performed significantly bet­ter than pure silver metal — it has a five to six time higher rate than pure monometallic silver, and it’s about half the performance of plat­inum, which is really good,” linic said. “If you have a really cheap material you can get by on about 10 percent; this is a 50 percent perfor­mance, and it is as stable as plati­num in phase.” 
linic next discussed using plas­monic nanostructures to enhance solar cell efficiency. Essentially, linic said, plasmonic nanostruc­tures are nanoparticles of metal which are characterized by very small interaction with resonant photon excitation of localized sur­face plasmon resonance. 
“The interesting thing is that the local surface plasmon resonance takes place at uV-Vis near-infrared light, which means it can be used very nicely for solar applications,” linic said. 
after noticing the potential for this application, linic said he em­ployed his expertise in silver chem­istry to create improved solar cells using the metal as a plasmonic nanostructure. 
“We demonstrated that by com­bining silver nanoparticles with semiconductors we can enhance the photo-catalytic activity of the semiconductor,” linic said. 
linic said these discoveries un­derscore the importance of un­derstanding the theory in order to engineer significant technological advancements. 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 

transformations, either with better efficiency than what we have now or some chemical conversion that we couldn’t execute before.” 
linic said he has worked to bet­ter understand the mechanism of electrochemical oxidation-reduc­tion reactions in order to design improved fuel cells. he said the current state-of-the-art cells each employ pure platinum to produce an equilibrium potential of roughly 
1.1 volts, which is not representa­tive of the true effectiveness of the battery. 
“The problem is that in the state-of-the-art proton exchange mem­brane fuel cells we use today we have to sacrifice a large amount of this potential in order to start moving current from the cell,” linic said. “and the main reason you have to sacrifice this potential is that this reaction is very slow at high potential and hence you only start generating current after losing about 30 percent of the equilibrium potential.” 
linic said the solution he devel­oped involves using silver, a much less expensive material, as a sub­stitute for pure platinum, and then scaling up to account for the lower efficiency. 
“We have been looking at a sil­ver-based compound and we have known for a long time that silver can form this type of reaction at 
ThE OBSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
Are we ND? 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Coffee: The secret to life 

Isaac Lorton 
Sports Writer 

Well, since no one will look at this col­umn because they will be enamored with whatever drama is to the right of this, I will go ahead and share the secret of life. Those who are observant will benefit greatly from this knowledge. Those who are less obser­vant, well, it’s your loss. (Note: This column will be permanently on the Internet, so if you somehow missed the most momen­tous advice of your life, you can go look it up on the good ol’ interweb.) 
The secret to life is a good cup of coffee. 
For those of you who do not drink coffee or who dislike the taste of coffee, you are already behind in this game of life. god did not grace you with his mercy (otherwise known as coffee). 
It is timeless. It is eternal. and it is the greatest thing ever to come from this earth. 
In all mythologies, when the phrase ‘nectar of the gods’ is written, it is an unde­niable reference to coffee. What else could keep the gods going 24/7, having to deal with us pesky people? 
Coffee founded the united States of america. That is right. In 1675, Charles II banned coffee houses because he thought they were places where people met to con­spire against him. 
george III should have taken some notes from Chuck, because the Boston Tea Party was not due to a high tea tax; it was due to the lack of coffee. Those Bostonians love their coffee and when Old king george decided to cut them off, they knew what was worth fighting for, so they threw all of the tea into the “hahbah” and demanded coffee. It is a common misconception that Patrick henry stood up and shouted, “give me liberty, or give me death!” This actually did not happen; rather, henry got up and shouted, “give me my coffee, or I’ll give you death!” Notice the difference? 
The French philosopher Voltaire is said to have drunk 50 cups of coffee a day. and do you know what he stood for? he stood for equality, religious tolerance and awe­someness. he is quoted as saying, “Every man is guilty of the good he did not do.” The quote is quite close and the sentiment is nice, but it actually goes, “Every man is guilty of the coffee he did not drink,” in a time when most of the world was not yet coffee-enlightened. 
Theodore roosevelt drank a gallon of coffee a day. look at him. he was a rough rider, an explorer, a president and a grizzly-bear wrestler. he was able to do this be­cause he drank the nectar of the gods. he has also been misquoted on occasion. his famous quote actually went something more like this: “drink coffee and carry a big stick, and you will go far.” Words of wisdom, Teddy. 
So there you have it. drink coffee and live a happy life. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Amanda Peña and Dougie Barnard 
The Bubble 

From my experience over the years, I was certain that most students un­derstood what having a love-hate rela­tionship with Notre dame meant. The Notre dame family shares a love and deep respect for the tradition, academic rigor and abundance of opportunities that make the university the enrich­ing, welcoming institution it is glorified for being. however, there are many untold stories about students who do not feel “We are Nd” — many of whom belong to minority communities across campus. 
a conversation with my friend dougie Barnard opened my eyes to the reality that not every student shares this love-hate relationship that is prevalent in my own friend groups and in discussions I have participated in. a member of the racial majority, dougie could not fathom the racism and exclu­sion my peers and I have experienced on campus over the years. In fact, when I tried to explain to him why students often felt ostracized or excluded, we both understood that personal experi­ences and solidarity with the wounded members of our community were the only ways he or anyone else could really empathize with what it means to be a minority. 
Through intimate conversations, I learned that dougie’s family adopted a baby kenyan girl, Eva — now nine years old — whom they warmly embraced into their lives. Their love for Eva naturally fostered what dougie would consider racial appreciation and aware­ness. Nevertheless, dougie admitted that he hadn’t understood his mother’s conscientiousness in choosing a school where his sister wouldn’t be the only black student. 
With previous experience visiting africa under his belt, dougie was con­fident that his nine-week research en­deavor in uganda this summer would be easier to adjust to this time around. unfortunately, dougie’s experience was filled with the unmistakably confusing and uncomfortable feelings associated with being an overwhelming racial minority. 
“I want to share my experience so it might serve as a conduit for discussion and an honest evaluation of race rela­tions at Notre dame,” dougie says. “I will not forget how it felt to be isolated, stereotyped and made fun of. 
“One of the most striking aspects of being a white person in uganda was the stereotyping that came with it. Being labeled as rich made me feel as if I was no longer an individual. although they harbored no harmful intentions, this was of little consolation to my discomfort and desire to build close relationships.  
“Much of the subtle discrimination I experienced occurred while jogging, where I stood out for being white and for running. as I ran down the road in northern uganda, people shouted, pointed and openly laughed at me. at these moments, I despised my skin color and desired only to fit in. Feeling powerless and marginalized, I length­ened my stride, wishing to escape or go unnoticed. 
“upon arriving home, I reflected on why their laughter bothered me and concluded it made me feel insecure. Through this experience, I learned the importance and difficulty of having confidence in myself. In the wake of such events, truth visited me with ex­ceptional clarity: I cannot change the way I look and talk, nor do I want to. all I want is for others to accept me as I am.” 
Over the summer, dougie shared his experience with me to seek support from someone he knew understood exactly how he felt. In the last week, peers have shared with me their stories of being called the “n-word” within the dorms or bearing the brunt of racist Taco Bell jokes for speaking Spanish. It sounds ridiculous, but there really are people that ignorant and insensitive to our Notre dame brothers and sisters. 
Why are students leaving the university and struggling with depres­sion due to a lack of acceptance? Why can’t these students seek refuge in the arms of Our lady? 
“I believe we should examine our conscience in light of our treatment of minority students,” dougie says. “In order to become a more welcoming place, we must recognize the power of our words and actions. Words alone are not enough. Progress must be mea­sured not by promises to improve, but by earnest action. 
“I do not claim to understand the plight of minority students through one nine-week experience, but it has em­powered me to stand alongside those who feel betrayed by the Notre dame community. It is time we take a closer look into the moral fabric of our univer­sity — not to confirm and congratulate the areas in which we excel, but to real­ize our opportunities for growth with a firm determination to do better.” 
Most racism on campus is subtle and revealed in snide ways, making it dif­ficult for those in the majority to under­stand how serious an issue this is. If we continue to ignore the pain in the com­munity, can we really say ‘We are Nd’? 
Amanda Pea is a junior and a sustainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. Dougie Barnard is a junior. They can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu and dbarnard@nd.edu, respectively. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



ThE OBSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
Motivation to change the things I can 
should ever like or do anything for no show us why crunches are good for us. It might be shallow, and sometimes 
Charles Logue 
The Constructive Critics 

It’s no secret america is not the slimmest or the healthiest of coun­tries. This has been lamented and probably exhausted in political cartoons across the world. It is the subject of no small number of govern­ment initiatives and social programs, from the NFl promoting activity for kids to the first lady trying to pro­vide healthier food to urban centers. Some offshoots of these admirable campaigns include body-image and love-your-body weeks held to promote awareness of eating disorders. Eating disorders such as anorexia and buli­mia can be ultimately dangerous to the body and are extremely poor ways to achieve “fitness” or an attractive physique. It is right and good to edu­cate people regarding nutrition and discourage these behaviors. however, we should be careful how we go about discouraging eating disorders. 
a central theme of these campaigns is that people should love their bod­ies, regardless of what they look like, and should not be concerned with societal standards, pressures and expectations (which, admittedly, can be considerable). This also has a great deal of merit. Certainly, nobody 
Robert Alvarez 
Man on a Nag 

I recently had a minor existential crisis, although, surprisingly, this one wasn’t related to post-graduation anxiety. No, this crisis came to me in the realization that if I wanted to call myself Catholic, pacifism was my only option and anything other than paci­fism was a confirmation of my lack of faith. however, given the trials of pac­ifism, I couldn’t readily assent to it. 
I should probably first explain what pacifism is. Pacifism is often falsely identified as passivism, a group of holier-than-thou people who abstain from the world to create their city on a hill. This type of people frustrates me to no end. as Catholics, we are not called to “pass” on the world, as if so­ciety were some type of buffet where we get to pick and choose which parts we want. We have been put in this world to live in this world, to wrestle with its messiness, to struggle with our own meanness and hope that by the grace of god we might be able to realize a fraction of his eternal love here on Earth. True pacifists do not abstain from the world out of a mis­placed sense of purity. They recognize better reason than that other people do. That mentality can lead to geno­cide and the popularity of boy bands. Further, some things about a person’s physique are truly unchangeable, as some people are broader or slimmer and built with different proportions. If you don’t like the way your skeleton is put together, then yeah, you should probably learn to like it. 
One thing we should not take away from these messages, however, is that people shouldn’t or don’t need to improve. It has been pointed out that society puts forth a body image for veneration and emulation that is impossible to attain. So what? None of us will ever be perfect or sinless, so should we decide that attempting to imitate Jesus is a pointless exercise? achieving the skill, speed and raw power of a running back like adrian Peterson requires a near impossible combination of lifelong training and essentially winning the genetic lot­tery. yet we don’t tell young football players they are comparing them­selves to an impossible standard, so they shouldn’t even bother to try. Peterson is a role model that shows us what’s possible through hard work and determination. Brad Pitt under­wear commercials might make us feel a tiny bit inadequate, but they also 
There is a prayer many have heard at some point: “grant me the seren­ity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can and the wisdom to know the difference.” It’s all well and good to embrace the first part and be at peace with what is immutable. But too often, the second part is left by the wayside when we shy away from the effort and unpleasantness neces­sary to make ourselves better. It’s one thing to be happy and content with what you are, whatever that might be. If you like who you are and that’s firmly whom you’ve decided you want to be (jock, nerd, slut, stoner, gamer, hippie, lawyer), then screw everybody else who says otherwise. But, it’s a different case entirely to want to be­come different (thinner, faster, richer, better-looking, Cod/halo death ma­chine) and then convince yourself you’re happy with what you are, even when you’re not. honesty can be hard 
— most of all, honesty to ourselves. Sometimes we have to accept who we are, and sometimes we have to ac­cept that we don’t like who we are and then get off our butts to do something about it. The american dream is if you want it bad enough and you’re willing to work and sweat for it every day, you can become anything. 
a question of faith 
their full guilt in the evils of the world and work to absolve themselves and their community of those evils. 
The tool of their trade, however, is love. Now, before that statement gets an eye roll as the ravings of another delusional hippie, let me remind the reader that god is love. The pacifist claims, as his tool, god himself (from the Catholic perspective, at least). This is the type of pure agapic, self-giving love that does not discriminate between friend or foe. This type of love forces us as Catholics to view each other as a constitutive part of one’s own salvation. There is no per­sonal salvation for a Catholic, for once I became selfish enough only to have concern for my own salvation, that is when I would lose it. Mirroring our triune god, salvation comes in pairs (or triples, I guess). For violence, this means by killing an enemy combatant I’m destroying a constitutive part of our salvation. 
The methods of love can never in­clude violence, or at the very mini­mum, the taking of another life. love is creative by nature; violence is de­structive. The usage of violence only begets more violence. and I mean only. Violence, both overt and in­sidious structural violence, creates wounds that are only made deeper by more violence. Syria is a perfect example of this: cultural and ethnic factions caught in a genocidal war due to their history of distrust and pain. Violence won’t end their pain and never will. Name me one war that ended all wars and I’ll believe vio­lence can be used to prevent violence. This preludes just war theory as well. I do not deny that in war there might be one side with a greater moral im­perative. I deny, however, that there is a war a Catholic can assent to while holding love as his or her greatest ideal. I also deny that war will end conflict. Try to justify the death of a father to the pain of a fatherless child and you will understand why violence doesn’t end violence, but rather, per­petuates it. love is the salve that heals the wounds caused by violence. If you want to end violence, love is the only way. 
Pacifism, at this point, becomes a question of faith in love. do we have enough faith in god to trust that his love will carry us through violence? death becomes something the pacifist has to evaluate. Is death something to be feared? If I believe in the resurrec­tion, the answer is no. death is evil, it is a perversion, it is something to be it sucks, but people are judged by their appearances 20 times a day. It’s why girls take forever to do their hair and why Barney Stinson wears a suit. Is pounding back creatine and calling Joe Manganiello to ask for his work­out plan just to impress girls shallow? Maybe. But if it makes you jacked and you feel better about yourself, go for it. Should a girl’s self-esteem center around whether guys like her? Probably not, but if it provides mo­tivation to become fit and work at providing a little more beauty in the world, then bravo. Nobody’s perfect, so even improvement in “superficial” ways is still improvement. and re­ally, that’s all that can be expected of a person: to improve a little bit every day. So, as the good reinhold Niebuhr urges us, ask god for the courage to change. 
“The most common lie is that which one lies to himself; lying to others is relatively an exception.” — Friedrich Nietzsche, german philosopher 
Charles Logue is a senior living in Knott Hall. He can be reached at clogue@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
hated and fought against with every ounce of life, but if one’s ally is love, death should not be feared, for it was found to be impotent 2,000 years ago. 
These thoughts left me with the question of whether or not I could be a pacifist. during World War II, dorothy day of the Catholic Worker movement wrote in the organization’s periodi­cal that she and the New york house maintained pacifism and opposed american military involvement in the war. Could I be a pacifist in this situ­ation? do I believe god to be great enough that hitler could be overcome by love? It’s an absurd question, but Jesus Christ had a habit of asking his followers absurd questions with ab­surd answers. as a people who take up Christ’s love as our mantle, another question must be asked: do we want to be saints? I’m afraid I still don’t know my answer. 
Robert Alvarez is a senior majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies. He is living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ThE OBSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

By WILL NEAL 
Scene Writer 

Warning: Full spoilers 
Breaking up is hard to do. Wait, no … I meant, “Breaking Bad” is hard to say goodbye to. Many of us witnessed a tragic loss this past Sunday on aMC, as the critically ac­claimed and beloved american drama concluded the tale of Walter White. So, how did it turn out? 
The whole final season of “Breaking Bad” is as shock­ing and satisfying as any die-hard fan could possibly hope for. Picking back up right after hank’s revelation (on the toilet) of heisenberg’s true identity, we soon real­ize things will never be the same again for Walter White and his family. No more raisin Bran breakfasts with Walter Jr., no more patio barbeques with Marie and hank and no more cooking meth. Everything changes now, and there’s no turning back. 
Walt’s world crumbles around him as those most im­portant in his life begin to turn on him. Every episode gave us a moments that were as hard to watch as they were entertaining, but what’s most important is that the show did it’s best to make sure no stone was left unturned. 
among many things, Jesse finally discovers Walt’s role in Brock poisoning (and doesn’t handle it well), Walt ad­mits to Jesse that he watched his former girlfriend Jane 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene Writer 

as I write this review, my room is flooded, thanks to quality North Quad plumbing, but I would honestly rath­er deal with that mess than listen to Justin Timberlake’s “The 20/20 Experience — 2 of 2” again. There are defi­nitely a few gems on the album, but all together it is ex­haustingly long and loses its appeal rather quickly, failing to leave any lasting impact on listeners. 
Before “The 20/20 Experience — 1 of 2” dropped in March, it had been six years since Justin Timberlake had last produced an album, “Future Sex/love Sounds,” which topped the charts with the hit singles “Sexy Back,” “My love” and “What goes around Comes around.” The former Mouseketeer then focused on expanding his act­ing career, playing mature roles in “The Social Network” and “Friends With Benefits.” When “1 of 2” was finally re­leased, it quickly became an international hit and one of the fastest selling albums of the year. Now, “2 of 2” is most likely going to sell well, too, simply because of the mas­sive fan base Timberlake has developed. 
The effort Justin put into this album is definitely no­table. Instead of continuing the style he had in “1 of 2,” Justin and producers Timbaland and Jerome “J-roc” die and Walt realizes that everything he has worked to­ward in building his meth empire has destroyed his fam­ily, not saved it. he was a proud man and did everything in his power to ensure he would never get caught. But all kings must fall, and all bad things must come to an end. 
Walt’s pride unintentionally led to hank’s (and gomez’s) demise and ruined the lives of Jesse and his own family. Considering where the series began, there is nothing more upsetting than the end of episode “Ozymandias,” when Skyler and Walt Jr. quiver in fear at a man they no longer see as a husband and father, but as a monster. So Walt leaves with the mindset of never re­turning and isolates himself during a nationwide man­hunt until he is nothing but the broken shell of the man he once was. after nearly a year away from home, Walt tells himself his journey can’t end here and decides it’s time to close the book on his past. 
In the series finale, entitled “Felina,” which chemically represents “Blood, Meth and Tears,” every character gets a most appropriate ending. he closes the door on his past (speaking with gretchen and Elliot), makes amends in his present (rescuing Jesse, seeing his family) and opens the door to a brighter future (giving Skyler hank’s burial site to make a deal with the dEa, giving Walt Jr. the mon­ey he worked so hard to provide eight months from now). 
he uses his ingenuity to defeat the bad guys and finally 
harmon shake things up, mixing disco funk, electric organs and cosmic synthesizers to produce a generally more mature and more progressive sound. 
The album opens up with “gimme What I don’t know (I Want),” one of the better tracks on the album, at least for the first three-and-a-half minutes. as with the major­ity of the other songs on this album, Timberlake stretches “gimme” amazingly thin, with the minute-and-a-half outro awkwardly featuring monkey sounds and slam­ming the song’s main metaphor into the ground. It does have some positive aspects, however, smoothly mix­ing funk, pop and r&B influences in a way that only Timberlake could. 
“2 of 2” quickly falls off the tracks from here, though, with songs like “True Blood” and “TkO” that try too hard to create a unique sound but result in an over-indulgent cacophony that drags on endlessly. Some positives on this first half of the record include “Cabaret,” featuring lyrics from rap superstar drake and “Murder,” a collabo­ration with other rap superstar Jay-Z. 
The first half of the album is notably darker than the second half, which features songs that will resonate more with Justin’s longtime fans. For example, “you got It On,” is a smooth, classic Timberlake track that feels rather ef­fortless. This effortlessness is where Justin shines, rather admits his true reasons for cooking meth. “I did it for me,” Walt tells Skyler, “I liked it. I was good at it. and I was really — I was alive.” 
after all this time of saying it was “for the family,” Walt knows he cooked meth to make him into the man he al­ways wanted to be. and as Walt’s life ended after the final battle to rescue Jesse, he rested in his meth lab to die in the one place where he felt most alive. 
Beautiful, powerful and masterful: all words to de­scribe what this final season, and this series as a whole, accomplished. Endings are never easy for most shows (looking at you, “lost” and “dexter”), but “Breaking Bad” isn’t like most shows. It’s a journey that was relat­able because we could see what even the most simple and humble family man was capable of. It reached into dark territory but never stopped feeling real. It brought us characters that were not only fascinating, but felt in­credibly human. It was a show unlike any other, and one people will remember for years to come. 
“Breaking Bad” not only set a standard for how to craft an amazing final season, but also for how incredible a television series could be. Thank you, Vince gilligan and the rest of “Breaking Bad.” you truly created an unforget­table experience for us all. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
than in songs from the first half of the album where he at­tempts to string together a bunch of different genres and creates a rather lackluster discord. 
The record’s final song, “Not a Bad Thing,” is basically a throwback to Timberlake’s *NSyNC days, which is not necessarily bad, until the track loses its luster somewhere around the 11-minute mark. 
Overall, it is a much tighter production than its prede­cessor, but it still comes off as mediocre, definitely not hitting the “20/20” mark. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“The 20/20 Experience — 2 of 2” 
Justin Timberlake 
Label: RCA Records Tracks: “You Got It On,” “Gimme What I Don’t Know (I Want)” If you like: *NSYNC, Timbaland 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

ThE OBSErVEr |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013| NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
Scene Writer 

Before r.J. Mitte’s Q&a session even ended, a line already stretched out of the Washington hall theatre, down the stairs and almost out of the building, with every­one waiting for an opportunity to shake Mitte’s hand. 
Best known for his role as Walter Jr. (or Flynn) of the Emmy-award-winning show “Breaking Bad,” Mitte came to campus Tuesday evening to discuss the effects of bullying as well as to advocate against cru­elty toward the fellow man last night cour­tesy of SuB. Mitte expressed to students and all in attendance the true capability of humanity, of how he — as a man living with cerebral palsy — has fought to attain and remain in a position that few, disabled or otherwise, could ever hope to have. 
Mitte talked about the popular series, which concluded Sunday evening, in ad­dition to his anti-bullying message. 
“I loved the finale. I thought it couldn’t have been any better. I really couldn’t … I think it ended perfectly. It ended the way it needed to end,” Mitte said. 
however, anyone who watched the show knows that does not necessarily mean a series finale filled with a picture-perfect ending, where everyone lives a de­cent, modest life of simple happiness and innocence. 
“This show was never going to have a happy ending. When you live in a world of violence, you come out to a world of violence. Once you start going down that slope, once you start getting in bed with these people, they won’t let you leave,” Mitte said. 
Mitte is no stranger to violence. a victim of bullying ever since he was young, he had to endure the pain of having his feet stomped on and hand broken because of his cerebral palsy. Mitte insists that there are countless forms of bullying — be it physical, emotional, cyber, verbal or even the types that people will never see or hear about. 
“When they do happen,” Mitte said, “people don’t realize the damaging effects 
— the long term effects — bullying has on people. Bullying only adds to what they’re dealing with on a daily basis. Eventually they’re going to retaliate. They’re not go­ing to retaliate at the bully. They’re going to retaliate at the people they care about the most,” Mitte said. 
however, Mitte understands that this is not an impossible problem to solve — people are available to help. Mitte consid­ers himself lucky for having family and 
“At the end of the day, there’s one thing to remember; there’s another one. One more day ... The trick is to fight for what you believe in, to fight for what you have, to fight for who you surround yourself with.” 
R.J. Mitte 
actor 

friends to go to battle with these bullying-victims. People are around that want to get involved. 
unfortunately, as Mitte says, for as many people who do want to get involved, there seem to be an alarmingly large number of people who will just watch. 
“I remember, I was about 14 years old, and we were at a farmer’s market. This old­er woman, she fell, and these people were literally stepping over [her]. They wouldn’t help her out. She wasn’t asking for help, but she was lying down on the ground.” Mitte said. 
Mitte was the lone person in the entire vicinity to take initiative; it was then, he says, that he realized that that was the world we lived in — where people will step over each other. People will not think about each other. 
and Mitte understands that this may be what people are inclined to do, to not do. yet Mitte encourages people to be in­volved. Even if it may not be the easiest choice, Mitte implores people to get in­volved and offer their help. 
“you see someone who’s getting picked on, that’s when you get involved,” Mitte said. 
however, Mitte did not come to simply talk about sensitivity to those who may seem disabled; he also offered his wisdom on the capabilities of men and women, whether or not they are able-bodied. Mitte’s own battle has — and will continue to be — a life-long journey. 
“I was three [years old] when I was diag­nosed with my disability. I grew up dealing with OT (Occupational Therapy), speech therapy, all different types. dealt with bul­lies, dealt with people telling me I wouldn’t amount to much — even my own father — and I’ve shown them. and at the end of the day, there’s one thing to remember; there’s another one. One more day, one more per­son trying to stop you, one more person trying to take what you have. The trick is to fight for what you believe in, to fight for what you have, to fight for who you sur­round yourself with,” Mitte said. 

Mitte has fought hard, putting himself in a position to succeed, and cites his own drive and ambition as a reason for his suc­cess — a drive that is, according to him, characteristic of anyone with disabilities. 
“People want to stand on their own two feet. It’s even more so with a disability. They’ve had so many people cutting them down, saying, ‘you can’t do this. Someone without a disability should be capable of 10 times more than someone with a disability. But the thing is, you see more people with a disability with lower options fighting for a better future. They actually are fighting to get what they need. Most people are not willing to fight for what they need,” Mitte said. 
Mitte, however, has been fighting a con­tinually long fight — for equality. 
“Equality is the biggest fight. disability, race, religion, no matter what it is: at the end of the day, equality is the biggest fight. Once you understand equality, once you have equality, there shouldn’t be any doubt. It’s one of those things that one problem can fix many,” Mitte said. 
Mitte knows his fight isn’t going to end anytime soon, but he said it’s a fight worth fighting for, and it’s not one he’s going to give up on. 
“Equality means respect. respect is equality. When you have respect for peo­ple around you, without labeling, with­out seeing them as ‘the minority’: that’s equality. We all bleed the same blood. I’ve never seen a baby push someone away … Equality has been a fight for thousands of years. It will not be fixed over night. It will not be fixed by one voice. It will be fixed by thousands of voices. It will be fixed by multiple ideals, multiple people, multiple belief systems. That’s when we’ll have equality,” Mitte said. 
as Mitte talked about these ideas and his hopes for the future — no matter how dis­tant — a certain look in his eyes betrayed a wisdom and patient determination be­yond his 21 years. No matter how long, no matter how distant — Mitte is willing to fight everyday. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Brees really does have it all 

Samantha Zuba 
Sports Writer 
I might be the only person in america who takes issue with drew Brees. 
Watching him throw for 413 yards and four touchdowns Monday night to lead the Saints to victory against the dolphins reminded me of my annoyance 
— Why can’t more football players be like drew Brees? 
I have watched the Bears’ parade of “quarterbacks” since the 1990s and have been quite underwhelmed. Most recently, the Bears have insultingly tried to tell Chicagoans that rex grossman, kyle Orton and Jay Cutler are quarterbacks. 
We’re onto you, Bears man­agement. We don’t know what those chumps are, but we would like you to find a real quarterback. We would like our own drew Brees. 
It’s not going to happen. I have finally realized how truly special Brees is to the Saints and to New Orleans, and it’s be­cause of qualities few football players bring to the table. 
There is a reason they call him “Breesus.” you know, like Jesus. 
Brees is clearly one of the best quarterbacks of all time. In 2011, Brees set the record for NFl passing yards in a single season with 5,476. Brees moved into sixth place on the all-time passing yards list Monday and should pass Warren Moon to move into fifth place before the end of this season. and at the age of 34, Brees still has some time to play. 
Brees also sits sixth all time in passing touchdowns with 334 touchdowns. Brees is just seven touchdowns behind Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and eight behind former Vikings and giants quarterback Fran Tarkenton. 
But that’s not even what makes him the most Breesus-y. 
he led the Saints to their first Super Bowl victory in franchise history in 2010. The win came after years of the team being called the “ain’ts” and gener­ally failing at being a good football team. That would be enough to get any city excited. 
Oh, and the victory came less than five years after hurricane katrina devastated New Orleans. Brees and the Saints brought a little triumph and pride back to a resurrected New Orleans, which cemented the relationship between the team and the city. 
Since then, Brees has been one of New Orleans’ greatest ambassadors. actually, he is probably its only ambassador, given the corrupt state of poli­tics in the city. I couldn’t tell you who New Orleans’ mayor is, so for all I know, it actually is drew Brees. 
I wonder how many write-ins he gets on the ballot each election. 
don’t worry, though. Brees isn’t just good at playing foot­ball, being a quasi-mayor or inspiring an entire city recover­ing from a natural disaster. he does charity work too — and has taken graduate business classes from Stanford to help him do it. 
his Brees dream Foundation has contributed more than $17 million to cancer research and charities that work to improve patients’ quality of life. 
a lot of NFl players never finish their degrees, and this guy took graduate courses at Stanford. So he could be more charitable. 
Just when I think football can’t get more hopeless and I’ll have to become a Saints fan, I see that Wrangler jeans com­mercial — the one with Brees and his family. 
We get it, drew. your family is adorable. 
Why do other quarterbacks even try? They’ve got nothing on Brees. 
It is annoying to football fans who aren’t from New Orleans. First, other cities don’t get the joy of celebrating Mardi gras, and then you’re going to tell their teams that you’re keep­ing Brees, too? It’s not fair. hey, New Orleans, other cities would like some happiness. 
you can’t have both Mardi gras and drew Brees. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC SOCCER 

Belles look for a win against conference opponent 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
Sports Writer 

after breaking their streak of ties with a win, the Belles head into their next conference game against adrian on Wednesday with hopes of building a winning streak. 
Belles head coach Michael Joyce said the biggest dif­ference between their last game against Olivet and previous games that ended in ties was putting shots on goal and, ultimately, in the back of the net. 
“We haven’t been great this year at converting our chances or getting a good shot on goal at the end of our attack,” Joyce said. 
Joyce said the Belles (3­4-3, 1-2-3 MIaa) have to continue putting shots on goal against No. 2-ranked in MIaa adrian (7-3, 5-2) in order to come out on top. he said the Belles are already starting to find the finishing mentality that is crucial to scoring goals. 
although the game against Olivet was a great starting place for the Belles to build upon, adrian is very different from Olivet, Joyce said. 

“They have some very talented forwards we’ll have to contend with, and we’ll probably see a lot more pressure in the back,” he said. “They have the last two conference players of the year on the attack, but we handled it fairly well last year and think we can again.” 
defenders junior kerry green, sophomore lindsay rzpecki, junior captain Mary kate hussey and freshman Emily rompola must play tough in order to stop the adrian attack team. 
adrian also has sopho­more goalkeeper lexi lewandowski, who was named the MIaa defensive Player of the Week. She is ranked second in the MIaa in save percentage (.833) and fourth in goals-against average (1.2). 
The Belles will rely on their goalkeeper as well, junior Chanler rosenbaum, who was named MIaa defensive Player of the week last week. rosenbaum allowed just one goal in 220 minutes of play and made a career high of 13 saves against defending confer­ence champion Calvin on Sept. 18. 
“as long as we have the intensity and the right mindset, we’ll be all right,” Joyce said. “We’re undefeat­ed at home this year as well, so we’re planning on keep­ing that rolling through the year.” 
The Belles will face adrian at home Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

SMC heads into third conference competition 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s begins the third of four MIaa jambo­rees in a two-week span when it tees off today at The golf Club at Thornapple Pointe in grand rapids, Mich. 
The Belles took sec­ond place in the first two conference competitions, falling to Olivet in both tournaments. 

Belles coach kim Moore said while the Comets are a talented team and will be difficult to overcome in the leaderboard, she believes her squad can close the gap and possibly take first place with improvements in a few areas. 
“My goal is to continue to have us play better ev­ery tournament,” she said. “That’s what I’m going to focus on and have our team focus on, trying to elimi­nate a few strokes here and there, and our team score can go down. We can’t con­trol what Olivet does, but I think if we eliminate a few things here and there, we’ll be right there and close to where we should normally be.” 

With four tournaments in less than two weeks, the Belles have not been afford­ed a normal practice sched­ule. Moore said her team has responded by making adjustments in its tourna­ment qualifiers, which de­termine the five golfers that will compete in each com­petition, and using its trials on the course to improve. 
“I think [the Belles] have learned that they’ve got to utilize those qualifiers as practice as well,” she said. “a great way for them to prepare for tournaments is to play more tournaments, and I think they’ve realized that those qualifiers will be the [next] best thing we have to playing in another tournament.” 
Based off the results of its most recent qualifier, Saint Mary’s will enter the quin­tet of senior Paige Pollak, junior Janice heffernan, sophomore Sammie averill and freshmen ali Mahoney and Courtney Carlson today. 
The Belles’ low scorers in their last three rounds were averill, Pollak and heffernan, respectively. Moore said the parity be­tween her golfers shows Saint Mary’s depth, which has helped the team throughout the season. 
“In team golf, you can’t just rely on one person,” she said. “One person’s score doesn’t make a team score. It shows how strong we can be at any given time, since any person can step up and be the leader.” 
Moore also noted that at least one freshman has competed in each tourna­ment for the Belles, rein­forcing Saint Mary’s depth for the future. 
Currently at the halfway point of their conference schedule, the Belles will start their third jamboree today at 1 p.m. at The golf Club at Thornapple Pointe in grand rapids, Mich. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

MEN’S TENNIS | ITa all-aMErICaN ChaMPIONShIPS 
Monaghan advances to third round at invite 

4-0 lead, and continued to add 
Observer Staff Report 
similar spurts such as a five-

In a see-saw match, the Belles point swing to make it 17-10, battled back and forth with the and coasted to an easy set win, adrian Bulldogs before ulti-25-14. The second set saw a bit mately coming up short 2-3 (25-of back-and-forth between the 14, 25-11, 23-25, 23-25, 11-15). Bulldogs (5-11, 1-7) and the 
The Belles loss (5-10, 3-5 Belles, with the score at one 
MIaa) marks their fifth in a point standing at 6-5 adrian. 
row. however, the Belles once again 
The first set featured a strong relied on some heavy point 
start from Saint Mary’s. The swings, going on a five-point 
Belles jumped out to an early run that put them up 10-6, and 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 

Monday and Tuesday to ad-
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
vance to the third round of the ITa all-american 

Notre dame sophomore Championships at the Quentin Monaghan won a Michael d. Case Tennis pair of individual matches Center in Tulsa, Okla. 
Sports Writer 

PaId adVErTISEMENT 
Monaghan, the defend­ing Big East Freshman of the year, defeated Texas sopho­more Nick Naumann, 6-2, 6-2, in first round action Monday afternoon. 
Monaghan followed up the win with another straight sets victory Tuesday afternoon, as he defeated univeristy of San diego sophomore uros Petronijevic, 7-5, 6-4. 
“you’re not going to find anybody that competes hard­er than Quentin,” Irish coach ryan Sachire said. “he has a very unique ability to make a lot of shots and make his opponents really earn every­thing that they get. Quentin has really taken coaching well and knows and under­stands that he needs to ex­tend his game even further and develop even more of an ability not to just outlast an opponent but in other situa­tions to outhit and just sim­ply beat an opponent.” 
With the victory, Monaghan advanced to the third round of the championships, where he will face Texas freshman george goldhoff today. 
goldhoff advanced to the third round after defeat­ing Florida freshman Elliott Orkin, 6-4, 6-1, in the first round and drake junior alen Salibasic, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4, in the second round. 
goldhoff has limited col­lege experience but possess­es a lengthy tennis resume. he was ranked the No. 2 prospect in the class of 2013 by the Tennis recruiting Network and is currently ranked No. 8 in the Preseason ITa Newcomers/Freshmen rankings. 
“george is a great player and a good kid, and we talked to him a little bit during the recruiting process,” Sachire said. “he ultimately ended up at a great place in Texas and like I said, he’s good, so it will be a real good match. Quentin knows that he’ll have to play well to win, but he also knows that if he does play well, he’ll have a good chance.” 
Sachire said he believes Monaghan is well prepared to handle the rigors and pres­sure of the single-elimination tournament. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | adrIaN 3, SMC 2 
“Certainly, when you’re in a tournament, you know that you’re playing to play the next round, trying to survive so you can play the next day,” Sachire said. “I think the big­gest thing that we’re excited about is that Quentin’s play­ing well, he’s doing the things on the court that he’s been practicing, and it’s paying off in competition, which is ob­viously a huge step in his de­velopment and hopefully, he can continue to keep doing that as the week progresses.” 
With a victory, Monaghan will advance to the main draw of the tournament, which be­gins Thursday. Irish senior greg andrews automatically qualified for the main draw of the tournament due to his No. 31 national ranking and will begin play Thursday. 
Monaghan will look to ad­vance to the main draw of the tournament when he faces off against goldhoff today at 1:30 
p.m. at the Michael d. Case Tennis Center in Tulsa, Okla. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

Belles lose fifth straight 
then later in the set breaking things open with a late nine-point run to make the score 23-9 and out of the Bulldogs’ reach. The Belles would claim the second set by a score of 25-11. 
however, the Bulldogs re­fused to go down lightly. despite dropping the first two sets in lopsided fashion, adrian roared back with two hard-fought 25-23 set victories to tie the match at 2-2. That brought everything to a head for the fifth and final set. 
In the beginning of the set both teams traded points, and at one point the Belles were only down 6-4. however, the Bulldogs would once again summon the resolve to go off another run. The Bulldogs scored four of five points to go up 10-5, and then after that stole three of the next five points to go up 13-7. after that, the Belles were unable to mount a rally and fell to the Bulldogs by a score of 15-11. 
There were several bright spots individually for the Belles. Junior outside hitter kati Schneider and sophomore outside hitter katie hecklinski both tied for the team lead with 17 kills, while junior libero Meredith Mersits led the team with 25 digs. Freshman setter Clare McMillan led the team with 56 assists. 
The Belles return to action on Friday when they take on the kalamazoo hornets at home. game time is set for 7 p.m. 


ThE OBSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish seek first ACC conference win 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
after falling in their first two aCC matches to No. 11 North Carolina and North Carolina State last weekend, the Irish will look to secure their first conference victory when they take on duke to­night at Purcell Pavilion. 
Since their straight-sets victory over North dakota State on Sept. 21, the Irish (6­7, 0-2 aCC) have dropped four straight, and their road does not get any easier. duke (11-2, 2-0 aCC) sits tied with North Carolina atop the aCC stand­ings, and the Blue devils did not drop a set in dispatching Virginia and Virginia Tech at home last weekend. The matches against the Cavaliers and hokies were the conclu­sion of a seven-game home stand in which the Blue devils went undefeated and earned five straight-set victories. 
Meanwhile, the Irish sit in the conference basement. Just two games into the con­ference season, however, there is plenty of ground to be made up, and a victory over duke would prove a satisfy­ing first conference victory in Notre dame’s inaugural season in the aCC. The Irish have played well at home in 2013, sporting a 4-2 record within the friendly confines of Purcell Pavilion. 
“They are a very good team, but they’ve shown that they can be beaten this year,” Irish coach debbie Brown said of the Blue devils. We’re hoping to build off what we’ve seen in those two losses and come in knowing that they aren’t invincible.” 
The Blue devils are led of­fensively by sophomore out­side hitter Emily Sklar with 143 kills and junior outside hitter Jeme Obeime with 
137. In all likelihood, the pair would have racked up a greater number of kills had their team not been so domi­nant in the early part of the season. duke has only gone more than three sets twice on the season — against South Carolina and Illinois. Both of the team’s losses, which came to No. 8 Minnesota and No. 3 Florida, were in straight sets. When adjusting for the small volume of play, the Blue devils lead the aCC in kills per set with 15.22 and assists per set with 13.88. 
“Obviously, being unde­feated in the aCC, we’re ex­pecting a tough team coming in,” Brown said. “They have two very good outside hitters who we’re going to have to stop, and we’re hoping to get them late into matches.” 
Notre dame, on the other hand, has struggled at times offensively and committed too many unforced errors in the season’s early going. The team has hit at just a .206 clip on the year for 12.2 kills per set. On the other side of the net, Notre dame’s oppo­nents have hit .238 against the Irish. 
The Irish are led offensively by junior outside hitters Toni alugbue and Jeni houser, who have notched 147 and 141 kills, respectively. The of­fense behind them has seen some upheaval following the transfer of last year’s libero, Taylor Morey. Senior captain andrea Mchugh has stepped back from the frontline to take over the defensive spe­cialist position. 
With all the early sea­son discord, Brown said she hopes returning to the team’s home floor will help the Irish settle in and pull off the 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 


upset. the JaCC.” 
“We’re expecting a boost Notre dame will take on from the crowd in our first duke tonight at 7 p.m. at home match in the aCC,” she Purcell Pavilion. said. “We’ve been on the road for the past five games, [so] Contact Conor Kelly at we’re excited to come back to ckelly17@nd.edu 


NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Ducks claim come-back win against Babes 

second half to beat Welsh Family 19-6, on Monday to pick up its first win of the season. 
Walsh’s offense finally found its groove behind junior quarter­back Julianne Carson, who ran for two touchdowns and passed for another. The Wild Women (1­
3) opened the scoring on a two-yard run by Carson in the first quarter, which came two plays after she scrambled for 20 yards. 
In the third quarter, Carson found freshman receiver Emily Burns for a 20-yard touchdown in which Burns made a diving catch after a Welsh Family de­fensive back tipped the ball. 
The most riveting play of the game, however, was a hook-and­ladder that resulted in a 50-yard gain by Walsh junior running back kathleen Brown. 
“I told my coach we needed something big, and that play usually nets us some huge gains,” said Brown. 
Welsh Family (1-2) had a chance to come back in the fourth quarter. Trailing 19-6, the Whirlwinds ran an end-around pass that went for a 55­yard score, only to be negated by a penalty. The team’s fate was sealed when the Walsh defense forced an interception one play later. 
Welsh Family’s lone score came when sophomore quar­terback Stephanie Peragallo connected with senior receiver Steph lobaccaro for a 45-yard strike. 
“Our offense has been hot and cold, so I’m really glad we con­nected on a long touchdown,” said lobaccaro. “[There was] a questionable non-touchdown later in the game, though.” 
Walsh will look to keep its mo­mentum when it plays Mcglinn on Sunday, while Welsh Family has a week off to regroup before it faces Breen-Phillips on Oct. 13. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 36, Badin 0 
after a hot start to the season, Pasquerilla West extended its win streak to three games with a 36-0 victory over Badin on Tuesday. 
In a game that featured two different quarterbacks for Pasquerilla West (4-0) because of an injury, the Purple Weasels offense flowed to near-perfec­tion as it ran up and down the field time and time again. 
Pasquerilla West senior cap­tain Breezi Toole applauded her team for sticking together after its starting quarterback went down. 
“It was tough with our quar­terback getting injured obvi­ously,” she said. “But the team pulled together to pull out the game — we did a really good job of adjusting.” 
Both quarterbacks had a lot of help, however, as their receiv­ers continually hauled in near­ly every ball thrown at them. Freshman allie griffith hauled in a team-high five catches, including a touchdown and a 20-yard catch, for the Purple Weasels. 
“I think we put a lot of time in practice to perfect our routes,” said griffith. “If we continue to work on these we’ll continue to get better as a unit.” 
On the other hand, Badin (0-4) struggled to find a rhythm of­fensively, as the Bullfrogs were intercepted five times. 
Badin sophomore captain kristina Techar stressed the importance of finding a flow of­fensively to give the Bullfrogs’ defense a rest. 
“We are looking to focus on the one-on-one [matchups] on offense,” Techar said. “If we win the one-on-one battles, we’ll get the ball moving.” 
Pasquerilla West will face off against Farley on Sunday, while Badin’s next opponent will be lewis on Oct. 13. 
Contact Jose Fernandez at jfer­nan9@nd.edu 
Lyons 14, Lewis 6 
lyons and lewis battled until the final whistle Tuesday night, when the lions emerged with the 14-6 victory in a hard-fought game. 
The matchup turned into s a showdown between two strong defenses. 
The game started slowly, as neither team scored on offense and both defenses did a good job of holding the opposing team scoreless. 
Neither team put points on the scoreboard until late in the first half, when a tip on a lewis pass by lyons freshman linebacker kelly Smith led to an intercep­tion and 40-yard return by lions freshman safety and receiver Taylor Sears. 
Sears made another 40-yard gain on the following play, run­ning it in for a lyons touchdown. 
The duo of Smith and Sears caused two interceptions in the game. 
“I think the team played re­ally well today,” Smith said. “We definitely brought it and showed who we are.” 
The Chicks (0-2) found more success on offense in the second half, when they put themselves in the game with a touchdown. 
But late in the half, lyons freshman quarterback kristen lombardo tossed a touchdown pass to Smith to seal the win for the lions. 
“Compared to our last game, this was definitely a tougher win,” lyons senior captain and safety and wide receiver Christina Bramanti said. “It defi­nitely makes the win a whole lot sweeter.” 
lewis senior captain and re­ceiver Colleen haller said she was still happy with how her team played. 
“I think we showed a lot of im­provement from our last game … we are just going to keep work­ing,” haller said. 
lyons hopes to bring its posi­tive momentum into its game against Cavanaugh on Sunday, while lewis hopes to keep im­proving when it plays Pasquerilla East the same day. 
Contact Alexandra Lane at alane2@nd.edu 
By JOSH DULANY, BRIAN PLAMODON, JOSE FERNANDEZ and ALEXANDRA LANE 
Sports Writers 
howard used a consistent of­fense and resilient defense to come from behind and knock off Breen-Phillips, 26-14, on Monday. 
The ducks (3-0) relied on the steady play of senior captain and quarterback and lineback­er Clare robinson and sopho­more running back and safety Stephanie Peterson. robinson passed for one touchdown and ran for two more, while Peterson scored on a 40-yard scamper to the end zone and grabbed a cru­cial interception. 
“We really transitioned to the running game to adjust to their defense,” robinson said. “We found little holes and capitalized.” 
“I was really impressed how we came back after being down,” Peterson said. 
The Babes (0-2) built an early lead through explosive first-half plays. The team’s first offensive play was a 65-yard touchdown run by freshman running back Emily affinito. 
“It was a good way to start up the team and get them fired up,” affinito said. 
Freshman quarterback holianne “kaheke” Martinson and sophomore receiver Claire goddard were a productive duo, connecting on a 10-yard touch­down pass just before halftime. 
“It was a huge improvement from our last game,” Martinson said. “The coaches threw in some new stuff, and everyone played super well. We just hope to keep getting better every game.” 
The game was close through­out and was only decided after the ducks’ defense, which sur­rendered few yards in the second half, forced a turnover on downs late in the second half. 
“The cornerbacks all stepped up,” robinson said. “We had great coverage. all the adjust­ments we made were big.” 
howard will be back in action against undefeated Pangborn this Sunday at 4 p.m., and the Babes will play Welsh Family Sunday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
Walsh 19, Welsh Family 6 
Walsh pulled away in the 

PaId adVErTISEMENT 


a really good defender every 
Football M Basketball 
single day on me.” 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 
Notre dame also wel­

3.5 points and 5.5 rebounds comes freshman guard Steve 
around him, athletic, they move, per contest. Vasturia and freshmen for­
they’re one of the better [de-The Irish return their wards V.J. Beacham and 
fensive lines] that we’ll see this top three guards from last austin Torres to the team. 
year.” season, as atkins, senior atkins said the freshmen have Jerian grant and junior Pat benefited from the new rule 
Hendrix to play again 

Connaughton bring con-allowing earlier practices. 
Senior quarterback andrew siderable experience to the “you gain a little more con­
hendrix saw significant playing position. Sophomore guard fidence because you have 
time during Saturday’s 35-21 loss Cameron Biedschied also re-more time to practice with 
to Oklahoma, mostly in a spe­turns for Notre dame after a the team before you really get 
cially designed package to high-strong freshman campaign. going,” he said. “Now we get 
light his running skills. To their experienced back-like two or three more weeks, 
kelly said hendrix will play court the Irish add freshman and I just think it’s a big con-
again Saturday against the Sun demetrius Jackson, rated by fidence booster.” 
devils. ESPN as the 24th best player a transition the entire Irish 
“you’ve got to help us win foot-in the nation. a graduate team is making this year is 
ball games,” kelly said. “So his of Marian high School in from the Big East to the aCC. 
mindset has to be, look, I want to Mishawaka, Ind., Jackson has Notre dame finished 11-7 in 
keep adding more to my plate. I already made an impression, conference play last season 
want more and more. But he’s got atkins said. and now will join a confer-
to be more effective than he was “Working with him all ence led by perennial pow-
on Saturday. he can’t go in there summer, [Jackson’s] some-erhouses duke and North 
and we get two false start penal-Sophomore linebacker romeo which could affect Notre dame’s body that really just wants to Carolina. 
ties. We can’t miss a wide open Okwara will replace Councell, games against air Force and get better every single day,” “I think my only mindset 
receiver. We’ve got to do a better who was ejected for a helmet-to-Navy. atkins said. “you know, he’s change is knowing as a team 
job on our zone read. helmet hit against Oklahoma, on air Force and Navy are sched­a gritty defender, he gets after we are probably going to have 
“So if he’s going to get more on the field. uled to play each other this it on defense, gets after the to score more,” atkins said. 
his plate, he’s got to be more pro-Councell has six tackles in five weekend, but that game may not ball. and offensively, he can “you know, going to the aCC, 
ductive, and we need him to be games of action this season as occur. really create his own shot. he just looking at their scores, 
more productive.” freshman Jaylon Smith’s backup. kelly said he did not have any can get to the hole at will. you they are usually in the 70s.” 
after the game Saturday, kelly Sophomore defensive lineman information on whether the know, I think it will be some-The Irish are well-equipped 
said the coaching staff imple-Sheldon day, who has missed the shutdown could impact the Irish. body to really help Jerian to adjust to the competition 
mented the hendrix package to last two games with an ankle in-While Notre dame has never [grant] and I, take some of within the aCC, atkins said. 
diversify their offense. jury, has a better chance to play played a Football Championship the dribbling the ball respon-“We have a lot of returning 
hendrix went 0-for-1 passing this week, kelly said. Subdivision (FCS) opponent, sibilities, the handling re-guys, a lot of young guys,” 
the ball and ran five times for 10 Senior defensive lineman kelly said he would not be op­sponsibilities, away from us he said. “I think it’s one of 
yards while picking up two first kona Schwenke has five tackles posed to scheduling one in lieu a little bit and give us a break our deeper teams that I’ve 
downs. in the last two games as day’s of one of the service academies. there. ever been a part of while I’ve 
fill-in. “I would be one vote in a room “I think the last person I’ve been here. So a lot of talent 
Councell, Day updates with a lot of probably ‘no’s,’” kelly had push me like this every to work with on both sides of 
Junior linebacker Ben Air Force, Navy games in said. “I probably know how that’s single day was [former Irish the ball.” 
Councell will miss the first half the air going to go.” guard] Ben [hansbrough], 
of the game Saturday after an ap-The government shutdown so that was my freshman Contact Joseph Monardo at 
peal to overturn his suspension has forced military academies to Contact Matthew DeFranks at year. So it feels good to have jmonardo@nd.edu 
was denied. suspend intercollegiate games, mdefrank@nd.edu 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 



M Soccer we’re starting to get into a better rhythm.” 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 

additionally, the Irish will be defense. Senior goalie Patrick forced to deal with the challenges Wall currently tops the aCC in of a home game during the school save percentage, as the Irish have week, which can be difficult for managed three shutouts so far the Notre dame student athletes, this fall. according to Clark. 
“We will have to defend well in “The Michigan game was the this game,” Clark said. “In any big first time a weekday game got to game, you have to defend well, us. The others had been on the but against this team that’s going road, which is a little bit differ-to be very important for us.” ent,” Clark said. “I think the play-
at the same time, the Irish will ers will handle it a lot better this look to finish on more of their time. They will be very prepared offensive opportunities against for this game, and I don’t have Indiana, an area they have strug-any concerns about that this time gled in at times this year. around.” 
“This year, when the oppor-Notre dame will host Indiana tunities have come, we’ve been in alumni Stadium tonight at 7 a little lax in finishing them,” p.m. Clark said. “That’s something we’ve been working on. I feel Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at like it’s getting much better and asantmil@nd.edu 


NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2013 | ThE OBSErVEr 

CROSSWORD | WIll ShOrTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChrISTOPhEr BruCkEr 

CONTROLLED CHAOS  | hIllary MaNgIaFOrTE 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information about people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhaM grOuP 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIa laST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zach galifianakis, 44; Esai Morales, 51; randy Quaid, 63; Julie andrews, 78. 
Happy Birthday: Stand up for your rights, but use diplomacy to get what you want. adapting to the inevitable changes that come your way will be crucial. Emotional deception when dealing with children or those trying to take advantage of you must be recognized and dealt with carefully. honesty and discipline will help you find your way to a better life and future. your numbers are 2, 10, 21, 23, 37, 40, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Obstacles may appear to be insurmountable, but if you take an unusual route, you will bypass the setbacks standing in your way. Intelligence and ingenuity coupled with taking action and making things happen will lead to your success. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Participate in events that interest people of all ages and backgrounds. Tolerance and understanding will help you reach a goal that may not have been possible without the help of so many unique contributions. love will take an unusual twist. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It will be difficult to pacify others even if you do give in to demands. Concentrate on what you need to accomplish first. Idle chatter will not get the work done or appease those looking for help or results. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): go to where the action is and step into the limelight. your charm, intelligence and expressive way of dealing with others will result in new connections. romance is in the stars, along with greater opportunity. Children will have an impact on you. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It will be difficult to know which way to turn. you’ll be asked questions, and solutions will be expected. a confident approach coupled with expertise, compromise and adaptability will win the respect of your peers. don’t start fights; put them to rest. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make financial changes that help you engage in pastimes you enjoy. a trip or course that will enable you to raise your earning potential will also bring you in contact with interesting individuals who have something to con­tribute to your plans. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you’ll be caught in the middle of a situation that cannot be resolved without you. do your best not to let situations get blown out of proportion when what’s required is a quick fix with as little interference as possible. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): keep whatever you do simple and to the point. Promote and present what you have to offer in such a way that you come across as mysterious but knowledgeable. keep the drama to a minimum and let the intrigue build slowly. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Step outside your comfort zone if it will help you resolve an issue that is holding you back. getting along with people will be dependent upon what you promise and how much of it you deliver. Prepare to go the distance. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let financial implications stand between you and your success. Focus on what you have to offer and discuss your intentions with someone who has the clout and the backing to help you. What you give away will be worth the returns. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let confusion take over. The conversations you have with others might not be pertinent to your situation. you have to decide what works best for you and follow through. don’t feel obligated to do the same as every­one else. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Share your creative ideas and use your imagination when trying to get others to lend a helping hand. your charisma will invite new friendships, partnerships and the chance to make a commitment that will help you advance. 


Birthday Baby: you are charming and entertaining. you are dedicated and deter­mined. 
JUMBLE | daVId hOyT aNd JEFF kNurEk 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name address City  State  Zip  


ThE OBSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER  2, 2013 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly talks improvement 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant Managing Editor 
Irish coach Brian kelly looked back at last year. 
he looked at a 10-minute clip that featured Notre dame’s close calls in 2012: the heave to John goodman against Purdue, the missed field goal against Purdue and the end of the Byu victory. 
his purpose? 
“My point being the margin [for error] last year was razor-thin, and the margin this year is razor-thin,” kelly said. 
last year, the Irish went unde­feated in the regular season and won five games by seven or less points on their way to the BCS National Championship game. But this season, Notre dame (3­
2) has stumbled into two dou­ble-digit September losses. 
kelly said the Irish need to do the basic tasks in order to return to their winning ways. 
“We have to do the ordinary things much better,” he said. “We have got to stay above the cut in cover 3. We’ve got to run routes better. We’ve got to pick up protections that are day One protections. We’ve got to pick those things up. We’ve got to complete easy balls.” 
In both of Notre dame’s losses, the Irish kept the game within a touchdown in the fourth quarter but surrendered 75-yard touch­down drives to seal the games. 
“So the margin, I think, is about as thin as it was last year, and the difference between 5-0 and 3-2 is about five or six plays, and that’s kind of where we are at this point,” kelly said. 
Running against the Devils 
No. 22 arizona State is coming 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Senior quarterback Andrew Hendrix runs to the sideline during Notre Dame’s 35-21 home loss to Oklahoma. 
off a 62-41 throttling of uSC and a brand new ranking. 
But in the past two games, the Sun devils defense has allowed at least 240 yards on the ground, despite boasting one of the best defensive lines in the country. They are giving up 192 rushing yards per game. 
“you would think at first look­ing at it, that, boy, it’s easy to run against them, but you’re in a lot of negative plays,” kelly said. “If you really go through the num­bers, you’re in a hit and miss situation because they bring so much pressure. you have to do a great job of managing the nega­tive plays against them.” 
In the last two weeks, in splitting games against Stanford and uSC, arizona State (3-1) dropped backs for a loss 10 times. 

up front, redshirt senior defensive tackle Will Sutton leads the Sun devils. The pro­jected first-round pick and all american has 13 tackles on the season, with 2.5 of them for loss. he also has one sack. 
“he’s one of the better inside guys, there’s no question, that we’ve played,” kelly said. “he’s extremely active, great feet, physically at the point of attack, he’s going to be a handful. and he’s got great complements 
see FOOTBall PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

defending champions visit 

GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore midfielder Patrick Hodan looks to strike the ball during Notre Dame’s 1-1 tie with North Carolina at home Sept. 8. 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 

Following an impressive 3-1 win over aCC rival duke on Friday, Notre dame returns to action to­day as the team hosts Indiana. 
Currently, Indiana (4-4-1, 1-0-0 Big 10) leads the series 27-7-2 over Notre dame (4-0-3, 2-0-2 aCC) in what Irish coach Bobby Clark identifies as one of the premier college soccer match-ups. 
“It’s one of the best rivalries in college soccer,” Clark said. “as I say it, it’s a little bit like Barcelona-real Madrid. It’s just a good ri­valry, and I think it’s a healthy rivalry. [Today’s] match really has the makings of a great game.” 
last fall, Indiana upset the Irish in the third round of the NCaa tournament, as the hoosiers went on to win their eighth na­tional championship in 2012. Nonetheless, there is no added motivation as a result of last year’s loss, Clark said. 
“There is no extra motivation. I don’t think either Indiana nor Notre dame needs a lot of moti­vation for this game,” Clark said. “This game takes care of itself; it’s always a big interstate game.” 
despite the fact that Notre dame is off to an undefeated start in the 2013 season, Indiana pres­ents a difficult challenge, Clark said. 
“Indiana is truly one of the best attacking teams in the country,” he said. “They have a very good front six and a lot of good depth there as well. They have a lot of very skillful attacking players, and that’s always a challenge.” 
Conversely, the Irish defense has only allowed four goals so far in 2013, as the Irish are ranked 10th in the nation in scoring 
see M SOCCEr PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

returning players prepare for opener 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate Sports Editor 
The Irish were back on the court earlier than normal, but that wasn’t the only thing that was new Tuesday afternoon. 
aCC logos surrounded the practice facility as Notre dame took advantage of the NCaa legislation advancing the start date for college basketball practices across the country. 
“I think practice is going great so far,” Irish senior guard Eric atkins said. “I think we are clicking really early on. With the NCaa rule, I think it’s great for our young guys to get going, just to work with us, know how we play and get up and down with us and getting the rhythm of college basketball.” 
The rule change, approved in May, permits teams to move up the dates of their opening practices by two weeks. Notre dame took the court for its first official practice Friday, more than a month before the team’s opening exhibition game against Indianapolis on Oct. 28. 
“It’s already on my mind every day,” atkins said of the season opener. “Every day, it’s on the 28th, I know. So that’s definitely the only thing on my mind so far, but getting better every day is what we are trying to do as a team.” 
The Irish return nine of 11 players from last year’s squad, which finished 25-10 before losing to Iowa State in the second round of the NCaa tournament. Forward Jack Cooley and guard Scott Martin were the only departures over the off-season, although the two players led the team in rebounding. Cooley was 13th in the nation and first on the team with 10.1 rebounds per game, while Martin was sec­ond on the Irish with an aver­age of 5.9 boards. 
Senior center garrick Sherman and graduate student forward Tom knight will likely lead the Irish frontcourt in their stead. Sherman, a trans­fer from Michigan State, aver­aged 3.4 rebounds per game and put up 7.0 points per game in his first season with the Irish, while knight contributed 
see M BaSkETBall PAGE 14 




