ThE INDEpENDENT TO uNCOvER NEWSpApER SERvINg ThE TRuTh NOTRE DAME AND AND REpORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCuRATEly 

vOluME 47, ISSuE 58 |  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Irish dominate through the cold 
Frigid temperatures and an Irish victory made for a memorable Senior Day for the Class of 2014 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
News Writer 
Students braved snow and below-freezing temperatures to watch the Irish battle the Brigham young university Cougars on Saturday in the last home football game of the season. 
Senior laura Stangler said her last student game-day ex­perience was very bittersweet. 
“The cold was a bummer, but it was worth it,” she said. “I was glad it was snowing and not raining. I know a lot of people who didn’t go to the game or didn’t stay for the entire game. … But it was definitely a lot of fun, and the marshmallow fight was really cool.” 
The traditional senior marshmallow fight occurred during halftime, Stangler said. Most of the marshmal­lows stayed in the stands, but a few fell on the field. 
“There were a bunch of guys who were trying to test their strength of arm by throwing marshmallows as far as they could,” Stangler said. “And then there were people who got in trouble with the ushers for throwing them at the ush­ers. It was really fun, though.” 
Stangler said she appreci­ated the special seniors-only traditions after the game, as well. 
see Byu PAGE 5 



Tailgate targets Obamacare 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
News Writer 
To mark the passage of the last home game of the 2013 Irish football season Saturday, Notre Dame fans celebrated in a variety of ways. One group of students used the game as a venue to express their oppo­sition to the Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as “Obamacare.” 
The generation Opportunity tailgate, which occupied six tailgate spots in the JACC lot, said they wanted to inform young people of the other op­tions available to them be­sides participation in the federal health care exchange established by the new law. The Washington, D. C.-based group generation Opportunity is described on the group’s website as “a free-thinking, liberty-loving, national organi­zation of young people promot­ing the best of Being American: opportunity, creativity and freedom.” 
The tailgate Saturday was not the group’s first event — ac­cording to a Nov. 12 article in the huffington post, the group previously partnered with university of Miami College 
see TAIlgATE PAGE 4 



SMC symposium to address incarcerated women 
By EMILIE KEFKALAS 
News Writer 
This Tuesday Saint Mary’s College will shed light on an often-unheard community within South Bend: incarcer­

ated women.  
The  College  is  hosting  
a  Symposium  on  Female  
Incarceration  on  Tuesday,  

Dec. 3 that will highlight the work of men and women who serve the incarcerated.The 
see INCARCERATION PAGE 3 



ND scientists examine earth’s mantle 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame geologists have discovered an impor­tant piece of the puzzle that is the chemical composition of the earth’s mantle — the layer of semi-liquid rock directly below the earth’s 
crust.  
Antonio  Simonetti,  as­ 
sociate  professor  in  the  
department  of  civil  and  

environmental engineer­ing, and Earth Sciences and ph.D. candidate Wei Chen recently published their findings on carbonatites and the composition of the man­tle in the scientific journal “Nature Communications”, which is the third-ranked journal in the field. 
Carbonatites are igneous rocks the composition of which is at least 50 percent magmatic carbonate min­erals, Simonetti said. These rocks are often expelled from volcanoes and are formed in melts, which are the collections of magma from the mantle that form magma chambers within the earth’s crust, such as those within volcanoes, he said. 
Simonetti said studying carbonatites leads to a better understanding of the com­position of the mantle from which the melts and sub­sequently the carbonatites themselves are formed. 
“I’ve always tried to look at carbonatites as messen­gers of the chemical compo­sition of the earth’s mantle,” Simonetti said. 
Simonetti said the discov­ery helps answer a question that has “plagued” research­ers for decades, which is “What is the primary com­position of carbonate rich melts?” 
Essentially, Simonetti and Chen have shown that car­bonate rich melts contain 
see gEOlOgy PAGE 5 


NEWS PAGE 4 vIEWpOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 16 WOMEN’S INTERhAllPAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen                        peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew DeFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: Nicole Michels 
News Editor: Ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: Dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn Rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: Steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: Colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
Dame du lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post Office Information The Observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices pOSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer p.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Want your event included here? 
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
ACMS Colloquium  Women’s Basketball  Thanksgiving Break  Thanksgiving Mass  Black Friday Sale  
Hayes-Healy Center  Purcell Pavilion  Begins  Basilica of the Sacred  Hammes Bookstore  
4 p.m.-5 p.m.  7 p.m.-9 p.m.  No classes.  Heart  9 a.m.-12 p.m.  
Dr. Alexey Kuznetsov  The Irish take on  10 a.m.-11 a.m.  Sale for faculty and  
talks about oscillatory  DePaul.  Celebrate Mass.  staff.  
regulatory networks  
in phenomena such  Film: “Germany  Thanksgiving Dinner  Women’s Volleyball  
as cell division and  Awake!”  North Dining Hall  Purcell Pavilion  
circadian rhythm.  DeBartolo Perfoming  12 p.m.-3:30 p.m.  4 p.m.-6 p.m.  
Arts Center  Enjoy carved turkey,  The Irish face off  
8 p.m.  pumpkin pie and more  against Boston  
Film by Erwin Leiser.  Thanksgiving food.  College.  

News Sports 

Meg handelman Brian hartnett Kelly Konya Mary green Nicole McAlee Mike ginocchio 
Graphics Scene 

Maria Massa gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

grant Tobin Dan Brombach 
Corrections 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
If you could travel back to any point in history, where would you go? 

Catherine Juska 

Jen Cardinale 
sophomore 
junior 
Cavanaugh hall 
Mcglinn hall 
“1920s.” 
“Roaring 20s.” 
Joey Saiz 

Sam Nemeth 
junior 
freshman 
O’Neill hall 
O’Neill hall 
“The Ice Bowl.” 
“American Revolution.” 


Jimmy Henke 
sophomore 
O’Neill hall 

“When St. André began building St. Joseph’s Oratory.” 

Nick Deason 
junior 
Keough hall 
“Jurassic period.” 



Incarceration us to serve this population.” mission is to walk with the With regards to her incar-to have a second chance,” She said she hopes the all-incarcerated, especially with ceration experience, she said Bracke said. “It is what Jesus 
CONTINuED FROM pAgE 1 

day, non-stop event will open those facing the death penal-she recalls the “horridness” came to give all of us after our the floor for dialogue and ty or on death row, and people of being separated from her fall from grace, and faith says 
The symposium will take discussion about the chal-who are imprisoned for life. children and how that worry that redemption is real for ev­place in vander vannet lenges faced by female ex-of-pat hosea, a female ex-weighed upon her during her ery one of us. 700 of my broth-Theater in the College Student fenders, what it means to be offender who will speak to imprisonment. ers and sisters in Christ come Center, Dr. Adrienne lyles a woman incarcerated, and a variety of the challenges 
back into St. Joseph County Chockley, visiting assistant the challenges women and faced by incarcerated women 
each year, and after being professor of justice education their families face as they exit including sexual violence, ad-
warehoused for years are told said. incarceration. diction and issues with chil­
basically good luck from the 
“It is what Jesus 

“Many of the people who are “One of our most vulnerable dren and child custody, is 
system as they go back. going to be presenting are in-populations in the South Bend delivering the second keynote 
came to give all of “Many said, ‘Father, I never 

dividuals who came to serve community [is] our female speech. 
us after our fall intended to come back here 

ex-offenders through a very ex-offenders, and so we are Chockley said she trans-but I could not find a job to 
from grace, and 
gathering ex-offenders, ad-formed her life after being re-support me or my family. 
faith says that 
vocates, professionals [and] leased from prison; she is now 

had too many stressors and I members of the faith com-a small business owner and a 
redemption is real went back to the street.’ The 
munity to take a look at what personal friend to her. 
for every one of us. costs for food, housing, shel­
“Many of the people 
the challenges are and have a “She really speaks to both ter, no transportation and the 
700 of my brothers 

who are going to discussion about how we can what the challenges are and costs of paying for probation 
and sisters in 

be presenting are collaboratively address those real concrete ways to tran­
are there with little assistance challenges,” she said. scend those challenges,” 
Christ come back on job creation.  people are 
individuals who 
The symposium will feature Chockley said. 
into St. Joseph reluctant to hire ex-offenders 
came to serve ex­
15 speakers tied to the South Though incarceration is a and the economy is still not 
Country each 

offenders through Bend incarcerated commu-relatively well-discussed issue back yet for the poor in our 
year, and after 

a very long and nity and Chockley will de-in society, the unique chal­
country.” liver the opening and closing lenges it poses to women are 
being warehoused Bracke has been in the 
kind of winding 
remarks. often overlooked, Chockley for years are told priesthood for over 33 years, 
life journey which 
“I’m excited about every said. Many institutions will Bracke has visited parishio­
basically good 

I include myself single person [speaking],” address incarceration but ners in Illinois, Colorado and 
luck from the 

in.” Chockley said. from a male’s perspective and 
Indiana.  he said his long-Father David T. link, for-ignore female-intersected 
system as they go time friend and fellow priest, 
Dr. Adrienne Lyles Chockley 
mer dean of Notre Dame challenges involved including back.” Father Tom McNally, C.S.C, 
visiting assistant professor 
law School and newly pub-sexual violence, addiction, who is also speaking on the 
Father James Bracke, C.S.C. 
lished author, will be the child-care, and economic subject of spiritual response 
staff chaplain                      
keynote speaker. his new concerns, she said. 
to the crisis of incarcera-
Campus Ministry 
book, “Camerado, I give you Now an ex-offender going 

tion, inspired Bracke to serve long and kind of winding life My hand: how a powerful on 11 years, hosea said she 
those in prison Bracke aims journey which I include my-lawyer-Turned-priest Is can attest and identify with 
ty embrace the symposium’s self in,” Chockley said. “I have Changing the lives of Men theses hardships, but she has importance in drawing atten­an organization called social Behind Bars,” is about the used them to shape herself “It was horrible. There’s tion to voices unheard in the justice services that provides value of human life and the into an advocate for those no explanation other than incarcerated community. re-entry services for ex-of-transformative power of struggling as she did. it’s horrible, especially if “Female incarceration is fenders, and so many of the friendship and compassion, “My story never ends be-you have children.” hosea somewhat underreported people have this very inter-according to his website. cause I’ve been a survivor of a said. “[Fortunately] all four of as to how it has an effect on esting life story that brought Chockley said his life lot of things,” hosea said. my boys are doing very well. community and family life,” 
“It was hell. Never, ever do Bracke said. “My reason for 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT 
I ever want to do it again, be-speaking at this symposium is cause if I get off try off track to advocate for folks who have for one second, the enemy few if any voices to encour­will try to take me out. I’m age and support them. Jesus doing well through the grace came for the folks on the of god.” margins and for those cut off 
Father James Bracke, C.S.C., from the rest of society and I staff chaplain of Campus feel I want to speak on behalf Ministry, said his experience of them. It’s all about service on the other side of prison and the lord. bars within prison ministry “I feel called to walk the last year led him to see what talk, and I hope that students he could do to help stem the will come to listen and grow flow of folks falling back into in of this critical issue that is the cycle of incarceration. not addressed or on the prior­
“I am a beginner student ity list for politicians. Come in this maze of re-entry, but with open hearts to hear and I feel called to do something see with new eyes.” to serve these my sisters and brothers, having paid Contact Emilie Kefkalas at the price for their mistakes, ekefka01@saintmarys.edu 





ThE OBSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

Mozart festival marks end of Year of Faith 
Choir, the liturgical Choir and Cathedral. It’s a famous piece, 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 

Managing Editor the Folk Choir performed piec-and it’s really fitting at the set-
es of sacred music by Wolfgang ting of the basilica.” 

All three Basilica choirs Amadeus Mozart, including Andrew McShane, director joined for the first time with one of his more well-known re-of the liturgical Choir, said the an orchestra to commemorate ligious works, the Coronation choirs rehearsed independent-the end of Campus Ministry’s Masd. The concert also coin-ly starting in August and came year of Faith in Friday’s Mozart cided with the feast of Saint together to practice with the Festival at the Basilica of the Cecilia, the patron saint of orchestra Tuesday. McShane Sacred heart. musicians, and preceded the said due to scheduling con-
The year of Faith began in Solemnity of Christ the Kind. flicts with the Notre Dame December 2012 in response to “[Mozart] wrote the Symphony, a group of 21 South pope Emeritus Benedict XvI’s Coronation Mass for Easter Bend musicians with experi­request for a Catholic year of Sunday in 1779,” levri said. ence playing for weddings and Faith, assistant choral pro-“No one knows exactly why large masses at the basilicap­gram director and organist he wrote it. We are just given comprised the orchestra for Mary Catherine levri said. the date and the fact that it the festival. 
The Women’s liturgical was performed in Salzburg McShane said 150 singers 
Justice series tackles benefits of healthy eating 
Tailgate 
CONTINuED FROM pAgE 1 
Republicans to put on a tail­gate at the virginia Tech-Miami game on Nov. 9. 
Junior Mark gianfalla, presi­dent of College Republicans, attended the tailgate event. he said the tailgate attracted a siz­able crowd. 
“people of wide variety of ages, from between the ages of 15 to 50 or so, attended the tail­gate,” gianfalla said. “Alumni, students and non-ND folks, were there as well.  Throughout the course of the day, I would say 200 people came by.” 
At Saturday’s tailgate, gianfalla said tables were set up with refreshments, one ta­ble with 70 pizzas, and another offering Opt Out T-shirts, sun­glasses and other merchandise. 
gianfalla said the tail­gate introduced generation Opportunity’s ‘Opt Out’ cam­paign to Notre Dame’s campus, a program that aims to reach young people deciding whether or not to purchase health care plans through the federal health care exchange. 
“We recognize better options are available outside the ex­changes, so we’re overwhelm­ingly choosing to Opt Out and buy insurance that better meet our needs and budgets,” David pasch said in a generation Opportunity internet article. 
gianfalla said the tailgate was designed as an informational event, which worked to alert youth of the benefits of search­ing the private sector for insur­ance plans. Obamacare is not the ideal option for those in need of insurance at a young age and that the private sector offers much more appealing insur­ance plans for their age group, he said. 
“I think Notre Dame was a per­fect location for such an event as a college campus where the out­spoken liberal minority of the student body often overshadows the conservative majority, and where the student body needs to know that conservative values performed in the concert 
“In my 22 years here, I have never seen a choir as big as this one,” he said. 
levri said many people of faith, such as pope Francis and Benedict, love Mozart’s music. 
“Benedict talked a lot of the faith of Mozart and about the impression that his mu­sic made on him when he was growing up in his church,” levri said. “Many theologians wrote about how his music is divinely beautiful and how heaven touches earth when you hear this music. Mozart wrote a great bit for the church.” 
 Benedict called for the year of Faith so Catholics would not take their faith for granted, levri said. 
“[Faith] used to be some­thing that everyone shared, and everyone in the same community went to the same church,” she said. “It was just a part of life, not something you sought out or chose to do. [Through year of Faith, we] make a deliberate celebra­tion of the gift that is faith and evangelization.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
By CAROLINE STICKELL 
News Writer 
The final meeting in Saint Mary’s “Justice Friday’s” lec­ture series, which Saint Mary’s Justice Education department held this semester to examine justice through different lenses, explored the nature of “real” food and how it can influence a healthy lifestyle. Members of the Saint Mary’s Food Sustainability Club orchestrated the event. 
The Food Sustainability Club, still in its first year, has worked to increase the amount of “real food” used on campus and in Saint Mary’s dining services as well as to increase students’ awareness about the importance of making healthy food choices, Emily Aldrich, a founding mem­ber of the Food Sustainability club, said. 
Students present at the event discussed the difficulties of mak­ing healthy and sustainable food choices on campus, she said. 
“Right now, about 18 percent of the Saint Mary’s food budget is spent on real food and there has been an increase in the amount of local produce available in the dining hall,” Aldrich said. 
At the event, Aldrich said the Food Sustainability club de­scribed the importance of eat­ing more “real food” and taught about the four characteristics of real food. Real food is local and community based, encourages fair trade (everyone involved in the in the food production pro­cess is receiving a living wage), it is ecologically sound and it is humane, Aldrich said. 
She said it is important to educate yourself about the food sold in supermarkets, research regulations on how animals are treated and understand what companies advertise on the la­bels of their food products. 
“It is important that people take the time to research the differences between organic and natural. There are no FDA standards of what is considered all natural foods, so any product can advertise that,” Aldrich said. 
Aldrich said taking small steps to eat more real food is impor­tant, even as a college student with a limited budget. 
“The South Bend Farmer’s Market is a great place to support local members of our commu­nity and a great place to get lo­cal, fresh produce in the fall and spring,” she said. 
She said labels on food don’t always help people make healthy decisions about their food. 
“Just because it says it’s or­ganic, doesn’t mean it is healthy. Foods like potato chips can be organic, but they aren’t healthy for you,” Aldrich said. 
The Justice Friday events will return next semester. 
Contact Caroline Stickell at cstick01@saintmarys.edu 


and ideals are just as popular with the youth of this country as the ‘popular’ liberal ones,” gianfalla said. 
gianfalla said he believes conservative values — like those supported by groups like generation Opportunity — sway and will continue to influ­ence young voters. 
“A little known fact is that Chris Christie won 49 percent of the youth vote in his recent gubernatorial election, and [Ken] Cuccinelli won the vote of 18-to 24-year-olds in his recent virginia race,” gianfalla said. “The fact that young people are increasingly turning to conser­vative politics to ensure their best interest is even more appar­ent as the Obamacare disaster moves forward.” 
gianfalla said he believes generation Opportunity plans to continue partnering with groups at other colleges to devel­op similar events. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at         cducey@nd.edu 




BYU CONTINuED FROM pAgE 1 “The entire stadium was  that it was our last game,” she said. “The four years really flew by, … but most people were excited.”  
cleared out, except for the se­nior section,” she said. “We got to watch the band, and then we were allowed to go on  Senior patrick Schmitz said he felt the game was a great bonding experience for the senior class.  
“The entire  “I didn’t really watch the game very much,” he said. “But I made friends with  
stadium was cleared out, except for the senior  the people standing behind me, and we were swapping marshmallows because we  
had different brands.”  
section. We got to  Because it was their last  
watch the band, and then we were  game as students, Schmitz said he and his friends tried to  
allowed to go on the field. It’s a cool tradition, and  participate in as many game-day traditions as possible. “We woke up early to go to a friend’s house and then out  
it’s something I’m really grateful  to tailgates and stopped by concession stands,” he said.  
for.” Laura Stangler senior the field. It’s a cool tradition, and it’s something I’m really grateful for.” Emotions in the senior sec­tion were “all over the place,” Stangler said. “There were a lot of people who were just in disbelief  “After the game, we went to candlelight dinner in the din­ing hall.” Freshman Kaylee Correa said Brigham young fans did not have a noticeable pres­ence on campus. “I was working a concession stand and I didn’t see many of them before the game,” she said. “Even at the game, their fan section seemed really small.”  


that I stayed, though, so now I can say that I experienced an entire football game in the snow. That’s an accomplish­ment for me.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at    cowers@nd.edu 
Geology 
CONTINuED FROM pAgE 1 
large amounts of the alkalis potassium and sodium in ad­dition to the large amounts of carbon dioxide and calcium already known to be in such melts. 
“geologists thought car­bonatites were coming from calcium or carbon dioxide rich regions, but in reality these areas are also sodium and potassium rich,” he said. 
This better understand­ing of the composition of melts also helps explain the discrepancy between old 
Watching the seniors’ marshmallow fight was en­joyable, Correa said. 
“I thought once they started it they would run out, but then it started up again,” she said. “I thought it was really cool, but I didn’t really understand what the point was.” Correa said the snow and 
cold  greatly  affected  her  
game-day experience.  
“The  girls’  bathroom  was  

really crowded the entire game because it was warm in there,” she said. “I’m glad 
reveal the initial composition of a carbonatite rich melt, he said. 
The chemical signatures of the melt inclusions from the Oka carbonatites were analyzed and significant amounts of sodium and po­tassium were present in the trapped melt, even though the surrounding carbonatite was only calcium and carbon rich, Simonetti said. This was the first evidence of alkali rich carbonatite melts found outside of East Africa, he said 
“The fact that the mantle source regions that gave rise to these melts were also alkali rich means Ol Doinyo lengai step is to look for this same phenomenon in carbon­atites elsewhere in the world, since the evidence of potas­sium and sodium is no longer unique to Africa. After that, 
is  no  longer  an  oddball,”  
Simonetti said.  
Simonetti  said  the  next  

“For me it’s a huge impact. This work is going to have a big impact on the igneous petrology community.” 
Antonio Simonetti 
associate professor 
he said geologists will seek to answer the question of how carbonatites lose alkalis after forming, which will explain why older carbonatites lack these minerals that the new carbonatites at Ol Doinyo lengai still have. 
Simonetti said he has been studying carbonatites since he was a ph.D. candidate in the early 1990s. he said one reason neither he nor any other geologist made this dis­covery before now is that his discovery depended on recent technological developments, such as the ability to study melt inclusions with Raman spectroscopy. 
Contact Christian Meyers at cmeyers8@nd.edu 
carbonatites, which contain little potassium or sodium, and the new carbonatites be­ing produced by the world’s only active carbonatite vol­cano Ol Doinyo lengai in Tanzania, which contain a significant amount of potas­sium and sodium, Simonetti said. 
“It was very surprising. We didn’t know what to expect, but it was the least likely out­come,” he said. 
“For me it’s a huge impact. This work is going to have a big impact on the igneous pe­trology community.” 
The discovery came as a result of studying melt inclusions in 120 million year old carbonatites from the Oka complex in Canada, specifi­cally southwestern Quebec, Simonetti said. 
Melt inclusions are micron-sized — a micron is one mil­lionth of a meter — pockets of melt material trapped within the crystals of carbonatites as they form in the cooling melt, Simonetti said. Melt in­clusions contain everything present in the surrounding melt at the time they were formed, as opposed to car­bonatites, which contain only select minerals that precipi­tate from the surrounding melt. Thus, melt inclusions 


pAID ADvERTISEMENT ThE OBSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

White privilege and u.S. prisons 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Cut a deal with A-Rod 
Mike Ginocchio 
Sports Writer 

Call me old-fashioned, but I’m a baseball fan. And I don’t find it boring like some people might (understandably), but that’s another column for another time. That’s why, despite how much it hurts, this needs to be said: 
Major league Baseball needs to stop mud­slinging with Alex Rodriguez. 
look, I despise A-Rod. Not enough to call him A-Roid, or A-Fraud or whatever other “creative” nicknames we’ve come up with over the years as a play on his regular nick­name, but close. I think he’s a whiny little kid in a grown man’s body who resorts to under­handed means in order to get his way. But I also think the MlB’s current case against him is absolutely not worth it. 
In case you haven’t heard, Rodriguez was suspended for a whopping 211 games be­cause he was connected to a treatment clinic that may have provided him with illegal steroids in order to gain an unfair competi­tive advantage. This, along with Rodriguez’s admission that he used steroids back around 2003, gave MlB the justification they needed for the ban. But then, Rodriguez appealed his suspension. 
No longer does this exchange seem like something befitting coverage from ESpN. The catty, back-and-forth tit for tat between Rodriguez and the MlB (well, both parties’ lawyers, to be honest) resembles something you might see covered on TMZ. 
And this is the last thing baseball needs, because it is a public relations nightmare. 
If the absolute nadir of the economic recession was the year 2008, then 2005 was the nadir for baseball, with players called in front of Congress to explain allegations of steroid abuse. It left an ugly mark on the game’s credibility, and baseball has spent years slowly rebuilding its fans’ trust. There are signs that it is working, because the past couple of seasons have featured some truly electrifying playoff series, and even some of the more casual fans have been reeled back in. 
But now, this Rodriguez issue threatens that very fragile bond the game has reformed with fans. Because in the wake of growing concern over whether we as a nation should truly be as entertained by football as we are, given the health and social risks it poses, baseball stands to catch up to the NFl in popularity. But if all we fans hear about from baseball is the latest hissy comment from Rodriguez or his lawyers, or the doddering response from the commissioner’s office, it’s going to make people really annoyed. 
Break a deal with him. Reduce his suspen­sion. Offer monetary compensation. Do whatever it takes. Alex Rodriguez is a narcis­sist, and dealing with him is surely driving the MlB crazy. But it would be better to deal with this situation as soon as possible, so that his “all about me” attitude doesn’t drag down the entire game with him. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Lisa Taylor 
viewpoint Columnist 
For a class trip last fall, I visited an empty prison block in Jackson, Miss. where inmates were formerly housed before a new prison was built. As we wandered through the empty spaces of the prison, surrounded by eerie silence, cold iron and steel, our imaginations labored to construct the missing element: the human people. To add to the theatrics of the tour, our guide instructed us to enter the empty cells in order to get the “true prison experience.” When we stood back on the cellblock floor, he used an electronic remote to open and close all of the cell doors at once. The grinding open and metallic slamming of the doors viscerally affected me as I shuddered in the cold, empty, eerie atmosphere. Where were the people? 
At one point during the tour, as we were walking up to the second level, our tour guide stopped us quickly and whispered excitedly to us. The prisoners were outside, quick, look. Self-consciously, my classmates and I peered through a broken shutter to look outside. The inmates from the prison next door (the operational prison) were outside playing tennis, and we stared uncomfortably down upon them, ourselves obscured and unseen. We gazed in a zoo-like fash­ion, observing the men outside as if they were something outside of our normal realm — something subhu­man, animal-like and trapped. After spending most of the day imagina­tively constructing an image of an inmate in my mind, suddenly the real deal was thrust in my face. look! Criminals! They’re outside! 
For me, this marked a rare moment of clarity, as I recognized something so ingrained in the way I think: privilege. As a white, upper-middle class girl attending a prestigious university, I am incredibly privileged and set apart from the unjust real­ity that many people face. Odds are, I will never be on the other end of that unequal gaze — I will never be looked down upon by strangers from a prison window and objectified and judged. unlike half of the black, male population, I will most likely never spend time behind bars and thus be stamped with the prison label for the rest of my life, permitting legal dis­crimination. In the past 25 years, the 

u.S. prison population has increased from 350,000 to a staggering 2.3 mil­lion, a statistic mostly reflecting new federal policies and mandatory mini­mums from the War on Drugs, not crime rates. Within this huge prison population, blacks are incarcerated approximately seven times as often as whites, even though studies indicate crime rates are equal across races. In certain cities like Washington, D.C., for example, an estimated three out of four young black men, mostly from poor neighborhoods, will serve time in prison. 
Race is an uncomfortable topic to speak about, but racialized thinking dominates the way we perceive each other as human beings. Media and political rhetoric have led us to quiet­ly associate blackness with deviancy and criminality, and thus, minority communities are policed stringently and unjustly, too often with unpro­voked police brutality (stop-and-frisk laws in New york City, for example). Although racist terms are explicitly evoked less and less, race still acts as an important heuristic in daily life. Nervous about crime and safety living off campus in South Bend this year (there have been at least two armed robberies and five houses broken into near my place), I find myself think­ing in racialized terms all too often. At night, I find myself gazing at the two African-American houses on the block, judging the men loitering out­side, clutching my backpack tighter and racing to get inside my house and lock the door. I must uncomfortably acknowledge that I often think in ra­cialized terms, that I, too, have been socialized to associate blackness with deviancy. 
how do we get beyond this? While I am only one person, I think it begins with a conversation about race and privilege, two concepts intimately wrapped up with each other. It’s un­comfortable to acknowledge my own privilege, but as a human being con­stituted by relationships and the lives of others, this conversation is incred­ibly important. I wholeheartedly sup­port civil rights advocate and scholar Michelle Alexander when she issues this powerful calling to all people: “If we want to do more than just end mass incarceration — if we want to put an end to the history of racial caste in America — we must lay down our racial bribes, join hands with peo­ple of all colors who are not content to wait for change to trickle down, and say to those who would stand in our way: ‘Accept all of us or none.’” 
Only then can we build a genuine ethos of compassion for all human people, regardless of race. 
Lisa Taylor is a senior studying         political science. She can be reached at ltaylo13@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



ThE OBSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Faith in dignity and justice 
Brian Kennedy 
guest Columnist 

here on campus, the Center for Social Concerns selects an annual theme to emphasize a pillar of our rich Catholic social tradition, and this year the focus is on “human Dignity and Justice in the World.” The point of the theme is to keep us from taking these terms for granted or reducing them to academic buzzwords or political abstractions. The Church will occasionally also choose an annual theme for the same reasons, and we are now approaching the end of the “year of Faith” on Nov. 24. In his first encycli­cal letter, “lumen Fidei,” pope Francis reflects on this “light of Faith” and makes some striking com­ments along the way. 
Since his election this spring, the media has kept up enthusiastic coverage of this energetic new pope, with near daily reports of simple acts and ‘shocking’ sound bites. It’s clear the man knows how to phrase things in order to generate some interest. The title of a recent campus event on pope Francis sums it up pretty well: “What did he just say?!” So, I was not surprised to read the radical claim in “lumen Fidei” that without faith, “there is no criterion for dis­cerning what makes human life precious” and that “thanks to faith, we have come to understand the unique dignity of each person, something which was not clearly seen in antiquity.” Now, you don’t need to be a philosophy major to know that some would disagree. And the claim is, for Christians, a radical one. That is, it goes straight to the radix (root) of the issue. While secular humanism, for example, may define a defense of dignity in a philosophy of ethics, the Christian foundation for these convictions is in the good news of Christ. It is the god of the gospel who gives meaning to the word “dignity” and makes something like justice worth fighting for. here’s a brief story to illustrate how this happens: 
I spent time last winter at a Christian min­istry called My Brother’s Keeper next to Stonehill College, a holy Cross school near Boston, and I was inspired by the story of its founding by a husband and wife. Shortly after a powerful renewal of faith on retreat, the couple saw a film, “god Bless the Child,” that would change their lives forever. profoundly af­fected by its portrayal of poverty and homelessness, they began the very next day to help those suffer­ing in their community with simple acts of charity, delivering the love and hope of Jesus Christ — in the form of food and furniture — to those in need. Twenty-five years later, their work has expanded into two facilities with full-time staff and 3,000 volun­teers serving much of southeastern Massachusetts. 
Their story illustrates the journey of Christians to justice, beginning with an encounter of faith that greatly disturbed their worldview, expanded their vi­sion of dignity and demanded a response in justice. This is the very same “education in the faith” that Blessed Basil Moreau required the schools of holy Cross to provide so that “the mind will not be culti­vated at the expense of the heart.” In his latest inspi­rational football advertisement, university president Fr. John Jenkins reminds us that we are “a commu­nity where education, inquiry and faith combine to respond to the demands of justice.” Infused from its founding with this spirit, Notre Dame continues to provide countless opportunities to put faith into action in class, in the dorms and off campus. But, as the founders of My Brother’s Keeper know, the demands of justice begin right where we live — on a campus with its own examples of violence against human dignity, especially in the alarming presence of sexual assault. 
This year of Faith also celebrates the 50th anni­versary of the Second vatican Council, which called us to become “artisans of a new humanity.” To help you find the tools to answer this call, the Center for Social Concerns has planned a busy year around our “Dignity + Justice” theme that includes service trips, seminars and other social justice events. learn about hyper-incarceration at a year-long series on our nation’s prison system. Join us for documenta­ries, speakers and dialogue on what is happening in our midst (and in our name). Explore more informa­tion and resources on our website at socialconcerns. nd.edu 
Recently, pope Francis offered this uneasy reflec­tion: “I ask myself if the words ‘justice’ and ‘solidari­ty’ are only in our dictionary, or if we all work so that they become a reality?” let us together try to ask and answer the same question. 
Brian Kennedy is a Holy Cross seminarian working at the Center for Social Concerns. He can be reached at bkenned5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

let’s talk facts, not fast-food fiction 
Judith Robert 
guest Columnist 

After reading the viewpoint column by Shaaya Ellis titled “Minimum wage and the fast food fight” (Nov. 19), I wondered whether Mr. Ellis is typical of Notre Dame students today and whether Notre Dame is providing a values-based education, one that emphasizes researching facts before writing opinions. 
Referring to the demands for a livable wage by fast food workers, Mr. Ellis claims: “It is very coun­ter-intuitive to burden American businesses with individuals’ indolence towards working hard and by demands for unearned and unrealistic wage in­creases.” he continues, “It is not incumbent upon business to simply dole out more money to people who either did not earn it or whose work does not merit that distinction. The amount a company can pay its employees is a function of the productiv­ity of its business model and the productivity of its employees.” 
here’s a fact from the National Employment law project (NElp): For the last decade, worker wages in low-paying industries, such as fast food, have stagnated or declined, while productivity levels have increased. Despite stagnating or declining real wages for workers, CEO pay and business profits are up. According to a university of California, Berkeley report, the largest fast-food companies in the united States earn between $7 million and $7.4 billion each year in profits, in addition to large dividends and executive compensation ranging from $1.7 to $52 million. 
No, Mr. Ellis, workers are not “indolent.” They are working harder than ever for fewer real dollars. Fast-food companies with record profits can afford to pay more; they just choose not to. This is an is­sue of values. An ethical businessperson increases wages when profits are up. But these businesses prefer to pocket increasing profits for themselves and shareholders while we taxpayers pick up the bill. According to NElp, with a median wage of $8.69 per hour for front-line fast-food jobs, 52 percent of fast-food workers are enrolled in, or have their families enrolled in, one or more taxpayer-funded safety net programs to make ends meet. Because of the fast-food industry’s low wages, combined with part-time hours and lack of health care benefits, families rely on the taxpayer-funded safety net: $3.9 billion per year in Medicaid and Children’s health Insurance program (ChIp) benefits, $1 billion for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance program (SNAp) and $1.95 billion per year for Earned Income Tax Credit payments. 
Mr. Ellis repeats the common fallacies that most low-wage jobs are held by teenagers and the unedu­cated. Again, here are the facts: According to Robert hiltonsmith, a policy analyst at Demos, “70 percent of these fast-food workers are aged 20 or over, so they’re not teenagers, and of that 70 percent, about a third of them have college degrees. So it’s not that they don’t have skills — in many cases, the jobs aren’t there for them.” (“u.S. fast-food workers pro­test, demand a ‘living wage,’” Reuters, Aug. 29). 
Mr. Ellis questions the choices of poor households: “According to the Census Bureau, 80 percent of poor households have air conditioning. Two-thirds have at least one DvD player and nearly 75 percent have a car or truck. 31 percent have two or more cars or trucks. With this in mind, clearly those that work in the fast food industry and who are considered to be ‘living in poverty’ have substantial means.” Again, here are a few facts. A DvD player costs $44, while taking a family of four to the movies costs $31. So, it is more economical to buy a DvD rather than take your family to the movies. An air-conditioner costs $140, but is this cost too much for “those living in poverty,” especially southerners? In the united States, with minimal government investment in mass transportation (in South Bend, there is no bus service on Sundays or holidays), a job requires a car. unfortunately, for those earning low wages, two persons need to go to work to support a family of four. So what may seem like luxuries to a young man attending a private college are pretty basic to simple living. 
Finally, Mr. Ellis concludes, “protesting and riot­ing for higher wages is often done in vain, especially for a job as menial as burger flipping.” I am not sure where Mr. Ellis has read of fast-food workers “rioting.” however, I am reminded of stories of my grandfather working in the coal mines before there was a federal minimum wage. he joined the picket lines, risking his job to help unionize the coal mines and to wrest decent wages from the companies. Maybe back then, those lucky enough to afford a private college education would have called their work “menial,” but their protests were not “done in vain.” The unions brought higher wages and created the middle class. 
Judith Robert is a 1977 graduate of the University of Notre Dame. She can be contacted at Judith1739@comcast.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




Movember stands out for most men because most men can’t grow mustaches without looking just absolutely terrible. 
I would never say I’m some kind of fashion expert or handsomeness expert (that’s for other people to say about me), but I feel pretty confident in saying that for most guys, mustaches are not the best look. But with every rule comes exceptions, and this rule is no exception. With mustaches, the exceptions come in masterful, glorious forms. here are some of our favorite mustaches in the mustache game: 
1) Ron Swanson 

Nick Offerman plays the staunch libertarian on NBC’s “parks and Rec.” The mustache is Offerman’s own work, but it’s so integral to Swanson that the show’s creators said it was one of the first ideas they had for the character. In fact, as Swanson says in the show, his mustache trimmers are one of the only products he stands behind: “I won’t publicly endorse a product unless I use it exclusively and I really believe in it. My only official recommenda­tions are u.S. Army-issued mustache trimmers, Morton’s Salt and the C.R. lawrence fine, two­inch-style, oscillating knife blade.” 
2) Burt Reynolds 

people might forget because of his decline in acting work in recent years, but Burt Reynolds once reigned for a time as the undisputed king of hollywood. For five straight years, from 1979 to 1983, Reynolds was the was top-grossing actor in film, beating out in-their-prime stars, such as Clint Eastwood, John Travolta and Sylvester Stallone. 
3) Salvador Dalí 

The Spanish artist lived a life as fascinatingly ec­centric as his famous paintings, and his mustache was no exception. The surrealist was most famous for his 1931 work “The persistence of Memory,” fea­turing melting clocks and weird stuff like that 
with oil on canvas. But equally as impressive was his thin, wiry mustache, stretching out for inch­es on either side of his face. Combined with the wild-eyed expression he liked to give when being photographed, the mustache helped define the personality of one of the great artists of the century. 
4) Groucho Marx 
Another star defined as much by his mustache as by anything else, the leader of the Marx broth­ers didn’t actually have facial hair for most of his career both his mustache and his thick eyebrows were faked with greasepaint. But the effect was so great and so defining that Marx was said to be nearly impossible to recognize without them. later in his career, tired of painting on his face for every appearance, Marx eventually decided to grow an actual mustache, but he still painted over it for a few performances. 
5) Tom Selleck 
Thought by many to be the supreme cham­pion of all things mustache, Selleck’s iconic role as Thomas Magnum in the television series “Magnum, p.I.” from 1980 to 1988 sets the bar high for any mustache. his facial hair became a part of his personality as his career progressed, and it undoubtedly had a hand in his Emmy award for Outstanding lead Actor in a Drama series in 1984. 



Kevin Noonan 
Scene Editor 

“Kevin, what is that thing on your face?” 
This bit of tough love from my older sister encapsulates pretty well my experience with Movember. The annual, month-long event of men growing out mustaches to raise aware­ness for prostate cancer, depression and other men’s health issues puts a good face on an otherwise ugly idea, so to speak. 
While I fully support the cause, I was equally interested to see first if I could actu­ally grow a mustache, since I’d never tried before for fear of death by public shaming. I also wanted to see if my fears of death by public shaming were legitimate. 
As you might be able to guess from my sister’s reaction, it turns out the answer to both is “kind of.” I can kind of grow a mus­tache, ugly and deformed though it may be, and people that saw me with it on my face were opposed enough to the look that it was worthy of mention and embarrassment. 
All six guys in my off-campus house decid­ed to take part and turn it into a competition of sorts, and I was the last one to shave, meaning I was the winner though also still kind of a loser, I’m pretty sure. All their rea­sons for shaving were similar a job interview prompted the razor for a few of them, a girl­friend had had enough of it for at least one of them, stuff like that. 
luckily for me, a bright, shining star of joblessness and future unemployment, as well as a man married to my demanding job at the premier daily student newspaper run out of a dining hall on the south side of Notre Dame’s campus, neither of those pos­sible pitfalls affected my mustache-growing capabilities. 
I even got to have a little fun with it, start­ing my efforts in time to turn the ‘stache into a few halloween costumes. There was the “scummy guy with his shirt unbuttoned with a mustache,” and the “business guy in a suit with a mustache giving out business advice” and my personal favorite: “guy in a moose costume with a mustache.” 
But undoubtedly, my favorite thing about Movember was the reactions I got for my weak, wispy excuse for a mustache. I did my best not to call attention to it, so as only to get reactions from people that were genuine and unsolicited. 

There was my sister, obviously. One of my favorite things about her is her willingness to say exactly what she thinks and, even when mocking me, to say it with love. 
There was the random football player at Club Fever: “hey dude, sick ‘stache.” To which I said, “Wait, really?” And he responded, “Well, you know, I respect the effort, at least.” 
There was the random girl at Finny’s: “Ew,” but I’ve heard that before so I’m not sure how much the mustache played into it. 
There was the random co-worker and assistant managing editor of The Observer who shall remain unnamed: “your Elmo shirt is creepy, but the mustache just makes it worse.” 
The final one was said to one of my friends but was too great not to include: “hey man, that for Movember? I f*** with that. Much respect.” 
The wide range of responses is to be ex­pected because mustaches are, for most guys, an aggressively bad decision. And when you make an aggressively bad decision, and you put it on your face, people are going to notice and say something. No matter what the response, it always gives the opportunity to talk about the cause part of Movember, explaining that, for example, prostate cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer-related death in men but can be prevented with early diagnosis. 
With the month of November coming to an end over Thanksgiving break, most of the mustaches on campus will likely be gone when we come back next Monday. This means that you only have a few more days left to (light-heartedly) make fun of any of your friends with bad facial hair. Calling at­tention to the bad mustaches calls attention to the cause, which is the point in the first place. 
But come Monday, if they still have a trash ‘stache, the time to make fun is over, and you may want to consider an intervention of some kind. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


NOTRE DAME 23, BYU 13 | MONDAY NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDsMcOBsERvER.cOM 
Snow game 
On Senior Day, senior class finishes 4-0 in home finales following 23-13 defeat of BYU 
Home victory another move away from losing ways 

Mike Monaco 
sports Editor 
It wouldn’t have been unex­pected for Notre Dame to lose. 
In fact, it was really a game Notre Dame has lost before. 
Tommy Rees threw a fourth-quarter interception. In the red zone. In a one-score game. 
snowy conditions made for a second-half slugfest. 
Arguably Notre Dame’s best player, senior nose guard Louis Nix was ruled out for the season with a knee injury just two days before the game. His backup, senior Kona schwenke, left in the first half with an injury. 
The opposing team — BYU, in this case — totaled more than 400 yards of offense, 269 of which were racked up by its dynamic, dual-threat quarter­back Taysom Hill. 
But saturday was different. 
Rees’ interception didn’t come back to haunt the Irish, and the game ended with some Notre Dame students chanting the much-maligned quarter­back’s name. 
The snow didn’t hold back the Irish, and senior students were making snow angels on the field afterward instead of pelting players with snowballs as they did during the 2008 syracuse game. 
Nix — somehow — wasn’t glaringly missed in the middle of the defensive line. Neither was schwenke, who left be­cause of his high-ankle sprain. sophomore Jarron Jones, who was relegated to the scout team mere weeks ago, got plugged in at nose guard and responded with seven tackles, matching — in one afternoon — his career total entering saturday’s game. 
Hill’s ability and BYU’s of­fense couldn’t convert yards to points, as the cougars posted just 13, tied for a season-low. 
No, Notre Dame didn’t lose saturday. 
“We went back to saying, look, you can’t start winning until you stop losing,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. 
And, by and large, Notre Dame has stopped losing. 
see WINNING PAGE 3 


By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports Writer 
The Irish seniors bid Notre Dame stadium fare­well with a 23-13 win over BYU on a cold, snowy saturday to go out at home as winners. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly praised them for picking up the slack and improving af­ter the Pitt loss. 
“We asked our guys to do something with this game,” Kelly said. “We asked a single-minded focus that they had not shown against Pittsburgh and an atten­tion to detail. We felt like we didn’t have that against Pittsburgh, and I think all of our players, in particular our seniors, really rallied to those things.” 
Notre Dame (8-3) con­verted its first possession of the game into an 84-yard touchdown drive. BYU (7-4) tied the game at seven, but after the Irish went ahead 14-7, they never surrendered the lead. 
With the Irish leading 20­13, cougars junior defensive back craig Bills gave BYU hope in the fourth quarter when he intercepted a pass from Irish senior quarter­back Tommy Rees intended for junior tight end Troy Niklas in the end zone. 
Junior kicker Kyle Brindza’s 51-yard field goal with the wind put Notre Dame up 23-13 several drives later, and the Irish defense ensured that the cougars could not come back. 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
CAM MCDANIEL 
IRISH JUNIOR RUNNING BACK 
Notre Dame’s power back eclipsed 100 yards for the first time in his career with 117 yards on 23 carries in the game. He embraced the team’s commitment to power running and allowed the Irish offense to move the ball through the snow, contributing to Notre Dame’s second-highest rushing yard total of the season. 

Brindza said he insistent­ly told Kelly the 51-yarder was within his range and admitted he is often vocal with his coach. 
“He [coach Kelly] has the confidence in me, and I have the confidence in my­self, so I’m always in his ear, but he doesn’t mind it, I don’t think. Hopefully not,” Brindza said. 
Later in the fourth quar­ter, a 49-yard run by cougars junior running back Paul Lasike brought BYU to the goal line, but Irish freshman linebacker Jaylon smith batted down a pass to force a field-goal attempt, which sophomore defensive line­man Jarron Jones blocked. 
Although the day was dedicated to the seniors, Kelly said younger players like freshman running back Tarean Folston and Jones, as well as reserve players like junior center Matt Hegarty also made an impact. Folston, making his first ca­reer start, scored once for the Irish and contributed on two touchdown drives. Hegarty stepped in after ju­nior center Nick Martin left the game with a hyperex­tended knee. 
On sunday, Kelly said 
see vIcTORY PAGE 2 
Rushing game powers offense in cold-weather win 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports Writer 
With flurries of snow whirling around the stadium, the Irish established their offense on the ground by rushing for 235 yards in Notre Dame’s 23-13 victory over BYU. It is the second most rushing yards on the season for Notre Dame (8-3), behind the 264 yards put up against Navy. 
“It was kind of an offensive lineman’s dream today with the wind and running the ball,” se­nior tackle Zack Martin said. “so we wanted to impose our will on them. In the snow it was a nice little ending there.” 
Notre Dame used a trio of backs on the ground against the cougars (7-4). Junior running back cam McDaniel ran for a ca-reer-best 117-yard performance on 24 carries. Freshman Tarean Folston, who got his first career start, ran the ball for 78 yards and one touchdown on 13 carries. Junior George Atkinson added 42 yards on six carries. 
“We kind of rotate our backs,” McDaniel said. “I always expect to get a lot of carries and I think our running backs should by the way we run our offense. so, I was expecting really just being ready for anything.” 
Irish coach Brian Kelly focused on running between the tack­les in order to counteract the conditions. 
“Well, it was hard to get to the perimeter,” Kelly said. “And the way they were playing our out­side zone play, the field was a little bit slick. The ice out there started to develop on the field with the weather conditions and made it harder, and players were getting strung out. And cam is more of a downhill ... a physical inside runner, and so him and Tarean got a lot of carries inside out. And George really helped us out a lot today, too, with some good, physical running, as well. But that was the way the running game was set up and that’s how they were defending us.” 
The offensive line delivered on the night, despite a knee injury to junior center Nick Martin. 
“Our offensive line played ab­solutely phenomenal,” McDaniel said. “All of those guys played 
see RUsHING PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 

Tommy Rees concluded what has been a complicated re­lationship with his home crowd by delivering another winning performance. He threw a bad interception and connected on only 15 of his 28 pass attempts, but Rees’s 235 yards and one touchdown were enough saturday. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Freshman Tarean Folston got the start and turned in a nice performance with 78 yards and a score, but junior cam McDaniel had a career day running the ball. His 117 yards came on 24 carries. Junior George Atkinson added 42 yards on some tough running in weather that necessitated the Irish run the ball effectively. The 235 rushing yards are the second-highest total on the season. 
RECEIVERS 

senior TJ Jones racked up 95 yards on five catches while junior Davaris Daniels led the team with 107 yards on six catches, including a 61-yard touchdown strike in the first quarter. Nobody else stood out, as Notre Dame’s top two targets caught 11 of the 15 completions, but it worked. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Banged up by injury, the Irish front put together a masterful performance. They led the way for the rushing game to run over and through the BYU defense, and they protected Rees while they were at it. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Without seniors Louis Nix and Kona schwenke for most of the day, the defensive line still produced at a high level. Ju­nior stephon Tuitt came down with a sack, and sophomore Jarron Jones came up with seven tackles and a blocked field goal. 
LINEBACKERS 

Graduate student Dan Fox led the team with nine tackles and had two tackles for loss, including one sack, while his classmate carlo calabrese added seven tackles. Fresh­man Jaylon smith had a key pass breakup at the line in the fourth quarter while honoring senior Danny spond by wearing the number 13. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Junior safety Eilar Hardy came up big with eight tackles af­ter seeing limited time for most of the season, and sopho­more cornerback Keivarae Russell had seven tackles of his own. senior safety Austin collinsworth had an intercep­tion as the Irish limited BYU to 168 yards through the air. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Junior kicker Kyle Brindza converted all three of his field-goal attempts, including one from 51 yards out to put the Irish up 10 in the fourth quarter. However, Brindza only netted an average of 28.5 yards-per-punt, and the Irish struggled to prevent returns of both kickoffs and punts. The blocked field goal in the fourth quarter was a high­light. 
COACHING 

Brian Kelly  had his players ready to close out their home schedule. The Irish weren’t perfect, but they were focused and rebounded from the mistakes they made. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.482 

Rees was unimpressive statistically and made one glaring error, but the offense was balanced and productive in difficult conditions. Defensively, the Irish struggled to contain cougars quarterback Taysom Hill but came up with timely stops and only allowed 13 points. It was a well-earned win against a quality opponent and sends the seniors out with a win at home. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
DAVARIS DANIELS’ 61-YARD TOUCHDOWN CATCH FROM REES 
The Irish quarterback found Daniels down the field in the first quar­ter to cap a five-play, 84-yard scoring drive that put the home team up early. BYU tied the game shortly thereafter, but the play put Notre Dame firmly in the driver’s seat under the snow. 

Victory 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

Martin is out for the rest of the season with a “signifi­cant knee injury.” 
“A lot of guys were out there with very thin resumes and they built them up to­day,” Kelly said. “It was re­ally good to see.” 
Folston ran the ball for 18 yards on three carries during Notre Dame’s first touchdown drive before Rees aired it out to junior re­ceiver Davaris Daniels for a 61-yard touchdown and an early 7-0 lead. Daniels had already blown past the cov­erage when he caught the ball at the 23-yard line, and he cruised in for the score. 
Folston scored his sec­ond career touchdown on the second Irish drive of the game. The rookie scampered around the left side from two yards out to put Notre Dame up 14-7. 
A 29-yard pass from Rees to senior receiver TJ Jones set up the score that capped a 75-yard drive. 
Folston drove the ball again for the Irish in the third quarter when he burst through the middle and broke away for a 43-yard gain that brought the ball to the BYU 18-yard line. Brindza kicked a 26-yard field goal and increased the Irish lead to 20-7. 
Folston rushed for 78 yards, and junior running back cam McDaniel led Notre Dame with 117 yards. Kelly said the winter weather suited McDaniel’s running style. 
“The game style fits his — and I don’t want to box him into a particular kind of run­ner,” Kelly said. “But he’s a physical inside runner, and so him and Tarean got a lot of carries inside out.” 
slick field conditions came into play multiple times in the contest, forcing several players to slip. The weather and slippery conditions pro­vided a dramatic backdrop for the end of the game, Rees said. 
“It’s a pretty cool way to close out a game,” Rees said. “I don’t know any of us that have played in a snowy game like this, but it’s pretty spe­cial out there, persevere, show the kind of toughness we have as a team thrwough any conditions.” 
In the second half, BYU didn’t cut into the Irish lead until cougars sophomore quarterback Taysom Hill found his stride late in the third quarter and marched BYU down the field with three carries and four pass­es. The cougars were forced to kick on fourth down, but cougars senior kicker Justin sorensen’s 27-yard kick pulled BYU to within one touchdown at 20-13. 
BYU scored its first touch­down on a seven-yard pass from Hill to senior wide re­ceiver JD Falsley with 6:48 left in the first quarter. Hill carried the ball five times in the first quarter and was sacked by Irish senior line­backer Dan Fox once. 
“We really didn’t want Pitt to beat us twice, so you know, we move on from that,” Fox said. “We were just really ex­cited to play BYU and show people what we’re made of.” 
According to Kelly, this se­nior class has shown what they’re capable of. 
“This now puts us at I think 11-1 in our last 12 [home] games, and that’s something that is so important in de­veloping a consistency in your program, is winning at home, and our seniors are so much a part of that in build­ing that consistency at win­ning at home,” Kelly said. “And so I thank them for that.” 
One of those seniors re­ceived an additional thank you during the game. smith wore No. 13 instead of his customary No. 9 to honor senior outside linebacker Danny spond, who retired this year because of hemi­plegic migraines, but stayed with the team to mentor several young linebackers, including smith. smith said he was able to talk to spond after the game in the locker room. 
“I really just thanked him for letting me honor him to­day, and said it was a plea­sure,” smith said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 



Rushing 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
absolutely phenomenal. Even when Nick [Martin] went down, [junior Matt Hegarty] com­ing in played a heck of a game. conor Hanratty coming in play­ing amazing, steve Elmer as a young guy and then of course Zack [Martin] and [graduate student guard chris Watt] play­ing amazing on the left side, you couldn’t ask for more up front.” 
All three running backs had at least one rush of 10 or more yards during the game. McDaniel had a 32-yard carry, Folston broke a 48-yard run, while Atkinson sprung a 16-yard run. All three running backs now have a 100-yard rush­ing game. Atkinson ran for 148 yards against Oklahoma, while Folston rushed for 140 yards against Navy. 
“As a running back, that’s what you love, running north and south and holes open up,” McDaniel said. “We just kind of do our thing from there.”
 Notre Dame has been able to establish a run game against BYU recently, as last year the Irish rushed for 270 yards. 
“The way [the cougars] are 
Winning 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
sure, there was the struggle at Pittsburgh just two weeks ago, but this Irish program has turned a corner. 
With the win over BYU, Notre Dame has won a com­bined 20 games in the past two seasons, something that hadn’t been done before Kelly arrived since the 1992-93 seasons, when Lou Holtz led the Irish to a combined 21-2-1 mark. 
With the win over BYU, Kelly becomes the first coach to win at least eight games in each of his first four seasons at Notre Dame since Dan Devine. 
With the win over BYU, Notre Dame’s seniors became the first group to win four straight senior Day games since the 2003 seniors. 
Even just over the past few years, the Irish have started winning more because they are losing less. The 29 turn­overs from the 2011 season? Gone. Notre Dame has only built in their 3-4 defense, we feel like with our big tight ends, we can cover them up,” Kelly said. “I think we just match up a little bit better when they are in their three-down and when they go to four-down, it’s not exactly the way they want to play, because they like to drop eight in cover­age. They certainly don’t want to be in four-down.” 


The run game established a passing game for the Irish and balanced out the offense. Notre Dame rushed for 235 yards and passed for 235 yards. senior 
turned it over 29 times since 2011 — 14 times in 2013 and 15 in 2012. 
There are still hiccups, still games where the Irish lose rather than the opponent wins. 
Rees’ three interceptions against Oklahoma put Notre Dame in an insurmountable hole. so did the two picks against Michigan and the two against Pittsburgh. 
Missed tackles and blown coverage hampered the Irish in their three losses as well. 
But stepping back and looking at this program from a broader perspective, the growth is palpable, not just from the charlie Weis era, but also from the early years of the Kelly regime. 
While the turnovers de­crease, the depth increases. Jones was tied for third on the team in tackles, and the sophomore also blocked a BYU fourth-quarter field goal that would have made it a one-score game with more than four minutes remaining. 
quarterback Tommy Rees went 15-for-28 and threw one touch­down pass. 
“This is the way we’ve got to play football,” Kelly said. “This is Notre Dame football. This is the way we need to play. This is what we’re capable of playing. It’s a much more physical brand of football that we are capable of playing, and quite frankly, our team did that and they respond­ed accordingly.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Junior reserve safety Eilar Hardy finished second on the squad with eight tackles. 
A loss to Pittsburgh makes it easy to lose sight of the process, just as a trip to the national championship seem­ingly and misleadingly sped up the process. 
But on senior Day, the pro­cess proved itself with per­spective and progress. Notre Dame didn’t lose. For the most part, Notre Dame has been losing less. 
Rees made just one mistake. 
The Irish overcame brutal weather and field conditions. 
A third-stringer made you forget an All-American. 
“Doesn’t matter how you win games as long as you get that ‘W,’” Rees said. 
something the Irish are do­ing more and more of. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Run game hits key threshold 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports Editor 
Notre Dame rushed for 235 yards against BYU on saturday. Junior running back cam McDaniel car­ried 24 times for 117 yards, while freshman running back Tarean Folston gained 78 yards on 13 attempts. 
The Irish also rushed for at least 200 yards against Oklahoma and Navy, and Notre Dame is now 29-2 in its last 31 games when hitting the 200-yard mark on the ground. 

Jones and Rees climbing the ranks 
senior quarterback Tommy Rees connected with senior receiver TJ Jones on a 30-yard completion in the first quar­ter. Rees vaulted over 7,000 career passing yards, becom­ing the fourth Notre Dame quarterback to reach the milestone. 
Jones extended his school record of consecutive games with a reception to 38, and his five catches moved the se­nior into a tie for third place all-time in program history with Rhema McKnight at 170 receptions. 
Martin is an ironman 
Graduate student left tackle Zack Martin made his 50th consecutive start, tying the 
school  record  set  by  for­ 
mer offensive lineman  sam  
Young.  

ContactMike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 





1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  0  6  0  13  
14  3  3  3  23  

NOTRE DAME 7, BYU 0 
Davaris Daniels 61-yard pass from Rees (Brindza kick) 
10:11 remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 84 yards, 2:11 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, BYU 7 
JD Falslev 7-yard pass from Hill (sorensen kick) 
6:48 remaining 
Drive: 12 plays, 71 yards, 3:23 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, BYU 7 
Tarean Folston 2-yard run (Brindza kick) 
4:43 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 75 yards, 2:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, BYU 7 
Kyle Brindza 26-yard field goal 
7:35remaining 
Drive: 14 plays, 60 yards, 5:57 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, BYU 7 
Kyle Brindza 26-yard field goal 
12:48remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 52 yards, 2:12 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, BYU 10 
Justin sorensen 31-yard field goal 
8:20remaining 
Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 4:28 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, BYU 13 
Justin sorensen 27-yard field goal 
0:39remaining 
Drive: 11 plays, 58 yards, 3:11 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 23, BYU 13 
Kyle Brindza 51-yard field goal 
6:53remaining 
Drive: Seven plays, 25 yards, 3:34 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 

235 247 
PASSING YARDS 
235 168 

Time of Possession 
26:09 
PASSING 
Rees 15-28-235 Hill 21-36-168 
RUSHING 
McDaniel 24-123 Hill 24-115 Folston 13-81 Lasike 4-101 Atkinson 6-42 Williams 18-44 
RECEIVING 
Daniels 6-107 Ridley 6-52 Jones 5-95 Hoffman 5-49 Robinson 1-17 Falslev 4-27 
TACKLES 
Fox 9 ‘Unga 19 Hardy 8 Bills 15 Day 7 Sorensen 6 Jones 7 Fua 6 


THE OBsERvER | MONDAY NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDsMcOBsERvER.cOM 


ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

Irish junior running back Cam McDaniel attempts to complete a catch during Notre Dame’s victory over BYU on Saturday. McDaniel did not come down with the ball but finished with a career-high 117 rushing yards on 23 carries in the contest. 
Notre Dame captured a 23-13 win over BYU on Senior Day in Notre  
BALANCED ATTACK  Dame Stadium. As snow flurries speckled the sky  in the coldest home game since 1991, both teams relied on the ground game to move the ball.  
BEATS COUGARS  The Irish managed 235 yards on the ground while adding 235 through the air behind big days from junior receiver DaVaris Daniels, senior re­ 
ceiver TJ Jones and junior running back Cam McDaniel,.  







ThE OBSERvER |  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

With his directorial debut, german filmmaker Jan Ole gerster scored a huge success by making a small, personal film with “Oh Boy” (2012). The film, which is in german with English subtitles, was screened at the DeBartolo performing Arts Center’s Browning Cinema this past Thursday, and featured an introduction and a question and answer session with gerster afterwards. 
“Oh Boy” follows Niko, a boyish Berlin man in his 20s with little direction in his life, as he wanders through Berlin for a day and a night. gerster, who spent years working as an assistant to famous german directors including Wolfgang Becker before going to film school, said that he looked inward and tried to make a personal film with his debut. 
Niko wakes in the morning and tries to sneak away from a woman he clearly has no interest in speaking with, but is caught 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

The Observer had the chance to sit down with German director Jan Ole Gerster before he presented his debut film, “Oh Boy” (2012), at the Browning Cinema this past Thursday evening. The film nearly swept the German Film Awards, winning Best Film, Best Direction, Best Screenplay, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor and Best Score. Scene Editor Kevin Noonan talked to the director about his film, why he became a director and what he sees in his future. The full interview is avail­able online at ndsmcobserver.com/scene: 
KN: Your debut film, “Oh Boy,” came out in 2012, what can you tell us about it? What’s the idea behind it? 
JG: It all started with the idea of making a film that’s very personal in a way, because I was stuck in several screenplays that I wrote did not satisfy me. I think the reason for that is that I tried to follow the rules of screen­writing, how to make a film, how to write a script, with the result that I thought it was boring stuff. 
So I started to rethink what filmmaking means to me, I looked at all the films, espe­cially the first films of the people that I ad­mire, my favorite directors. I figured out that and gives us an immediate insight into his character. he does not want to hurt her feelings, but he’s not emotionally in­vested enough to make an effort with the woman. he’s young and emotionally inse­cure, but the audience gets the sense that he has a good heart underneath all of his insecurities and cluelessness. 
Niko loses his license and his ATM card, tries and fails repeatedly to get a cup of coffee, and meets a lonely neighbor who immediately dishes on his marital prob­lems. It’s hard to tell if Niko is quiet and a good listener or quiet and does not care about the people talking to him, but there are brief flashes throughout the film that if he could just find his way in life, he has the potential to be a caring person. 
The film hinges mostly on three key interactions. We see Niko meet his father at a country club, an interaction which reveals why Niko may be as uncertain about himself as he is. Niko meets an old classmate who he used to bully in middle school but the classmate has since lost 
it’s important to talk about something in your film, to make it about something that you really, really know, instead of making up stories. 
I thought I’d give it a try and write about something that I’ve experienced, no matter if it means something to a bigger audience or not. It’s just a very selfish way to think about making a movie about something that I in a way experienced. 
I started the screenplay, and it sounds weird, but it was the first process of writing something that I really enjoyed, and it all went very fast. I wrote the first draft in two weeks, and gave it to a few people to read. Everybody was like, ‘Okay, you gave us a few things before to read, and now we finally can say that it was not good. But this somehow is true, it’s honest, it’s funny. We don’t know what it is, we don’t know what it is about, it’s a weird script, but it’s fun to read.’ 
So I got confident with that script, and took the next step, found producers, actors, and the most important thing, some money to do it. This is weird, but I never expected a response like this, and the film found quite an audience in germany. I’ve been to lots of film festivals all over the world, and I’m in­vited to be here at Notre Dame to present my film, and even in my wildest dreams I never expected this to happen. 

weight and grew up to be gorgeous. We see the guilt etched in Niko over deal­ing with his past arrogance. Finally, Niko meets an old and possibly crazy man at a bar at the end of the night, who shares a story about his memory of what was likely Kristallnacht, and we see the long lasting effect it had on the man’s psyche. 
gerster said he wanted to show, at least in part, the struggle of young people com­ing to terms with their identity and their future, but also Berlin and germany as a whole, and their continuing struggle to develop a new identity. The city of Berlin in particular plays a role in the film, with beautiful shots of shops, bars, theatres and train stations all giving the feeling of constant movement, without anyone ac­tually going anywhere. 
The film is shot in black and white, which gerster explained shared a two­fold purpose of giving the story a timeless feeling and also satisfying his desire to make a black and white movie, since he is a big fan of black and white movies. 
KN: It was your first film, and it won the lola, the german Film Award [for Best Feature Film], how crazy is that for you? 
JG: yeah, it was the wildest year of my life. I think I’ve been to 40 film festivals, I was all around the world presenting the film. I mean this is what you dream of when you decide that you want to become a director. I’m glad that it is this film that made it hap­pen for me, to have this kind of life that I’m having right now traveling to different coun­tries presenting the film, because it’s a very personal and important film for me. 
Sometimes life takes weird directions, because especially that project, I really had no expectations at all of how people would respond to that film, I just thought, ‘Don’t be a fraud. Write about something that you know. And make your first film funny.’ Because I was waiting for that for such a long time. 
KN: What parts of you do we see reflected in the film itself? 
JG: I think, the character and I, we have in common this period where we are kind of paralyzed by what life has to offer, which is the right direction to go. The decisions I made when I was younger, are they still the right ones today? he’s kind of paralyzed and alienated from the world he’s living in 
gerster talked at length about the per­sonal aspect of the film, calling it “person­al but not private.” he looked at the early films of some of his favorite directors, and said in many of the films, the director’s own life and perspective were deeply en-grained in the film, even if the story isn’t technically autobiographical. 
The challenge, he said, was to tell a story that could be truly his own and yet would be relatable and accessible to audi­ences everywhere. Judging by the impres­sive number of german Film Awards won by “Oh Boy,” including Best Film, Best Direction, Best Screenplay, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor and Best Score, it’s safe to say the film resonated greatly with german audiences. And as a look into young people in Berlin, and their struggles with identity and purpose, it’s a fantastic and often laugh-out-loud funny success. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
because he’s basically drifting through his days, thinking but not really acting in order to find his spot in the world that he’s living in. And this is something I experienced and pretty much how I felt when I went to film school. 
It’s a paradox, because all I ever wanted was to be in this film school, and I was dreaming about becoming a director, but then when it was really time to go and shoot something, I was like, ‘Okay, this is different from what I thought it is.’ going to films, lov­ing films, is like escaping from reality, and making a film is the complete opposite. It’s like standing in front of an audience and saying, ‘This is what I have to say. This is me.’ 
I had so many expectations for my first film that it kind of scared me a little when it was really time to do it, maybe because I was afraid as well to fail. Because if you dream about this for such a long time, you don’t want it to be the worst experience of your life. So I think that’s what I waited for such a long time, and that’s why it took so long to find this very small and simple story, and get away from all this big ideas of huge films, and go back to something very simple and basic. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 




SPORTS AUTHORITY 

New Heisman hopefuls to watch 

Greg Hadley 
Sports Writer 
We are less than three weeks from the heisman Trophy ceremony, and the race for the prized award could not be more wide open. you could make a strong ar­gument for at least six differ­ent players to take home the award, but there is no clear favorite. 
So why not buck the trend and give the award to a run­ning back or a quarterback from a smaller school? 
All of this should be pref­aced with the note that Florida State quarterback Jameis Winston is head and shoulders above the rest of the field, statistically speak­ing. But the heisman voters probably are not interested in generating controversy, and the rape accusations swirling around Winston are nothing if not controversial. On one hand, it is unfortunate that Winston may not win because of an accusation that has not yet been close to confirmed. 
On the other, Winston will have to worry about a lot more than the heisman if he is guilty. 
Still, there is a field of wor­thy candidates that deserve much more consideration than they have gotten. here are some of them, from least to most deserving. 
4. Teddy Bridgewater 
The American Athletic Conference gets absolutely no respect because honestly the conference is terrible. It’s a good thing the BCS is end­ing soon, because it would be a travesty to keep giving the conference an automatic bid. That being said, louisville quarterback Bridgewater de­serves to be taken seriously, even if his conference does not. 
he has the highest com­pletion percentage of any quarterback in a “major” conference, 25 touchdowns against only three intercep­tions and the fifth best pass­ing efficiency in the nation. his sole loss this season came in a 38-35 defeat against No. 17 uCF. he’s not the best player in the country, but you could argue that he deserves to be invited to New york, es­pecially if louisville wins out. 
3. Ka’Deem Carrey 
Arizona’s Carrey is not the best running back in the country, but he is certainly close. he ranks in the top 10 for yards, touchdowns and attempts. Normally, this would not be enough to gain many votes, especially on a 7-4 Wildcats team. unlike any of the other players men­tioned, however, he has had a heisman “moment:” a sea­son-defining game that fans and voters alike automatically associate with his name. 
Carrey led Arizona to a win over Oregon on Saturday with four touchdowns and 206 yards. A performance like that is not quickly forgotten and forces voters to oay atten­tion to the rest of his season, which was pretty darn good. 
2. Jordan Lynch and Derek Carr 
yes, it is a little patronizing to stick Northern Illinois’ lynch and Fresno State’s Carr together. They are different quarterbacks in different sys­tems for different teams. But the reasons they will not win the heisman are the same. They do not play for a major conference, and their sched­ules are too weak. 
Regardless, both have been outstanding this season. Carr has been, in a word, prolific. he is in the top five in almost every statistical category for quarterbacks and has only thrown four interceptions for an undefeated team. 
lynch has been just as good. he has accounted for 38 touchdowns and is in the top 10 for both rushing yards and touchdowns. his team is still undefeated and has a shot at making its second straight BCS bowl. 
Both players have not faced very tough schedules, but both are among the best in the country, and at least one should be named a finalist. 
1. Andre Williams 
Williams has the exact opposite problem of lynch and Carr. he plays in a BCS conference for a team that is 7-4 and unranked. It has been over a decade since a heisman winner’s team had that many losses. he is also a running back, and not count­ing Reggie Bush’s vacated trophr, only one running back has won in the 21st century. 
Still, Williams has rushed for more touchdowns than the Eagles have thrown for all year. he is an absolute work­horse, rushing for over 400 more total yards than the next closest rusher and sporting a ridiculous 6.5 yards per carry averagr. Simply put, he is the best running back in the country. 
Shouldn’t that merit heavy consideration from the heisman voters? 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish fall to Virginia in sweep at home 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish fell to virginia Friday night in purcell pavilion, after virginia came out on top in a 39-37 opening set and finished the sweep with set scores of 25-22 and 25-11. 
The first set of the match was one of four sets in ND history to reach a total above 60 points, and the first one since 2007. 
Throughout the entire first set, the Irish (12-17, 6-12 ACC) and virginia (17­13, 10-8) were never more than four points away from each other. The teams found themselves tied 22 times inthroughout the set, and the lead changed seven times. 
The Irish picked up speed coming off a time­out when they were down 7-11. Junior middle blocker Toni Alugbue had a kill off an assist from senior setter Maggie Brindock to bring the Irish within three. 
More kills from junior outside hitter Meg vonderhaar and Alugbue brought the Irish to 14-14 after a virginia timeout. The Irish then gained a lead of 20-16 off three kills from vonderhaar, senior outside hitter Nicole Smith and Brindock. 
Senior right side Sammie Brown delivered several kills to help the Irish tie the score, 35-35, with only min­utes left to play. 
virginia finally took the set off a kill from junior out­side hitter Tori Janowski and a service ace from fresh­man outside hitter Jasmine Burton. 
The Irish had 24 kills and 52 total attacks in the open­ing set, with a .346 attack percentage. Comparatively, virginia had 28 kills and 61 total attacks, with a .361 at­tack percentage. 
The Irish fell behind early in the second round, with virginia leading 17-13 right before an Irish timeout. Even after kills from Smith, Brindock and vonderhaar, the Irish failed to catch up. The set ended 25-22 with the win going to virginia. 
In the second set, the Irish had 10 kills and 33 attacks, with a .061 attack percent­age. virginia had 15 kills and 33 attacks with a .333 attack percentage. 
virginia took an early lead in the third set, as it ad­vanced to 5-11 after the first timeout from the Irish. The Irish got momentary mo­mentum near the end of the set after several attack er­rors from virginia and a kill from Smith, but virginia fin­ished out the match with a kill from sophomore outside hitter Natalie Bausback. 
In the third set, the Irish had 16 kills and 39 total at­tacks, with a .282 attack per­centage. virginia had 14 kills and 38 total attacks with a .263 attack percentage. 
In total, the Irish had 50 kills, 124 total attacks, and 59 points. 
The Irish will next play Boston College at purcell pavilion on Friday  at 4 p.m. 
NFL 

packers, vikings play to 26-26 tie 
Associated Press 
gREEN BAy, Wis. — The packers’ losing streak without Aaron Rodgers is over, though the frustration continues in Titletown. 
A tie did little to lift spirits in chilly green Bay. 
Backup quarterback Matt Flynn threw for 218 yards and helped spark a rally from a 16-point deficit early in the fourth quarter to the Minnesota vikings early in the fourth quar­ter. But the teams could only muster field goals in overtime and had to settle for a 26-26 draw Sunday. 
“It’s an empty feeling. you go out there and didn’t lose the game,” packers coach Mike McCarthy said. “But you feel like you didn’t accomplish what you set out to do.” 
Same sentiment in the vikings’ locker room, where one player held tightly to a hot cup of coffee to warm up following a game that started with tempera­tures in the upper teens. 
“I view it as a loss, personally. We gave up a 16-point lead in the fourth quarter,” defensive end Jared Allen said. “I don’t have a sister, but I’m going to say it’s like going to prom with your sister.” 
For a while, the match was full of heart-racing drama. 
Mason Crosby hit from 20 yards at 10:28 of the extra period and Blair Walsh connected from 35 with 3:54 left. 
greg Jennings, playing his first game at lambeau Field as a member of the vikings (3-8­1), dropped a third-down pass with 2:11 left. The packers (5-5­
1) also stumbled on their next possession. 
One last chance for the vikings went nowhere with 1 second left, and the teams walked off with the first tie in the NFl since the Rams and 49ers ended 24-24 on Nov. 11, 2012. 
At least the 77,000-plus frigid fans got to witness a bit of his­tory — this was first game to end in a tie under the new overtime rule instituted last year that con­tinues the extra period if both teams open it with field goals. A touchdown by either team would have ended the game. 
Jacksonville and houston both kicked field goals to open OT in a game on Nov. 18, 2012, then the Texans won it with a touchdown. 
“I think to everybody around here, it feels like a loss, for sure,” packers linebacker A.J. hawk said. 
The packers are also in unfa­miliar territory with so much instability at quarterback. It’s been that way since Rodgers — perhaps the most irreplaceable player in the NFl — hurt his left collarbone on the first series of a 27-20 loss to the Bears on Nov. 4 that started the winless string. 
Flynn, Rodgers’ former back­up who was re-signed last week, replaced the ineffective Scott Tolzien and finished 21 of 36 for 218 yards and a touchdown. he nearly led green Bay back from a 23-7 deficit early in the fourth quarter to a win. 
Flynn caught a break in over­time after a third-down sack was called off by a holding pen­alty on vikings safety Robert Blanton. he followed with three long completions, including a 34-yarder to the leaping Jarrett Boykin to the 7. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



SMC BASKETBALL | BuENA vISTA 87, SAINT MARy’S 83; WhEATON 74, SAINT MARy’S 51 
Saint Mary’s drops games to Buena Vista, Wheaton 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles went home emp­ty-handed after two losses at the Beth Baker Classic on Friday and Saturday in Wheaton, Ill. 
The Belles (1-3) fell to Buena vista 87-83 on Friday and came up short in a 74-51 loss to Wheaton on Saturday. 
Saint Mary’s had a solid tournament-opening ap­pearance against Buena vista (2-2) but came up just four points short after a late comeback attempt came up short. The Belles trailed by nine points with 2:12 re­maining, but they could not capitalize on their efforts after making it a one-pos­session game in the closing minute. 
The Belles held the lead for significant time in the first half. Sophomore forward Sarah Macius gave the Belles an 18-9 lead with a three-pointer, and sophomore for­ward Eleni Shea helped the Belles secure their biggest lead of the game with a fast-break jumper with less than six minutes left in the first period to put the Belles up 31-20. 
The Belles closed the half with a 45-36 lead, but the Beavers entered the second half ready to redeem them­selves. In the opening seven minutes of the half, Buena vista outscored the Belles 20-9 and took a two-point 56­54 lead. 

Behind by nine points in the last three minutes, the Belles fought back. Saint Mary’s brought the game to a score of 84-81 with a minute to go. The Beavers secured a five-point cushion, but Belles sophomore forward Krista Knapke made a layup to make it 85-83 with 31 seconds left. however, the Beavers scored two free throws with 11 sec­onds remaining to make the final score 87-83. 
Shea had 15 points to lead the Belles, while Knapke add­ed 13 points. Senior guard Shanlynn Bias scored 11 points and had a team-best three steals. Junior forward Ariana paul contributed 10 points and a team-high eight rebounds. 
On the second day of the tournament, the Belles opened with a back-and­forth battle against host Wheaton (4-1), but again failed to capitalize in the second half. 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT 
The Belles secured an im­mediate lead of 8-2 but found themselves soon tied 11-11 with 11:32 on the clock. The Thunder went on a 7-0 run to take away the Belles’ three-point lead with 7:14 remain­ing on the half. The Belles and Thunder traded the lead several times, but the Thunder ended the half with the upper hand, 30-27. 
After less than five min­utes into the second half, the Thunder extened their lead to12 points. The Belles react­ed by scoring four-straight points on a jumper by Bias and a pair of free throws by senior forward Katherine Wabler to bring the score to 43-35. 
Despite the Belles’ efforts in the last nine minutes of the game, the Thunder went on an 11-2 run to secure a 74­51 victory. 
paul carried the Belles with 14 points, four assists, and three steals. Knapke and Bias each contributed eight points. Knapke also led the Belles with six rebounds. 
The Belles move on to their home opener against Anderson on Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish run to top-30 finishes at NCAAs 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Facing cold conditions, Notre Dame finished 22nd in the men’s division and 29th in the women’s division at the NCAA Championships in Terre haute, Ind., on Saturday. Irish senior Martin grady finished in 35th overall with a time of 30:43.3 to earn All-American accolades. 
“[It’s] kind of a weird mix of emotions,” grady said. “It’s awe­some, in my last cross race, it’s nice to go out on a good one like that. But, ultimately, it definitely is a team sport. The individual award takes the back seat to the team’s finish. But the team was definitely supportive of me. On one hand, I am a little happy, but I can’t be too happy.” 
After a stellar outing at the NCAA Regional Championships in Madison, Wisc. on Nov. 15, Notre Dame did not perform up to its expectations against the field of 31 teams, Irish coach Tim Connelly said. 
“We didn’t perform very well,” Connelly said. “We were defi­nitely disappointed with the outcome.” 
graduate students Jeremy Rae 
(31:11.1) and J.p. Malette (31:45.8) finished in 84th and 145th place, respectively. While sophomores Michael Clevenger (31:36.0) and Timothy Ball (32:18.2) placed 132nd and 201st, respectively, to round out the team’s top five finishers, grady said the veteran runners did not meet expectations. 
“The overall consensus [of the race] wasn’t too happy,” grady said. “We definitely have a good amount of talent, but didn’t put it together for this race. going into the championships, we were aiming for top-15 finish, but we weren’t able to get there.” 
On the women’s side, senior Kelly Curran (21:16.6) grabbed 94th place and senior co-captain Alexa Aragon (21:25.0) took 114th place. Sophomore Molly Seidel finished in 171st place with a time of 21:48.8. Juniors Emily Frydrych (22:26.5) and gabby gonzales (22:47.5) took 231st and 241st place, respectively. 
Connelly said he does not know exactly why the team underperformed. 
“We had people run poorly for a lot of different reasons [Saturday],” Connelly said. “There were a lot of different fac­tors. The conditions were really bad on the course; they pushed the start up and the start was tight. We had [a] couple people fall in the start; we had one who had to come to a complete stop during the race because a group of people tripped up in front of her. The weather may have been a factor — it was in the 20’s. But that doesn’t mean anything, because every team had to deal with the same things we did.” 
grady said the team’s re­sults in the NCAA Regional Championships capped off an underwhelming season. 
“It was probably just an alright year,” grady said. “We had some pretty high expectations from last year because we returned eight people from last year. The year wasn’t the greatest for how much talent we do have.” 
On the other hand, Connelly said the team had several posi­tives to take away from the season. 
“We didn’t perform poorly on the year,” Connelly said. “getting to nationals isn’t a poor year, but we never performed as well as we thought we should have.” 
With the meet, the Irish con­cluded their season. Many team members will compete in the winter track season, which be­gins with the Blue & gold Meet at the loftus Sports Center on Dec. 6. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



ThE OBSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

1-yard line. Two plays later, punt left the Dawgs 85 yards away 
W Soccer 

W Interhall M Interhall 
however, Conaty’s pass was from the end zone at the start of the 
CONTINuED FROM pAgE 16 

CONTINuED FROM pAgE 16 CONTINuED FROM pAgE 16 
intercepted in the end zone fourth quarter. that.” 
made things easy. by purple Weasels’ sopho-and captain Seamus Donegan The Alumni offense seemed up The Wolverines outshot Notre 
“Well, we started off re-more defensive back Bernie then converted an 11-yard pass to to the task, as sophomore quar-Dame, 13-3, in the second half 
ally strong, and the offense Jordan. Jordan returned sophomore receiver Mitchell patin terback Trevor hurley connected and got their best opportunity in 
made a couple good plays,” the interception to the oth-to keep Keough’s drive alive on with senior captain and receiver the 55th minute when a cross into 
Rousseau said. “Ryan has er end zone, extending the fourth down. Donegan connected Jeff Kraemer on three occasions to the Irish box hit Andrews in the 
a really tough offense, so pasquerilla West lead to with patin again from four yards pick up first downs. Alumni gained arm. play continued for a num­
they threw a couple bombs 19-6. out a few plays later to give Keough 81 of its 133 yards of total offense ber of seconds until the lines-
that tripped us up a little Toole said Jordan’s pick a 6-0 lead. The Dawgs (6-1) stopped on the drive but stalled out after it man halted play and signaled 
bit.” was the turning point in the ensuing two-point conversion failed to convert on fourth down on for a penalty kick. Michigan se-
The Wildcats’ offense the championship. when Donegan’s failed to complete the Keough four-yard line. nior midfielder Meghan Toohey 
almost responded their “I told my girls, ‘This is a pass attempt. “Today, [Keough] got the lucky converted the kick to give the 
next drive behind fresh-it, second half of the game, “We watched [Alumni’s] semifi-bounces, and that’s just the way it Wolverines a 1-0 lead. 
man quarterback Kathleen we need to make a good nal game and were able to pinpoint goes,” Kraemer said. “It was a hell of Waldrum said the call that led 
Conaty, but the purple stop here, we need to get some of the weaker areas in their a year and a lot of fun.” to the penalty kick should not 
Weasels’ defense stuffed it done,’” Toole said of the secondary,” patin said. “We made Backed up in the shadow of have been made. 
Ryan at the goal line. Weasels’ defensive stand. their defensive backs pick one re-their own goal line, the Kangaroos “The first thing for me as a 
Rogers then went back to “Bernie Jordan, she was ceiver to cover, which made it eas-moved closer to the title when coach is if it’s a foul that decides 
work, bringing the Weasels just in the right place, and ier for us to move the ball through Donegan connected with patin the game, that’s one thing,” 
back down the field and she was fast, and she just the air.” for a 29-yard gain. Keough punted Waldrum said. “If it’s a situation 
finding freshman receiver went. I think that moment, After both teams’ second drives shortly after the play, but Alumni’s like that, where it’s just a bad 
Monica Busse in the end that’s when we realized it ended in turnovers, Keough’s de-last chance at a comeback ended bounce, a reaction where there 
zone for a touchdown. was our game to win.” fense forced Alumni to  punt, and with a gurrola interception. no intent, not batting it down 
Behind the strength of its Ryan was able to notch the Kangaroos took over on the “I knew they were going to throw with her arm to gain advantage, 
two first-half touchdowns, another touchdown on a Dawgs’ 41-yard line. it deep, and we went into prevent I just don’t think in an NCAA 
pasquerilla West took a pass from Conaty to Swan, From there, Donegan worked [defense],” gurrola said. “We want-playoff game you make that call. 
13-0 lead into halftime. On but the purple Weasels the ball down the field and con-ed to make one last big play, and I That’s a tough thing to swallow.” 
the other sideline, Ryan then ran out the clock to nected with senior receiver Kyle was fortunate enough to make it. Twelve minutes later, Scofield 
senior captains receiver preserve the 19-13 vic-gurrola for a 13-yard touchdown. This is my last football game, and ran stride for stride with Ezurike 
Maddie Swan and offensive tory. Despite the loss, the Alumni stopped the two-point I’m going to remember it for the rest on a ball played over the top of 
lineman Andrea Carlson, Wildcats expect to return conversion again to keep the score of my life.” the Notre Dame defense and ap­
worked to keep their team’s to Notre Dame Stadium, at 12-0. Donegan, who threw for 114 peared to bump the Michigan 
spirits up, Wildcats sopho-Morris said. “Our defense came out really yards, said the victory was even forward, though neither play-
more running back Sarah “We’re really excited strong and shut them down early more special for him, considering er fell to the turf. The referees 
Morris said. [about the future], espe-to give our offense a short field,” his team went winless just two sea-served Scofield with a red card, 
“We have quite a few se-cially with all of our young Donegan said. “It made things a lot sons ago. forcing the Irish to play with 10 
niors on the team, and players,” Morris said. “[We easier for us to score.” “[Winning the championship] players for the rest of the game. 
throughout the season have a] freshman quarter-An interception by Keough means a lot,” Donegan said. “From “It wasn’t a foul because they 
they’ve always been not back, a lot of sophomores, freshman defensive back Matthew going winless two years ago to even were running shoulder to shoul­
only teammates, but kind so we’re really excited Mooney allowed the Kangaroos to just get to the stadium was really der,” Waldrum said. “I don’t 
of mentors,” Morris said. about that. I think we’re go into the half up two scores. special. To win it with my brothers, know how you would call it on 
“In this game, it was a con-only going to get better.” After the break, Keough and I wouldn’t have it any other way.” either one of them because if was 
tinuation of the leadership Across the field, Alumni traded punts. The equal contact. Neither of them 
they’ve shown all season.” pasquerilla West focused Kangaroos were able to swing field Contact Alex Carson at              even fell down.” 
The Wildcats came out on celebrating the culmi-position when Donegan’s pooch acarson1@nd.edu playing a man down, the Irish 
motivated in the second nation of its undefeated struggled to mount much offense 
half, quickly closing the championship season. until the game’s final minutes. 
gap with pasquerilla West “It’s incredible,” Toole They also had to contend with 
on a touchdown pass from said. “Freshman year, we Ezurike, Michigan’s all-time 
Conaty to sophomore re-went to the stadium and leading scorer, but little stopped 
ceiver Erin Clark. Rogers lost to howard in a heart-the first-team All-Big Ten selec­
and the pasquerilla West breaker. So it’s just so tion on a number of occasions. 
offense attempted to an-amazing to be finally be “I thought we did a pretty good 
swer, but Ryan sophomore here at the end of my senior job on [Ezurike],” Waldrum said. 
defensive back Mary Kate year holding this trophy.” “She got a couple of good looks. 
McRoskey intercepted Kaela little made a fantastic save 
Rogers’ pass and returned Contact Casey Karnes at on her in the first half, but I think 
it to pasquerilla West’s wkarnes@nd.edu she got most of her looks when we went a man down. I thought Scofield was fantastic on her today. She was the best player on the field along with Kaela in goal.” 
Though the Irish mounted a handful of chances at goal in the game’s final minutes, Bucklin kept the game scoreless to end Notre Dame’s season. 
“you keep pushing to get a goal, knowing that you’re tak­ing a player out of defense,” Waldrum said. “you’re taking a big risk and gambling a bit, but we knew that we needed the goal. I thought we showed a lot of spirit and had a couple chances to score, so I’m very proud of the effort we put in.” 
The loss came after Notre Dame’s 1-0 victory over Western Michigan on Friday in Ann Arbor in the second round of the NCAA Championship. Irish sophomore midfielder Cari Roccaro found the net in the 69th minute to send the Irish to the third round. 
Contact Conor Kelly at                     ckelly17@nd.edu 





ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | NOTRE DAME 76, pENN 54 
HOCKEY | uMASS-lOWEll 1, ND 0; uMASS-lOWEll 3, ND 1 

Irish take down Quakers 
ND swept by 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
No. 5 Notre Dame may have been making its first road trip of the season, but the Irish showed many of the same characteristics that have made them successful at purcell pavilion, as they received con­tributions from both veteran leaders and freshmen to defeat penn, 76-54, at The palestra in philadelphia on Saturday. 
Notre Dame senior guard and captain Kayla McBride propelled the Irish (4-0) with 15 points and nine rebounds, while senior forward and cap­tain Ariel Braker added nine rebounds. 
Notre Dame’s third se­nior captain, forward Natalie Achonwa, compiled four points and three rebounds in her first game since undergoing surgery for a meniscus tear in her right knee Oct. 30. 
“[Achonwa’s] conditioning looked really good,” Irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. “We were worried that if you take a month off, you expect that she’s not going to be in great shape, but she really was. I think she was a little rusty in terms of game situations, but overall, I was re­ally pleased with what she was able to do for us.” 
Achonwa’s entry into the starting lineup forced fresh­man forward Taya Reimer to come off the bench for the first time in her college career, but Reimer still saw plenty of playing time, as she totaled 14 points and four rebounds in 22 minutes of action. 

“I expect [Reimer] to play about the same number of min­utes that she was playing as a starter, and she gives us a great lift off the bench,” Mcgraw said. “We don’t lose anything when she comes into the game. I think we really have six peo­ple who can start anytime.” 
The Irish struggled at the start against the Quakers (0-2), as the two teams were dead­locked at eight five minutes into the game. 
“I didn’t think we came out with the intensity that we needed,” Mcgraw said. “I’m not sure if it was just because we were on the road, but we cer­tainly didn’t handle it as well as we did the first three games at home.” 
Notre Dame soon went on an 11-0 run to jump out to a 19-8 lead, but, helped by some time­ly rebounds, penn cut the lead to 21-17 with 7:34 left in the first half. 
After averaging more than 50 rebounds in its first three con­tests, the Irish struggled to get the edge on the boards, gaining 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT 
a 43-37 rebounding edge on the Quakers. 
uMass-lowell 
“I was disappointed with our effort to rebound,” Mcgraw said. “I really was. I thought we could have done a lot bet­ter. That’s something we re­ally pride ourselves on, and we need to do a better job.” 
Notre Dame finished out the first half on a 9-2 run to open up a 12-point halftime lead. 
penn cut Notre Dame’s lead to 36-27 with 18:59 to go in the second half, but the Quakers would not come any closer, as the Irish shot at a .485 clip from the field in the final frame to cruise to a 76-54 victory. 
Notre Dame finished with a .625 shooting percentage from 3-point range and received 35 points off the bench, includ­ing 13 from sophomore guard Michaela Mabrey. The Irish committed only 12 turnovers, which tied their season low. 
“I think [freshman guard] lindsay Allen is doing a fan­tastic job taking care of the ball,” Mcgraw said. “Overall, I think we’re making good deci­sions and playing with a lot of intelligence.” 
Notre Dame returns to action on Tuesday, when it hosts No. 25 Depaul at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
No. 6 Notre Dame sent a threadbare squad on the plane to New England, only to have No. 11 Massachusetts-lowell park the bus on them. 
going up against the River hawks (10-4-0, 4-1-0 hockey East) and their highly defensive brand of hockey, the Irish (8-5-1, 2-3-1) managed just one goal on the weekend and lost 1-0 Friday and 3-1 Saturday at the Tsongas Center in lowell, Mass. 
The losses both came on nights where Notre Dame outshot the hosts but had trouble finding the back of the net. 
“I think our guys worked hard,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We had plenty of opportunities. We just didn’t finish. They pack five guys in front of the goal, and their goalie played quite well. he didn’t allow us a lot of second-chance opportunities.” 
Friday night’s game came down to one shot, which came off the stick of River hawks junior center Stephen Buco. A pair of Irish pen­alties gave uMass-lowell a two-man advantage late in the first period, which Notre Dame killed off. On a subsequent power play, however, the River hawks gained the zone on a rush past tired Irish penalty killers, allowing Buco to slip a backhand past Irish senior goaltender Steven Summerhays. 
That goal was all it took to give uMass-lowell the opening win in the series. 
“That’s a goal I think Steve Summerhays would probably like to have back, but if you start playing the game thinking that you can’t give up any goals, that’s not good,” Jackson said. “We need to get our team going again offensively.” 
The Irish struggled to rally back on both Friday and Saturday nights, as a lack of depth due to injuries wore down the team on the penalty kill. Notre Dame’s lack of depth on the penalty kill proved costly again Saturday night, as the Irish fell behind early on two first-period power-play goals from uMass-lowell. The Irish halved the lead in the second period off a power-play goal of their own from senior winger Bryan Rust, only to have the River hawks put the game away with a late empty-netter, which came, like all their other goals on the weekend, with a man advantage. 
“The injuries do have an im­pact,” Jackson said. “It’s tough to kill off multiple penalties in a row when you’ve got four or five guys going every other shift. The guys we’re using right now are some of our top offensive guys, and I think that tires them out from scoring goals. That certain­ly had an impact on our special teams. But we can’t use that as an excuse. We have to be better.” 
The Irish will have some help in their quest to improve. For one, the team stands just four games away from its four-week Christmas break, which will al­low Notre Dame time to work on its weaknesses and heal up its battered roster. 
Additionally, with the excep­tion of an outdoor game against Boston College at Fenway park in early January, the Irish have no true road games until the first weekend of February, which will give them a break from their punishing hockey East travel schedule. 
Jackson’s focus, though, ex­tends only as far as next weekend. 
“We have four games before break, and this weekend we need to get a little confidence back offensively,” Jackson said. “We have to focus on what’s ahead of us, not what’s behind us, and right now we have to focus on getting to Christmas break and getting guys back.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at            wheffero@nd.edu 



ThE OBSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

M Soccer 
CONTINuED FROM pAgE 16 
shot straight into the right side of the goal from the spot of the foul. 
Sophomore midfielder patrick hodan almost slammed the door on the Badgers (14-5-4, 4-2-0 Big Ten) with a shot on an open net toward the end of the first half, but Wisconsin junior defender AJ Cochran stepped in front of the ball to prevent a third Notre Dame goal. 
The Irish went into half­time with a 2-0 lead, but hodan stretched the lead to three just 10 minutes into the second period, when he sent a long free kick straight past Jentsch and into the back of the net. 
“The goal right after halftime was a killer for them,” Clark said. “I think they came out hoping to get something back, but that made it very difficult for them.” 
The Irish were not done just yet. In the 65th minute, Shipp gave the Irish a 4-0 lead with a short-range chip shot that land­ed just inside the back post. 
until Shipp’s second goal of the night, the Irish had not scored four goals in an NCAA Championship game since beat­ing Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 4-1, in 2003. 
But when it came time to be­stow Mvp honors, it wasn’t one of the goal-scorers who earned Clark’s kudos. 
“I would give the biggest plau­dit to our grounds crew for get­ting that field [ready],” Clark said. “They covered it with a tarp down on Friday, and then they cleared it today, and they did a good job.” 

M Bball 
CONTINuED FROM pAgE 20 
Sherman averaged 17.5 points and 
7.5rebounds. Brey said he liked how Sherman responded to the loss one week ago. 
“he didn’t need to go to confes­sion,” Brey said of Sherman. “We need him. he has to be our scoring threat in the low post. To keep nur­turing that is really important to me with him. ... I’m really pleased with the weekend for him.” 
After shooting just 37 percent in the first half, the Irish shot 75 per­cent in the second period. Notre Dame shot 6-for-8 on 3-pointers in the second half. 
“I liked our energy level in the second half much better than the first half,” Brey said. “Disappointed in our juice in the first half; second half, better, more efficient offen­sively and made better decisions in transition.” 
The Irish scored all 10 of their fast-break points in the second half, as the Black Knights turned the ball over nine times in the peri­od. Notre Dame finished the game with 31 points off Army miscues. 
“For the most part in the game, we competed in terms of rebound­ing, but we didn’t take care of the ball, which puts us in a hole in the transition game,” Army coach Zach Spiker said. “That led to a number of easy looks, and that’s why we saw their shooting percentage ex­tremely high in the second half.” 
Although Shipp wore two pairs of socks to keep his feet warm during the game, he said the temperatures in the low-20s didn’t bother the players once play began. 
“I think the biggest thing was the lack of wind,” Shipp said. “It was cold, but honestly I didn’t even think about it. I don’t think many people did think about it. When it’s really windy, it’s some­thing you think about each half, whether you’re going into the wind or out of the wind.” 
The Irish will now face No. 14 Wake Forest, who defeated Navy, 2-1, during Sunday’s sec­ond-round action. Wake Forest (10-5-5, 6-1-4 ACC) is not an un­known quantity for the Irish, 
The Irish starting backcourt combined for 10 steals, leading to some easy opportunities in the open court. 
“Our team is really good in tran­sition,” grant said. “I think getting steals leads to that. As long as you can get out in transition, our of­fense will be good.” 
Army did not make a 3-pointer in the first half and shot just 5-for-25 from behind the arc. 
“We were going to have to take that away, or else it could have got real interesting,” Brey said. 
Sherman helped Notre Dame open up a 15-point second-half lead by scoring 10 consecutive points in a 2:50 span. The Irish iced the game with an 18-0 run across 
3:21 to build a 33-point lead. 
Burgett made his first career start against Army, replacing grad­uate student forward Tom Knight in the lineup. he scored two points and grabbed five boards in 20 min­utes of action. 
“Maybe everybody I start in that spot can’t handle it,” Brey said. “We’ll just keep trying guys until somebody can handle it.” 
“We don’t have time to feel sorry for him,” Brey said. “Who wants to start and who can play? We’ll figure it out.” 
Notre Dame will try to push its win streak to three games Sunday when it takes on Cornell at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT 
who defeated the Deacons, 3-1, on Nov. 2. 
“Wake Forest is a very, very good team, arguably the best team we’ve played in the ACC,” Clark said. “[It’s] between them and virginia. This will be a challenge. It’s the same kind of challenge we ran into last year when we played Indiana. So can we grow and can we take it another step? I think we feel we’ve been on the doorstep a few times now, but it’s not easy in these one-off games.” 
The Irish will host Wake Forest at Alumni Stadium in the third round of the NCAA Championship on Dec. 1. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at          vjacobse@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | WIll ShORTZ 

Across 41 U.K. honour 68 Furry ally of Luke 1 Woman in a choir 42 Posturepedic Skywalker 5 Scribbled, say maker 69 Major Calif.-to­10 One piece of a 43 Neckwear Fla. route 
three-piece suit for informal 70 With cunning 14 Lav occasions? 71 100-yard race, 15 “Horrible” comic 46 ___ rummy e.g.
strip character 47 Top of a woman’s 16 Sound in a long swimsuit Down hallway 48 City that a song 
1 Cracked a little 
17 Golden ___ asks “Do you 
2 Target’s target, 

(senior) know the way to 
e.g.
18 Tennis champ …?” 
3 He and she 

Agassi 51 Neckwear for 19 Provoke boyfriends? 4 Entrance to a freeway
20 Neckwear for 56 “O Sole ___” 5 “Anything going 
princes? 57 States with 22 Jiggly dessert confidence on?” 6 Indian princess 
23 Calendar pgs. 58 Neckwear in a 24 Neckwear for 
work of fiction? 7 Nash who loved a full baseball 63 Rosemary, for to rhyme team? one 8 Ankle bones 26 Alternative to 64 Blew it 9 Byron’s “before” “shape up” 65 Doughnut 10 Do nothing 30 Vote for shapes, 
11 Food-poisoning31 The “p” in r.p.m. mathematically bacteria 32 Neckwear just 66 Song in a libretto 12 Oil-producingright for the 67 Andrea ___ rock occasion? (ship in 1956 
13 Fusses 
38 Have a life headlines) 21 Lav 22 Derisive shouts 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
25 Bill ___, the Science Guy 26 Design detail, for short 27 Six: Prefix 28 Pupil surrounder 29 Harness race gait 33 Japanese sash 
34 What “Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers” has a lot of 
35 Villain who says “O, beware, my lord, of jealousy” 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  62  
63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Puzzle by Tom Pepper 

36 Yale students, 49 Goose egg 59 Part of a bridal 
informally 50 Scribbled (down) ensemble 37 “Auld Lang ___” 60 Des Moines’s 
51 Faith founded 39 Like bedroom in 19th-century state communities 
Persia 61 Arrow shooter of 40 Bite-size pies, 52 Turn inside out Greek myth 

maybe 53 Eagle’s nest 62 Worshiper in a 
44 China’s Chou En-___ 54 Become a temple member: Var.

45 Expeditious type 64 Magazineof delivery 55 “My bad” staffers, for short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOphER BRuCKER 
SUDOKU | ThE MEphAM gROup 
Level: 
1  2  3  4  


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hIllARy MANgIAFORTE 


11/19/12 



Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | EugENIA lAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sarah hyland, 23; Katherine heigl, 35; Colin hanks, 36; pete Best, 72. 
Happy Birthday: Keep a level head and communicate with diplomacy. Make each move with a plan that will enable you to avoid interference. Think outside the box and offer unique solutions to any problem that arises. how you handle others will be the key to your success this year. Acceptance and adaptability will show you are willing to work with others. your numbers are 4, 18, 23, 26, 33, 37, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you will discover a way to enhance your financial situation through an unusual but profitable manner. protect your reputation from someone who may be jealous or feels threatened by you. Rise above and treat such a matter with class, not revenge. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): gravitate toward the people who have something substantial to offer. Show off your skills and knowledge and you will be given an opportunity to try your hand at something that interests you. Romance will entice you. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Connect with people from your past. Attending a re­union or taking a walk down memory lane will remind you of past wins and losses. learn from what you’ve encountered along the way and you will prosper emotion­ally and financially. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you don’t have to make changes to follow your dreams. Impulsive moves will work against you when it comes to getting ahead or maintain­ing your reputation. Focus on an important relationship. put love first. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do your best to avoid trouble at home or with family. get in­volved in activities that will help you explore something that interests or challenges you physically. personal improvements will do you good and help you prosper. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Communication is your ticket to getting what you want when you want it. Express your desires and be open about your feelings and you will turn an important relationship into something very special. Make a domestic change for the right reason. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get the facts before going off on a tangent that will leave hard feelings between you and a close friend. It’s not worth arguing over assump­tions about what’s happened in the past. Make a decision you can live with and move forward. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep your emotions well hidden. put your attention on what you want to achieve or enjoy doing. Include the people you love in your plans for the future as well as the present. A romantic end to your day will enrich your love life. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):  Keep moving, but don’t take physical risks that can result in injury. Mishaps are apparent if you don’t look before you leap emotion­ally or financially. Cut corners at home and you will have cash to explore a new interest. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take care of business, regardless of what day of the week it is. Money matters must be looked at carefully and a strategic move made. you stand to prosper through a joint venture. Money contracts and romance are highlighted. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Being led astray by someone who is trying to get something from you is apparent. you must look at the motives behind what you are being asked to do. look for a way to appease others without restricting your options. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): By helping others, you will end up in a position that will allow you to present and promote your own interests. Contracts and settlements will favor you. your relationships will grow, your love life will be enriched and your ledger will show profits. 

Birthday Baby: you are creative, charming and progressive. you are impulsive and demonstrative. 
JUMBLE | DAvID hOyT AND JEFF KNuREK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
GUPER  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
PICAN  

TIVERH SARDIH  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Print answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HONEY KIOSK SYMBOL CRAFTYSaturday’s 
Answer: What they called the bad Irish tribute band — SHAM ROCK 



Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
p.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

ThE OBSERvER |  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 1, WMu 0; MICh. 1, ND 0 
Notre Dame exits in Sweet 16 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
In 90 minutes of soccer in arctic conditions at university of Michigan Soccer Stadium in Ann Arbor, Mich., two bounc­es helped to decide the third-round NCAA Championship matchup between No. 23 Notre Dame and No. 11 Michigan on Sunday, as the Wolverines de­feated the Irish, 1-0, to end their season. 
An inadvertent handball call that led to a successful Michigan penalty kick early in the second half and a red card issued to Irish junior defender Sammy Scofield in the 67th minute proved to be the differences. 
“It’s disappointing to get to this point where we lost to a team that we’re actually bet­ter than,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “But I’m really proud of the fight they put in, especially in the last twenty minutes when we had the man down.” 

With temperatures dipping into the low 20s, the Irish (13­8-1, 7-5-1 ACC) jumped out of the gate strong, controlling play and peppering Michigan fresh­man goalkeeper Taylor Bucklin with shots early. Notre Dame se­nior midfielder Mandy laddish gave the Irish their best scor­ing chance in the half with her strike off the cross bar in the 15th minute. Irish freshman Kaela little did her part to keep the Wolverines (18-3-1, 9-1-1 Big Ten) off the board by notch­ing five first-half saves, includ­ing a diving stop on a shot by Michigan senior forward Nkem Ezurike. 
“The first 25 minutes was very good,” Waldrum said. “I thought we were the better team and had a good rhythm going. For what­ever reason, we kind of lost 
see W SOCCER PAGE 12 

MEN’S SOCCER | NOTRE DAME 4, WISCONSIN 0 
ND lights up Wisconsin 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

Junior forward vince Cicciarelli gave No. 3 Notre Dame the early lead over No. 19 Wisconsin, and Irish piled on during Sunday night’s frig­id game at Alumni Stadium, earning a 4-0 win and a spot in the third round of the NCAA Championship. 
“Obviously it was a good game from our point of view, and I thought [the Badgers] were a good team,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “They play well, but we scored the early goal … I think it was a good performance.” 
Cicciarelli broke open the game in the seventh minute in what first appeared to be an off-balance shot headed over the goal. Instead, the arching shot sailed between the crossbar and the hands of Wisconsin se­nior goalkeeper Max Jentsch to put the Irish (13-1-6, 7-1-3 ACC) ahead, 1-0. 
“We got that goal in the first 10 minutes, and I think that forced them to come out and play,” Irish senior forward harrison Shipp said. “I think they wanted to play a more defensive strat­egy, but when we got that early goal it forced them to pressure higher up the field and allowed big spaces behind, which we took advantage of.” 

Shipp stretched the lead to 2-0 with a goal off a free kick in the 22nd minute. “The little Wizard” needed no trickery to sink this one, as he powered the 
see M SOCCER PAGE 14 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | NOTRE DAME 84, SANTA ClARA 69; NOTRE DAME 93, ARMy 60 
Irish claim weekend wins 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Notre Dame rebounded from its first loss of the season to sweep a pair of games against Santa Clara and Army this weekend. 
The Irish (4-1) beat Santa Clara (2-2), 84-69, on Friday night behind 20 points from senior guard Jerian grant and 16 apiece from gradu­ate student garrick Sherman and senior guard Eric Atkins. 
“Nothing was that easy tonight,” Atkins said Friday. “[Santa Clara] knocked down some contested shots early, but we also made ev­ery shot contested. That was the biggest difference for us since last Sunday.” 
Freshman guard Demetrius Jackson posted career-highs in both points (13) and rebounds (eight), while sophomore forward Austin Burgett pulled down a sea-son-best 10 rebounds. 
“[Burgett] had 10 rebounds and was active and all over the place,” Irish coach Mike Brey said Friday. “he’s giving us really big minutes. he’s another guy like Demetrius that can really grow.” 
Santa Clara junior guard Brandon Clark led the Broncos with 21 points on 8-for-15 shooting. 
The Broncos hung with the Irish for most of the first half, leading 23-22 with 7:03 left in the opening period. But the Irish ripped off a 17-5 run to claim an 11-point lead, capped by Jackson’s 3-pointer with 2:21 left in the half. Notre Dame never trailed again in the game. 

Santa Clara cut the Irish lead to four points midway through the second half, but Notre Dame re­sponded with a 12-0 run over the next 3:03, opening up a 16-point cushion. 
Notre Dame owned the boards against the Broncos, outrebound­ing Santa Clara, 42-25, including 16-10 on the offensive glass. 
The Irish also capitalized on their trips to the charity stripe, hitting 23 of 27 free throws in the game. 

On Sunday afternoon, Notre Dame used balanced scoring and a hot second half to coast to a 93­60 win over Army (1-4). 
Sherman and grant led the bal­anced Irish attack with 19 points each, as the duo shot a combined 14-for-19 from the floor. Sherman added seven rebounds, while grant tallied eight assists and six steals. 
In the team’s loss to Indiana State last Sunday, Sherman had just four points and five rebounds. In the two wins this weekend, 
see M BBAll PAGE 14 
MEN’S INTERHALL | KEOugh 12, AluMNI 0 
Keough earns first championship 
By ALEX CARSON 
Sports Writer 
All three of No. 4 Keough’s units — offense, defense and special teams — contributed to its first interhall title Sunday with a 12-0 victory over No. 2 Alumni at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Kangaroos (6-1) controlled the game from the start, as they forced an early three-and-out on Alumni’s first drive. 
Senior Samuel Bungum blocked the ensuing Dawgs punt, allowing the Keough offense to take over on the 20-yard line. 
Kangaroos senior quarterback 
see M INTERhAll PAGE 12 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL | pASQuERIllA WEST 19, RyAN 13 
Weasels finish year undefeated 
By CASEY KARNES 
Sports Writer 
No. 1 pasquerilla West com­pleted an undefeated cham­pionship season Sunday with a 19-13 victory over No. 2 Ryan on the frozen tundra at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Despite temperatures in the 20s and snow covering the ground, pasquerilla West (9-0) got off to a strong start. Senior quarterback Rachel Rogers led the purple Weasels on several early incursions deep into Wildcats territory. 
pasquerilla West caused a turnover-on-downs on Ryan’s first possession, and then Rogers marched down the field before finding freshman receiver Danyelle Steichen in the end zone to give the purple Weasels an early 6-0 lead. Senior offen­sive lineman Elaine Rousseau said pasquerilla West’s good start gave the team confi­dence, but Ryan (7-1-1) never 
see W INTERhAll PAGE 12 




