The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 10 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame falls to Michigan 
Wolverines beat the Irish, 41-30, in the last scheduled rivalry match-up in the Big House 
By CHRISTOPHER DANIEL 
news writer 
The irish traveled to michigan stadium this weekend to face off against one of their historic ri­vals: the michigan wolverines. in a nighttime battle under the lights, the wolverines defeated the irish 41-30 and left nd fans disappointed. 
saturday’s game marked the second time that notre dame has played a night game in the michigan stadium “we just came up short on a couple of key plays … we weren’t able to come up with [them] offensively,” irish coach brian Kelly said after the game 
John o’brien, a senior study­ing mechanical engineering, said that michigan stadium was an extremely exciting environment. 
“it’s a great rivalry,” o’brien said, “There were 115,109 people there, but there was a lot of yellow.” 
Junior defensive lineman stephon Tuitt’s fourth-quarter end-zone interception, whichn­cut the wolverine lead to 34-27s 
raiset  hopep  for  many  notre  
dame fane.   
sophomore  luke Kiefer said  

that the small section of notre dame fans around him at the game got very excited. 
“people just went crazy during the interception in the end zone,” Kiefer said, “The small patch of green that was around me went nuts.” 
Kiefer said that although there were an overwhelming amount of michigan fans, plenty of sup­port could be seen from irish fans as well. 
Thy notre dame marching band returned to ann arbor for saturday’s game despite an ag­gressive run-in between band members and michigan fans in 2011.  Freshman band member James ryan said he experiensed verbal insults but little physical hostility this year from michigan fans.   
“yells of ‘go home,’ and ‘play a song,) could be heard from their fans,” ryan said. “one woman behind me insisted on hitting me with her pom-pom whenever she could since i was in the back row.” 
despite a few unpleasant en­counters, ryan said the michigan band was respectable and cor­dial. “it was a really cool place to be, even though we lost,” he said 
while fans are upset over the loss, others are more upset that michigan is being dropped from notre dame’s schedule.  The teams are not scheduled to play again after 2014. 
last week, michigan head coach brady hoke said notre dame was “chickening out” of the rivalry to cbssports.com on may 13. 
notre dame coach brian Kelly said to the chicago Tribune on sept. 1 that he looked at the game as another challenge for his team. 
“i really haven’t seen it as one of those historic, traditional notre dame rivalries,” Kelly said. 

Contact Christopher Daniel at cdaniel4@nd.edu 




NDSP reports sexual assault 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame security police (ndsp) is investigating a sexual as­sault reported over the weekend, ac­cording to an email sent to students saturday evening. 
The reported sexual assault oc­curred in a men’s residence hall on north Quad during the early morn­ing hours saturday, police said. The assault was committed by a male. 
in the email, police warned stu­dents of the risk of sexual assault. 
“sexual assault can happen to anyone at any time,” the email stated. “college students are more likely to be assaulted by an acquain­tance than a stranger. This means that the person perpetrating the assault could be part of the campus community. 
“being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.” 
information about sexual as­sault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is avail­able online from both ndsp and the committee for sexual assault prevention, the email stated. 

panelists tell women to seek ‘balance’ 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
can notre dame women have it all?  panelists muffet mcgraw, susan pratt-rosato and dr. mary o’callaghan ad­dressed this question for this year’s first installment of the professors for lunch series. 
The panel discussion, titled “can notre dame women have it all? career, Family, and the pursuit of post-graduation happiness,” brought the three women to the south dining hall’s oak room on Friday at noon. The audience was filled with members of the notre dame community, especially young women, eager to hear about the opinions and life ex­periences of the panelists. 
o’callaghan, a notre dame alumna, stay-at-home mother and activist for children with disabilities, began the discus­sion. she said she was glad to be part of this discussion. 
“i’m really grateful to be part of this discussion, and it’s great that we have this conversation 
see panel PAGE 6 


syrian crisis sparks activism 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 

in response to pope Francis’ call for a day of prayer and fast­ing to promote peace in syria, notre dame community lead­ers galvanized on-campus par­ticipation throughout the day on saturday. 
Junior matthew caponigro, a member of the notre dame peace Fellowship, explained the importance of notre dame’s re­action to the papal declaration for a day of peace and prayer. 
“it’s especially important that so many people were in­volved at notre dame because pope Francis called for this day 
For more information regarding the crisis in Syria, attend the panel discussion, 

“RESPONDING TO THE CRISIS IN SYRIA” 
Tuesday, September 10th at 4:30 pm 
in the Hesburgh Center for International 


Studies Auditorium 
of prayer on the feast day of our lady, in whose honor our uni­versity is founded,” caponigro said. 
The centrality of saint mary permeated the event. 
“opening prayer took place 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 
beneath the outstretched arms of the gilded statue of mary atop the golden dome, and for closing prayer we met again un­der the auspice of mother mary 
see syria PAGE 6 


irish Food drive PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 11 men’s soccer PAGE 20 women’s volleyball PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your stress reliever at this time of year? 

Lauren Jamieson 

Nikki Charter 
sophomore 
junior 
le mans hall 
le mans hall 
“running.” 
“leg day.” 

Kate McCaw 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“reading a book for pleasure rather than an assignment.” 



Kelley Wright 
junior 
le mans hall 

“a morning run by the lakes.” 

Carolyn Schafer 
junior 
le mans hall 
“working out.” 



Guadalupe Garcilazo 
junior le mans hall 

“drawing or listening to good music.” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
meg handelman samantha Zuba Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
charitha isanaka vicky Jacobsen nicole mcalee casey Karnes 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa gabriela leskur 
Photo Viewpoint 

Architecture Lecture Student Safety Conversion and Zen Meditation Women’s Volleyball 
grant Tobin dan brombach oe Kenesey Bond Hall Summit Literature Workshop Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion 
4:30p.m.-6:30 p.m. Carey Auditorium Geddes Hall Center 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Lecture on “Chinese 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. The Irish take on 
Corrections Architecture and the Panel with local police “Classical and Late Open to students of all Loyola Chicago in the Beaux Arts.”  agencies. Antiquity” workshop. faiths.  Shamrock Invitational. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at Berges Lecture Four:7 Catholic Kaneb Center “The Angel’s Share” “Before Midnight” all times. we do, however, recognize that DeBartolo Hall Fellowship Workshop DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing we will make mistakes. if we have made 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall DeBartolo Hall Arts Center Arts Center a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-“The Notion of 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 9:30 p.m. 
4541 so we can correct our error. 
Competing,” second in Student-led praise and “Using Rubrics to Part of the Nanovic A couple reflects on the lecture series. fellowship. Assess Student Work.” Institute Film Series. their life together. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | The observer 

nd launches food drive 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
Today marks the begin­ning of the third annual “Fighting irish, Fighting hunger” food drive kicks off this week, which will last through sept. 29. 
anne Kolaczyk, chair­person of “Fighting irish, Fighting hunger,” said the 
drive  began  in  2010  under  
the name of “holy  cross  
harvest.”  

“it combined all the small food drives held by depart­ments into one,” she said. “we collected about 600 pounds of food and about $2,500 in cash donations.” 
The drive was originally envisioned as a joint effort between the notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross, but has since been converted to a notre dame drive, Kolaczyk said. she said the drive was re-named “Fighting irish, Fighting hunger” this year to reflect that. 
“The name reflects notre dame’s unique effort, but we are still part of the ‘holy cross harvest’ food drive,” she said. “we also moved the date of the drive to september to coordinate with hunger action month.” 
Kolaczyk said the drive’s new time has allowed for the committee to use different fundraising techniques to target visitors on campus, as well as faculty and staff. 

“There will be a special collection in the basilica the weekend of the michigan state game,” she said. “also, there will be donation jars at Food service locations, and students attending the blackhawks scrimmage on campus will be asked to bring a food item.” 
“A lot of kids depend on free breakfast and lunch at school because there’s not enough food at home[...] Everything we get is needed.” 
Anne Kolaczyk 
chairperson 

Kolaczyk said all the food donations will go to united way, which has a coalition of local food pantries. 
“The money will be divid­ed between the Food bank of northern indiana and people gotta eat, a united way organization,” she said. “united way has a donor who is willing to match our 
paid adverTisemenT 

monetary donation.” 
Kolaczyk said that the last food drive was in Feb. 2013. 
“people were very gener­ous eight and nine months ago, and we felt it was impor­tant to have another drive now,” she said. “we didn’t want people to forget about us.” 
The demand for donations is very high, especially in northern indiana, Kolaczyk said. 
“a lot of kids depend on free breakfast and lunch at school because there’s not enough food at home,” she said. “everything we get is needed.” 
according to a 2010 state report prepared for Feeding indiana’s hungry, inc., 80 percent of indiana food pan­tries have experienced an increase in the number of clients since 2006. 
“many emergency food providers turn people away because they do not have enough food,” the report said. “29 percent of pantries, 11 percent of kitchens and 42 percent of shelters reported turning away clients during the previous year.” 
donation barrels are lo­cated around campus. check fightinghunger.nd.edu for more information. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
senior college democrat appears on hannity show 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 
senior adam newman rep­resented notre dame’s college democrats in a sept. 6 episode of Fox news host sean hannity’s primetime show. 
newman (Editor’s Note: Newman is a Viewpoint colum­nist.) said the hannity show assembled a group of seven republican and seven democrat college students from schools across the country to discuss current issues. 
“Fox flew me out to new york, put me in a hotel in Times square, had a driver to the hotel, a driver to the airport on the way home,” newman said. “it was all inclusive, essentially.” 
For the debate, the students sat in three rows of chairs while hannity posed questions about current events and called on certain students to answer. newman said the students had received a list of 10 poten­tial questions before the show, but they were not reflective of the questions hannity actually asked. 
“sean did not go by those at all,” he said. “[There was] no talk of foreign policy. it was more debt and deficits. i’d say a lot of the issues were covered, but not in the way they represented it … Them giving me those questions didn’t help at all.” 
newman said he prepared be­yond the scope of the questions he received to make sure he was ready for the debate. 
“This was an opportunity that many people would kill for, and i wanted to know leading up to it that i had done my best to prepare,” he said. “even though we’re only talking about a three or four minute segment of me talking … [i did] a lot of fact checking, i watched a lot of his tape. i wrote out talking points for almost every issue, and it was definitely worth it.” 
newman said he caught hannity, a staunch conserva­tive, off guard a couple times, but his favorite moments were edited out of the show. 
“[hannity] took out parts that didn’t make him look good … it was an opportunity of a lifetime, and i think i did very well,” he said. “however, they did edit me out, and this is going to come across as egotistical, but they did edit me out because i did a very good job.” 
in the episode as it aired, newman spoke about taxes and health care, but in an unaired segment, newman said hannity called him a marxist after he expressed moderate agreement with a quote from Karl marx. 
“he said, ‘you’re a communist, adam, you’re a communist,’” newman said. “i said, ‘sean, i know what you do on this show, you call people names. i’m a moderate democrat. i am not a communist.’ at the time i wasn’t that affected by it. i don’t really care what he says. but after talk­ing to my parents about it, it was interesting because i know that being called a communist has a much different connotation 
“He said, ‘You’re a communist, Adam’ ... I said, ‘Sean, I know what you do on this show, you call people names. I’m a moderate Democrat. I am not a Communist.’” 
Adam Newman 
senior 
for our parents’ age than for our age.” 
newman said hannity came off as a “bully” toward the stu­dents who appeared on his show. 
“These are college students. They’re younger. They’ve nev­er been on Tv before, and he went after them,” he said. “he was trying to embarrass them. he was trying to condescend them. he was picking on them, on the weaker ones … This is the hannity i’m used to. i didn’t expect anything different, but for some people he did come off very rudely.” 
newman said he expected hannity to be friendlier in the green room before the show, but was surprised at his choice of conversation topic. 
“i know who he is on Tv, and i would’ve thought that before­hand he would’ve been like, ‘how’s school going? what did you do this summer? what do you have going on this semes­ter?’” he said. “he was right away like, ‘you’re a democrat from notre dame. what’s going on with you, man? i didn’t know there were democrats at notre dame.’ he was really going after me right away.” 
despite hannity’s argumen­tative tone, newman said he is proud of his performance on the show and is grateful for the op­portunity to defend his beliefs. 
“Thanks to college [democrats’] leadership for put­ting me out there. They trust me enough to do this,” he said. “They were very kind and trust­ing, and i’m so thankful for their faith in me.” 
clips from newman’s appear­ance are available on foxnews. com. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | The observer 




nd adds study abroad locations 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
notre dame’s office of international studies an­nounced they will offer three new opportunities for students to study abroad this spring. The programs will take place in south Korea, spain and switzerland be­ginning in 2014. 
Kathleen opel, director of the international studies department, said these programs were chosen at new sites to offer opportu­nities in locations where notre dame did not previ­ously have study abroad programs. 
“All three programs are starting with relatively few competitively selected students [...] Our goal is to provide more opportunities in different disciplines and geographic areas” 
Kathleen Opel 
director 
“students are offered new opportunities in engineer­ing, physics and a wide array programming at a top re­search university in Korea,” she said. “additionally, stu­dents on campus will ben­efit from the participation of international exchange students in their classes and residence halls. 

a press release from the international studies de­partment stated that notre dame will partner with yonsei university in seoul, south Korea to begin a bilat­eral exchange program. The program will be open to un­dergraduates in all majors. 
in south Korea, students will be able to choose from a range of courses including Korean language, Korean studies, business econom­ics, politics, sociology, en­gineering, sciences, and human ecology, the press release stated. The press re­lease said the program does not require knowledge of the Korean language, since all courses will be taught in english. 
“in [the] exchange pro­gram at yonsei university in seoul, several students from yonsei will be able to study here while several of our students can take classes in the many disciplines offered at yonsei,” opel said. 
notre dame also part­nered with the polytechnic institute of valencia in alcoy, spain and will begin a bilateral exchange program in spring 2014, the press re­lease stated. 
The program is designed for sophomore or junior engineering majors, spe­cifically those in chemical, electrical and computer sci­ence engineering, it said. 
“polytechnic institute of valencia in alcoy, spain of­fers engineering study pro­grams that complement engineering studies here on campus,” opel said. “as an exchange program, several students from alcoy will study engineering here at nd while several of our stu­dents may study there.” 
The program is open to only those students who have completed at least two semesters of college-level spanish or the equivalent. 
in spring 2014, students will also have the opportuni­ty to study at the university of geneva (unige) and the european organization for nuclear research (cern) in switzerland, the press release said. The program is made possible through boston university’s geneva­physics program, it said. 
opel said the program in geneva, switzerland would provide students with the outstanding op­portunity to study physics at the university of geneva and work with some of the worlds leading physicists at cern. 
The program will combine coursework in quantum physics and electrodynam­ics at unige and directed research at cern, the press release stated. students ma­joring in physics who have completed at least two se­mesters of college-level French or the equivalent are eligible for the program. 
The press release said students would be required to complete a specifically designed French-language tutorial before studying in geneva. 
“all three programs are starting with relatively few competitively selected students,” opel said. “our goal is to provide more op­portunities in different dis­ciplines and geographic areas.” 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
SMC alum featured in art gallery 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 

moreau art galleries is featuring saint mary’s alum Kristin stransky alongside marilyn minter, an artist re­cently featured in new york’s museum of modern art. 
Though the two exhibits, which opened Friday, aug. 30 are wildly different in me­dium, their themes overlap. 
Tiffany bidler, assistant professor of art and director of the galleries, said her aim is to provide students with professional and education­al pieces that are challeng­ing and innovative in both content and media. 
“my first consideration is whether or not i feel the work will inspire students,” bidler said. 
secondly, she seeks works that engage the various mis­sions of the college. 
“we educate women at saint mary’s college and so i try to bring in the work of women artists whose work touches on issues of gender,” she said. 
The galleries’ director believes the stransky and minter’s exhibits, located in the sister rosaire and the hammes gallery, respective­ly accomplish that mission. 
“The marilyn minter exhi­bition that i curated consid­ers makeup’s materiality and its role in gendered perfor­mances that elicit desire and construct femininity,” bidler said. “my favorite work by stransky is “landing strip.” it’s a brilliant piece about sexuality and boundaries.” 
Technology plays an integral role in both the conception and process of stransky’s pieces, stransky said. 
“ultimately, i saw art as a vehicle to explore both ideas and creation, both intellec­tual and hands on,” she said. 
The little Theater and sister rosaire galleries also previously featured Kristen stransky’s pieces. 
The saint mary’s alumna is currently pursuing a mas­ter of fine arts in emergent digital practices at the university of denver. 
“coding and other tech­nical formats often require adherence to strict pro­cesses and syntax to create a working unit, and i like to think that i bend those rules through meaning and the application of technology to craft and sculptural medi­ums,” stransky said. 
bidler, an art historian, said she likes to spend time comparing works of art, es­pecially in her classes. 
“marilyn minter is an in­ternationally renowned con­temporary artist. i first saw green, pink, caviar while it was on view at the museum of modern art, new york. The video is very sensuous, colorful, and hypnotic — it draws you in,” bidler said of minter’s piece. 
bidler said she loves the hypnotic quality of the minter video, which sucks the viewer into a world of color and pleasure. 
“i love that the context minter provides about the photograph of her mother is at odds with some of the as­sumptions we might make about her mother based on a cursory glance at the pho­tograph. i enjoy having my assumptions challenged by other artists,” she said. 
bidler said the exhibition is a comparison of early work by marilyn minter and a late work by marilyn minter, at a basic level. 
“it seeks to draw out themes that persist over time in her work,” she said. 
as for the connection be­tween stransky and minter, bidler encourages stu­dents to make their own conclusions. 
“i have some ideas about the thematic ties between the Kristin stransky and marilyn minter exhibitions, but i’d love for viewers to come in and make these connections for themselves,” bidler said. 
moreau center for the arts will feature the free exhibits until sept. 20. 
By Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@nd.edu 



Saint Mary’s hosts annual welcome retreat 
By EMILY KEFELAS 
news writer 
This past weekend, saint mary’s campus ministry hosted a spiritual retreat for first-year students centered on faith, com­munity and friendship, 
senior devree stopczynski, retreat leader and this year’s stu­dent coordinator, said the fun­damental themes of the retreat were friendship and community. 
“Through a series of talks, journal time, and small group discussions, the retreat ex­plores the questions ‘who am i?’, ‘what is friendship?’, and fi­nally ‘how do i become part of a community?’” 
The retreat took place at camp amigo in sturgis, michigan. about 30 first-years and their leaders came together for the 24­hour jouney, stopczynski said. 
campus ministry assistant director regina wilson, who at­tended the retreat, said the re­treat aims to provide students with a positive and meaningful way to begin the new year. 
“we always hold this retreat as soon as possible after the school year begins because students get very busy with studies and find it hard to get away later in the year,” wilson said. 
The religious getaway aims to ease any school stress while strengthening students’ connec­tion with christ and their belles community. This was accom­plished through interactive ac­tivities and retreat team stories, freshman Kathryn Fitzmaurice said. 
“The retreat started with some get-to-know-you games,” she said. “we had about three talks throughout the retreat given by the retreat team on friendship, and community. They were all very relevant to our lives be­cause they were given by stu­dents.  They were easy to relate to.” 
For students, as well as the up­perclassmen campus ministry intern leaders, the retreat al­lowed fellow first-year students to personally connect and relate on multiple levels, stopczynski said. 
“i definitely see spiritual and communal aspects within these opportunities,” she said. “when first-years come to campus, they may be very focused on faith, but it is usually the first time they are responsible for keeping a faith life, i know that was the case for me. i think this retreat and other opportunities within campus ministry provide first years with an outlet to keep faith life strong and to build a com­munity with other faith filled individuals.” 
Freshman paige spears said a personal motivation for her in­cluded finding fellow students with faith as deep as her own. 
“i was trying to find people that had a faith like mine, a stronger faith, because when you walk around school, you really don’t see the people who love god immediately,” she said. “it was cool to see which ones had the same faith as me [and] find those girls in the crowd.” 
companionship amongst the students enriched with her fa­vorite exercise, which involved involving belle-to-belle honesty, spears said. 
“my favorite thing we did was [an activity] where you had a booklet, and it had open-ended 

retreats unite ethnic students 
By DAN BARABASI 
news writer 
over 150 freshmen of various cultural backgrounds joined together this past weekend to evaluate the place of culture and religion in their lives at notre dame. From Friday afternoon to mid-sunday, students of asian, latino, and african-american backgrounds joined faculty and staff to build a community of shared experiences. 
each ethnic retreat included icebreakers, visits to the grotto, talks given by upperclassmen and staff, a game watch, and mass, but the most important factor was building a sense of community and welcome for the students involved. 
John paul lichon, coordina­tor of campus retreats at notre dame, said the center’s ethnic re­treats aim to stress a balance be­tween culture and religion, and encourage students to also at­tend the five remaining non-eth­nic freshmen retreats throughout the year. 
“The ‘regular’ First-year retreat has a stronger emphasis on how faith, studies, and god work to­gether,” lichon said. “we have a strong show every year, but we hope to integrate the students at ethnic retreats more in the future.” 
The ethnic retreats attracted a strong attendance this year. according to Judy madden, head of the african-american student ministry, the ‘plunge’ retreat boasted attendance of 50 first-year african-american students, which makes up 60 percent of the non-athlete freshmen at notre dame. 
“what i like about these ethnic retreats is that they give a com­munity within the community, building a place that feels like home early on,” madden said. “plunge gives african-american students a safe place to ask ques­tions about teachers, clubs, social life, dating and religion at notre dame.” 
priscilla wong, director for multi-cultural student ministry at notre dame, said this ability of the ethnic retreats program to provide a touchstone to ethnic communities is praiseworthy. 
The ethnic retreats do not end when the students are released back to their dorms, instead they establish a resource for the stu­dents involved, wong said. 
The asian-american re­treat’s theme for this year was “unwritten,” focusing on the four years at the university which will 

Syria 
conTinued From page 1 
at the grotto,” caponigro said. 
caponigro said the fasting portion of saturday’s events, beginning with a morning prayer at the steps of the main building at 10 a.m., was a high­light for participants. 
“Fasting acts as a first step and leads us to solidarity, as it helps us to empathize with the 120,000 refugees in Jordan up­rooted by the conflict and the millions of internally displaced persons in syria without ad­equate nourishment,” he said. 
The eucharistic adoration, in which participants recognized christ’s own suffering in a dis­play of empathy, emphasized solidarity between the partici­pants and those in syria. 
“The central message is building relationships and peace through encounter­ing each other in this way,” caponigro said. 
The fasting period followed morning prayer and lasted until 4:30 p.m., at which point participants from across the campus gathered at the grotto to offer prayers for peace. 
senior christopher Torres, secretary for the militia of the immaculata, said that prayer is about more than recitation. 
“god gives us unique oppor­tunities in which he offers us be “written” by the students. 

sophomore gaby mercurio, a student leader of the asian­american retreat, said the leaders worked hard to make freshmen feel comfortable in the on-cam­pus community. 
“we just wanted the first years to know that they could always come to the upperclassmen and feel at home,” mercurio said. 
“if they’re ever feeling home­sick, we have asian food for them,” she said. 
wong said the retreats pro­gram works to enable freshmen to place themselves in the larger nd community. 
“we have this welcome group of people and programs to work with the first years,” wong said, “but what we really try to do is to provide an open arms.” 
Contact Dan Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 

prompts like, ‘what i think of you is...’” spears said. “you an­swer to [your partner] what you think of them [...] and [the prompts] get deeper as you go. you just read these [questions] and you just have this really deep conversation with some­one.  it was awesome.” 
Through time together around campfire, singing and a taking spiritual walk, the girls were able to truly experience god’s pres­ence in their lives, spears said. 
“it was so beautiful and we were just emerged in nature thanking god for all he has giv­en us ... it was super effective and meaningful.” she said. 
self-reflection following two weeks of hectic schedules al­lows for room in students’ lives for spiritual and collective ex­ploration needed to positively impact their college experience, stopczynski said. 
“i think the first years really enjoy knowing that they are not the only ones going through a change in terms of faith life, student life, and social life.” stopczynski said. ”They get to begin long lasting relationships with other women that have similar views, hopes, fears, and goals.” 
students always voice a very positive perception of the retreat upon returning, and they appre­ciate the opportunity to share a piece of themselves with others they come to call friends, wilson said. 
“The students understand and come to know saint mary’s is a place that is committed to nurturing faith, to building a community that is empowered by the spirit and that they are known and valued for who they are.” wilson said. ”They come to build friendships, for many of them, that last throughout their four years.” 
spears said these friendships would be rooted in god follow­ing the retreat. 
“god’s there, and we all be­lieve in god. These girls are there for you, and if you ever need anything, you have a solid select group of 29 friends immediately.” 
Contact Emily Kefelas at ekefala@saintmarys.edu 
graces, a moment when we can ally ourselves with the suffer­ing people in the world, and i felt that i could help participate in that saving action through prayer,” he said. 
as part of the pope’s call to peace, Torres said prayer can be used to facilitate action for peace in syria. 
“hopefully, the hearts of the government officials are inspired to move toward dia­logue rather than violence,” he said. “we must value the people and their lives. i hope for the consolidation of those who are struggling and facing death, and i pray that god con­soles and protects them.” 
caponigro said institutions on the notre dame campus are already participating in this call to peaceful diplomatic resolutions. 
“The Kroc institute is re­searching the possibilities for peace in syria,” he said. “The situation in syria is still in­credibly convoluted. That is why it is especially important to turn of prayer because the politics are so complicated — that way we can keep in mind the face of the syrian people, and pray that any diplomatic move operates within that perspective.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | The observer 

Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
here because we can move be­yond the rhetoric and think about how we view our voca­tions,” o’callaghan said. 
she said it was important someone tell female students at notre dame that some of them will want to be stay-at-home mothers. 
“There’s a big emphasis on career success for notre dame graduates, but we do you a dis­service if we don’t also tell you some of you will feel a strong pull to stay at home with your children,” she said. 
o’callaghan and her hus­band had their first child while they were both in graduate school and shared the child­care duties. she said she was drawn to the idea of staying at home. 
“i felt being a mother really resonated with me on a deep level. it was simply my personal response to having this baby in front of me,” she said. 
o’callaghan said she de­cided to finish her degree be­fore becoming a stay-at-home mother after a friend advised her that people would more readily listen to what she had to say down the road, if she com­pleted her education. 
she said this advice has paid off in her efforts as co-founder of inForming life, a non-profit organization that offers sup­port to parents whose child re­ceives a pre-natal diagnosis of down’s syndrome. 
o’callaghan also said there is a misconception that she and other well-educated stay-at­home moms are wasting their education. 
“universities aren’t glorified vocational schools, and educa­tion is about more than career preparation,” she said. “most of the stay-at-home mothers i know have found creative ways to use their education.” 
pratt-rosato, a notre dame political science professor, said that she initially found the question “can notre dame women have it all?” somewhat offensive. she said she needed to know what “all” means be­cause it is impossible to truly have everything one wants. 
“can we have it all? obviously no. we’re not hermione granger. dumbledore didn’t give us a time turner so we can be a Fortune 500 ceo and then go home and breastfeed,” she said. 
she said, rather than trying to “have it all,” women should seek the balance in their lives that is right for them. 
“life is about balance, and balance isn’t going to be the 
“We just don’t sell ourselves. Believe in yourself, know what you can do and then tell people you can do it.” 
Muffet McGraw 
women’s basketball coach 
same for all of us,” she said. 
pratt-rosato said what both­ers her most is the sense of guilt among both mothers who remain in the work force and mothers who stay at home. 
“That is the part that angers me, that we have to feel guilty about making a choice,” she said. “recognize that life is go­ing to present you with choices and see them as opportunities. don’t be afraid to make mis­takes and know there’s no wrong choice.” 

she said women’s reactions to this question are bound to change over a lifetime. 
“what you want now in your 20’s is going to change in your 30’s, in your 40’s, in your 50’s and in your 60’s,” pratt-rosato said. 
pratt-rosato also echoed o’callaghan’s opposition to the idea of stay-at-home mothers wasting an education. she said it is worth getting an education for its own sake. 
“education can be an end in itself, it doesn’t have to be a means to something else,” she said. 
pratt-rosato said young women should not lose sight of the fact having the opportunity to be a stay-at-home mom is a “luxury” and many american women don’t have that option. 
muffet mcgraw, irish wom­en’s basketball head coach, said in addition to choosing between the home and the workplace at the individual lev­el, there should be an effort to change how we view the ques­tion on a societal level. 
“when you make your choice you have to make sure it’s a choice you’re making and not one you’re backing into,” she said. “The more confident you are when you make your choice the better you feel about it.” 
mcgraw said in her case ste­reotypes about men and wom­en have never fit her. 
“women are supposed to be warm, sensitive and caring, but i’ve never been like that. men are supposed to be ambitious, driven and confident and i’ve always been all those things,” she said. 
she said women need to chal­lenge these stereotypes and need to make a greater effort to project confidence. 
“we just don’t sell ourselves. believe in yourself, know what you can do and then tell people you can do it,” mcgraw said. 
The professors for lunch panel series is sponsored by the department of political science and the Tocqueville program. 
Contact Christian Myers at  cmyers@nd.edu 

3-year-old fatally shoots herself 
Associated Press 
yellowsTone naTional parK, wyo. — yellowstone national park officials are in­vestigating after an idaho woman reported her 3-year-old daughter shot herself with a handgun in a campground. 
park rangers responded saturday morning to grant village campground, but re­suscitation efforts failed, re­sulting in what officials said was the first shooting death in the park since 1978. 
park spokesman al nash said sunday that part of the camp­ground remained cordoned off while park rangers and special park agents conduct the inves­tigation. he said he didn’t know where the girl’s body was taken. 
“we don’t have all of the in­formation, and we haven’t drawn any conclusions,” nash said. 
he said he didn’t know how many family members were camping or where they are from in idaho. names haven’t been released. 
a federal law went into effect Feb. 22, 2010, allowing visitors to possess firearms in the park. nash said records show two shooting deaths occurred in the park in 1978, but he didn’t have details. 
“given the 3 million visitors we see here every year, there thankfully are very few fatali­ties reported in the park,” nash said. he said heart attacks were the primary cause of human deaths in the park. 
The park recently reported that through august, about 2.5 million people have visited the park. 
portions of the park are within the borders of wyoming, idaho and montana, with the girl’s death occurring in wyoming. nash said park authorities have exclusive federal jurisdiction because the park predates the formation of those states, but works with surrounding law enforcement agencies. That means park rangers and special park agents are leading the in­vestigation, he said. 
The park has a federal district court, a federal magistrate, and an assistant u.s. attorney based in mammoth hot springs, nash said. 
visitation to the park starts winding down this time of year, but is also favored by some for that reason, as well as the op­portunity to see bugling bull elk as well as other wildlife that can be more visible in cooler weather. 


world Trade center naming rights sold for 10 dollars in 1986 
Associated Press 
woodland parK, n.J. 
— The  public  agency  that  
ow ned  the  world  Trade  
center  sold  its  naming  

rights to a nonprofit more than two decades ago for $10 and now pays thou­sands of dollars a year to use the name, according to a published report. 
The record newspaper of new Jersey reports that a contract shows the port authority of new york and new Jersey sold the rights to the world Trade centers association in 1986. The newspaper obtained the contract through a Freedom of information act request. 
The newspaper report­ed sunday that the port authority pays $10,000 a year to use the words “world Trade center,” including on merchandise it plans to sell in the new world Trade center currently under con­struction. Those sales could bring the port authority an estimated $23 million to $28 million annually. 
in exchange for the port authority’s use of the trade­mark, the wTca is request­ing free office space at the new world Trade center site worth an estimated $585,000 per year, accord­ing to documents obtained by the newspaper. 
current port authority deputy executive direc­tor bill baroni said he was troubled by the revelations. 

“i am gravely concerned that a secret deal, years ago, sold the name of the world Trade center for 10 bucks,” baroni told the newspa­per. “and i’m going to look into the initial contract and look into where we are today with regard to this organization.” 
baroni did not imme­diately return a request for comment from The associated press. 
The wTca was headed by guy Tozzoli, a former port authority executive who, among other accomplish­ments, oversaw the con­struction of the original Twin Towers. according to tax records reviewed by The record, he earned com­bined compensation of $1.7 million from 2009 to 2011, in addition to his $113,000 annual public pension. Tozzoli died this year. 
The wTca was formed to foster international trade and offer support and con­tacts for its members in their local regions. it has trademarks in more than 100 countries and charges an initial $200,000 fee for the use of the name on a building plus the $10,000 annual membership fee, according to The record. it has more than 300 members and in 2011 reported rev­enues of $6.9 million. 
The 1986 contract — signed months before Tozzoli retired from the port authority — gave the wTca rights to five world Trade center trademarks, previously registered with new york state by the port authority, for $10. it was not immediately clear if the agreement violated any laws or ethics rules. 
“I am gravely concerned that a secret deal, years ago, sold the name of the World Trade Center for 10 bucks [...] And I am going to look into the initial contract and look into where we are today with reagard to this organization.” 
Bill Baroni 
Port Authority deputy executive 
director 
stephen berger, the port authority’s executive direc­tor at the time, could not be reached for comment by the newspaper. a message left by the ap at odyssey investment partners, the money management com­pany berger chairs, was not immediately returned sunday. 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Listening, hearing and responding 

INSIDE COLUMN 

who is Fr. sorin? 
Allison D’Ambrosia 
photographer 

who is @Fathersorin? if you are one of the 5,783 people that follow him on Twitter, you’ve most likely asked yourself this ques­tion multiple times. he’s kind of a big deal. 
once i heard from a priest that, “it’s like he’s at corby with us. he sometimes tweets inside jokes from dinner.” it seems that he must be somewhere on campus. but is it one person or a group of people? is it Father Jenkins? These are all perfectly logical ques­tions when approaching an online profile of a “person.” 
according to the notre dame website, Fr. edward sorin stated, “i came here as a young man and dreamed of building a great uni­versity in honor of our lady. but i built it too small, and she had to burn it to the ground to make the point. so, tomorrow, as soon as the bricks cool, we will rebuild it, bigger and better than ever.” and that he did. now he is reaching an ever-growing number of stu­dents and adults through his tweets. 
not only is Fr. sorin connected to campus life, he’s also attune to the global catholic community. it’s documented that Fr. sorin was the first to predict our current Jesuit pope. if his  connection with the papacy is ex­pected, his intel on the university and its daily functionings are unexpected and a tad fright­ening. while i was staying on campus this summer as an introduction to engineering program counselor, we had a tornado warn­ing. Fr. sorin tweeted this: “glad sacred heart has a basement chapel — i can shelter from storms and get my daily mass in.” 
when asked to speak on the identity of @Fathersorin, dennis brown, university spokesman and assistant vice president of public information and communications, stated, “we don’t spend much time trying to figure out who he is, but a few months ago our social media manager was pretty sure she had figured it out. Then we had a reception for people who manage social media accounts on campus and the person she thought was ‘Father sorin’ was in at­tendance because he manages another ac­count. during the event, there were a couple of tweets from ‘Father sorin’ and the guy she suspected was never on his phone. so, that theory was shot down.” 
when i asked @Fathersorin if he would like to make a statement about his identity, he responded, “i’m not that interesting. write about Ted instead. or george rozum ... he’s quite a cscharacter.” i have made very little headway on discovering who Fr. sorin actu­ally is, but i am almost certain he resides somewhere on campus. his anonymity may add to his appeal and his cleverness, but he is a campus icon and revered by all. brown said, “it may be nice to know his identity, but it’s oK that he’s managed to remain unknown. it’s more fun that way.” 
well done, Fr. sorin . you singlehandedly hold one of the mysteries of the university of notre dame. 
Contact Allison D’Ambrosia at adambro01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Lisa Taylor 
viewpoint columnist 

This past Friday afternoon, i at­tended the panel discussion, “can notre dame women have it all?” in south dining hall. as an out-of-the­closet feminist and a senior looking for a career next year, i entered with high expectations, hoping that the interest­ing combination of panelists — head women’s basketball coach muffet mcgraw, political science professor susan rosato and dedicated mother dr. mary o’callaghan — would spark an interesting conversation or debate about the role of women in today’s society and at notre dame. i left the event with a very satisfied stomach (a free dining hall meal is worth it’s weight in gold compared to cooking for yourself off-campus), but a vague sense of persistent dissatisfaction. 
as my afternoon wore on, i couldn’t shake the ambiguous discontent i felt. why was i so unsatisfied? what had the panel discussion lacked? The panelists presented three very differ­ent yet intriguing perspectives with a focus on balancing work and having a family. dr. o’callaghan defended the traditional role of women as stay-at­home mothers and nurturers. coach mcgraw called upon the young women of notre dame to set aside our perpet­ual judgment of one another and begin building each other up. and professor rosato, with her classic dose of humor, immediately deconstructed the origi­nal question of the panel (of course it’s impossible to have it “all”) and then fo­cused on the more practical aspect of how to achieve a work/family balance. her conclusion was that no, you can’t work a full-time job and bake organic, healthy prune-filled snacks for your kids. and that’s perfectly fine. 
so what was wrong? i finally put my finger on it, but permit me a brief digression about what was, to me, the most intriguing moment of the panel discussion. The conversation was me­andering and somewhat without focus when suddenly a woman stood up. with passion and palpable frustration in her voice, she demanded to know why the conversation was so hetero-normative. what about women like her who weren’t married, didn’t have kids and were completely fine? couldn’t she have it “all” despite not having a spouse or a family? The room fell brief­ly silent in a moment of awkwardness as we all looked at this woman ardent­ly challenging the classic desire for happiness through a nuclear family. but then the conversation resumed as if she hadn’t even said anything. That momentary silence swallowed her per­spective, marginalized her viewpoint and left her challenge uncontested. 
This — the resumption of conversa­tion and refusal to hear the woman’s voice — is what had disquieted me all day. The entire conversation had pro­ceeded with two false assumptions: That every woman wants a spouse and children, and that women have some kind of special, mystical femi­nine nature that makes their desires and decisions fundamentally different than those of men. Further shockingly (or perhaps not so shockingly for notre dame), the word ‘feminism’ was only mentioned once offhand throughout the entire conversation. how can a discussion about some of women’s deepest desires —  their pursuit of pas­sions and whether or not these involve choosing a career and/or a family — not talk about the historic inequality and patriarchy that preclude these from being fully realized? how could we sit there and quietly tell each other that as women, we need to become more like men to succeed in the work­place (demand raises, stop engaging in catty, passive-aggressive judgment of other women and truly collaborate) and insinuate that a choice diverging from the traditional family structure is invalid? 
For me, the word feminism entails a commitment: a commitment to reflect upon the current state of unequal pow­er relations in all spheres of life and to work for the realization of the human dignity and rights of each and every person. Feminism is not about burning bras and hating men. Quite differently, it is about respect and equality in all domains. it is about listening to each and every perspective, acknowledging and valuing diversity and creating a more just, equitable world. it is about defying restrictive binaries and trea­suring each and every person regard­less of gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, class, physical capabilities etc. 
you don’t have to have kids to be val­idated. you don’t have to get married or even be capable of maintaining a remotely stable relationship. you don’t have to have a professional job and make a ton of money, get good grades, wear make-up and stylish clothing, eat healthy, work out or attend intel­lectual talks. regardless of all of these things, you’re human, you’re free and you have dignity. and that’s enough to merit being listened to and responded to. 
Lisa Taylor is a senior studying political science. She can be reached at ltaylo13@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Detroit is only the beginning 
Conor Durkin 
Thinking differently 

even if you don’t really follow much financial or public policy news, there’s a good chance that you heard about one of the biggest public finance events of the summer: detroit’s bankruptcy. 
Following detroit’s declaration of fi­nancial emergency last march, the city filed for chapter nine bankruptcy on July 18. This became the largest munic­ipal bankruptcy filing in u.s. history, with somewhere around $18 billion in existing debts and liabilities. 
as groundbreaking as the detroit bankruptcy was, it should not have come as a great surprise. indeed, the writing has been on the wall for quite some time. The city has seen a tre­mendous population decline since the mid-20th century; at 700,000 cur­rent residents, its population is less than half of its 1950 peak of 1.8 mil­lion people. as its residents fled and its economy worsened, the city’s tax base collapsed, and without any sort of revenue, the city was unable to provide quality public services, creating a neg­ative feedback loop that only worsened the city’s situation. 
while other cities and states across the country may not be experienc­ing the same level of urban decay that detroit has undergone, there is one area of public finance where they share much in common, and it’s one that should leave us very troubled about the future of our local governments: pen­sion liabilities. 
For quite some time, we’ve heard about the perilous position our federal government is in with respect to the national debt and how federal expendi­tures on medicare and social security are likely to cause our future debts to skyrocket in the coming decades. what we haven’t heard, however, is about the future debts that states and cities have been taking on. 
one of the best kept secrets in public finance is how bad state and local pen­sion underfunding really is. over the years, politicians have often responded to demands from public sector unions for higher pay by agreeing to increase their pension payments. it’s a clever way for them to boost pay while kick­ing the can down the road, since these pensions won’t be paid out until many years later. in the meantime, all they need to do is allocate a much smaller amount of money into their pension plan investment funds and use the magic of compounded interest to make that money grow into the amounts they need. 
There’s just one catch: They haven’t put away nearly enough money. 
instead, they’ve either neglected to allocate funds or used accounting tricks such as assuming high rates of return and smoothing out losses to make the funds seem in better shape than they otherwise are. 
according to the pew center on the states, as of 2012, state pension plans across the country were short around $757 billion compared to what they need to be holding in order to pay out future retirees, and are short another $627 billion in the funds for retiree healthcare benefits that they’ve prom­ised. moreover, as large as these num­bers are, many scholars make the case that even these numbers understate the scope of the problem by assuming that the funds will earn a higher rate of return than one should actually pre­dict. according to economists robert novy-marx and Joshua rauh, across the country, states are actually short a whopping $2.5 trillion dollars, and the american enterprise institute’s andrew biggs estimates the problem to be $4.6 trillion dollars, with the average pension plan a mere 41 percent funded. 
some states are worse than others. illinois, for instance, has a pension shortfall of over $150 billion in pen­sion and other retiree-related debts (for comparison’s sake, the state brought in just over $30 billion in tax revenue in 2012), leaving the state’s five retiree funds 57 percent unfunded. moreover, research from the illinois policy institute suggests that using a more reasonable rate of return, the prob­lem becomes much larger, with over $200 billion in pension-related debts. 
These sorts of problems exist at the local level as well. according to Kevin orr, detroit’s emergency manager, the city’s pension funds are underfunded by $3.5 billion, making up almost one-fifth of their total existing debt, and in chicago the unfunded pension liability was reported as $19 billion at the end of 2012. 
it might sound far-fetched to imagine a state like illinois going bankrupt, but a hole that size won’t go away on its own. if politicians continue to refuse to take action on pension reform, bank­ruptcy could be a real possibility. 
we need to understand what’s at stake if that happens. in detroit, re­tired workers like teachers and police­men are being forced to fight in court for the benefits that they have counted on to get them through retirement. They deserve better. The pension un­derfunding problem is one that can be solved, as some places like the cities of san diego or san Jose, or the state of rhode island have shown, and it is one that must be solved. otherwise, gov­ernments in cities and states across the nation could soon be facing a future similar to that in detroit. 
Conor Durkin is a senior studying economics and political science. He can be contacted at cdurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
should we protect endangered species? 
Christopher Glueck 
should science 

i can hear our ancestors turn­ing over in their graves. no, i am not talking about our human ancestors. or even our near-human ancestors. evolutionary theory has reframed our understanding of deep family history, connecting all the lines of life. yet our inter-species ethics remain inchoate. The ethical debate of centuries past has centered on questions of the correct relations among humans and only re­cently has the discussion expanded to include nonhumans. 
The endangered species act (esa) offers a prefect example of the ques­tionable foundation of environmental ethics and pursuant policy. The bill was promulgated in the early 1970s as a means to protect the natural symbols of america, such as the bald eagle and the grizzly bear, and passed nearly unanimously. not long after, the united states Fish and wildlife service (Fws) halted construction of a dam in Tennessee to preserve a little-known and less cared for species of fish, mak­ing politicians realize the ubiquitous value that the act had assigned to any vulnerable species. 
much of the american public re­mains confused. For instance, the californian town of colton found itself beset by red tape from protective land acquisitions aimed at preserving the esa-listed delhi sand flower-loving fly. accordingly, the citizenry protested that people were more important than flies. economic development — much needed in the poor, 78 percent minority and polluted town — would offer op­portunity to colton’s human residents. and for the flies? let them be damned. 
Fws later lamented that it had failed to show the core ethical question at stake: The value of endangered species. in the following paragraphs, i pres­ent four reasons — scientific interest, ecological health, a sense of justice and the works of mercy — that might move people to care about protecting threat­ened nonhuman animals. 
scientists and naturalists marvel at the phenomena of the world. The awe that leaves a researcher agape at the complex reproductive strategy of ducks or the intrinsic beauty of a fly might compel that scientist to advocate for species listing, as was the case in colton. intellectual worth, however, is difficult to argue on the political stage with such strong competing interests. This difficulty results because intel­lectual fascination can sound a lot like aesthetic interest. and while we can argue for preserving beauty, decid­ing what is beautiful is much more difficult. 
alternatively, scientists such as aldo leopold have argued that the preserva­tion of species increases the integrity or stability of an ecosystem: The fly and its neighbors were surviving just fine until developers arrived. ever since, the whole system has been thrown into a detrimental flux. both integrity and stability, however, are premised upon a static picture of the natural world, por­traying a good ecosystem as one that does not change. The more ecologically accurate understanding of the world is much more dynamic. climate, for instance, is a constant source of varia­tion to which living systems must con­stantly adapt. To propose a baseline, in many cases, can border on antiquari­anism which again faces the problem of any aesthetic argument. 
next, we have the argument based on justice for compensation in cases of harm. if one’s activities harm neigh­bors, then out of a sense of fairness, the perpetrator ought to mend the injury. some claim that this debt holds true regardless of the neighbor’s species, so that a developer’s expatriation of threatened species warrants some protection as recompense. Two prob­lems follow. First, rights are typically held by individuals rather than groups. we might liken an extinct species to a truncated family line, but it is ques­tionable that such collective entities have the same rights to perpetuity as do individuals. in addition, compensa­tion is premised upon a right not to be harmed or a right to life, and bearing rights presupposes inviolable worth. problematically, this extension of moral worth to the entire natural world leads to paradoxes. life necessitates death, so is it unethical to kill for food? do disease-causing organisms have a right to life? if ought implies can, then uni­versal rights for the living seem out of the question, at least rights at the same level of inviolability as human rights. 
in order to minimize suffering, one might advocate for a merciful approach to inter-species relations. sentient be­ings — even flies — are capable of pain and, presuming one should avoid caus­ing pain, humans should thus avoid harming all sentient beings. This pre­sumption against causing pain is one of the most basic ethical principles that nearly all ethicists accept. moreover, the compassion extended to other species might even bolster one’s own capacity for mercy within our species. uninhibited compassion, however, is likely to break down for reasons afore­mentioned and the problem of collec­tive entities versus individuals likewise arises. 
personally, i find the third and fourth arguments at least worth pursuing despite their foibles. alas, many would disagree. especially those who, like the residents of colton, are forced to bal­ance human and nonhuman interests. They are likely to continue defending the “home team” unless a clear con­nection between ecological and human health is made or some other economic factor changes. while this may be somewhat reasonable, i find a complete lack of concern for other species deplor­able, especially given our great capacity to do otherwise. 
Christopher Glueck is a senior studying environmental science and philosophy. He can be contacted at cglueck@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




















Matt Niendorf 
Scene Writer 

Your weekend may have been difficult. A regular-season loss. For freshman, the feeling may be one of unfair betrayal, for seniors, chilling familiarity. You may have broken and torched a table after Michigan's final touchdown, or you may have cursed the color maize as you solemnly drove home from the Big House. Today the halls of DeBart will be a little quieter, the North Dining Hall staff a little less friendly, and your work ethic utterly stifled. The fall will seem to have lost all its promise. Yet there is hope, my friends, for a new music season is upon us. Outlined 
against sky-grey Observer page, the Fall Music Preview is back again. 

B.O.A.T.S. II: ME TIME 
Two Chainz (Sept.10) 
Because Mr. Chainz didn’t make enough music this past year and a half. Prediction: Moderately amusing, vaguely annoying. 
MGMT 
MGMT (Sept. 17) 
Coming off their slightly disappointing 2010 “Congratula­tions,” “MGMT” is the band’s third album. The two singles that have been released from the album have been ... weird, but in the best way possible. Prediction: Don’t expect to be playing any of these songs at that dorm party you’re planning to host. They’ll be good songs, but trust me on this one. Instead, listen to “Time to Pretend” as you prepare to be rejected by that Farley girl standing in the corner. 

THE BONES OF WHAT YOU BELIEVE 
Chvrches (Sept. 23) 
This is the highly anticipated first album of the Scottish Indie synth band Chvrches. According to my sources, this album has been leaked online. I definitely haven’t listened to it. I definitely don’t think it’s phenomenal. I definitely don’t HIGHLY recommend torrenting it off-campus somewhere. Prediction: Piracy is not a victimless crime/you wouldn’t download a car. 
NOTHING WAS THE SAME 
Drake (Sept. 24) 
2011’s Take Care brought me over to respecting Drake, and his feature on Kendrick Lamar’s “Poetic Justice” (before Lamar called him out on “Control”) made me borderline like him. “Nothing Was the Same,” Drake’s third album, will be pivotal if he really values my opinion. Prediction: The list of potential features alone seems to make this album pretty strong, if not interesting. 
THE 20/20 EXPERIENCE- 2 of 2 
Justin Timberlake (Sept. 27) 
The second installment of JT’s fourth album, “2 of 2” looks to match the critical acclaim of “1 of 1,” which featured the fantastic/guilty-pleasure-of-mine single “Mirrors.” Prediction: You’ll be hearing some new Justin at The Backer by October. 
BANGERZ 
Miley Cyrus (Oct. 4) 
After her surreal (seriously, I think America collectively questioned the validity of its own reality) performance at the VMAs, Miley’s fourth album is sure to draw attention. Prediction: I’ll use Miley’s own words (from a tweet) on this one: “Nothin but #BANGERZ.” Yikes. 


STATIC 
Cults (Oct. 15) 
If you haven’t yet listened to Cults, do it. They’re fun, they’re cute, they’re great. Following their first eponymous, “Static” looks to continue the band’s rise through Indie Pop. Prediction: YouTube “Go Outside” and you’ll be just as excited as me for what promises to be another solid album from this QT core group. 
REFLEKTOR 
Arcade Fire (Oct. 29) 
Arcade Fire’s previous three albums have been about as close to perfect as music can come, dealing with themes of war, religion, and culture war. The fourth album has been shrouded in mystery so far, and I wouldn’t have it any other way. Prediction: At this point it seems Arcade Fire can do no wrong (except writing a song for Twilight, am I right?), so I’m going to go ahead and say this album will be one of the best of the year. 


ARTPOP 
Lady Gaga (Nov. 11) 
Lady Gaga’s third album is looking like it is going to be an odd one, not that that is too surprising. Though the promises from Gaga of a “reverse Warholian experience” on the album should push our definition of “odd.” Prediction: I didn’t feel like writing a preview for Katy Perry’s new album, because I think “Artpop” will be better musically. That being said, “Roar” will probably be the best single between the two albums. I admit — I like it. 
FALL PREVIEW PLAYLIST: to familiarize/reacquaint yourself with the upcoming musical season. 
Two Chainz — “No Lie ft. Drake” (2012) MGMT — “Pieces of What” (2007) Chvrches — “Now is Not the Time” (2013) Drake — “The Ride ft. The Weeknd” (2011) Justin Timberlake — “Take Back the Night” (2013) Miley Cyrus — “Kicking and Screaming” (2009) Cults — “Go Outside” (2011) Arcade Fire — “Headlights Look Like Diamonds” (2003) Lady Gaga — “Monster” (2009) 
Contact Matt Niendorf at mniendor@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


MICHIGAN 41, NOTRE DAME 30 | monday, SEPTEmBER 9, 2013 | NDsMCObsERvER.COM 
Lights out 
In a night game at the Big House for one last time, Irish fall to Gardner, Wolverines 
As undefeated stretch concludes, reality  sets in 

Joseph Monardo 
Associate sports Editor 
ANN ARbOR, Mich. — “Close, but not good enough.” 
brian Kelly summed up saturday’s losing performance quite succinctly. In their 41-30 loss in Michigan stadium, the Irish came up somewhere be­tween mediocre and good. One could continue to wade through descriptors to try to quantify what Notre Dame’s performance amounted to, but the blemish on the team’s record does so more effectively than any parsing of words could. 
In the penultimate scheduled meeting between the two rivals, Notre Dame simply did not make the plays Michigan forced it to make to win the game. The defense not only bent, it broke. The offense not only sputtered, it failed to execute when it mattered most. 
For the predecessor to what was last year deemed the “team of destiny,” Notre Dame showed few signs of the gleam and confidence that came hand-in-hand with winning last season. It is no co­incidence the Irish suffered their first regular-season loss since they fell to stanford in 2011; this is no team of destiny. 
Last year’s team struggled to move the ball at times. It was atrocious in the red zone. The pass defense was not considered elite. but for all its flaws, Notre Dame always made the plays that had to be made. Unlike against Michigan, last year the Irish were always “good enough,” often barely exceeding that threshold. Part of that was luck, of course (see: triple-overtime win over Pittsburgh, controversial goal-line stand against stanford). but it is undeniable that the Irish made winning plays throughout the 2012 season. The Irish refused to lose, striving with their backs against the wall and the games on the line. Nothing came easily, but everyone came to expect it would come eventually. 
In saturday’s defeat, for the first time since the Irish fell to stanford in 2011, the victory never came. This may be the next annual in­stallment in program history, but 
see DEsTINY PaGE 3 


By MIKE MONACO 
sports Editor 

ANN ARbOR, Mich. — It was only fitting. 
With Notre Dame and Michigan playing for the fi­nal time for the foreseeable future at Michigan stadium, the game came down to the wire in thrilling fashion be­fore a record crowd of 115,109 on saturday night. The No. 17 Wolverines defeated the No. 14 Irish, 41-30. 
“It’s always nice to win,” Michigan head coach brady Hoke said. “This is such a great rivalry and to be able to be on the right side of it, it always feels good.” 
“We were really, really close but not good enough, not good enough,” Irish head coach brian Kelly added. 
In the 41st rendition of the historic rivalry, it was the Michigan players donning historic numbers who came up with the historic offensive performances. 
Redshirt junior quarter­back Devin Gardner — who switched to No. 98 before the game in honor of Michigan’s first Heisman Trophy winner, Tom Harmon — threw for 294 yards and four touchdowns and added 82 yards and a score on the ground. senior receiver Jeremy Gallon, who is wear­ing No. 21 this season to honor former Michigan Heisman winner Desmond Howard, set career highs with 184 receiving yards and three touchdowns. 
“We knew that Gardner is a very difficult quarterback to defend, and we knew of­fensively that we were in a 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
DEVIN GARDNER MICHIGAN QUARTERBACK 

Gardner terrorized the Irish through the air and on the ground, racking up 376 yards of total offense and five touchdowns. The redshirt junior ran the spread offense to perfection and con­stantly found senior receiver Jeremy Gallon open to move the chains and find the end zone. 
position that we needed to score more points,” Kelly said. “I didn’t think this would be like last year; I thought it was going to be something of a higher-scoring football game.” 
The first 40 matchups in the series had been decided by an average of 4.1 points. so with Michigan (2-0) leading 34-20 at the beginning of the fourth quarter, it was only appropri­ate the Irish (1-1) worked it back to a four-point game. but the Wolverines drove down the field and scored with 4:18 remaining when Gardner fired a touchdown pass to senior re­ceiver Drew Dileo to make it 41-30 Michigan. 
Prior to Dileo’s touchdown, it looked as if Notre Dame might hold the Wolverines to a field goal. but two defen­sive pass-interference pen­alties against the Irish gave Michigan first-and-goal from the two-yard line, from where Gardner found Dileo. 
“We’ve got to be smarter and more disciplined,” Kelly said. “We don’t coach penalties, but we want to coach guys to be smarter and more disciplined on a day-to-day basis, and that falls on me. I don’t want my football team to be in a situa­tion where games have to be decided [on a penalty].” 
see DEFEAT PaGE 2 
Gardner outshines Rees as ND misses opportunities 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports Editor 
ANN ARbOR, Mich. — Tommy Rees and Devin Gardner both played second fiddle last season. both, however, stepped in at cru­cial times to rescue their respective squads. Now, both are first-time sure-fire starters in 2013. 
but on saturday night, under the lights and under the scrutiny of an NCAA record crowd of 115,509, Gardner accounted for 376 yards of total offense, five touchdowns and one (albeit costly) turnover. Rees, meanwhile, tossed for 314 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions. 
“Give Michigan credit, obviously Devin Gardner played outstand­ing,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “They were the better football team today, but again from my perspective we needed to make a couple more plays offensively.” 
The Irish had the opportunities to make those plays. Trailing by 11 late in the fourth quarter, Rees fired to the end zone. His pass was tipped up and intercepted by Michigan junior cornerback blake Countess, effectively icing the game. 
Countess also picked off Rees in the first half. With less than two minutes to play before the inter­mission, Rees rolled to his left and threw on the move directly into the hands of Countess, who re­turned it deep inside Irish territory to set up another Michigan score before the half. 
“I’d like to have the one throw before the half back, but [Rees] did some really good things,” Kelly said. “I think we feel that there were just one or two throws that could have [resulted in us] putting 44 points on the board.” 
While Rees failed to redeem his first-half interception, Gardner re­sponded from his lowest point in the game. After the junior signal­caller’s desperation throwaway pass from his own end zone was caught by Irish junior defensive end stephon Tuitt for a touch­down, Gardner led the Wolverines on a 10-play, 75-yard touchdown drive to put them up 11. 
“[Michigan] coach [brady Hoke] just talked to us about the top-three college interceptions, and one of them is desperately avoiding 
see Qbs PaGE 3 



REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 

senior Tommy Rees kept the Irish in the shootout, and notched his second consecutive 300-yard game. Rees con­tinued to make throws that he was thought to be incapable of in his first three seasons, but his pair of interceptions to cap each half were backbreakers. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Juniors Amir Carlisle and George Atkinson combined for over 101 yards on 17 carries, but Atkinson had several drops.  Playing from behind, the Irish relegated the run­ning game to the periphery in the second half. 
RECEIVERS 

senior TJ Jones came up with another big performance, gathering nine catches for 94 yards and a touchdown. Junior tight end Troy Niklas also found the end zone, catching six balls for 76 yards and becoming a focal point of the Irish offense in the second half. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Tommy Rees had enough time to get the ball off through­out the night, although Michigan did score a sack with the Irish driving late in the game. The line also opened up holes for Carlisle to run straight down the throat of the defense. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The Irish consistently pressured Michigan senior quar­terback Devin Gardner, but only brought him down once. With Gardner leading the way, Michigan accumulated 166 yards rushing. stephon Tuitt delivered a highlight play in the fourth quarter with his diving interception. 
LINEBACKERS 

senior Dan Fox led the way with 10 tackles, but no other Irish linebacker had more than five. senior Prince shembo registered only two tackles after his stellar season opener, but freshman Jaylon smith impressed with five tackles. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

The secondary gave up 294 yards through the air in a per­formance filled with missed tackles and pass interference penalites. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Junior kicker Kyle brindza converted all three of his field-goal attempts in a steady performance, Jones scampered to an 18-yard punt return and junior George Atkinson broke out for a 50-yard kickoff return, although kickoff coverage underwhelmed. 
COACHING 

The Irish did not make the big plays when opportunities presented themselves, and part of that falls on coaching. After a week-long war of words regarding the “rivalry’s” le­gitimacy, brian Kelly and his staff came out on the wrong end saturday. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.86 

The Irish dropped their fourth consecutive game in Michigan stadium due to missed execution in the red zone, costly turnovers and defensive gaffes. After rattling off 13-straight regular-season victo­ries, Notre Dame crashed back down to earth against the Wolverines. There is room for improvement virtually across the board. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
JEREMY GALLON STAYS UPRIGHT FOR 61-YARD TOUCHDOWN CATCH 
Michigan senior receiver Jeremy Gallon reined in a first-quarter pass from Gardner, broke away from a trio of would-be tacklers and sprinted to the endzone. It was the beginning of what turned out to be a big night for Gallon, Gardner and the entire Michigan offense. 
defeat 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
The Irish had regained the momentum after a pivotal play at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Facing third-and-11 from the Michigan 16-yard line, Gardner scrambled back­ward trying to avoid a sack. He backtracked deep into his own end zone and, as he was being brought down for what would have been a safety, Gardner threw the ball away into the waiting arms of Irish junior defensive end stephon Tuitt in the end zone for a miraculous Notre Dame touchdown to make it 34-27 Michigan. 
The Irish then added a field goal to cut it to 34-30. but the Wolverines countered and em­barked on the 10-play, 75-yard drive, capped off by Dileo’s touchdown. On the ensuing possession, Notre Dame rolled down the field, but Irish se­nior quarterback Tommy Rees was picked off in the end zone to seal the Michigan victory. Rees also threw an interception in the waning minutes of the first half that set up a Gardner-to-Gallon touchdown to spur Michigan to a 27-13 halftime lead. 
“There were a number of [missed opportunities],” Rees said. “I have to take account­ability for some of those missed opportunities, and there are plays you want to have back, but I have to be better and give our team a better chance to win a game. I take full accountabil­ity for that.” 
Kelly said while Notre Dame’s defense allowed 41 points, he felt the game was lost on the of­fensive side of the ball. 
“This was one of those games that our offense needed to carry the day for us,” he said. “And we just came up short on a couple of key plays for us. It was one of those games you’ve got to win, and we weren’t able to come up with the key plays offensively.” 


Michigan stormed out to a 10-0 lead on a field goal from senior kicker brendan Gibbons and a 61-yard catch and run by Gallon. The Irish, however, battled back with 10 straight points of their own. Rees fired a pass toward the end zone that tipped off the hands of junior running back George Atkinson and skipped into the mitts of senior receiver TJ Jones for the touchdown with just over two minutes remain­ing in the first quarter. Junior kicker Kyle brindza, who was a perfect three-for-three on field goal bids, stepped up and bur­ied a 44-yard field goal on Notre Dame’s next possession. 
but Michigan thundered right back with a 12-play, 75­yard scoring drive, highlighted by a two-yard option keeper by Gardner for the touchdown. The Wolverines got down to the two after Gardner threw to the end zone on third down and Irish sophomore Elijah shumate was flagged for defen­sive pass interference. 
brindza and Gibbons then exchanged field goals, and Michigan maintained a 20-13 lead with 1:56 left in the half. 
The Irish began with great field position after a late-hit penalty against Michigan on the kickoff. On the second play from scrimmage, Rees rolled to his left and threw an intercep­tion — the first Notre Dame turnover of the season — to Michigan junior cornerback blake Countess, who returned it to the Irish 23-yard line to set up the Gallon score, which gave Michigan the 14-point halftime advantage. 
On its first drive of the sec­ond half, Notre Dame’s offense drove 90 yards in 12 plays, the final one a 20-yard touchdown pass from Rees to junior tight end Troy Niklas to cut the Wolverine lead in half. 
but Michigan came right back. Gardner completed a 41­yard pass downfield to Gallon, and the two connected again three plays later, as Gardner dumped it off to his elusive receiver for their third score. Michigan again made it a two-score game, 34-20. 
Notre Dame then drove down into Wolverine territory. The Irish went for it on fourth-and-four from the 17-yard line but Rees’ pass intended for senior receiver TJ Jones fell incomplete. 
“We were down two touch­downs and … it felt like at that time we needed to score a touchdown,” Kelly said. “Kicking three at that time is like laying up when you need a birdie.” 
The 27 points surrendered by Notre Dame in the first half were more than the Irish al­lowed in any game last season. Michigan’s 41 points were the second-most scored by either team in series history. 
On the other side of the ball, the Irish tallied 410 yards of total offense. Rees finished 29-for-51 with 314 yards, two touchdowns and the two in­terceptions. Jones tied a ca-reer-high with nine grabs and racked up 94 yards and a score. 
The loss was just the second in the regular-season for Notre Dame since October 2011. 
“I think it’s a loss of focus,” Jones said. “Last year, we went 12-1, and I feel some people may think we did that easily, that they didn’t have to pay at­tention to the details when a lot of those games were battles to the very last second.” 
Notre Dame is back in ac­tion saturday when it travels to West Lafayette, Ind., to square off with Purdue. Kickoff is scheduled for 8 p.m. at Ross-Ade stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


NDsMCObsERvER.COM | monday, SEPTEmBER 9, 2013 | THE ObsERvER 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Tommy Rees receives the snap during Notre Dame’s 41-30 loss in Michigan Stadium on Saturday. Rees completed 29 of 51 passes for 314 yards in the loss. 
QBs 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
the sack, and that’s what I did in my own end zone, and it was a horrible decision,” Gardner said. 
“I was upset with myself for the mistake. It was a horrible mistake and could have cost us the game, but like I said the defense gave us a place to stand, and I went on and finished it.” 
In addition to Gardner’s pass­ing prowess — the Detroit, Mich., native threw for 294 and four touchdowns — he rushed for a touchdown and 82 yards, includ­ing a 35-yard carry to the Irish 21­yard line to spur a second-quarter field goal. 
destiny 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
this team has a distinctly differ­ent feel from the last. 
several major contributors to this year’s squad had never played in a losing effort outside of the title-game defeat. Even for those veterans who remember the ups and downs of 2010 and 2011, the 20-month span of 13 continuous regular-season wins surely dulled the memories of losing. 
“I think this is kind of a wake­up call for us,” Irish senior re­ceiver TJ Jones said. “I think a lot of people forgot what it was to not lose. They forgot how to fight through to not ending up like 

“[Michigan] had a good quar­terback tonight who made a lot of plays,” Kelly said. “He’s difficult to defend. He can run it, he threw with efficiency, they keep their option principles involved within their structure. They are difficult to defend.” 
In the Kelly era, Notre Dame is 11-0 in games in which it does not commit a turnover. The Irish, however, coughed it up for their first two times in 2013 against the Wolverines. Notre Dame had a minus-15 turnover differential in 2011 and finished 8-5. Last year, the Irish were plus-8 in the turn­over category and compiled a 12-1 record. 
Additionally, Notre Dame 

this.” 
No team had been more ac­customed to winning in the regular season than Notre Dame was over that stretch. Now, hoping to make the loss to the Wolverines a blip on the radar rather than the advent of a new streak, the Irish are forced to re­group on the fly for the first time in what seems like ages. 
“It comes down to charac­ter,” junior running back Amir Carlisle said. “Everyone can be high and mighty when you are on top, when you are winning. It’s just a character test for our team as a whole, to bounce back. You know, we had to deal with a little adversity, now we are 1-1. And our response? I think we finished 2012 70th in the na­tion in red-zone offense with an 80 percent scoring rate. Against Michigan, the Irish converted three out of five times inside the Michigan 20-yard line. 
“I just think we missed oppor­tunities. When we’re in the red zone, we missed opportunities,” Kelly said. “This wasn’t made up, they were real opportunities. We had the right plays on, and we needed to execute better. If we ex­ecute those plays when they were called upon, we put two more scores on the board, and this game is over. And we didn’t.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
are a high-character team and we are going to respond to this and get back to work Tuesday at practice.” 
This team does not have des­tiny on its side, nor would it be smart to rely upon miracles to secure victories moving forward. The Irish have nothing to rely on but themselves. 
Although they were not good enough saturday, they were close. 
And that’s a good place to start. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
Rees moves up all-time list 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Associate sports Editor 
Irish senior quarterback Tommy Rees threw for 314 yards on 29-for-51 passing, marking the first time in his career he posted consecutive 300-yard games. 
The game gave Rees a boost in a historical context, as the Lake Forest, Ill., native moved past Jarious Jackson and into sixth place on the all-time Irish pass­ing list. Rees now sits at 5,073 yards for his career, behind only brady Quinn (11,762 yards pass­ing), Jimmy Clausen (8,148), Ron Powlus (7,602), steve beuerlein (6,527) and Rick Mirer (5,997) on the career leaderboard. 

Big finish in Big House 
saturday’s contest was the final scheduled meeting be­tween Michigan and Notre Dame at Michigan stadium, while Notre Dame stadium will play host to the indefi­nite end of the series next season. Michigan announced a Division-I record atten­dance of 115,109 on hand to watch the 41st installment of the rivalry game. The loss drops Notre Dame to 16-24-1 against the Wolverines and brings the Irish losing streak in Michigan stadium to four. 
Special teams steps up 
Junior kicker Kyle brindza hit all three of his field-goal at­tempts, including one from 44 yards in the second quarter to tie the contest at 10. brindza also netted 80 yards total on his two punts. 

senior tri-captain and re­ceiver TJ Jones also made an impact on special teams by returning a punt 18 yards in the first quarter, the longest Irish return since the Champs sports bowl in 2011. Junior running back George Atkinson totaled 76 yards on two kickoff returns, including one return of 50 yards in the third quarter. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  6  7  10  30  
10  17  7  7  41  

MICHIGAN 3, NOTRE DAME 0 
brendan Gibbons 44-yard field goal 
9:00 remaining 
MICHIGAN 10, NOTRE DAME 0 
Jeremy Gallon 61-yard pass from Gardner (Gibbons kick) 
5:35 remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 77 yards, 1:23 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 10, NOTRE DAME 7 
TJ Jones 4-yard pass from Rees (brindza kick) 
2:01 remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 75 yards, 3:34 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 10, NOTRE DAME 10 
Kyle brindza 44-yard field goal 
14:05remaining 
Drive: Six plays, 20 yards, 1:34 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 17, NOTRE DAME 10 
Devin Gardner 2-yard run (Gibbons kick) 
8:43remaining 
Drive: 12 plays, 75 yards, 5:22 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 17, NOTRE DAME 13 
Kyle brindza 24-yard field goal 
5:49 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 68 yards, 2:54 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 20, NOTRE DAME 13 
brendan Gibbons 38-yard field goal 
1:56 remaining 
Drive: Seven plays, 42 yards, 3:53 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 27, NOTRE DAME 13 
Jeremy Gallon 12-yard pass from Gardner (Gibbons kick) 
1:09 remaining 
Drive: Four plays, 23 yards, 0:20 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 27, NOTRE DAME 20 
Troy Niklas 20-yard pass from Rees (brindza kick) 
4:55 remaining 
Drive: 12 plays, 90 yards, 5:25 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 34, NOTRE DAME 20 
Jeremy Gallon 13-yard pass from Gardner (Gibbons kick) 
1:54remaining 
Drive: Seven plays, 78 yards, 3:01 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 34, NOTRE DAME 27 
stephon Tuitt 0-yard interception return 
12:06remaining 
MICHIGAN 34, NOTRE DAME 30 
Kyle brindza 40-yard field goal 
9:15remaining 
Drive: Six plays, 29 yards, 1:29 elapsed 
MICHIGAN 41, NOTRE DAME 30 
Drew Dileo 4-yard pass from Gardner (Gibbons kick) 
4:18remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 4:57 elapsed 
STATISTICS 


RUSHING YARDS 
166 

96 
PASSING YARDS 
294 314 

Time of Possession 

Time of Possession 

25:56 34:04 



THE ObsERvER | monday, SEPTEmBER 9, 2013 | NDsMCObsERvER.COM 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish junior tight end Troy Niklas stretches for the end zone at the end of his third-quarter touchdown reception in Saturday’s 41-30  road loss to Michigan. Niklas caught six balls for 76 yards after catching one ball, a 61-yard touchdown strike, in the season opener against Temple last week. 
Walking into the Big House with high hopes, Notre Dame left with its first 
regular-season loss since Nov. 2011. Michigan senior quarterback Devin Gardner led the home team to a 41-30 victory  on 21-for-33 passing for 
MAIZE AND BLUE 
294 yards and four touchdowns while adding 82 yards and a score on the ground.  Irish senior receiver TJ Jones accumulated 94 yards on nine 
TOO MUCH 
catches and scored his first touchdown of the year in the losing effort. 







The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Elaine Yu 
scene writer 

while the south bend civic Theatre’s musi­cal rendition of “The color purple” might lack the star power of oprah and whoopi goldberg seen in the film version, the opening night per­formance lacks little else. 
Through energetic and soulful singing and a nice sprinkle of laugh-out-loud moments this meaningful tale of overcoming racism and sexism in early 1900s america comes to life on stage. 
“The color purple” is the story of celie’s (makeda grier) — a poor african american girl — triumph over abusive male figures and oppressive whites on her path to discovery and love in 1930s georgia. many may also know the story from the pulitzer prize-winning novel by alice walker, the 1985 academy award-nominated movie, or the 2006 Tony-nominated broadway musical, all by the same name. 
celie is a poor, young, and uneducated girl who is repeatedly raped and twice impregnat­ed by her father, pa (david smith). however, pa does not allow celie to raise her children but rather removes them from the picture. 
celie saves her younger, prettier sister, nettie (Zoe morgan), from an undesired marriage to mister (ben little) when her father forces her to into the loveless, abusive marriage. however, through new friends such as sofia (laurisa lesure) and shug (Jasmine dennie), celie be­gins to build confidence and eventually leaves her former life behind. 
nettie, on the other hand, takes the opportu­nity that celie gave her to excel in her studies and eventually travels to africa with a mission­ary family to do ministry work. years later, she discovers that the children of the missionary family are actually the children that celie was forced to give up. 
while celie starts a successful business, nettie and the missionary family return to america. after 30 years of separation, celie and nettie are able to embrace each other again and celie reunites with her children. (i did not tear up. something got in my eye.) 
grier’s portrayal of celie’s transition from an awkward, submissive girl into a grown, in­dependent woman was believable. her musi­cal performance was great overall and had me wondering how her lungs could hold that much air. plus, i could not help but say, “you go girl!” when she called out her abusive husband. however, i did wish she would make eye con­tact with the general audience more frequently rather than look above us. (a few times my imagination got the best of me and i thought there was something in the air.) 
To be honest, there were one or two rough patches in a few songs and production. For the stage was rather small. The versatile stage 
had to be transformed into multiple locations spanning states and nations but it was done relatively well as a result of careful positioning and lighting. 
in terms of hair and costume, i did spot a pair of cap toe flats and a slightly too fancy hairdo. but, the majority of the hair and cos­tumes were true to the period and the charac­ter’s circumstances. my personal favorite was the colorful, sequin-covered african dresses and headdresses. also, since some performers played multiple characters, the different cos­tumes were much appreciated in telling which character the performer was portraying at the moment. 
The musical runs for approximately two­and-a-half hours including a 15-minute in­termission. check for show times through september 15th in the wilson mainstage auditorium at the south bend civic Theatre. Tickets are $21. 
Contact Elaine Yu at iyu@nd.edu. 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

mlb scores with playoff expansion 

Greg Hadley 
sports writer 
The nFl regular season kicked off sunday, though in all likelihood, you already knew that. maybe you watched a game or two. you probably checked the scores for your fantasy team as you were do­ing homework. at the very least, you checked espn and saw the headlines about colin Kaepernick. i did all three. 
but at the same time, i kept an even closer eye on the race for the last wild card spots in baseball. The regular season is coming to a close, and thanks to recent rule changes, these last 20 games will almost certainly be as exciting as any in recent history. 
it all started in march 2012, when commissioner bud selig announced the addition of a second wild card. previously, only the division winners and the team with the next best re­cord made the playoffs. under the new system, the two best teams outside of the division winners play each other in a single elimination game. The decision was made to generate more excitement among fans that were drifting towards the nba or nhl. 
right away, the system worked. in the national league (nl), the cardinals, the defend­ing world champions, took the second wild card and used the opportunity to advance all the way to the national league championship series. in the american league (al), the orioles broke out of a streak of 14 losing seasons, grabbed the second spot, won the elimina­tion game, and pushed the yankees to five games before finally falling. more important­ly, the extra playoff spots kept one historically great baseball city (st. louis) in the hunt and revitalized another after a mori­bund decade (baltimore). 
now, a year later, selig’s deci­sion is proving to be wise again. Five different teams are still in contention for the second wild card in the al. The rangers look to be fairly secure in the top spot, and entering monday, the rays hold the second, but Tampa bay is only two games ahead of both the indians and orioles, who narrowly lead the yankees and royals. 
The royals and indians, like last year’s orioles, are fran­chises that haven’t been close to the playoffs for years. For the orioles, it’s time to prove that last year wasn’t a fluke. The yankees desperately need to be in the postseason because, well, they’re the yankees. For the rays, it’s another chapter in their story of defying expecta­tions and competing in the bru­tal al east. For all these teams’ fans, the next few weeks will be thrilling. 
over in the nl, the central division race is about as tight as can be. Three teams, the pirates, cardinals and reds, have been dueling back and forth since the all-star game and are separated by a game-and-a-half. without the second wild card, one of these three deserving teams would be left out. now, whoever wins the division will get a rest while the other two play again for all the marbles. basically, it’s a dream scenario for the fans and for baseball. 
some baseball purists have decried the second wild card as inherently unfair. why should a team that played better than another in the regular season be forced to again beat that team in a one-game playoff? it devalues the regular season and will make for a boring fin­ish to the season because teams won’t have to scramble for that one spot. even worse, it less­ens the quality of teams in the postseason. 
These are valid points, but that doesn’t make the second wild card a bad idea, for the same reason having one wild card isn’t a bad idea. From a competitive standpoint, sec­ond- and even third-place teams in some divisions (al east, nl central) are just as good as division leaders in others. but because those division leaders play their own, less competitive compatriots more often, their records are inflated. should a team be punished because they are forced to play a team like the red sox or cardinals more? when it comes down to it, the better team will win over a seven-game series. and, as the past two years have shown, it certainly doesn’t make the end of the regular season boring. 
of course, it’s not all about competition. business is an integral part of modern sports and a second wild card is good for business. more markets get involved in the lucrative post­season and fans buy more tick­ets and merchandise. and, as greedy and self-serving as that might sound, it’s okay, because a second wild card gives a chance to mid-market teams that need the boost to stay competitive. most importantly, more fans get the chance to see their team fight for the world series. 
what’s wrong with that? 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu
  The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SWIMMING 

Critics question record swim’s legitimacy 
Associated Press 
diana nyad’s 110-mile swim from cuba to Florida has gen­erated positive publicity and adoration for the 64-year-old endurance athlete — along with skepticism from some mem­bers of the small community of marathon swimmers who are questioning whether she ac­complished the feat honestly. 
on social media and the online marathon swimmers Forum, long-distance swim­mers have been debating whether nyad got a boost from the boat that was accompany­ing her — either by getting in it or holding onto it — during a particularly speedy stretch of her swim. They also question whether she violated the tradi­tions of her sport — many fol­low strict guidelines known as the english channel rules — by using a specialized mask and body suit to protect herself from jellyfish. 
nyad’s navigator and one of the swim’s official observers told The associated press this weekend that nyad didn’t cheat and that she was aided during the rapid part of her swim by a swift current. and neither nyad nor her team ever said she would follow english channel rules, developed for swimming the waters between england and France. Those rules outlaw neo­prene wetsuits and contact with a support boat. nyad wore a full non-neoprene bodysuit, gloves, booties and a silicone mask at night, when jellyfish are a par­ticular problem, and removed the suit once she got over the reef on her approach to Key west. 
according to nyad’s team, she finished the swim monday af­ternoon after roughly 53 hours in the water, becoming the first to do so without a shark cage. it was her fifth try, an endeavor apparently free from the boat troubles, bad weather, illnesses and jellyfish encounters that have bedeviled nyad and other swimmers in recent years. 
nyad’s progress was tracked online via gps by her team, and some critics say they think 

WANTED 
Want to make extra $$$$ with a neurotech company? Triple Domer needs a fluent Chinese-speaking stu­dent/grad student asap to assist in some translation work for a soon-to­launch company in China. Possible long term possibilities. Contact Dr. Fleming at kevin@kevinflemingphd. com 

information is missing. 
many wonder about a roughly seven-hour stretch when nyad apparently didn’t stop to eat or drink, recalling her 2012 attempt when she got onto the boat for hours during rough weather. nyad eventually got back into the water to try finishing, but her team was criticized for delaying the release of that information to the public. 
malinak said the hours-long spike in nyad’s speed after 27 hours of swimming is particu­larly questionable — she went from her normal pace of roughly 
1.5 mph to more than 3 mph, then slowed down again as she approached Key west. 
navigator John bartlett said the increased speed was due to the fast-moving gulf stream working in her favor, nothing more. 
“at some points we were do­ing almost 4 miles an hour,” bartlett said. “That’s just the way it works. if the current is in your favor at all, that explains it.” 
The data collected by bartlett and two observers will be sub­mitted to three open-water swimming associations and the guinness world records for ver­ification, bartlett said. 
mitch roffer of melbourne­based roffer’s ocean Fishing Forecasting service inc. said he got an email questioning wheth­er nyad’s swim was a hoax, so he decided to look at the charts for himself. what he saw convinced him that she could do it. 
“many times that current runs west-east and you’re con­stantly fighting the current if you’re swimming north. in this case, it was in the shape of an s, and the angle was almost ex­actly from havana to Key west,” roffer said. 
Janet hinkle, a Key west boat captain and acquaintance of nyad’s, was called to be an ob­server for the swim when steve munatones, a former u.s. na­tional open-water coach, was unable to make it. “i can say unequivocally she swam every stroke without question,” hinkle said. 
critics have said hinkle was too close to nyad to be an inde­pendent observer of her swim. hinkle has in the past helped nyad by providing housing for her when the swimmer stayed in the Florida Keys, but she said she remained on the periphery of nyad’s team. 
since none of the various open-water swimming as­sociations dictate how some­one should swim from cuba to Florida — officially accom­plished only by nyad and susie maroney, who used a shark cage 
— nyad just had to follow gen­erally accepted rules about not getting out of the water or using equipment such as fins. 
“generally the rules are: you walk in, you swim across and you walk out, and you do it under your own power,” said munatones, who consulted with nyad for this swim and observed her attempts in 2011 and 2012. 
The elaborate, full-body suit and protective mask nyad wore to protect herself from venom­ous jellyfish actually weighed her down, munatones said. 
“To put that on is like put­ting on a wedding gown in the ocean,” he said. “it’s different from the english channel rules, but the water is different from the english channel.” 
To many, it seems nyad hasn’t exactly endeared herself to those in the marathon swimming community. some consider her primarily concerned with gain­ing the spotlight instead of help­ing others advance the sport. 
at her post-swim news confer­ence on Tuesday, nyad admitted that she had not been rooting for mccardel and that she was miffed some members of her team would jump ship to work for a competitor. 
mccardel said she was disap­pointed to hear nyad call those crew members “traitors.” 
“one of the greatest things, i believe, about international marathon swimming is how people across the world sup­port crew for and mentor each other. i wouldn’t change this aspect of our sport for the world!” mccardel posted on her Facebook page. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content wi thout issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  FOR RENT  
Music Mandolin,Ukulele. Lessons:  Dulcimer, Guitar, Bass,  Autoharp,  574-256-9836  IRISH CROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for ¿14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/ text John 281-635-2019;email john. dimpel@raymondjames.com  
Private Voice Lessons for Children and Adults.  574-256-9836  “If you don’t like something, change it. If you can’t change it, change your attitude.” - Maya Angelou  


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | The observer 

SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, alma 1 
Saint Mary’s defeats Alma in four sets 
also did a great job running our 
By MICHAEL GINOCCHIO 

sports writer offense out of system.” 
mersits contributed a match-

For the second time in as high 17 digs and four service many days, the belles picked up aces. in addition to mersits’ a win in conference play with a play, the belles benefitted four-set victory (25-21, 16-25, 25-from strong showings from 22, 26-24) over the alma scots sophomore outside hitter Katie on saturday. hecklinski and junior outside 
according to belles coach hitter Kati schneider. schneider Toni elyea, strong defense had 16 kills with 11 digs, while from players like junior libero hecklinski chipped in with meredith mersits played a key 11 kills and tied mersits for a role in earning the win for the match-high 17 digs. belles (3-4, 2-1 miaa). Their performance was criti­
“i felt our defense did a great cal to the belles’ come-from­job coming up with big plays behind victory, a fact not lost on when they were needed,” elyea. elyea said. “our (junior) libero “Kati and Kathryn had a great meredith (mersits) not only did match for us,” elyea said. “They a great job on defense, but she both had a double-double and 
paid adverTisemenT 

found ways to score versus a great defense. [Junior outside hitter] brooke Fowler also had a great match for us. she was able to come up with great kills at key moments in the match.” 
after winning the first set 25-21, the belles were quickly matched by the alma as the scots took the second set 25­
16. in the third set, alma was at one point up 19-11. The belles responded by scoring 12 of the next 13 points, and after tak­ing the third set 25-22 endured another tight set in the fourth by facing a 23-24 deficit before ripping off three consecutive points to take the set and the match. 
coach elyea said she was proud of her team’s resiliency, and said she sees it as a sign of better things to come. 
“we were happy with the win at alma,” elyea said. “They are a very tough competitive team. we know that it is still early in the process and we have a lot to work on…[but] to come back, from being down eight points, and come up with a win on the road showed a lot of heart.” 
The belles resume play on september 11, when they travel to olivet, michigan, to take on the olivet comets at 7 p.m. 
Contact Michael Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 



MLB 

white sox break losing streak 
Associated Press 
balTimore — pinch-runner chris dickerson got lost on the bases and was dou­bled up for the final out, and the chicago white sox ended a nine-game losing streak by holding off the baltimore orioles 4-2 sunday. 
down 4-1, baltimore loaded the bases with no outs in the ninth against addison reed. after ryan Flaherty grounded into a forceout at second base that scored a run, dickerson ran for him. 
dickerson tried to steal sec­ond on a pitch to brian roberts, who hit a foul pop near first base. dickerson didn’t know where the ball went, and the baserunning blunder made him an easy out at first. 
rookie andre rienzo pitched three-hit ball into the seventh inning and adam dunn homered for the white sox. reed wound up with his 37th save. 
adam Jones hit his 31st home run for the orioles, who went 0 for 11 with runners in scoring position and stranded eight. baltimore began the day one game behind Tampa bay in the race for the final al wild-card slot. 
dayan viciedo had two hits and an rbi for the white sox, who averted a four-game sweep and put a positive fin­ish on a terrible that included three defeats apiece in boston and yankee stadium. only eight teams in major league history have gone winless on a road trip of at least 10 games. 
chicago (57-85) also avoided falling 30 games under .500 for the first time since ending the 1976 season at 64-97. 
making his eighth big league start, rienzo (2-1) gave up one run and four hits in 6 2-3 innings. The brazilian na­tive walked two and struck out four in the second-longest outing since being summoned from the minors on July 30. 
rienzo left after giving up a two-out single to J.J. hardy in the seventh. Flaherty fol­lowed with a double off matt lindstrom, who struck out roberts to end the threat. 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY | crusader open 
Irish claim multiple titles at Valporaiso 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
The irish got their season underway this weekend at the crusader open at valparaiso, claiming the women’s team title as well as the men’s and women’s individual crowns. 
The irish women, even without most of their top ath­letes, were dominant, as notre dame runners took the top six places and sophomore sydni meunier ran away with the women’s individual title with a 5-kilometer time of 17:57.7. The irish blew away the com­petition with only 15 points; second-place valparaiso’s racked-up 61 and central michigan came in third with 63. 
Juniors emily Frydrych 
(18:09.7) and Karen lesiewicz (18:10.8), senior mcKinzie schulz  (18:17.8) and fresh­men elli brady (18:22.8) and gabrielle Thivierge (18:23.7) finished after meunier. 
“The kids just did a great job this weekend,” irish women’s coach Tim connelly said. “you always go into a meet expect­ing certain things, and i have a lot of confidence in these kids. sweeping the top six, that’s something i was hoping for, something i expected.” 
beyond the great result, connelly was also pleased with the experience the younger runners gained. 
“a lot of these kids don’t have a lot of cross country experi­ence,” connelly said. “This is an opportunity to put them in positions that count. it’s one thing to be the sixth, seventh, eighth runner in a meet, not being sure if you’ll count. but here you’re the first, second, third runner on the team and you know how well you run counts.” 
The irish men also turned in an impressive performance, with senior patrick lesiewicz taking the men’s crown with a blazing time of 19:11.9 on the 6-kilometer course, his sec­ond career victory. Though the irish barely missed out on the team crown, as iupui narrowly edged them out 27­28, men’s coach Joe piane was positive about his team’s performance, starting with lesiewicz. 
“lesiewicz was in our top tier of runners last year,” piane said. “so i expected this out of him and he ran a great race.” 
Freshman scott milling 
(19:20.7) notched a third place finish in his first ever colle­giate race, while sophomore Kevin durham (19:35.7) meet, and they didn’t disap-first home meet of the sea-rounded out the top five. point,” piane said. “millings son, the national catholic piane also praised freshman was impressive, and durham championships on sept. 20 at nicholas laureano’s 11th-missed most of the season last the notre dame golf course. place finish. year so it was good to see him 


“we wanted to see a lot of out there competing.” Contact A.J. Godeaux at our younger runners in this The irish next race in their agodeaux@nd.edu 
NFL 

saints defeat Falcons in payton’s return 
Associated Press 
new orleans — sean payton’s return to the sideline is one game old and already the saints are celebrating a dramatic victory over a pre­sumed title contender. 
They’re alone in first place, too. 
drew brees passed for 357 yards and two scores, roman harper intercepted matt ryan’s tipped fourth-down pass in the end zone, and new orleans held on for a 23­17 victory over the Falcons on sunday. 
“i was hoping our defense would pull one out, and man, did they ever,” brees said. 
last season, while sus­pended in connection with the nFl’s bounty probe, payton watched helplessly from afar as the saints field­ed one of the worst defenses ever, yielding a single-season record 7,042 yards. one of his first moves upon reinstate­ment was to hire rob ryan as defensive coordinator. 
payton put the new prod­uct on the field right away, electing to kick off when the saints won the coin toss. 
“sean sent the defense out first, which you would never have seen in the past,” harper said. “so just a whole different feel and the things that we’re trying to accom­plish, this is just one step in the right direction.” 
brees’ first touchdown went to marques colston, who made a diving, 25-yard snag for his 533rd catch, set­ting a franchise record. 
“That’s just vintage marques colston,” brees said. “i have so much trust and confidence in him. he knows the ball’s coming to him and he’s going to make that play.” 
brees also hit tight end Jimmy graham for a 7-yard score in the third quarter to give the saints the lead for good. 
“it was just important to get the first win,” payton said. “you try to compartmental­ize each week, each game, and we played a good team. ... we fought hard, especially late.” 
new orleans’ day got even better when Tampa bay and carolina lost, leaving the saints atop the nFc south. 
atlanta’s ryan passed for 304 yards and touchdown passes to Tony gonzalez and Julio Jones. in the final three minutes, ryan quickly drove atlanta to the saints 3 be­fore the new orleans defense stiffened. 
“when we play the saints, it’s usually hard-fought, and it turned out that way again,” atlanta coach mike smith said. “we have to protect the quarterback a lot better.” 
steven Jackson rushed 11 times for 77 yards in his atlanta debut, including a 50-yard run. 
new orleans’ defense gave up two 50-yard plays, the other on harry douglas’s re­ception, but also produced pressure regularly. 
ryan was sacked three times — by Junior galette, akiem hicks and parys haralson — and threw balls away several times, includ­ing on an early third down that forced atlanta to settle for a field goal. 
The group also produced a momentum-changing turn­over when malcolm Jenkins stripped Jones and harper re­covered, setting up colston’s Td, which tied the game at 10 in the second quarter. 
colston finished with five catches for 68 yards. darren sproles caught six passes for 88 yards. 

douglas caught four pass­es for 93 yards, including a 20-yarder to the new orleans 7 on atlanta’s final drive. but that turned out to be ryan’s last significant completion on a drive which started with connections of 17, 16, 7 and 13 yards. 
on third-and-goal, ramon humber broke up a pass for Jackson at the goal line. 
“i dropped the ball,” Jackson said. “it wasn’t the easiest catch, but i’m not a person to make excuses.” 
Then rookie safety Kenny vaccaro tipped ryan’s fourth down pass for gonzalez in the end zone and harper dived to catch it before team­mates piled on him while the superdome crowd erupted. 
“The ball was up in the air and i liked my chances, but we were just a fingertip away,” gonzalez said. “so for that, give them credit.” 
smith said the drive was well-executed “until we got inside the 10-yard line. ... The final play is going to be ana­lyzed 5,000 times in the next three days.” 
before kickoff, payton helped former special teams standout steve gleason, who has lou gehrig’s disease, ini­tiate the superdome crowd’s traditional pregame “who dat!” chant. 
Fans stood and cheered passionately as payton held up gleason’s arm with his left hand and held up his own right arm, then lowered both to initiate the chant by fans eagerly awaiting a matchup between the past two teams to win nFc south. 
it didn’t translate to a good start for the home club, though. 
The Falcons struck for the first big play on douglas’ 50­yard catch and run to the new orleans 10, setting up ryan’s 7-yard Td pass to gonzalez. 
atlanta later stuffed run­ning back mark ingram on fourth-and-short near mid­field, and quickly drove for a short field goal and a 10-0 lead. garret hartley’s 48­yard field goal in the second quarter made it 10-3. 
new orleans then went up 13-10 on a short field goal set up by rookie Kenny stills’ 67­yard catch, and that score stood until halftime. 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | The observer 

MEN’S GOLF | gopher inviTaTional 
Rushton leads Irish on first day of invitational 
By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 
The irish are currently tied for seventh out of 12 teams at the gopher invitational after one day and two rounds of playing. 
The irish have a total score of 581, with a score of 289 for their first round and 292 for their second round, which puts them at 13-over par as a team. 
irish freshman matt rushton is tied for fifth place, with a score of 140. he had a first round score of 67 and a second round score of 
73. irish coach Jim Kubinski said rushton is part of a group of very talented fresh­men who have shown great maturity. 
Kubinski said he is satis­fied with rushton’s effort af­ter a great couple of rounds. 
“[rushton] made some birdies in a row near the end of the 1st round. he played nearly as well in the afternoon, too, but didn’t make as many putts,” Kubinski said. “i’m proud of his effort today. he stayed focused throughout and very patient.” 
as for rushton’s final few rounds, Kubinski said he believes there are too many holes and too many competi­tors to predict finishes. 
Kubinski also said senior niall platt played very solid­ly and gave himself chances throughout the day. platt is at even par with a score of 142, shooting 71 in both the second and third round. he is currently tied for 10th. 
The irish will tee off ear­ly tomorrow morning, and Kubinski said they have a good chance to move into the top five. he also said their goal is to give their team a chance to win in the final round. 
although the irish have just joined the acc, Kubinski said there are not any regu­lar season opponents in their schedule. Their lone opportunity to play fellow acc teams is at the confer­ence championship in north carolina in april. 
The  irish  are  cur­ 
rently  play ing  at  the  
windsong Farm  golf  club  



in independence, minn. Kubinski said windsong has a challenging layout and is a fun course to play on. 
“a low score is there means you’re on your game,” Kubinski said. “it’s a chal­lenge if you’re just that little bit off. certainly the wind made scoring tougher this morning, which makes matt’s round that much more impressive.” 

The irish will wrap up play today. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER | smc 0, wilmingTon 3; smc 3, mT. sT. Joseph 0 
Belles split weekend games 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
The belles’ two weekend match­es could not have ended with more different results, as the belles fell 3-0 to wilmington on saturday be­fore rebounding with a 3-0 shutout sunday over the college of mt. st. Joseph to finish the non-confer­ence season 2-2. 
The belles were only down 1-0 going into the half against wilmington, but couldn’t capital­ize on the few opportunities they had early in the second half. The Quakers (2-1), however, threat­ened on the offensive end all game, finally scoring twice more in the middle of the second half to put the game out of reach. 
“we played an inconsistent game against wilmington,” se­nior midfielder and captain mollie valencia said. “we had some really bad breakdowns on the defensive and offensive side of things and showed our youth and just dug ourselves a deeper and deeper hole.” 
The belles rebounded in the best way possible on sunday, as the offense came out firing against mount st. Joseph (0-5). Freshman forward rosie biehl curled a corner kick into the back of the net in just the second minute, the first goal of her saint mary’s career. biehl added her second goal of the day ten minutes later, and the belles went into the half up 2-0 having outshot the lions 13-1.
 “we possessed the ball bet­ter against mount st. Joseph,” valencia said. “That’s something we‘ve done in both our wins this year. we also played more con­trolled and with better touches, which we didn’t do at all against wilmington.” 
The belles didn’t relent coming out of the half, getting off four shots in the first five minutes before ju­nior forward Kelly wilson gave the belles an almost insurmountable lead when she booted in a rebound off the lions’ goalkeeper. 
biehl barely missed out on a hat trick when she pushed a po­tential third goal in the 85th min­ute wide, but the belles were still able to coast to the win. Junior goalkeepers natalie warner and nicole papiernik combined for the shutout. 
“we just went back to the ba­sics,” valencia said. “you have to do that after that kind of loss, and it was great to rebound the way we did.” 
The belles open up the miaa season at 7 p.m. Thursday at Kalamazoo. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
WNBA 

williams sets league record 
Associated Press 
san anTonio — riquna williams has always been able to score points in bunches, never though at the rate she did sunday to set the wnba record. 
williams broke the league’s scoring mark with 51 points to help the Tulsa shock rout the san antonio silver stars 98-65 on sunday. 
The second-year guard out of miami surpassed the previ­ous record of 47 points set by phoenix’s diana Taurasi against houston on aug. 10, 2006 and matched by seattle’s lauren Jackson against washington on July 24, 2007. 
“it’s amazing, i’m still speech­less,” williams said. “it feels great. This is only my second year in the league, so to capture that at such a young age and such a young player, it’s amaz­ing. and i shot it pretty well; it wasn’t a bad shooting night.” 
williams, who came into the game averaging 14.4 points, was 17 for 28 from the field and hit eight 3-pointers for Tulsa (11-21). The 23-year-old had 20 points in the third quarter after scoring 16 in the first half. 
“she can flat out shoot the ball,” said san antonio’s shenise Johnson, williams’ teammate at miami. “she had that lebron (James) look, that Kobe (bryant) look in her eye. 

everybody moved out of the way and was out there getting it done.” 
with williams approaching the record, fans were cheering for her to get the ball in the final minutes of the game on every possession. she tied the mark with a layup with 1:22 left in the game and then broke it with jumper 24 seconds later. 
williams added two emotion­al free throws with 5 seconds left for her final points after colliding knee-to-knee with chelsea poppins. The fans’ re­action was almost too much for williams, a native of pahokee, Fla., whose population of less than 6,000 was surpassed by the 6,650 in attendance. 
“i kind of got a little teary (due to the fans’ cheering) even after taking the hit, so it was a combination,” she said. “i was able to hide it a little. but it’s great. i’m a small-town kid; this is my dream come true. i never thought i would be at this point.” 
The 5-foot-5 williams had 16 points in the first half, continu­ally rising high above taller de­fenders for 3s and long jumpers. she hit a 21-foot jumper over Jia perkins before draining a 3 to pull Tulsa within 33-25 with 6 minutes remaining in the sec­ond quarter. 
perkins scored 21 points to lead san antonio (11-21) and Johnson added 18. 
skylar diggins added 20 points and Tiffany Jackson-Jones had 10 for Tulsa. 
Tulsa took control in the second half outscoring san antonio 59-22. williams had 35 herself in the final 20 minutes. 
“we didn’t show heart, we didn’t show pride,” Johnson said. “we didn’t represent what was on the front of our jerseys. honestly, we’re all embarrassed.” 
williams, who scored 2,148 points at miami, had 20 points in the third quarter, going 5 for 7 on 3s. williams had a look of bemusement after soaring over the 6-foot-2 shameka christon for a 3 with 1.9 seconds left in the third, giving the shock a 71­58 lead. 
“That was an amazing per­formance,” diggins said. “it was just so great being on the court with her. once she got started, when she got to 20, then she got to 25, 28, i said, ‘make it 40. get 40.’ and she just looked at me, and then she got 40. we were like, oh my gosh, she might get 50. 
“she just got it through the natural flow of the offense. we weren’t isolating her or any­thing. she had the hot hand and was catching it on swings and she was just making plays.” 
williams hit consecutive 3s to give Tulsa a 59-54 lead. 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | iu Fall KicKoFF 
Irish open season at Purgatory Golf Club 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
notre dame started off their season at the purgatory golf club in noblesville, ind., on sunday at the first-ever iu Fall Kickoff. in a midwestern showdown, headlined by no. 5 purdue, the irish played as individuals only. 
among stiff competition, se­nior Kristina nhim stood out, shooting just two-over par with a 74. That score was just five strokes shy of the leader, louisville senior Tara lyons, who posted an impressive 69. 
Freshman Jordan Ferreira was just behind nhim, who finished tied for 18th at four-over (76). sophomore Talia campbell shot 77, good enough for a share of 27th place. campbell is com­ing off of an impressive first year, in which she fell just one stroke short of qualifying for match play in the amateur championship. 
Freshmen Janie Fineis fin­ished in 36th place after shoot­ing a round of 78. rounding out the group for the irish, junior Kelli oride shot a 79, which put her in a tie for 37th overall. Junior captain ashley armstrong did not compete sunday. 
notre dame did not com­pete as a team, but former big east-rival louisville won the team tournament with a to­tal score of 285. host indiana came in second, trailing by 11 strokes. 
up next, notre dame will head to east lansing, mich., for next weekend’s mary Fossum invitational at the Forest akers west golf course. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 


NFL 

Trestman wins debut as bears head coach 
Associated Press 
chicago — sluggish for most of the afternoon, the chicago bears found their rhythm in time to make marc Trestman a winner in his debut. 
Jay cutler passed to brandon marshall for the go-ahead touch­down in the fourth quarter, help­ing the bears rally for a 24-21 victory over the sloppy cincinnati bengals on sunday and giving Trestman a victory in his first game as an nFl head coach. 
it wasn’t quite the display the bears were looking for after mak­ing some big changes in the off­season. but they made the most of a handful of big plays by cutler and repeated mistakes by the bengals. 
“There were a lot of question marks,” cutler said. “how were we going to do on offense? are the plays going to work? are we going to be able to block them? am i go­ing to complete balls? so to go out there, it wasn’t pretty, it wasn’t perfect, we didn’t think it was go­ing to be. we made plays when we had to make plays.” 
cutler threw for 242 yards be­hind a line with four new start­ers. marshall had eight grabs for 104 yards, and the offense pulled it out after struggling most of the way. 
The bengals led by 11 in the third quarter and were up 21-17 early in the fourth when Tim Jennings jarred the ball from mohamed sanu following a re­ception and made the recovery. 
chicago took over at its 19 and got an 8-yard run from matt Forte on fourth-and-inches at the bengals 27 to keep the drive go­ing. cutler then found marshall in the front corner of the end zone for a 19-yard touchdown with 7:58 remaining. 
The bears made big changes in the offseason, parting with star linebacker brian urlacher and hiring Trestman to replace the fired lovie smith with the idea that he could spark the offense and lead them to the playoffs af­ter missing out five of the past six years. 
clearly, there’s work to do. The offense seemed stuck most of the afternoon but came through in the end, with cutler complet­ing 21 of 33 passes. he also had two touchdowns to go with an interception. 
charles Tillman matched a ca­reer high with two interceptions, giving him 35 overall for chicago. and robbie gould set a franchise record with a 58-yard field goal at the end of the first half following some questionable clock man­agement by cincinnati. 
“i think it tested us and our backbone because it didn’t go the way we wanted it to go, certainly, in the first half,” said Trestman, who coached the cFl’s montreal alouettes the past five seasons. “but the guys hung in there to­gether, at halftime pulled them­selves together and the team went out and played every play and were able to come out on top.” 
cincinnati’s andy dalton threw for 282 yards with two touchdowns and two intercep­tions. a.J. green had 162 yards receiving and two touchdowns, including a 45-yarder. but it was a disappointing opener for a team coming off back-to-back playoff appearances for the first time since 1981 and 1982. 

“They didn’t stop us one time,” up 14-10 at the half, the that put the ball on the 1, and green said. “They didn’t really bengals started the third quarter benJarvus green-ellis plowed stop us on offense. we were doing with an 80-yard scoring drive. in from the 5 after being hit whatever we wanted. The biggest Tillman got called for inter-with a 4-yard loss, making it thing we had was turnovers.” ference on a deep pass to green 21-10. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 



remaining in the game, fin-
M Soccer

W Soccer ished the scoring and re­
conTinued From page 20 
conTinued From page 20
corded her first collegiate 

goal with just a minute left an early lead that it would in the match, heading in a 
took five shots, three of never relinquish. cross from senior midfielder 
them on-goal, spent the rest The Titans, however, re-rebecca Twining. 
of the afternoon striking fused to give up more in the with the victory all but 
fear into north carolina’s first half. a stingy defense secured in the second half, 
moore. shipp had a great in notre dame’s attacking waldrum took advantage of 
opportunity for a goal with third prevented the irish, the opportunity to test the 
30 minutes left in regula­who handily controlled pos-depth that will be so impor­
tion, but sent the ball sail-session, from finding the net tant to notre dame’s success 
ing over the crossbar, while again in the first period. once acc play begins. 
sophomore midfielder The irish struggled to “i’m pleased not just with 
patrick hodan bounced a string together passes in the the starting group but with 
shot off the crossbar with 18-yard box and the team’s the group behind them as 
four minutes remaining in best chances were denied by well,” waldrum said. “it’s im­
the second half. dunbar, who blocked point-portant to gain some experi­
although the Tar heels blank attempts by Thomas ence and get some depth for 
grabbed the early lead and and junior forward lauren us. 
led for most of the after­bohaboy. The irish now sit at 4-1 be-
noon, clark said he felt that after halftime, however, fore starting their inaugural 
the irish controlled much of andrews struck again just season in the acc. waldrum 
the game. notre dame out-minutes after the restart. The said he believes that his team 
shot north carolina 21-12, freshman received a pass and is in a good position heading 
and took three more corner blasted a shot from 30 yards into conference play. 
kicks. brown, who was one of the with the best of the best. out past dunbar and into the “at this point i’m very hap­
“The fact that we were 1-0 two notre dame players to “They’re a good team, but upper portion of the goal. py to be 4-1, and i think to-
down, i think drove us on,” take a yellow card, said the i think with today’s perfor­“we talked at halftime day was really important,” 
clark said. “we certainly team came away from the mance, if you looked at it about being more efficient waldrum said. “The non-con­
didn’t want to lose, and i draw with mixed feelings. clinically, i think we were around the goal and creat-ference schedule that we’ve 
think that gave us that ex-“we knew we should’ve the better side,” clark said. ing more opportunities,” played was a pretty good 
tra 10 percent, as it were, in won the game, we knew we “i think early season rank­waldrum said. “i think we did stretch.” 
our gas tank. and then the should’ve score multiple ings don’t mean too much. a really good job of that in the The irish will have all hands 
longer the game went on, goals,” brown said. “we had i think you’ve got to wait second half, and that second available when then take 
i think they also were get-that feeling like, ‘we’re go-until the season plays out a goal was so important to sort on north carolina state on 
ting content to sit on the 1-0 ing to get one eventually,’ bit.” of put away a team like this.” Thursday since they were able 
lead. but i think we created and it’s really a shame that The irish will attempt The second-half onslaught to rest important starters like 
many better opportunities.” we didn’t end up getting to get their first acc win continued as bohaboy found sophomore midfielder cari 
The game featured 40 [a winner]. we definitely Friday when they travel to the net only 10 minutes later roccaro on sunday. 
fouls and six yellow cards. didn’t feel frustrated, just a syracuse, n.y., to take on on a turnaround shot from That game will begin at 
“i think the ref did a re-little disappointed in our-the orange. The game be-just outside the box. andrews 7 p.m. at the dail soccer 
ally good job throughout, selves at the end of the day. gins at su soccer stadium received the assist. complex in raleigh, n.c. 
actually,” clark said. “it but it’s not a terrible result at 7 p.m. Freshman midfielder 
wasn’t an easy game to ref-against a pretty good team.” emily geyer, who came on Contact Conor Kelly at 
eree, because it was very clark said the match Contact Vicky Jacobsen at for andrews with 10 minutes ckelly17@nd.edu 
competitive.” proved the irish can play vjacobse@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT set, winning 25-13. From there,
Volleyball 

purdue cruised in the decisive conTinued From page 20 fifth set, 15-10. The irish were held 
to a disappointing .097 hitting thought the rest of our team rose percentage as the boilermakers to the occasion and competed proved dominant at the net, reg-hard.” istering 17.5 blocks in the victory. 
dabrowa, whose players’ av-houser led the offensive effort for erage age is in the late twenties, the irish, notching 11 kills as well plays in europe’s top women’s as three services aces as the irish volleyball league and is touring fell. the united states playing against “we had a top-25 team in the top ncaa competition. The pol-building and had opportunities ish squad fell to no. 1 penn state in the fifth set,” brown said. “we last week and will move on to got stuck in a rotation and gave up chicago to take on northwestern a number of points in a row, and on Tuesday. that part of it is really frustrating. 
The irish opened the weekend it’s probably something that will against bowling green on Friday haunt all of us for the rest of this and cruised to a four-set victory. season.” after a close first two sets that despite the 1-2 record, brown the teams split, notre dame took views the weekend as a learning the next two in decisive fashion, tool that will only help the irish as winning 25-19 and 25-13. led by they enter acc play. 14 kills apiece from alugbue and “we played three very good houser, the irish hit .286 in front teams this weekend and definite-of 1,043 fans in notre dame’s ly raised our level of play,” brown home opener. said. “we played much better this 
“i really liked the way we fin-weekend than we did last week­ished against bowling green,” end. i think that’s what we want brown said. “i thought we had to see – progress. and we want to fantastic team chemistry and win. we’re going to figure out how in the fourth game were play-to win these games.” ing with a really high level of The irish stay at home next confidence.” weekend for the shamrock 
on saturday, the irish faced a invitational. The team opens top-25 opponent in no. 22 purdue the tournament playing loyola­and fell in a five-set squeaker. chicago at 7 p.m. on Friday at Though the team held a 2-1 lead purcell pavilion. after three sets, the boilermakers rallied and seized control of the Contact Conor Kelly at match with a dominating fourth ckelly17@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: pink, 34; david arquette, 42; brooke burke charvet, 42; neko case, 43. 
Happy Birthday: Keep a close watch over your money and health issues. impulsive­ness will lead to trouble, and patience and research will lead to success. listen attentively and participate in activities and events that will broaden your awareness and your friendships. your keen sense of the big picture will encourage those you encounter to take a chance on you. your numbers are 7, 13, 15, 21, 33, 38, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t make rash decisions or push someone away without taking a closer look at the situation involving someone else. overreacting will magnify a problem that just requires a little tweaking. a good physical workout will help defuse your anger. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): consider your qualifications and look at job prospects that interest you. it never hurts to send your resume out to ensure that you are mar­ketable. a force play with a partner or your current domestic situation will prompt a change. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a timeout to take care of personal needs may not please the people who count on you, but it’s important that you do something rejuvenat­ing. a change of scenery or hanging out with someone unique will lift your spirits. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t blow an incident out of proportion. back away from anyone trying to corner you or pick a fight. concentrate on self-improvement and the hobbies that interest you. learn by observing how people from different backgrounds handle similar situations. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): make positive changes at home. do the work yourself and you will have money to spend on something or someone special. a trip will encour­age you to incorporate the information you discover into an opportunity that can lead to financial freedom. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep up with what’s going on in your community or the industry in which you work to avoid being broadsided by someone or something that can influence your position or financial security. a change of heart can lead to a costly expense. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep everything simple. being adaptable will help you slip through any upsets or confrontations you face without too much trouble. let past experience guide you. Take the day to travel to places that will occupy your mind and ease your stress. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a secret will be divulged. protect your reputation and your honor by counteracting any gossip that might incriminate you. use your imagination and concentrate on projects that allow you to be innovative. handle whatever you face uniquely and discreetly. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take an active role in your community and raise your profile. lobby to enforce rules that will improve your lifestyle. change is good, and whether it is personal, financial or physical, you will prosper from positive action. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): strategy will be required if you want to get to the bottom of a problem you have with someone you care about. Taking on too much or overreacting will stand between you and accomplishing what you set out to do. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t dismiss an idea you have. Flush out the pos­sibilities and consider how you can turn something you want to pursue into a moneymaking endeavor. love is on the rise, and sharing your feelings is encour­aged. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): don’t overspend on luxury items or fancy products that promise the impossible. invest in your talent, skills and ideas that can help you get ahead financially. a partnership will improve your position and help you reach your goals. 

Birthday Baby: you are charming, sensitive and kind. you are practical and persis­tent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, norTh carolina 1 
Tie of the Titans 
Notre Dame outshoots North Carolina in high-caliber draw 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The no. 4 irish couldn’t se­cure a win in their first con­ference match in the acc, but a strike from senior for­ward leon brown in the 79th minute led notre dame to an eventual 1-1 overtime draw with no. 1 north carolina at alumni stadium on saturday afternoon. 
The irish (1-0-2, 0-0-1 acc) gave up an early goal to the Tar heels (2-0-1, 0-0-1 acc), and the time left for an equal­izer was slipping away when a notre dame corner kick gave irish junior midfielder nick besler the opportunity to take a shot at goal. unc junior goalkeeper brendan moore made the save, but senior for­ward harrison shipp came up with the ball and fed it to brown, who put it in the back of the net. 
brown has now scored three goals in the first three games of the season. he remains the only notre dame player to score a goal in a non-exhibi­tion game so far this season. 
“he should’ve had another one, that’s my only complaint for leon,” irish coach bobby clark said, referencing a shot that went just wide of the goal in the second overtime peri­od. “but leon’s playing awful well, that’s the most impor­tant thing. now the fact that he’s scoring, that’s a bonus.” 
The irish looked slightly uncomfortable in the early part of the first half. many passes didn’t find their tar­gets, and the forwards had trouble crossing the ball to their teammates in the box. 
“i think one thing that unc does very well, they pressure you very well, and they’re good at it,” clark said. “and it took us a little while to get up to speed with that.” 
in the 18th minute, Tar heels junior forward Tyler engel, a smu transfer, chipped an unassisted goal past irish senior goalkeeper patrick wall. 
“it was a disappointing goal, i’m not going to point fingers,” clark said. “i think we’ll talk about that through the week. initially there didn’t seem to be a lot of dan­ger. but sometimes, that’s 


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Irish senior forward Leon Brown awaits a pass during Notre Dame’s 1-1 tie with North Carolina on Sunday at Alumni Stadium. The game marked the Irish’s first ACC matchup. 
the game. you don’t take care of business and sometimes they’ll slip in and get a goal; that’s what i felt happened. it just came out of nowhere.” 
but the momentum swung the way of the irish soon after that first goal, and they easily led the Tar heels in scoring 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 4, deTroiT 0 
Offense dominates Detroit 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
in the team’s final tune-up before starting conference play, the irish bounced back from last week’s tough loss to no. 3 ucla in an impressive 4-0 victory over detroit at alumni stadium on sunday evening. 
Freshman midfielder morgan andrews scored two goals, including one just four minutes into the match, and the irish defense did not al­low a shot on goal in the vic­tory. with the exception of the ucla match, the irish have notched a goal in the first five minutes of each of their games. 
“we’ve gotten off to quick starts, which is really impor­tant against teams like this that kind of bunker in,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “you don’t want to let them hang around.” 
in the fifth minute, andrews finished a ball 


OE KENESEY | The Observer 

Irish freshman midfielder Morgan Andrews dribbles during Notre Dame’s 4-0 win over Detroit on Sept. 8, 2013 at Alumni Stadium. 
slotted across the six-yard goalkeeper martha dunbar box by sophomore forward and staking notre dame to crystal Thomas, sending it past detroit’s sophomore see w soccer PAGE 18 opportunities. 
senior defender grant van de casteele thought he tied the game in the 51st minute, but the referee saw an irish foul in the box and called off the goal. 
Junior forward vince cicciarelli came into the game as a substitute with about 20 minutes left in the first half, and his first touch of the game was a narrowly missed shot made possible by a pass from senior defender luke mishu. cicciarelli, who 
see m soccer PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL | golden dome inviTaTional 
irish win two of three in exhibition 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 

This past summer, the irish went on an 11-day tour of europe, playing club and professional teams in the czech republic, slovenia and italy. The tables were turned on sunday when notre dame got the chance to play host to a european opponent as the polish club dabrowa came to purcell pavilion for the golden dome invitational. 
after splitting the first two matches of the weekend against bowling green and purdue, irish coach debbie brown rested a number of starters and viewed her squad’s 3-0 (25-19, 25-13, 25-18) loss to the polish side as a learning experience. Team leaders like senior setter maggie brindock, junior outside hitter Toni alugbue and junior middle blocker Jeni houser did not see the court. 
“we felt like this was an opportunity in a match situa­tion to play some of our younger players, some of our more inex­perienced players,” brown said. “because this is an exhibition and it doesn’t count on the record, we felt it was an important thing to do.” 
Junior outside hitter meg vonderhaar paced the irish with nine kills on a .286 hitting per­centage, and senior outside hitter nicole smith chipped in with five. 
with consecutive tournament weekends in which the irish (2-3, 0-0 acc) played three matches each, the preseason takes a toll on the team. brown said that getting a variety of players into the match would help keep the team fresh down the road. 
“i think that we really needed to rest some of the starters. it gets a little grueling in the preseason when you’re playing three match­es each weekend.” brown said. “i 
see volleyball PAGE 18 




