


COMMENTARY 

2012 momentum carries into 2013 


Chris Allen 
sports editor 
recruiting is a college foot­ball fan’s most dangerous game. 
It doesn’t follow logic or lend itself to certainty. college foot­ball fans hope success on the field translates to success on signing day. but it doesn’t al­ways work out that way. 
For notre dame fans, 2012 was a good year. The class of 2013 that came across the fax machines in the Gug offer a perfect capstone — and a sort of perfect symmetry for Irish fans hoping to build on 2012’s success. 
The 2013 class, just like the 2012 football team, is built around a star linebacker. Just as former linebacker manti Te’o anchored the defense at the second level and led the team with a force of personal­ity, so will Jaylon smith impact future notre dame teams. 
smith, the no. 7 prospect in the country according to esPn, is the kind of player that can change any team’s fortunes. he committed to notre dame on June 2 and never wavered in his commitment to the Golden dome through thick and thin. Irish coach brian Kelly wants to anchor his program on play­ers who appreciate what it means to play for notre dame 
— and he has one of those players in smith. It certainly helps Kelly that smith has the tools to be a ferocious outside linebacker that rushes like a defensive end and runs like a cornerback. 
The similarities between the 2012 team and the 2013 class don’t end there. The 2013 group includes a dual-threat quarterback (malik Zaire), two pass-catching tight ends that can play like wide receivers (mike heuerman and durham smythe), versatile cornerbacks experienced on the offensive side of the ball as well (devin butler and rashad Kinlaw) and a big, physical defensive end from Georgia (Isaac rochell). sound familiar? 
but there are also reasons to believe the 2013 class offers an even brighter future than the success 2012 offered. The 2012 team, for all its success, fell four touchdowns short of its ul­timate goal. If notre dame is to conquer the sec and hoist the crystal football, it needs game-changers who can impact contests on the same stage that played out Jan. 7 in miami. on that day, two game-changing running backs ran through notre dame’s defense. Today, brian Kelly locked down two game-changing running backs of his own in Greg bryant and Tarean Folston — both from Florida. Folston has the speed and elusiveness, but it is the five-star bryant who will come in and make an impact in the running game from day one. With Theo riddick and cierre Wood departing to the nFL draft, bryant is the kind of player who can come into fall camp and immediately clear up a muddled running back picture. Add in a late surprise signing from defensive line­man eddie vanderdoes, the no. 10 player in the country, and Kelly had stockpiled the kind of difference-makers to stare down Alabama and any other sec power en route to a title. 
Perhaps the most encourag­ing aspect of the 2013 recruit­ing class from a notre dame perspective is the tight-knit bond between the recruits that has developed over months. The reality of recruiting is such that within two or three years, these young signees will become team leaders. early on in the recruiting process, wide receiver and current early enrollee James onwualu brainstormed a name for the class with Zaire and butler 
— it became the birth of the “Irish mob.” As the class grew, the recruits grew closer and welcomed new players to the “mob” with hospitality and camaraderie. That closeness was put on display recently as smythe, a Texas de-commit, visited campus. his fellow tight end heuerman, who had been committed for months, welcomed smythe with open arms. smythe committed to notre dame in a matter of days. This group has realized what clicked with the 2012 Irish team — a game is won by a team, not individuals. 
The “Irish mob” will only grow closer. on the heels of an all-around great season, it is an all-around great recruiting class. 
Just how Kelly wants it. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




Kelly introduces class of 24 signed recruits 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
Irish coach brian Kelly ar­rived at the signing day press conference looking relaxed after a tumultuous month that included a blowout loss to Alabama, a flirtation with the Philadelphia eagles and the manti Te’o controversy. 
but Wednesday was a cause for celebration for Kelly and his staff as they finalized a stellar 24-man recruiting haul that spanned the coun­try and resulted in a con­sensus top-five finish for the Irish. 
“It’s an exciting day at notre dame, and it’s excit­ing because it’s centered upon our future,” Kelly said. “I think we all know … that after the last game you play, you want to begin taking that next step forward, and for us, taking that next step forward is to continue to build our football program within and developing football players, so when they get back on that field in 2013, we finish it.” 
Three of the five-star jew­els of the class will fill need­ed positions for the Irish: linebacker Jaylon smith, safety max redfield and run­ning back Greg bryant. While nearly all of the class had ver­bally committed prior to the start of the 12-1 season, Kelly said the successful season aided the recruiting process. 
“I think it’s crucial,” said Kelly of the team’s success. “I think you have to have both to be able to get the players like a Greg bryant. It can’t just be on academics. We don’t want them coming to notre dame just because of academics. We want the whole piece. And this was an indication that 12 wins defi­nitely helps you in that pro­cess with a Greg bryant. 
“You know, we had 19 com­mitted before the season started, and the guys that we got late, I think winning defi­nitely had something to do with that.” 
redfield, originally a Usc commit, and defensive-line recruit eddie vanderdoes give the Irish more five-star commitments from california than any other school. 
vanderdoes faxed his Letter of Intent to notre dame just before 8 p.m. Wednesday and announced his decision minutes later at a press conference. 
Whereas last year’s class experienced late defections, the 2013 haul endured little adversity, with the exception of linebacker Alex Anzalone’s January decommitment. 
“I think what we did this year is that we made sure where that commitment was,” Kelly said. “In other words, if you’re committed, that means you’ve ended this recruiting process. And I think in some instances, being firmer toward that end allowed this not to take shape. 
“now, I’m going to tell you, these are young guys. Things happen every year, and I think you have to be pre­pared for that, too.” 
Kelly said one of the key components of the class’ ca­maraderie was smith, a Fort Wayne, Ind., product and the state’s top-rated player. 
“I think leadership takes different forms, and he can be a leader just by his own actions, the way he handles himself,” Kelly said. “he’ll look you in the eye. I think those are all leadership qualities, as well. do I think he’s going to come in and be the vocal leader like [former Irish linebacker manti Te’o] was on the field? no, I don’t think so. but his actions and the way that he prepares himself and the way he plays the game, I think a lot of peo­ple will want to model after him.” 
With the 24 additions to the roster, Kelly said notre dame’s depth is the best at any point during his three-year tenure. 
“With this class, it really addresses some of our depth needs across the board,” he said. “We played the national championship game under 85 scholarships. We did not have 85 scholarship players at that time. We had some depth issues. And I think we’ve addressed those depth issues across the board in year three.” 


Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2013 | The observer 



CLASS OF 2013 

Cocoa High School American Heritage School Joni Kuhn,/Bishop Luers High School 
MALIK 

ZAIRE 

QUARTERBACK 

6’1” • 196 
Archbishop Alter High School Kettering, Ohio 

As one of five early enrollees this semes­ter, malik Zaire has taken the first step in his development as an Irish quarterback. expectations for the left-handed quarter­back likely include him following in the footsteps of Andrew hendrix, everett Golson and Gunner Kiel and redshirting in his first season. Zaire is a true dual-threat quarter­back who operated a spread-option offense in high school. 
While some quarterbacks may seek rush­ing yards at the first sign of trouble, Zaire used his mobility to bide time in order to continue to read coverages until a receiver broke open. on the relatively few occasions he was asked to throw, he displayed accuracy on deep, downfield throws. The majority of his rushing attempts came on designed run plays or read options, which were similar to plays Golson ran this season. 

EDDIE 




VANDERDOES 

DEFENSIVE LINEMAN 

6’3” • 310 
Placer High School Auburn, Calif. 

rated as the no. 10 player in the country by esPn, eddie vanderdoes is a physical force who profiles as the type of top defensive line talent notre dame has attracted in the past few years. 
At 6-foot-3 and 310 pounds, vanderdoes has the quickness and pass-rush ability to play defensive end to go along with the size and power to play inside in any defensive scheme. A former Usc commit, vanderdoes became interested in the Irish late in the re­cruiting process and chose to go to notre dame over UcLA and Alabama. vanderdoes, who hails from Auburn, calif., will push cur­rent notre dame sophomores Jarron Jones and sheldon day for playing time along the defensive line and is widely expected to be able to make an early impact. 
TAREAN 




FOLSTON 

RUNNING BACK 

5’9” • 190 
Cocoa High School Cocoa, Fla. 

Tarean Folston is the faster of notre dame’s two running back recruits from the sunshine state, and his 4.48-second speed in the 40-yard dash will be an asset in the Irish spread running game. 
And as fast as Folston is, he’s even quick­er in his cuts. Where other shifty players may “jump cut” around would-be tacklers, Folston drives into every move, coming out of a cut with more momentum than he had going into it. he can string out plays and beat other players to the edge, or at a mo­ment’s notice decisively drive into a hole, where he does not shy away from contact. 
With his elite quickness and skills both running and receiving the football, Folston should join upperclassmen like George Atkinson III and davonte’ neal as versatile, explosive weapons in the Irish offense. 

MAX 




REDFIELD 

SAFETY 

6’2” • 181 

Mission Viejo High School Mission Viejo, Calif. 
max redfield, a 6-foot-2 athlete out of mission viejo, calif., has promising size that profiles well at the safety position. The former Usc commit pledged to join notre dame at the Under Armour All-American Game on Jan. 4 in Tampa, Fla. 
The no. 23 overall player in the na­tion according to esPn, redfield has the speed and quickness to make plays in pass coverage as well as the size and strength to step up into the box and de­fend the run. 
redfield could play receiver at the col­legiate level as well and, as a result, he has solid ball skills for a defensive back. 
Though already very polished, redfield still has a high ceiling. 

GREG 




BRYANT 

RUNNING BACK 
5’11” • 197 

American Heritage School Boca-Delray Delray Beach, Fla. 
Greg bryant is one of the highest-ranked recruits in this year’s class, and fills almost all of the criteria for an elite young back. 
The 5-foot-11-inch, 197-pound bryant has an ideal body for the grind of college football and makes full use of it. he can pound through arm tackles inside and has the vision to turn two-yard gains into first downs. 
And while bryant is comfortable run­ning inside, he should not be pigeonholed as a power runner. With a combination of vision and moves, bryant is elusive enough to evade linebackers and fast enough to break open big plays when he reaches the second level. 
With the graduation of seniors cierre Wood and Theo riddick, the well-rounded bryant could challenge George Atkinson III and Amir carlisle for carries this fall. 
ISAAC 




ROCHELL 
DEFENSIVE END 
6’4” • 250 

Eagles Landing Christian Academy McDonough, Ga. 
Isaac rochell played both offensive and defensive line in high school but will join the Irish ranks as a defensive end. 
rochell received offers from the likes of Alabama, Florida, Georgia and oklahoma but committed to the Irish in June and will add considerable depth to the defensive line. esPn rates him as a four-star prospect and the 13th best defensive end in the country. 
The 250-pounder has a knack for getting in the backfield and is relentless in pursuing the quarterback. he recorded seven sacks and 24 tackles for loss during his junior year. rochell already has the speed and size to compete in college but can still add bulk to improve his strength. 
JAYLON 




SMITH 

OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 

6’3” • 212 
Bishop Luers High School Fort Wayne, Ind. 
rated the no. 7 overall prospect in the country by esPn, Jaylon smith is widely considered the top outside linebacker pros­pect in the nation. The extremely athletic smith has both the speed to cover receivers and the block-shedding ability to pressure the quarterback, and he could play either the cat or dog linebacker position in Irish defensive coordinator bob diaco’s scheme. Irish coach brian Kelly said Wednesday that smith will challenge for playing time at the dog position. 
smith is a good tackler but could also add muscle to his frame to increase his strength. 
smith, the only Indiana signee for the Irish in the 2013 class, won a state championship all four years of high school at Fort Wayne’s bishop Luers. Though he also played run­ning back for the Knights, he projects solely as a defensive player at notre dame. 

Derrick Mahone/Clayton News Daily Eric Albright/Midland High School 
STEVE 




ELMER 

OFFENSIVE TACKLE 

6’6” • 305 
Midland High School Midland, Mich. 
steve elmer is a dominant force on the field. In high school he played both defen­sive line and left tackle and made a differ­ence on both sides of the ball. 
The collective force of his 6-foot-6-inch, 300-pound body is nearly impossible to overcome on the high school level and profiles well at the major collegiate level. his size and strength allow him to make holes for his quarterback and running backs by sheer force. 
he doesn’t just stop the other team from getting to the quarterback, he tends to push them back several feet or more. elmer projects as a stout offensive tackle for the Irish and has a high ceiling. 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 



in backpedaling and breaking bivin largely lined up as a left montelus is ranked by esPn as All-American bowl in January. The 6-foot-5, 314-pound 
while maintaining a close eye on tackle in high school but demon-the best player in massachusetts. 
the receiver and the ball. strated the ability to play differ-montelus projects as a strong 
With his long strides, Luke has ent positions on the line. he even offensive lineman with solid 
the ability to stay with the re-saw some snaps at center, a rar-upper body strength, quick feet 
ceiver all the way downfield to ity for a player of his size. bivin and long arms. montelus likely 
deflect the ball. Luke is not the projects to play inside at notre has the requisite size to stick at 
most physical player, but if he dame. his high school position of offen­
puts on 15 more pounds without bivin still needs to put on sive tackle, but he could also play 
losing quickness he could be a more weight and strength, but guard given his mobility. 
standout. he could find himself in mop-up montelus has the explosive-duty as early as next season. ness to get downfield and punish 
linebackers and defensive backs with his powerful run blocking. 




TORII 
The lineman also has the lateral 

DOUG 
agility to hang tough in pass pro­
tection as the pocket moves. 


HUNTER JR. 
RANDOLPH 
montelus committed to notre dame on April 21 and later, dur-

RECEIVER 

ing his senior season, led his LINEBACKER 
squad to its third consecutive 6’3” • 221 
6’0” • 172 

division 1A state championship Woodberry Forest High School Prosper, Texas Prosper High School 
with a 20-19 victory at Gillette Woodberry Forest, Va. stadium, the home of the new Torii hunter, Jr. seems to have 
england Patriots. A four-star recruit from inherited his father’s Gold Glove­
virginia, outside linebacker caliber hands along with his 
doug randolph’s game centers 




DEVIN 
name. 

on his strength and athleti-The wide receiver out of 

COLIN 
cism. he is a quick, resilient pass 


BUTLER 
Prosper (Texas) high school 

rusher whose agility allows him can make just about any catch, 

MCGOVERN 

to maneuver in between offen­whether he’s stuck in traffic or 
sive linemen in pursuit of the CORNERBACK wide open in the end zone. once 
quarterback. 6’1” • 179 he gets the ball in his hands he’s OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 
randolph plays hard from Gonzaga College High School adept at finding the gaps and 6’6” • 291 
whistle to whistle, bursting off Washington, D.C. outrunning his opponents, but Lincoln-Way West High School 
the line at the snap and not stop-he doesn’t shy away from con-New Lenox, Ill. 
ping until he takes down the devin butler is a four-star re-tact — although primarily an 
ball carrier. With his strength, cruit from Gonzaga high school offensive player, his high school one of the most sought-af­
randolph often pushes through in Washington d.c. highlights include a bone-jarring ter prospects in the midwest, blocks and double teams, cap-butler will play cornerback tackle. colin mcGovern chose notre ping off the play with a tackle for at notre dame, though he saw 

MIKE 

hunter committed to notre dame over a number of big 10 loss. time as a receiver in high school. dame in september, but it might programs, including michigan, randolph also spent time on butler is an instinctive player be a while before Irish fans get to ohio state and nebraska. the other side of the ball as a tight with great closing speed and lots 

HEUERMAN 

see him in action. he suffered a At 6-foot-6 and 291 pounds, end. Aided by his powerful build of range. gruesome broken leg a month mcGovern has a good frame for and steady hands, randolph he is speedy and can track ago during one-on-one drills be-a lineman and also moves well TIGHT END is most effective with mid- to down receivers or runners across fore the Army All-American bowl for the position. he jumps off 6’4” • 220 long-range passes and as an alert the field. butler provides solid, and still has five to seven months the line of scrimmage very well Barron Collier High School blocker for his backs. smart and aware coverage while of recovery before he can play and is able to make plays in open Naples, Fla. displaying the ability to make again. space. mcGovern also displays 
open field tackles against the solid technique in run protec-brian Kelly and the Irish man-
run. tion and in pass protection, an aged to snag tight end mike 
he reads quarterbacks well area where many high school heuerman from the clutches of 
and gets a jump on the ball, and linemen struggle. Urban meyer and ohio state. 
once he gets a jump on the ball, mcGovern saw most of his The four-star tight end from 
he has the ability to elevate and playing time at left tackle but barron collier high school in 
the hands to bring the ball in. can also play on the inside and is naples, Fla., cited tradition and projected to be either a center or the campus community as rea­guard. sons for choosing notre dame 
mcGovern still has room to over ohio state, LsU and several add weight but has the tools nec-other schools. essary to earn playing time ear-heuerman stands 6-foot-4 and lier than most linemen typically weighs 220 pounds. he is already do. a talented and dominant blocker 
with the potential to do even more damage on the outside 


COLE 
HUNTER 
once he fills out his tall frame. he plays smart and adjusts quickly 


LUKE 
BIVIN 

when blocking. heuerman also runs a swift 4.69-second 40-yard dash. That CORNERBACK 
OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 

speed coupled with his height 6’0” • 165 6’6” • 290 
will make him a big challenge to Hamilton High School 


WILL 
Apollo High School 

cover and a formidable receiving Chandler, Ariz. Owensboro, Ky. 
threat. 


FULLER 

of the 24 commits to the Irish ranked as one of the top 
squad, cole Luke is one of three tackles in the country, hunter 
players who projects to play cor-RECEIVER bivin committed to notre dame nerback, providing depth to the 6’1” • 163 in march, selecting the Irish secondary. Roman Catholic High School over Florida, ohio state and The 6-foot, 175-pound cole is Philadelphia 

JOHN 

oklahoma, among others. average-sized, but he is extreme-With his 6-foot-6, 290-pound ly athletic and possesses strong Will Fuller tore up the grid-

MONTELUS 

frame, bivin has the ability to footwork and coordination iron at roman catholic high overpower his opponents with skills. he is tall and agile enough school, located in Philadelphia. raw strength. Although he strug-OFFENSIVE LINEMAN to defend against the ever-in-The 6-foot-1, 170-pound receiver gles with his footwork at times, 6’5” • 314 creasing height of today’s wide and cornerback posted 46 recep­he displayed good agility and Everett High School receivers in man-to-man cov-tions for 758 yards and scored 13 technique at the Under Armour Everett, Mass. erage. he has precise footwork touchdowns in addition to the 










ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2013 | The observer 

three interceptions he had on the defensive side of the ball in his senior year. 
Fuller also broke the city re­cord for most receiving yards in a single game, a mark that stood for over 40 years, when he recorded 276 yards on 10 recep­tions. After his impressive senior campaign, he was named first team all-catholic wide receiver and defensive back, and he is the top-ranked receiver in southeast Pennsylvania. 
originally a Penn state com­mit, Fuller switched his commit­ment to notre dame in August after the ncAA handed down its sanctions against Penn state. With Fuller, the Irish get a fast and agile wide receiver who ex­cels in the open field. Fuller also runs crisp routes and has good hands. 

COREY 


ROBINSON 
RECEIVER 
6’5” • 200 
San Antonio Christian San Antonio 
With his pedigree, it’s no sur­prise corey robinson has tre­mendous athletic ability. 
The son of hall of Fame bas­ketball player david robinson, corey has only been playing football for three years, but in his senior year he caught 20 touch­downs in 11 games and averaged over 20 yards per catch. 
With relatively little experi­ence, robinson is a raw player with great potential and lots of room to grow. still, his route run­ning is solid, and he already has the athleticism and aggressive­ness to consistently win jump balls. robinson also has good hands and is particularly dan­gerous in traffic in the middle of the field. At 6-foot-5 and 200 pounds, robinson can dominate smaller cornerbacks and will be one of the tallest Irish receivers. 

JAMES 



ONWUALU 
RECEIVER 
6’1” • 203 
Cretin-Derham Hall High School Saint Paul, Minn. 
receiver James onwualu doesn’t break out of many tackles 
— generally because defenders can’t catch him in the first place. The nimble cretin-derham hall product from saint Paul, minn., has made many of his opponents look foolish over the years, tor­menting them with fantastic foot speed and outstanding lateral movement. 
onwualu — who hails from the same school as michael Floyd and Joe mauer — carries the ball with the momentum of a freight train, staying cognizant of where the defense is and where to go to avoid it.  hesitation has no place in his game; he can run his route, turn for the catch and break for the end zone, all without losing a step. he received offers from nearly every big Ten school and several Pac-12 programs in addi­tion to notre dame. 

DURHAM 



SMYTHE 
TIGHT END 
6’5” • 230 
Belton High School Belton, Texas 
durham smythe is a tight end out of belton high school in belton, Texas.  At 6-foot-5 and 230 pounds, smythe’s frame gives him an advantage over smaller defenders. besides hav­ing the ability to reach passes defenders can’t get to, smythe doesn’t need as much separation to get open compared to smaller tight ends and receivers. he can line up as a blocker or split out as a receiver, although he seems more comfortable lined up tight with a hand on the ground. 
most importantly, smythe possesses soft hands and a com­mitment to blocking. his blocks impress just as much as his acro­batic catches. Along with fellow recruit mike heuerman, smythe looks to come in and provide even more depth to an already strong tight end corps. 

MIKE 



MCGLINCHEY 
OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 
6’8” • 285 
William Penn Charter School Philadelphia 
mcGlinchey, the cousin of nFL quarterback matt ryan, will provide the Irish with a unique combination of size and strength on the offensive line.  With his 6-foot-8-inch frame, mcGlinchey towers over defensive linemen but still has the agility and ath­leticism to seal off blocks and fol­low plays down field. 
The Philadelphia prospect’s combination of power and ex­plosive ability off the ball will allow him to contribute for the Irish in the future, and his height is a unique factor that will give him an advantage even at the college level. 
mcGlinchey played in the semper Fidelis All-American bowl in January along with notre dame commitments such as quarterback malik Zaire and receiver Will Fuller. 

JACOB 



MATUSKA 
DEFENSIVE END 
6’4” • 235 
Bishop Hartley High School Columbus, Ohio 
Jacob matuska played both tight end and defensive end in high school and with his big frame could be placed at ei­ther position for notre dame. 
matuska, however, will likely line up on defense for the Irish. 
The second member of the class to commit behind offensive lineman steve elmer, matuska pledged to the Irish on march 7, 2012. 
Though lacking great speed for a tight end, matuska’s size makes him difficult to cover. matuska averaged 21.75 yards per catch his senior season and hauled in four touchdowns. his biggest strength as a tight end may be his run blocking due to his size and good technique. 
defensively, he racked up 49 tackles and three intercep­tions in 2012. matuska likely will provide depth for the Irish as a freshman and not make an im­mediate big impact as he adjusts to the college game. 

MICHAEL 



DEEB 
LINEBACKER 
6’2” • 238 
American Heritage High School Plantation, Fla. 
Although not one of the most heralded recruits in the upcom­ing class, michael deeb may have the potential to be one of its best players down the road. deeb lives up to his reputation as a hard-nosed, intelligent in­side linebacker, often blowing up plays in the backfield with fero­cious hits. 
his power stands out the most, as he stops running backs with immediate contact and offensive linemen struggle to move him out of the hole. And while speed is not his forte, he certainly shows the ability to be a sideline­to-sideline playmaker. 
one area where he may need improvement is in pass coverage, where, like most young lineback­ers, he struggles to cover quicker running backs and receivers. 

RASHAD 




KINLAW 

CORNERBACK 

6’0” • 180 
Absegami High School Galloway, N.J. 
rashad Kinlaw is listed as an athlete by esPn, but he projects as a cornerback at notre dame. 
coming off his high school ca­reer as a dual threat quarterback, Kinlaw provides notre dame with several options at the next level with his explosive speed and versatility. his speed pro­duces damage on the field. 
At 6-feet and 180 pounds with incredible agility, Kinlaw is ex­tremely difficult to tackle in the open field. he has proven to be a very versatile player and profiles nicely as a cornerback given his speed and mechanics. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 







Recruits adopt ‘Mob’ mentality 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
The 24 incoming players who make up the Irish class of 2013 hail from as far east as massachusetts and as far west as california. 
but despite being separated by distance, the group has been united for months under one de­fining moniker. 
“The ‘Irish mob,’” corner­back devin butler, who signed Wednesday, said. “It [started] way back when it was only 11 com­mits. I was just talking to [quar­terback] malik Zaire and [wide receiver] James onwualu about how we ‘mob,’ slang for like play­ing well. They both said, ‘We are the Irish mob,’ and we ran with it. 
“It helps to keep us close be­cause it’s just a way to unite us and keep us all together without being together.” 
Though it started off as a moni­ker, the “Irish mob” became a movement that brought together arguably the best recruiting class in recent notre dame history. Through the use of the hashtag #Irishmob13 on Twitter, natu­ral leaders onwualu, butler and offensive lineman steve elmer were able to bring new and tal­ented recruits to play for the Irish. 
Irish recruiting analyst mike Frank said the group is already showing the ability to lead at a young age. 
“The closeness of the group has a huge impact,” he said. “That’s your future leadership at some point. having those guys so close and having them get along with each other, it’s good because when the game’s on the line they don’t want to let their brother down. That’s where it re­ally comes into play.” 
As the 2012 Irish continued to pile up wins on the field, the “Irish mob” continued to grow off it. The class gained momentum from the commitments of five-star caliber players in running back Greg bryant and safety max redfield in the weeks and days leading up to the bcs national championship Game on Jan. 7. Frank said a distinguishing factor of the group was its willingness to compete against players who play the same position. bryant, running back Tarean Folston and tight end durham smythe all joined the “mob” late despite fac­ing crowded position battles. 
“The way this class operates is, we’re all here to compete and we’re all here to play, but whatev­er is going to make the team bet­ter is what we need,” Frank said. “It’s a kind of unselfishness. I’m really excited to see that.” 
The unity of the “mob” was tested on Jan. 10 as highly-re­garded linebacker Alex Anzalone, scheduled to enroll early at notre dame, de-committed to enroll early at Florida. 
The Irish recruits reacted in an uproar at Anzalone, heavily criti­cizing his decision. Frank said the fire with which the players reacted is a sign of future team unity. 
“When Alex Anzalone decom­mitted, a lot of guys that he knew felt pretty betrayed by that. That was encouraging to see, they took that very personally,” Frank said. “That to me was a good sign that you’ve got the right kind of guys coming in this class, the right kind of mentality that you’re looking for. Guys that take this se­riously, personally and want to be part of not just a team but a fam­ily-type atmosphere. They took that as a discretion against the family almost, which I thought was a really encouraging sign.“ 
Through the work of Zaire, onwualu, butler and others, it has become clear that fall camp will be more than just an assem­bly of new faces — it will be the reunion of a family. 
A family called the “Irish mob.” 


Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2013 | The observer 


Expert lauds incoming recruiting class 
acclaimed five-star player checks “Jaylon smith is a great player, 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

sports editor in at 6-foot-3 and 212 pounds with but to me eddie vanderdoes is the speed and size to contribute just the crown jewel of this class,” 
notre dame built on its land-at either of notre dame’s outside Frank said. “I know a guy from out mark 2012 season Wednesday as linebacker positions. where eddie is from in california it received the national Letters of “certainly Jaylon smith is a who has been covering recruiting Intent for 24 recruits making up once-in-a-decade, once-in-a-gen-out there and he said eddie is the its 2013 recruiting class. The group eration type player,” Frank said. best guy he’s seen at his position in includes nine members of the elite “he’s just a guy who can do a lot 10 or 15 years. … I’m really thrilled, esPn150 and is ranked as the no. 4 of things for a guy his size. It’s just to be honest.” class in the country by esPn, trail-very, very rare to have that combi-Joining smith and vanderdoes ing only Florida, ohio state and nation of size and speed. he also in the front seven next fall are Alabama. has really good instincts.” a quartet of physical prospects. 
Irish recruiting expert mike Frank said smith has the poten-esPn150 outside linebacker doug Frank lauded the notre dame tial to contribute as a leader in a randolph, inside linebacker coaching staff for its efforts in similar vein as Te’o. michael deeb, defensive end Jacob landing its best class in recent “I think he’ll have a similar im-matuska and esPn150 defensive memory. pact to what [former notre dame end Isaac rochell will all suit up for 
“my overall opinion is I think it’s linebacker] manti Te’o did. When defensive coordinator bob diaco’s a very, very good class. I think they you talk about him as a person, vaunted unit next season. filled their needs at almost every he’s just a truly great kid,” Frank After spending the 2012 season position with maybe a few excep-said. “he’s got his head screwed on with a number of converted play­tions,” said Frank, who runs the straight, he’s extremely well-liked ers from other positions in the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. and he cares about his commu-secondary due to recruiting defec­“I love the talent in this class. They nity. When you talk about talent, tions and injuries, the notre dame did a great job getting some talent-people find this hard to believe but staff will be happy to welcome a ed guys, some guys who can come I think Jaylon has more talent than stellar group of four natural de­in and help right away, which is im-manti Te’o ever had. he’s easily just fensive backs to campus in the portant. There are some guys who as big as manti but he’s quicker fall. highly sought-after safety and can match talent with the very best and faster.” former Usc commit max redfield teams in the country. You’re start-smith is not the only blue-chip from mission viejo, calif., is the ing to land the kind of players that prospect to join the Irish defensive centerpiece of a group that in-Alabama can get, and when you do unit next fall. notre dame received cludes a trio of cornerbacks — cole that you’re really raising the talent a late signing from no. 10 over-Luke, devin butler and rashad that you need a guy who can run depth in signing five offensive level in the program.” all prospect eddie vanderdoes, Kinlaw. and run well, and also be physical linemen, four receivers and two 
headlining the class is lineback-the nation’s top defensive tackle. “You’re welcoming just a bunch back there. he can do that. he’s a tight ends to the 2013 roster. er Jaylon smith, who will come to vanderdoes projects to be able of good players in the second-big safety prospect. They can do A pair of famous names will campus as the most-hyped player to play any position on the de-ary. I think max redfield is a tre-things with coverage and confuse line up at wideout, as among the notre dame has attracted since fensive line in notre dame’s 3-4 mendous player,” Frank said. “he opposing quarterbacks.” Irish signees are corey robinson former linebacker manti Te’o. A lo-defense. Frank said vanderdoes, allows you to do a lot of things on the offensive side of the and Torii hunter Jr., sons of hall cal prospect, smith hails from Fort who was once committed to Usc defensively. notre dame likes to ball, the immediate impact from of Fame basketball center david Wayne, Ind., and is the no. 7 player but warmed up to the Irish after play with a single safety playing up the 2013 class could come from robinson and current detroit in the country according to esPn’s the 12-0 regular season in 2012, is high in some situations and he al-the running back position. A pair Tigers outfielder Torii hunter, evaluation team. The widely a prospect of top caliber. lows you to do that. In order to do of esPn150 running backs from respectively. 
Florida will compete to line up Frank said he is particularly im-PAId AdverTIsemenT 
in the Irish backfield next season pressed with the group of linemen to replace departed backs Theo signed to compete under coach riddick and cierre Wood. Frank harry hiestand in the trenches. said both players have the talent to “I think they got five guys who contribute right away. can really pan out and become 
“I love the two running backs great players for notre dame,” in this class. Greg bryant’s got as Frank said. “It wouldn’t surprise much or more talent than any me if all five end up starting at back they’ve signed in quite some some point down the road.” time,” he said. “I’ll say the same for now that the curtain has fallen Tarean Folston, he’s got a tremen-on the 2013 recruiting season, dous amount of talent and poten-Frank said the class of 24 recruits tial. he just needs to get a little bit showed notre dame’s continued bigger and a little bit stronger, but momentum to the top of college once he does, he’s a guy who can football. hit the home run and get some “It’s great to see notre dame big plays. That’s something notre competing with Alabama for some dame has been missing for a while of the top guys and top classes in from the running back position for the country. I think the next step a long time.” for brian Kelly and his staff is to 
bryant or Folston may one day capitalize on the 2012 season in re­line up behind the latest dual-cruiting, into the 2014 stretch. They threat quarterback to hit notre need to get a few more of the five­dame’s campus. Four-star quar-star guys, guys like max redfield, terback malik Zaire brings elec-Greg bryant, Jaylon smith, those tricity to the signal-caller spot are the difference-makers. Those and, Frank said, possesses some are the people who make the key similarities to junior quarterback plays in the game that decide the everett Golson. outcome of the game. What’s re­
“I think he’s quicker than ally the difference is if you get a everett and maybe a little bit faster couple more guys who are five-star in terms of top-end speed. Where type players … you have a chance malik is really going to shine is I to hang with anybody.” think he’s a great projected leader. People really gravitate to him, his For more on Notre Dame re-mentality is one where he can be-cruiting, check out Mike Frank’s come a great leader for this team.” irishsportsdaily.com. 
rounding out the offensive class Email Mike at are great numbers at the receiver, mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell tight end and offensive line posi-him The Observer sent you. tions. Though notre dame did not ink a five-star prospect at these Contact Chris Allen at spots, they will welcome great callen10@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 



Lou Nanni
 vice president for University Relations 
Thursday, February 7th | 8:15pm Coleman Morse Lounge Refreshments will be provided 
LAST


Lectures 
presented by The University of Notre Dame Student Government Department of Academic Affairs 




Louis M. Nanni is the vice president for University Relations at the University of Notre Dame. In this role, he oversees the University's efforts in development, advisory councils, special events and the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Mr. Nanni graduated from Notre Dame in 1984 with a bachelor's degree in govern­ment and the Program of Liberal Studies. 
The Last Lecture Series is an opportunity for some of the most dynamic and entertaining professors at Notre Dame to share with students their life lessons and experiences and to extol what we really need to know in life. The Origin of the Series: Just a month after receiving a prognosis that his pancreatic cancer was terminal, Randy Pausch delivered his “last lecture” entitled Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams at Carnegie Mellon University. Shortly after the lecture, a book entitled The Last Lecture was released based on Pausch’s speech, which became a New York Times best seller. The book brought about great publicity to the concept of a last lecture. 



