The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 15 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Zahm rector issues sudden resignation 
Residents of Zahm House react to news of Scott Opperman’s departure 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
after Zahm house rector scott opperman resigned Thursday night, confused and concerned residents spent the weekend learning more about the situ­ation and remembering the leadership opperman provided during his one year and three week term. 
associate vice president for residential life heather rakoczy russell confirmed opperman’s departure and said Fr. Tom doyle will serve as Zahm’s rector “while an active search for a per­manent rector is underway.” 
opperman replaced former rector corry colonna in the fall of 2012. 
Zahm house resident assistant connor mccurrie said from the beginning, opperman empha­sized the importance of creating a welcoming community. 
“[within] the first week he was here, he changed everything from a hall to a house,” mccurrie said. “he continued that ap­proach throughout his time here and really made sure we knew this that this was our dorm, that it was going in the direction we wanted it to and that we were a community first and foremost.” 
The hall staff members were the first notified about opperman’s resignation when they were called to the main building for a meeting late Thursday night, mccurrie said. 
Junior sam hyder said his first reaction was disbelief, though a house meeting called Friday partially clarified his confusion. 
“scott was a big part of Zahm; he loved Zahm and everybody loved him,” hyder said. “on Friday, everybody met and they brought in representatives from [the office of] community standards and [the office of] student affairs to explain the situation.” 
“as they were explaining it, we still weren’t getting a lot of answers from them. part of that was because scott preferred to keep the reasons for his resigna­tion out of the public eye, but it kind of left all of us confused.” 
hyder experienced his first year in Zahm with former rector corry colonna and his second with opperman, and 
see Zahm PAGE 3 




Purdue win lacks intensity 
students embark 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news writer 
many notre dame students followed the football team south to west lafayette on saturday to watch the irish de­feat the purdue boilermakers 31-24. despite the win, students said they were bothered by the “intrusive” Jumbotron in the boilermaker’s stadium. 
caitlin crommett, a ju­nior entrepreneurship and film, theatre, and television double major, said she headed to purdue on Friday to visit friends at purdue and then en­joy game day.
 “i felt [game day] was a pret­ty enjoyable experience in the stadium,” she said. “we didn’t have any negative reactions to us being in the stadium.  we experience to the purdue at­weren’t heckled.  before we mosphere. she said purdue went inside, we joined a purdue misused of the jumbotron, tailgating party.” which she felt created a divide 


crommett said she prefers the notre dame game day see purdue PAGE 5 


on spiritual trip 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
This weekend, a group of approx­imately 50 sophomores from notre dame and saint mary’s embarked on a figurative and literal spiritual journey to an undisclosed location on campus ministry’s signature sophomore retreat, the sophomore road Trip. 
John paul lichon, campus ministry’s assistant director for re­treats, pilgrimages and spirituality, helped coordinate the sophomore road Trip. 
“The sophomore road Trip is a wonderful retreat to allow sopho­mores to take a step back as they begin their sophomore year,” lichon said. “[sophomore road Trip] is really a chance to think about ‘am i the person i really want to be?’ our biggest hope is that a retreat is a genuine encounter with god.” 
sophomore theology major irina celentano said the trip gave her a better perspective on her own life and the lives of others. 
“[The trip] gave me the time to step back and become more acute­ly aware of myself and what things i can change or improve on, but it also showed me how much prog­ress i’ve made,” she said. 
see Trip PAGE 5 




JDRF walk bolsters diabetes awareness 
By EMILY KEFALAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s junior becky walker does not flinch at the idea of giving herself four shots every day. but when it is someone else’s hand that has to administer the injection, her childhood fear of needles settles in. 
“i’m diabetic, and i deal with [needles] because i have to,” walker said. “otherwise, i’m kind of terrified of them.” 
walker fearlessly took a stand against her disease along with an estimated 15 combined mem­bers of the saint mary’s rotaract club and the notre dame diabetes sidekicks on sunday at the Juvenile diabetes research Foundation 2013 walk to cure diabetes. 
The charity walk raises funds through team and participant donations for the millions of people living with Type 1 diabe­tes. walker said people who are personally tied to the disease of­ten offer donations. 
“definitely a part of it is that i am diabetic, so this would be a reason, specifically, to participate in a diabetes walk,” walker said. “it was close to me.  if i wasn’t diabetic, i don’t think i would have heard of it or been looking for it.” 
nicholas holuta, president of notre dame diabetes sidekicks, said walker and her team joined thousands of south bend and surrounding area residents at 2 p.m. in braving the slight drizzle of rain to walk the two-mile course in beutter park, mishawaka. 

“The atmosphere was pretty awesome,” holuta said. “The weather was a little worrisome early on, but luckily the rain held off pretty well and we had a great day. There were a bunch of 
see diabeTes PAGE 5 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7               scene PAGE 8 men’s soccer PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could have any celebrity as your dad, who would it be? 

Katie Marshall 

Joe Lanzel 
senior 
freshman 
off campus 
dillon hall 
“harrison Ford.” 
“Zach galifianakis.” 

Catriona Shaughnessy 

Kim Dumais 
freshman 
senior 
Farley hall 
off campus 
“gregory peck.” 
“martin sheen.” 

Steven Tomasko 

Patrick Fasano 
junior 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 
morrissey manor 
“morgan Freeman.” 
“dennis Quaid.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
meg handelman conor Kelly Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kelly Konya vicky Jacobsen nicole mcalee casey Karnes 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa gabriela leskur 

Photo Viewpoint 

Nanovic Institute Film: “Metropolis” Damaged Book Sale Women’s Soccer Stress Buster Friday 
oe Kenesey dan brombach grant Tobin Lecture DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Library Alumni Stadium St. Liam Hall O’Shaughnessey Hall Arts Center 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
4:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. 3 p.m. Buy books from the The Irish take on the De-stress by Corrections Lecture on French pop. Influential silent film. University Press. Syracuse Orange . practicing Tai Chi. 
The observer regards itself as 


“Getting to the Top at “Harry Potter and Corby Night Iron Sharpens Iron Trumpets Under the 
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards the Pentagon” the King’s Cross” Corby Hall Coleman-Morse Dome of journalism at all times. we do, DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Hall 8 p.m.-10 p.m. Center Main Building however, recognize that we will make Arts Center 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Men considering a 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-4:10 p.m. mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Presentation by vocation can pray and Student-led The trumpet section of please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so Part of the Forum on Professor John socialize with Holy interdenominational the Notre Dame Band Women in Leadership. O’Callaghan. Cross priests. Christian fellowship. kicks off the weekend. 




First-year retreat spurs faith and friendship 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
The first of five freshman re­treats directed by notre dame campus ministry took place this weekend at the sacred heart parish center. 
campus ministry organizes freshman retreats each year to help first-year students reflect on what brought them to notre dame and what personal and spiritual goals they have. 
John paul lichon, 


Zahm 
conTinued From page 1 
he said opperman brought a change in leadership style. 
“my freshman year, the rector wasn’t really an influ­ential part of the communi­ty,” he said. “he wasn’t a bad rector; he just didn’t fight for us like scott did. we could really tell that scott had our best interests at heart.” 
opperman’s dedication to the hall and its residents was obvious, hyder said. 
“The biggest strength he had was that he put Zahm first and that he cared for the men in Zahm and the over­all community of Zahm,” he said. “at times, he acted as an intermediary between the administration and Zahm, but the bottom line was that we knew he would fight for us … and that he would give his retreat coordinator for campus ministry, said the goal of the retreat is “to be an entry point for students for their faith life” and to “introduce the spiritual­ity of the holy cross.” 

lichon said students at the retreat are challenged to ask the question, “what does it mean to be complete in christ?” 
according to the campus ministry website, this year’s retreat centered around the famous quote by holy cross founder, Fr. basil moreau, 
all to this community in ev­ery way that he could.” 
Freshman norbert Kuc said he already had a sense of this bond between opperman and the residents after only three weeks living in the hall. 
“i only knew scott for about three weeks, but i saw him as like a father figure to us. i’m sure the upperclassmen will vouch for me when i say that,” Kuc said. “There were some upperclassmen here who would call him ‘dad.’ he always had his door open, so if anyone had a problem, he was like your dad away from home, basically.” 
“if any of us had something going on, we’d be down there to talk to him in a heartbeat. he really felt approachable, and it seemed like he wasn’t as much of a ‘rector’ as he was someone from your fam­ily who cares about you and 
“education  is  the  art  of  
bringing  young  people  to  
completeness.”  

Tiphaine delepine, a fresh­man business major, said ac­tivities ranged from awkward family photo contests to trips to the grotto. she said adora­tion was particularly moving for her. 
“it was so powerful that ev­eryone was sitting in silence for over an hour, just praying and being with god,” she said. 
delepine said she initially 
was on your side.” 

From his perspective as a member of the hall staff, mccurrie said the commu­nity will miss opperman, although interim rector Fr. Tom doyle “will keep moving us forward.” 
“clearly, we’re all a little bit sad that scott is gone,” mccurrie said. “he was great for the community … and we hope that he’s doing well now. 
“[scott] was very person­able and very pastoral in his approach. he was a huge help to many of the guys here, and he was everybody’s good friend. i think he did a great job of balancing our dorm traditions with the university policy … and he really helped us solidify our 
community  while  he  was  
here.”  
mccurrie  said  residents  

paid adverTisemenT 


signed up for the retreat to bond with her roommate. but after reflecting on the week­end, she said, the retreat took on more significance. 
“i learned about myself, i learned how i want to grow in my four years at notre dame, i learned about different op­portunities to grow in my faith, and i made friends,” she said 
danielle Thelen, a sopho­more retreat leader and a mu­sic and business major at saint mary’s, said the retreat was an absolute success. 
“i wanted [the freshmen] to feel welcomed and for them to feel like they had a family and that they belong here at notre dame,” Thelen said. “i truly be­lieve that we achieved this. you could tell by watching them becoming friends with people from different dorms and walks of life, talking about faith and opening up about their lives.” 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 


wore Zahm apparel through­out the weekend to show support for opperman, and more than 100 people went to the grotto on Thursday night after hearing the news. 
“we have not had any com­munication with scott, but we know he has received hundreds of texts and emails from people in the dorm making sure he’s okay and that he knows he’s in our thoughts and prayers,” he said. 
hyder and Kuc both said Zahm’s annual “hesburgh challenge,” an event first or­ganized by opperman, was one of the former rector’s greatest contributions. 
“[opperman] wanted to do something last year to honor [university president emeritus Fr. Theodore] hesburgh for hesburgh’s 95th birthday and Zahm’s 75th anniversary, so he orga­nized this challenge to build community and fight for bet­ter camaraderie,” hyder said. 
The second iteration of the hesburgh challenge took place the first weekend in september this year, dur­ing which the dorm decided to partner with an elemen­tary school in haiti to raise money and build a lasting relationship, Kuc said. 
The sense of a “community within a community” that opperman created helped Kuc become comfortable with the transition to college in his first weeks here, Kuc said. 
“he said that all of notre dame is your home, but Zahm is specifically your little area of this broader place,” Kuc said. “even if you don’t feel comfortable going to the advisors or anyone else who is supposed to act as a family figure for you, you can always go to the other guys here at the dorm for support. 
“he would always say ‘watch out for your broth­ers.’ we were all expected to watch each other’s backs because we’re all in this to­gether. That was a big thing for him, that you can’t leave your brother behind.” 
doyle will serve as inter­im rector effective immedi­ately until a replacement is found. doyle served as the university’s vice president for student affairs from 2010 to 2012 and is a fellow with notre dame’s institute for educational initiatives. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Floods transform Colorado’s ‘Gore-Tex Vortex’ 
Associated Press 
lyons, colo.  — The cars that normally clog main street in lyons on the way to rocky mountain national park have been replaced by military sup­ply trucks. shop owners in estes park hurriedly cleared their wares in fear that the big Thompson river will rise again. a plywood sign encouraged res­idents mucking out their homes to “hang in there.” 
days of rain and floods have transformed the outdoorsy mountain communities in colorado's rocky mountain foothills affectionately known “The gore-Tex vortex” from a paradise into a disaster area with little in the way of supplies or services — and more rain falling sunday. 
The string of communities from boulder to estes park, the gateway to rocky mountain national park, is a base for backpackers and nature lovers where blue-collar and yuppie sensibilities exist side by side. now, roadways have crumbled, scenic bridges are destroyed, the site of the bluegrass festival is washed out and most shops are closed. 
chris rodes, one of lyons’ newest residents, said the change is so drastic that he is considering moving away just two weeks after settling there. 
“it’s not the same,” rodes said. “all these beautiful places, it’s just brown mud.” 

estes park town administra­tor Frank lancaster said visitors who would normally flock there during the golden september days should stay away for at least a month, but it could take a year or longer for many of the mountain roadways to be repaired. 
meanwhile, people were still trapped, the nearby hamlet of glen haven has been “de­stroyed” and the continuing rain threatened a new round of flooding, he said. 
“we are all crossing our fin­gers and praying” he said. 
The residents who remained or began trickling back — if they were allowed to do so — were left to watch out for one another. restaurateurs and grocers in lyons were distrib­uting food to their neighbors as others arrived in groups carry­ing supplies. 
scott martin, 25, drove the half-hour from boulder saturday to deliver drink­ing water and gasoline to a friend’s parents. he fled lyons amid a torrential downpour on wednesday night after the mountain stream that cuts through town gushed into his basement. 
martin grew up tubing down the river and hiking the moun­tains, and like many residents, he still jumps in the water af­ter work. looking into the cot­tonwood and aspen trees at the outskirts of town, he wondered when he would be able to do those things again. 
“best case, it’s just mud ev­erywhere; in everyone’s yard and all the streets,” he said. 
From the mountain commu­nities east to the plains city of Fort morgan, numerous pock­ets of individuals remained cut off by the flooding. sunday’s rain hampered the helicopter searches, and rescuers trekked by ground up dangerous can­yon roads to reach some of those homes isolated since wednesday. 
The surging waters have been deadly, with four people confirmed dead and two more missing and presumed dead after their homes were swept away. 
some 1,500 homes have been destroyed and about 17,500 have been damaged, accord­ing to an initial estimate re­leased by the colorado office of emergency management on its website. 
in addition, 11,700 people left their homes, and a total of 1,253 people have not been heard from, state emergency officials said. 
with phone service being re­stored to some of the areas over the weekend, officials hoped that number would drop as they contacted more stranded people. 
as many as 1,000 people in larimer county were awaiting rescue sunday, but airlifts were grounded because of the rain, Type 2 rocky mountain incident management Team commander shane del grosso said. 
hundreds more people are unaccounted for to the south in boulder county and other flood-affected areas. 
in estes park, some 20 miles from lyons, hundreds of homes and cabins were empty. high water still covered several low-lying streets. where the river had receded, it had left behind up to a foot of mud. 
ironically, the massive estes ark — a former toy store two stories high designed to look like noah’s ark — was high and dry. 
“i don't know if it’s open any­more, but soon it’s going to be our only way out,” joked carly blankfein. 
supplies of gas and grocer­ies had been running low until route 7 was recently reopened. on sunday, people were lined up at the one gas station where a tanker had arrived. 
at the aspen and evergreen gallery along the town's main street next to the big Thompson river, owner Tamara Jarolimek was clearing out the shop sunday in fear that the new wave of rain would cause an­other surge. 
“we only have limited time to get out as much as we can,” she said. 
at the town's historic stanley hotel, the inspiration for stephen King’s “The shining,” clerk renee maher said the hotel was nearly empty. Though it sits on a hill overlooking town, the ground was so saturated that water was seeping in through the foundation, and had caused one suite's bathtub to pop out “like a keg,” maher said. 
despite the mess, some peo­ple staying in town turned out for the stanley's nightly ghost tours. 
“They said they came be­cause they had nothing to do,” maher said. 
in boulder, often called america’s fittest town, mayor matt appelbaum warned peo­ple to stay out of the wide-open spaces that ring the city. 
“i know that people are eager to get out there again, but it's truly unsafe.” he said. “places that i’ve known and loved for 30 years are gone.” 
boulder remained a refuge for evacuees from the more isolated mountain towns. meanwhile, water continued to back up in some parts of town and a water treatment plant re­mained down sunday. 
but the town was bounc­ing back. libraries and recre­ation centers have reopened. students are again spilling out of cutesy restaurants on pearl street, and classes at the university of colorado are ex­pected to resume monday. 

biden touts diplomatic progress in syria 
Associated Press 
indianola, iowa — vice president Joe biden, speaking to a decidedly anti-war audience in iowa on sunday, played down the obama administration's pledge to use military force to rid syria of chemical weapons. 
biden, weighing a run for presi­dent in 2016, instead touted the u.s.-russian diplomatic proposal for syria to relinquish its chemi­cal arsenal under international supervision. 
“we’re going to the united nations with a resolution this week that will in fact call on the united nations of the world to put pressure on syria to have the confiscation and destruction of all those weapons,” biden told hundreds of iowa’s most devout democrats at sen. Tom harkin's annual steak picnic and fall fundraiser. 
biden touched only lightly on the administration’s continued insistence that “there are conse­quences should the assad regime not comply.” national public opinion polls show a military strike on syria is unpopular, es­pecially with democrats. 

The vice president worked to stoke hope that the diplomatic solution would work. making the administration’s first trip out­side washington since obama’s speech to the nation Tuesday, biden said obama “is the reason the world is facing up finally, fi­nally to this hideous prospect of this largest stockpile of chemical weapons.” 
There was no applause for his syria comments from the audi­ence, supporters of harkin, a vet­eran democrat popular with his party's anti-war activists. 
but listeners rose to their feet and cheered loudly when biden ticked through the economic gains the country has made since obama took office, improve­ments the vice president could benefit from, should they contin­ue, if he runs for president in 2016. 
biden praised harkin as the “conscience of the senate,” and the senator also raised hope the u.s.-russian proposal would resolve the syria issue, which is dominating world headlines. 

paid adverTisemenT 



Trip 
conTinued From page 1 
celentano said she went on the retreat in order to clarify her own goals and faith and to grow closer with her classmates. 
“i wanted to know what other people are going through and where they are on their various life journeys. i wanted a better appre­ciation of other peoples’ stories,” she said. 
students do not know where the road trip will end until they actual­ly arrive for the retreat, lichon said. 
“it provides a nice analogy for our faith. There are twists and turns and ups and downs, but you get where you need to go,” lichon said. 

in addition to enhancing to the intrigue and excitement of the re­treat, lichon said campus ministry designed this aspect of the retreat with a certain message in mind. 
“There’s a sense of mystery be­hind [sophomore road Trip], and some students come to find out what it is all about,” lichon said. 
lichon said the mission state­ment of the sophomore road Trip, written by the junior and senior leaders of the retreat, reads: “Through reflection in­formed by holy cross spirituality, the university of notre dame sophomore road Trip provides students with tools to navigate the twists and turns of their vocational journey towards completeness in christ.” 
celentano said the mystery sur­rounding the destination of the re­treat added a sense of unity to the weekend. 
“There’s something kind of ex­citing about not knowing where you’re going but still knowing you’re all going there together,” she said. 
like all campus ministry re­treats, sophomore road Trip is en­tirely student-led. lichon said the team of leaders for this weekend’s sophomore road Trip began meet­ing before students left for summer break last year and continued as soon as the school year began in august. 
celentano said the retreat re­volved around a series of talks and group discussions but maintained a well-balanced dose of individual prayer, team-building exercises and discernment. 
“we had a lot of talks from the leaders on vocation and discernment and taking a step back to see where we are in our lives,” celentano said. 
There are other opportunities to attend campus ministry retreats this year. 
“if people miss sophomore road Trip, they can go on a preached re­treat, silent retreat or one of the pil­grimages over breaks,” lichon said. 
registration is now open for the oct. 4 through 6 sophomore road Trip on the campus ministry website. 
Contact Jack Rooney at       jrooney1@nd.edu 


Purdue 
conTinued From page 1 
in the crowd. 
“it detracted people from what was going on the field,” crommett said.  “i like how at notre dame people at our games are focused on what’s on the field, and people aren’t turned around watching a screen while the other half watch what’s in front of them.” 
senior blake weaver said he has traveled to away games throughout his four years at notre dame as a member of the band of the Fighting irish. he said watching the game at purdue made him appre­ciate notre dame’s lack of a Jumbotron. 
“The consistent inter­views and corny trivia [on the Jumbotron] throughout the game were distractions and missed opportunities for the band to get to play since we had to listen to the announcer talk about advertisements or ran­dom purdue facts,” he said. 
weaver, who traveled to michigan last week with the band, said purdue’s Jumbotron is not what makes the game day experience less enjoyable than notre dame home games, but rather that purdue “utilized their Jumbotron incorrectly.” 

“during the downtime for the game, they should incorpo­rate more of their cheerleaders and band instead of watching commercials and throwing footballs through a giant blow­up donut on the field.  i felt like i was at a baseball game with those fan participatory games,” he said. 
The notre dame versus michigan game last weekend exhibited a more intense rival­ry, weaver said. 
The atmosphere is so much more intense [in ann arbor],” he said. “it’s more of a true foot­ball game where both teams are accomplished and revered programs.” 
sophomore daniel strickland attended both the michigan and purdue games.  he said he also thought purdue’s game-day atmosphere was com­paratively more calm than michigan’s. 
“They don’t have the same intensity as notre dame or michigan would have. we sat most of the time except for the big plays. it was more com­fortable, but it was a testa­ment to the lack of intensity,” strickland said. 
strickland also said the Jumbotron negatively impacted his game-day experience. 
“during the game, i liked be­ing able to see the Jumbotron and the game, but when the game wasn’t going, the Jumbotron could’ve been used in better ways to pump up the crowd,” he said. 
strickland said he preferred the way the Jumbotron was used at michigan, which got fans way more into the game than at purdue. 
“[purdue] needs to show more highlights and clips to pump up the crowd,” he said. 
strickland said purdue’s mis­managed Jumbotron showed him the benefit of notre dame’s Jumbotron-less stadium. 
“if notre dame used a Jumbotron like purdue did, then i’m fine with notre dame not having one,” he said. 
sophomore michael brown visited purdue to meet up with a friend attending college there. 
“she showed me their fan­fare around campus, like the clapping circle. i also got a photo with the neil armstrong statue on campus,” brown said. 
brown said he noticed a mix of spirited and hopeless purdue fans. 
“at 4 p.m. when we were walking around campus, we heard from five different purdue fans that notre dame was going to kill them.  around 

7:30 when we walked to the stadium, we only heard “notre dame, go home, we’re going to kill you!  i thought it was funny being in an enemy’s territory,” he said. 
brown said purdue used the Jumbotron in a cheesy way. 
“The intro of the team to the field was cool. but mostly, they did cheesy things that kept in­terest,” he said. “asking about bruce willis movies and com­paring them to the team were useless. They did a lot of stuff with the Jumbotron that i ex­pect bad teams to do. Trust me, i’m a pirates fan.” 
brown said in comparison with the notre dame game-day experience, students at purdue were less enthralled with the game. 
“it seemed like there were a bunch of people who didn’t care,” he said. “some students obviously cared, but a decent proportion just didn’t go and didn’t care. They have a good team and there should be more people on campus who back them. i don’t see that here at notre dame. we’re extremely unified.” 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzigman@nd.edu 


Diabetes 
conTinued From page 1 
fundraising teams there from the south bend and mishawaka com­munities, and it was just a great event as a whole.  everyone seemed to be having a great time.” 
The walk marks the first monthly event for the rotaract club, presi­dent and junior Kaitlin maierhofer said. 
“[becky] thought it would be something rotaract could team up with because we are always look­ing for service opportunities.  i just became president, and i said ‘go for it, we can put it together, i’ll support it, it sounds like it will be a blast.’ i’m all for helping whoever i can.  it just sounded fun.  it was different. we haven’t done anything like it in the past,” maierhofer said. 
From a personal standpoint, walker said her story is similar to those of other members in the notre dame diabetes sidekicks. The organization was initiated two years ago and open to both diabetic and non-diabetic students. 
“with notre dame, we [basically] have a weekly dinner, and we serve as a support group for ourselves,” walker said. 

The newly established club at­tracts approximately 15 members each week, boasting a total of 30 active representatives, holuta said. she said half of the members are not even diabetic. 
“yes, many people in the group are diabetics, but there is still sig­nificant portion of the group who have are not diabetic who play a huge role in what we do,” she said. “originally, we were founded as a support group for diabetics on campus, but now we’re way more than that, and i really like the direc­tion we are heading.” 
The growth and progress of the group continues to develop through word of mouth and public­ity for events such as the JdrF walk, vice president and sophomore nora eder said. 
“we’ve talked to health services to see if we can get any kind of out­reach for the club like send a news­letter,” eder said. “more awareness has definitely been our focus for this year, and letting people know we are out here, and trying find ways to reach out to incoming freshmen whose parents are totally nervous about their kids coming to college for the first time.” 
The organization continues to raise funds for its planned calen­dar of monthly events through JdrF, chairperson and senior clare larosa said. 
“our overall goal is to be a re­source for diabetics on campus, [so they] know that they’re not alone and to have other people going through the same things, to talk to if they have any issues,” larosa said. “we are on the path to be­coming an official club, so we have more leverage to get things done on campus.” 
larosa said the club is looking to demand more flexibility and greater availability of dining hall meal plan options for diabetics on campus. “any diabetic students can email one of the nutritionists in the dining hall.  we can, for free, get an extended meal plan so we get 28 meals a week instead of 14 without paying extra,” larosa said. 
diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at age 15, larosa said adapting to the disease and then later tran­sitioning into college with it as a handicap was somewhat of a struggle. 
“college is way different. you might start class at 9 [a.m.] one morning and noon the next day, and then on the weekends you might be sleeping in really late, so eating meals at a bunch of differ­ent times can really mess with the blood sugar,” larosa said. “getting used to all of that is a big transi­tion. This club didn’t exist when i was a freshmen, but if it had i think it would have been a good resource to just have people to talk to about this stuff.” 
walker works to educate stu­dents about on-campus options for diabetics while providing aid and assistance to fellow saint mary’s diabetics on where to purchase and restock on medicine. 
“i don’t have an official title, but i see myself as the official saint mary’s ambassador of the [notre dame diabetes sidekicks],” walker said. 
considering she is not a diabetic herself, club president Kaitlin maierhofer and rotaract member’s own motivation for par­ticipating in the club goes beyond representing rotaract’s executive board. 
“you really don’t hear much about diabetes, i mean it’s really prevalent in the world and in today’s society, but there’s not much people really do. This [JdrF walk] is a dif­ferent little spin on something we can help with,” maierhofer said. 
larosa said the specifics of type 1 diabetes are overshadowed by those of type 2. The JdrF walk to cure diabetes succeeds in raising consciousness of type 1, larosa said. 
“diabetes touches a lot of peo­ple, and it’s something that really changes somebody’s life,” larosa said. “as a club, one of our main goals is to educate and raise aware­ness. That will be something we’re working on going forward is educating campus about the difference.” 
Contact Emily Kefalas at                ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 


The National Spying Agency 
boxing has a problem 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

i’m a big sports fan. i essentially have a three-t-shirt rotation, and all of them are either Kansas Jayhawks basketball or Kansas city royals baseball related. i live and die with notre dame football like everybody else on this campus. 
i’m not a fan of every sport, but i can usually find something interesting to get excited about if i’m forced to watch soccer, hockey or nascar. i don’t even hate those sports, but i get why those sports exist on the periphery of america’s sports landscape. 
not very many kids born south of minneapolis, minn. had the chance to play hockey as a kid, so there’s less con­nection to the sport for them as they grow up. nascar is boring. it just is. soccer takes a lot of patience for fans used to high-scoring shootouts in bas­ketball or football. 
but until last night, i did not under­stand why america has lost its love of boxing. i could make a million jokes about how terrible soccer fans are, but i can’t do the same thing about boxing fans because i’ve never met any. 
i enjoy a good boxing match just like any other high quality sporting com­petition, and last night’s fight between Floyd mayweather and canelo Álvarez was as exciting as any i’ve watched. Álvarez is clearly a skilled fighter, but mayweather totally dominated the fight. There are boxing writers who call mayweather the best technical fighter of all time, and even with my limited knowledge of the sport, every­thing i saw in the fight supported that argument. 
so here’s my point: i know little to nothing about boxing, and even to my eye the fight wasn’t close. and yet, when the judges’ scores were read, one of the three judges called the fight a draw. Thankfully the camera cut to mayweather in time to catch his color­ful reaction, because it was more or less the same thing i was thinking. 
and that’s why boxing isn’t making a comeback with american sports fans. we could get over the brutal violence — we watch football every week. we could get over the ridiculous personalities of the fighters. heck, we’d probably em­brace them. 
but with a scoring system so plainly arbitrary and ridiculous that mayweather wasn’t the unanimous de­cision of last night’s fight, i don’t think i can ever be a boxing diehard. 
i need some sense of objectivity as a fan, some sense that the best man, 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet 

on wednesday, July 24, the house of representatives voted on amendments to the department of defense’s appropriations bill for the 2014 fiscal year. at the same time the national anthem was being played at the united states-honduras concacaF soc­cer game, congress refused to support an amendment that would have curtailed some national security agency (nsa) abuse of the american people. For those that have not heard, leaks from edward snowden revealed that the nsa has a backdoor program that allows the agency to search through private emails and phone calls without warrants. 
representatives Justin amash (r-mi) and John conyers (d-mi) submitted an amendment to the defense bill that would have made an incremental change to how the nsa goes about collecting infor­mation. The text of the amend­ment simply required a reasonable connection between a suspected individual under investigation and the documents the nsa would seek. This amendment addition­ally only would have applied to domestic targets, meaning the agency could still conduct surveil­lance on foreign individuals be­lieved to be terrorists without any such warrant. 
The beauty of this debate is that the amash-conyers amendment was not a partisan issue. senator ron wyden (d-or) has been call­ing for additional scrutiny of the nsa for years. republican Justin amash has led the charge in the house, often posting on Twitter to garner more public awareness about what has been going on, with support from the civil lib­ertarian left to the younger Tea party republicans on the right. over the past month, amash has tweeted about articles published in the washington post and The 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues, but the parent of all others.” 
Cicero 

roman orator and politician 
guardian that describe nsa abuses including: giving tips to the drug enforcement agency to help them incarcerate non­violent drug users, the nine-hour detention and interrogation of glenn greenwald’s partner at heathrow airport, the agency’s ability to defeat the encryption of private data, 3,000 documented cases of internal privacy rule violations in a one year period, spying on love interests (codi­fied loveinT) and yahoo’s chief executive officer, marissa mayer, describing her fear of being ac­cused of treason for not comply­ing with the nsa. both halves of those critiquing america’s public surveillance programs have re­ceived some scrutiny themselves. congressional old-guard leader­ship including lindsay graham, dianne Feinstein, John boehner, nancy pelosi, paul ryan and even president obama have offered their vocal support of domestic surveillance, generally argu­ing that it is vital for national security. 
The Founding Fathers fought off King george iii and understood that an overbearing government would impede a functional, free society. before the revolution, british troops and tax collectors had general warrants called “writs of assistance” that allowed them to scavenge the homes of the colo­nists and take whatever goods were deemed prohibited (whatever they wanted). as rep. amash put it, the Framers weren’t worried that government was going to say, “we need your papers because we want to find some recipes.” 
The Fourth amendment was added to the constitution and included in the bill of rights be­cause of how blatantly repugnant a police state is. Just as americans demand privacy in their own homes, they also expect the same standards with their private, per­sonal information. 
while it is important to debate whether or not the nsa’s actions actually make americans safer, we should first ask a different ques­tion: is it fundamentally right for our private information to be taken without our being involved in a crime? at this stage in the game, whether or not the docu­ments are actually read or mined is a secondary issue. i believe the sole taking of private information by unelected bureaucrats is some­thing to be rebuked, regardless of promises to “only use the in­formation when necessary” or to “keep us safe.” i hope you’ll give this issue some consideration too. 
in the recent supreme court case maryland v. King, which ap­proved the cheek-swabbing of suspected criminals on the streets for dna collection purposes, supreme court Justice antonin scalia dissented: “i doubt that the proud men who wrote the charter of our liberties would have been so eager to open their mouths for royal inspection.” in the previ­ous statement, we can easily re­place “open their mouths” with “make their telephone records and emails public” and see why many cringe at how the nsa oper­ates, even if one buys the argu­ment that it actually does make us safer.  
in the case that you aren’t both­ered by snowden’s leaks and re­cent revelations since then, the national security agency will be at notre dame on Friday to recruit for 400 internship positions and 1100 full time jobs it needs to fill for next year. The possibility of being assigned to loveinT alone might make attending the session worth your while. 
Connor Roth is a junior studying economics and constitutional studies. He lives in Duncan Hall, hails from Cleveland, Ohio and is currently participating in the London abroad program through Notre Dame. He can be contacted at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

woman or team will be rewarded fairly for their efforts. if boxing can’t offer that (beyond a clean knockout), i just can’t get invested. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER FROM THE EDITOR 

I love you too, Scott Opperman 
Editor’s note: Dan Brombach is the editor of The Observer’s Viewpoint section. He can be contacted at dbrombac@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“you know i love you. you know i’ll always love you guys.” 
during my time in Zahm house, this was the signature phrase of my rector, scott opperman. after seemingly every conversation i had with scott, he would sling his arm around my shoulder, look me dead in the eyes and tell me he loved and cared about me as a person and as a member of the dorm community. 
i’ll admit, i made my fair share of jokes about this. i laughed it off, parodied it to my friends and harbored my suspicions. how can a person claim to love and care about me when they barely know me? in my mind, when a person is that nice to you, it must mean they’re trying to trick you or make you buy something. 
as of last week, scott left his post as rector of Zahm. i used to joke about his kind words, but i’m not laughing anymore. in fact, i cried when i heard the news. The man who had become a men­tor, coach, advocate and father to me and count­less others had departed our lives as abruptly as he entered them. 
This column is not about why scott left. it is about paying tribute to a man who made me proud to live in Zahm. it is about a man who un­ceasingly went to bat for those who needed him. it is about a man who treated us like family instead of as hall residents. if scott was in your corner, it didn’t matter who was against you. 
There could not have been a more fitting tribute to the impact of scott opperman on Zahm than the events of last Thursday night. when the news broke, Zahm upperclassmen, many of them no longer even living in the dorm, rushed around like a bomb had just gone off. From all over south bend, we rushed back to campus, hoping to talk to scott, to have him throw his arm around our shoulders and tell us everything was fine, that it was a misunderstanding, that he wasn’t going anywhere. 
by the time we returned to campus, scott was already gone. a group of Zahm men stood outside the darkened window of his old room, some silent, some comforting others, some literally shaking with grief. how could he leave us without saying goodbye? would we ever see him again? 
Zahm will go on. Things won’t crumble or de­volve into chaos now that scott is gone, because as cliché as it sounds, his presence will continue through the example he set for all of us. in fact, falling apart would be the ultimate insult to scott. Through our example, through the way Zahm treats its underclassmen, by the way we conduct ourselves and look out for one another, we can show scott how much he impacted our lives. we can show scott how much he truly meant to us. 
i never really told scott how much i admired and respected him. every time he uttered his signature phrase, i wouldn’t reciprocate. i would laugh nervously or look at the floor. This is as good a place as any to change that. so, here it goes. 
scott, know that i love you too. Know that i’ll always love you too. 
Dan Brombach 
viewpoint editor sept. 16 
res life: in memoriam 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

it is a reality, if not also a cliché, that we believe ourselves to be invincible. we find it hard, if not impossible, to imagine that at any point in time, something could be taken from us or that our lives could be shattered. i remember vividly the mo­ment i found out what had happened. it was only a few hours after my return to campus when i was told. The foundation of notre dame, the office of residential life, was gone. res life was no more. 
The preeminent author of our time — dr. seuss — once said, “don’t cry because it’s over. smile because it happened.” 
while i’m pretty sure no one feels like crying, there are plenty of res life memories to smile about. succumbing after a courageous battle with the satanic forces of sex, drugs and rock and roll, res life will no longer be there for us. its lessons, however, may ring forth for eternity. 
we’ll remember the hours of mandatory Frosh-o meetings on the dangers of college that neglected any semblance of reality. we’ll remember that nagging feeling we all got that the university poli­cies on alcohol and gender relations were written by the physical education teacher from “mean girls.” we’ll remember the allegory of michael Floyd: as far as notre dame is concerned, it’s ap­parently better to blow a 0.19 while behind the wheel than smoke anything other than tobacco. sounds safe. 
we can never forget the res life stories passed from class to class and generation to generation. we’ll remember hearing the story of the Knott hall resident who found out that pasquerilla west’s identical layout didn’t give him sleeping privileges in the corresponding pasquerilla west quad. we’ll remember the saga of a girls’ hockey student coach being res-lifed for “breaking” into the hockey locker room. we’ll remember inebri­ated band members wearing their uniforms in­side out on game day. we’ll remember the tale of the kid who, undoubtedly sober, decided it was prudent to flip off a notre dame security police (ndsp) car on saint mary’s road. we’ll carry with us the countless stories of close calls, bad decisions and 40-yard dashes to freedom during parietals. 
For those already mourning res life’s depar­ture, worry not. res life is survived not only by the bevy of employees looking out for your moral and personal development, but by a new office as well. replacing the most cherished of notre dame institutions is the newly formed and unfortunate­ly titled office of community standards, a name so laden with irony that it’s rivaled only by politi­cian anthony weiner. 
as with the passing of any icon, there is a cer­tain amount of uncertainty about what to expect. now that res life has bequeathed its responsibil­ity to community standards, it seems as though no one knows what will happen. 
“no one knows what will happen,” said one siegfried resident assistant. 
indeed, many are waiting to see what, if any, changes occur. so before you start rolling in the kegs and declaring a return to the long-rumored debauchery of notre dame’s “good old days,” keep in mind that the administration is still on the prowl. a recent observer article on the changes suggested that little would be different, though fines were no more and first offenses would be handled at the discretion of dorm rectors rather than the main building. 
so perhaps the switch is really nothing more than a little relabeling. sometimes all it takes is some quick rebranding to rehabilitate an image, like when Kobe bryant switched from no. 8 to no. 24 and all was suddenly forgiven. but even if the swap is purely a matter of semantics, some stu­dents are happy to see the change. 
a student speaking on the condition of anonym­ity — we’ll call him “patrick o’shea from chicago” 
— volunteered his sentiments about the late office of residential life. 
“They didn’t get me. They didn’t know me. They were probably cubs fans,” said o’shea while la­menting the time ndsp stirred him from his quiet slumber on god Quad at 4 a.m. 
one student seemed prepared for whatever rules the main building tossed his way this year, noting he had shed a few pounds during the summer and that there was no chance sister chris would be able to run him down again on west Quad. yet an­other celebrated the elimination of fines, saying they had put him farther in debt than tuition had. regardless of opinion, res life was indisputably an institution so integral to our notre dame lives that we will carry it with us forever. 
and so, as we bring this eulogy to a close, it is with a heavy heart that we both remember and celebrate the life — and death — of res life. perpetually present, occasionally hilarious and frequently uninvited, res life was truly the Kimmy gibler of life at notre dame. it will be re­membered, cherished and something resembling missed. so rest in peace, res life and bring on the “comm stands.” 
Matt Miklavic is a junior studying political science and finance from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He enjoys romantic comedies and long walks on the beach. He can be contacted at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

harry potter’s back, baby. well, sort of. 
J.K. rowling announced Friday that she’s reached a deal with warner bros. to pen a new screenplay based in the harry potter universe. but instead of following the adult lives of the potter characters, it will instead be based on the fake textbook “Fantastic beasts and where to Find Them,” which rowling actually published in 2001 under the name newt scamander, the supposed author of the book. 
The film will be set in the 1920s in new york city, following scamander as he adventures off to conduct research for the textbook. it’s the first in a reported series of films rowling will work on with warner bros. based on scamander, and rowling’s first work as a screenwriter. 
The cynic in me is against this. For warner bros., this is the definition of a purely moneymaking machine. it’s an instantly recognizable brand (not to mention one of the most profitable brands in their arsenal) they’re re-purposing now that the actual harry potter well has run dry. it almost certainly will make them boatloads more money. 
This is exactly the kind of thing i’m usually against. but in this case, i’m all for it. 
i loved the harry potter books as a kid and teenager, and i really enjoyed the movies, especially in the later films when they figured out what they were doing. The fact that there’s going to be more material created within this universe is exciting news, and it makes me remem­ber what it was like as a kid when you heard the next potter book was coming out. 
and the fact that rowling herself will be creating the story means that the movie will be both excellently crafted and in the same voice as the original novels. 
Furthermore, i’m excited because J.K. rowling does not need more money. sitting at a net worth right around one billion dollars, according to celebrity networth, she’s the wealthiest novelist in the world. 
she’s spent the last few post-potter years penning new non-potter novels, including a well-received mystery novel, “The cuckoo’s calling,” written under the pseud­onym robert galbraith. she said she used a pseudonym because she was tired of the expectations and hype that were associated with anything she did. i interpret her desire for anonymity as a desire to just tell stories — she doesn’t care about the money anymore. 
so if rowling is returning to expand the harry potter universe, she’s doing it not because warner bros. made her an offer she couldn’t refuse, but because she has a story she wants to tell and she’s excited about it. 
in her official statement about the film, rowling echoes exactly the kind of sentiment i hoped to hear from her: 
“it all started when warner bros. came to me with the suggestion of turning ‘Fantastic beasts and where to Find Them’ into a film. i thought it was a fun idea, but the idea of seeing newt scamander, the supposed au­thor of ‘Fantastic beasts,’ realized by another writer was difficult. having lived for so long in my fictional uni­verse, i feel very protective of it and i already knew a lot about newt. … i always said that i would only revisit the wizarding world if i had an idea that i was really excited about and this is it.” 
hollywood’s been trying to repeat the success of the harry potter movies for the last decade now, and maybe they’ve finally found the answer: have the greatest fan­tasy storyteller of our generation do it for you. 
contact Kevin noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The observer. 

MARIA MASSA | The Observer 


Notre Dame 31, PurDue 24 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | NDsmcobserver.com 
Second-half surge 
ND rebounds from slow first half, uses 21 fourth-quarter points to edge Purdue in hard-fought ‘W’ 
With tough foes on horizon, Irish need to find identity 

Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
West LaFaYette, Ind. — maybe their ears were ringing from the banging on Purdue’s “World’s Largest Drum.” 
maybe they had the same post-big House hangover the Wolverines had saturday against akron. 
Whatever the reason, the Irish started slowly. but then Notre Dame turned it around and did what it was supposed to do to Purdue. all is well, right? Not quite. 
before facing the Irish, Purdue defeated Fcs Indiana state by three points and lost by 35 to cincinnati. Notre Dame’s next four opponents — michigan state, No. 14 oklahoma, No. 23 arizona state and usc  — are a combined 10-1. 
so when brian Kelly says Notre Dame’s identity is still “cloudy” and Davaris Daniels says the Irish “came out flat” and “weren’t ready to play,” it’s troubling. No, Notre Dame is not a finished product. but the team will have to play like one against an upcoming slate of stiff competition. 
on saturday night, the first two times the Irish touched the ball, they muffed it. George atkinson couldn’t handle the kickoff cleanly and barely made it back to the 17-yard line. on the first play from scrimmage, Nick martin’s snap went right through the hands of tommy rees to running back amir carlisle, who promptly lost three yards. on the fourth play of Notre Dame’s early second-quar­ter drive, rees was nearly picked off by Purdue cornerback ricardo allen. the pass was intended for chris brown and, if allen had snared it, Purdue likely would have had a pick-six. three plays later, rees was almost intercepted again, but the boilermakers couldn’t make the play. 
those types of fortunate breaks won’t fly next week against michigan state, the team tied for sixth in the nation with eight forced turnovers, five of which the spartans have converted into touchdowns and two of which have netted field goals. 
Notre Dame surrendered 75 
see FortuNate PAGE 3 


By JACK HEFFERON 
sports Writer 

West LaFaYette, Ind. — It’s never been easy for No. 22 Notre Dame this year, and a feisty Purdue squad made it particularly difficult for the Irish. but with three touch­downs in the first four min­utes of the fourth quarter, Notre Dame recovered quick­ly enough to claim a 31-24 vic­tory over the boilermakers on saturday night at ross-ade stadium. 
Junior receiver Davaris Daniels did much of the work in digging the Irish (2-1) out of a 17-10 deficit, scoring touchdowns on consecutive plays in the fourth quar­ter and finishing with eight catches and 167 yards. the Irish defense followed up on the next drive with the game’s decisive score, as senior cor­nerback bennett Jackson ran back a perfectly jumped interception.
 “We made some plays to­night that we didn’t make last week,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “We still have some things we need to work on. We know we’re not a finished product yet. but to go on the road, after a tough game last week, against a big ten oppo­nent, this is a really good win for our football team.” 
Notre Dame began to flip the script on the boilermakers (1-2) 13 seconds into the fourth quarter. after two in­complete passes from senior quarterback tommy rees left the Irish with third-and-goal from the 9-yard line, Daniels found open space in the 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
DAVARIS DANIELS 

IRISH RECEIVER 
Daniels exploded in the second half, reeling in two highlight-worthy touchdown passes from tommy rees and finishing with a career-high 167 yards on eight receptions. rees made his case with a third-straight 300-yard game, but the junior receiver dominated the boilermakers in the end and was the clear spark on offense. 
corner of the end zone and reeled in his third touchdown of the season. 
Notre Dame fed Daniels again on its next play, and Daniels provided the same result. the 6-foot-1 junior caught a ball down the right sideline, then tiptoed the boundary chalk while drag­ging senior cornerback ricardo allen for nearly all of his 82-yard score. 
“I knew I was close to the sideline,” Daniels said. “I had a step on him … I just tried to make sure I kept my feet moving, and created a little distance with the stiff arm. Luckily it all worked out.” 
on the next series, boilermakers redshirt senior quarterback rob Henry — who threw for a career-high 256 yards — made his only mistake of the night. Henry locked in a shallow out route, allowing Jackson to break ear­ly on his throw and run back the interception 34 yards, un­touched, for the score. 
“I just saw him do the shal­low route, so I tried to squeeze my man,” Jackson said. “then I looked back at the quarter­back and he just happened to be looking at him the whole way. so that gave me a nice chance to undercut it.” 
see comebacK PAGE 2 
Rees and Daniels establish second-half connection 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 

West LaFaYette, Ind. — at the halftime break, junior receiver Davaris Daniels had two catches for 37 yards. senior quarterback tommy rees was 8-for-17 for 94 yards and no scores. No. 21 Notre Dame trailed 10-3 and appeared lethargic on offense. 
In the second half, however, Daniels recorded six grabs for 130 yards and two scores. rees, in his own right, completed 12 of 16 passes for 215 yards and two touch­downs after the intermission as the Irish outscored Purdue 28-14 the rest of the way. 
“I don’t know that it was frus­tration [in the first half] as much as there was a confidence that we were going to be okay,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “I was never wor­ried in the sense that there was a panic. It was going to come out. I felt really confident that we were going to win the football game. We just needed to settle down a little bit.” 
For the third straight game, rees racked up over 300 yards through the air, giving him five career games over the 300-yard mark. 
“the game ball for us went to tommy rees in the second half,” Kelly said. “We thought he really settled down and ran our offense and managed it extremely well, made some good plays for us, made the throws when he needed to.” 
two of those throws found Daniels for touchdowns. on the game-tying scoring drive that spanned the end of the third quar­ter and the beginning of the fourth, rees was 6-for-8 for 62 yards, the last nine coming on the scoring connection with Daniels. rees threw toward the back right corner of the end zone and Daniels held on to make the grab with Purdue junior cornerback antoine Lewis draped all over him. 
“tommy threw a good ball,” Daniels said. “I ran a decent route. We had run the play two plays be­fore. Luckily tommy flattened me out and I made a play on the ball.” 
the second touchdown came on the very next offensive play for the Irish. after forcing a Purdue punt, rees took the snap out of the shot­gun and fired down the right side­line. He connected with Daniels, 
see DaNIeLs PAGE 3 


REPORT CARD 







QUARTERBACKS 

tommy rees struggled in the opening half, failing to hit his receivers as the offense stalled repeatedly. However, rees had an impressive second half, reaching the 300-yard mark for the third straight game and leading the Irish to victory. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Junior cam mcDaniel stepped in to bring power and con­sistency to a running game that had been lacking both. He only totaled 56 yards on 16 carries, but mcDaniel  helped the Irish run out the clock and found the endzone. amir carlisle took a step back, finishing with 16 yards on 11 car­ries and one fumble. 
RECEIVERS 

Junior Davaris Daniels had a monster game, compiling a career-high 167 yards on eight grabs. His two touchdowns showed his physicality and brought life to a stagnant Irish offense. tJ Jones finished with 57 yards and chris brown hauled in a 40-yard catch. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Purdue’s stout defensive front was too much for the Irish, as Notre Dame’s running backs had nowhere to go most of the night.  the protection for rees was a mixed bag. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

the Irish held Purdue to 38 yards on the ground and applied significant, if not consistent, pressure on Purdue quarterback rob Henry. toward the end of the game, Notre Dame succeeded in pressuring Henry with as few as three men rushing the passer. 
LINEBACKERS 

Junior Jarrett Grace led all defensive players with 10 tack­les, but no other Irish linebacker had more than four. both calabrese and freshman Jaylon smith had one tackle-for­loss, but otherwise there was little of note from the unit. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

senior cornerback bennett Jackson delivered the defen­sive highlight  of the night, jumping an out route and bringing the interception 34 yards the other way for a score. Jackson also had a sack in the game, but as a whole the Irish backline struggled. boilermakers managed to weave through the secondary both while running routes and after the catch. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Junior George atkinson  had another big day at kick re­turn, finishing with 119 yards on 4 returns. tJ Jones did not get a shot at a punt return, although he inexplicably fielded one punt at the Irish four-yard line. Junior  kicker Kyle brindza made a 20-yard field goal but averaged only 
36.8 yards on four punts. Notre Dame’s kick coverage con­tinued to shows signs of weakness, surrendering 68 yards on two returns. 
COACHING 

credit the coaching staff for righting the ship during halftime, but it was still an underwhelming showing by the Irish. the game was closer than anyone expected, and one half of good football won’t be enough in future games. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.80 

the Irish escaped with a win against their in-state rivals and regain a winning record. although the second half  was largely a bright spot, the Irish showed they still have plenty of room to improve. Daniels and mcDaniel proved their worth as tommy rees showed once again he can pick his spots to shine. the defense showed an array of deficiencies. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
REES FINDS DANIELS FOR AN 82-YARD, TIGHTROPE TOUCHDOWN 
Daniels reeled in the longball from rees, kept his feet from tread­ing on the sideline boundary before delivering a deadly stiff arm to Purdue senior quarterback ricardo allen and walking into the endzone. the fourth-quarter play put the Irish up 24-17. 
Comeback 
coNtINueD From PaGe 1 

Jackson’s interception gave the Irish their third touch­down in a 3:29 stretch, but Purdue would not go away quietly. Down 31-17, Henry brought the boilermakers back into it with two back-footed heaves — the first a 48­yard prayer over the middle that caught both Jackson and junior safety matthias Farley with their heads turned, the second a nine-yard touch­down toss to junior tight end Justin sinz. 
that brought the boilers within one score, and they quickly earned a chance to equalize after recovering a fumble by Irish junior run­ning back amir carlisle. but the Notre Dame defense an­swered, forcing a quick three-and-out. Purdue then faced a decision, and with seven-and­a-half minutes left to play and all three of his timeouts, boilermakers coach Darrell Hazell opted to punt the ball back to the Irish. 
thanks to cam mcDaniel, the Irish never gave it back. every one of the 61,127 in ross-ade stadium knew the Irish planned to run the ball up the middle, but the junior running back — who earlier was hit with his helmet off and received four stitches at halftime — ran there anyway. mcDaniel rushed the ball on 10 of Notre Dame’s final 11 plays, amassed 48 yards on that drive alone and exhaust­ed the last of the game clock to secure the Irish victory. 
“When our defense got a key stop at the end there, we knew we were going to have a chance to close it out, and we did it,” Irish graduate student tackle Zack martin said. “Hats off to cam mcDaniel, because he won that game for us.” 
Notre Dame may have won, but Purdue dominated early on. the boilermakers won the coin toss and chose to receive, then promptly marched on the Irish defense. on the 12th play of the opening drive, Henry found junior running back akeem Hunt in the flat. the speedy Hunt rounded the edge, burst through the clos­ing Irish defense and scam­pered 15 yards for the game’s opening score. 

Notre Dame’s first half was marked by miscues from its first snap, which went straight through rees’ hands. rees was just 8-for-17 in the half and the running game amassed just 29 yards on 15 carries. 
an early second-quarter field goal by sophomore Paul Griggs gave the boilermakers a 10-0 lead, and they could have been up 13 if Griggs hadn’t missed from 27 yards a few minutes earlier. 
“they came out hot,” Irish junior inside linebacker Jarrett Grace said. “I always think that we’re prepared, and I don’t think we underes­timated them, but this is a big game and they were ready to go right away.” 
Notre Dame was able to put together an 80-yard drive late in the half, the bulk of which came when rees hit sopho­more receiver chris brown down the sideline for a 40­yard gain. the drive stalled in the red zone, however, as Daniels slipped on his third-down fade route and junior kicker Kyle brindza came on to make a 20-yard field goal, sending the Irish to the locker room down 10-3. 
the Irish offense got a wake-up call at halftime, and showed its first real signs of life in the second half. Notre Dame got the ball first in the third quarter, and rees began to lead the team back into it. Late in the drive, rees lobbed the ball near the right pylon, and senior receiver tJ Jones climbed the ladder, then threw his foot back towards the field to come down in bounds at the 1-yard-line. 
Jones catch was confirmed after video review, and mcDaniel ran it in on the next play to tie the game at 10. 
rees bounced back from his early struggles to throw for 215 yards on 12-for-16 passing in the second half. Kelly gave rees the game ball for his second half efforts, and was impressed with his veteran composure and resilience. 
“He’s been here for four years. He knew he just need­ed to settle down a little bit, it was all in front of him, and he settled down nicely,” Kelly said. “I’m really proud of him.” 
Purdue rebounded quick­ly in the third quarter, as boilermakers redshirt fresh­man receiver b.J. Knauf found a seam on the ensuing kickoff and brought it out to nearly midfield before brindza im­peded his progress. eight plays later it was Knauf again, catching a quick pass out of the slot and shaking past Farley and through sophomore cor­nerback Keivarae russell for a 15-yard touchdown. 
that made the score 17-10, and set the table for Notre Dame’s late flurry to steal the win. With the victory, the Irish will head back home to take on michigan state, their third consecutive big ten opponent. 
“this was really big for us,” he said. “to win on the road … you’ve got to play really, really hard, and they’re very excited about the win. and now they get to come back home and get ready for michigan state. It doesn’t get any easier.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 




Daniels 
coNtINueD From PaGe 1 
who then shook off boilermakers senior cornerback ricardo allen, stayed in bounds and scored the go-ahead touchdown for Notre Dame. 
“We knew they were playing cover 2 mostly the whole game,” Daniels said. “[Irish offensive co­ordinator chuck] martin called up the play, told me the ball was com­ing to me. I was supposed to make a play. tommy threw it up and ev­erything worked out in our favor.” 
the 82-yard strike was the ninth-longest completion in Notre Dame history and the longest since former Irish tight end Kyle rudolph’s 95-yard snatch in 2010 against michigan. Daniels, who 
Fortunate 
coNtINueD From PaGe 1 
yards on Purdue’s first 12 plays saturday. but after that open­ing drive, the Irish limited the boilermakers to 71 yards on their next 23 plays. some might say the Irish turned it around. but that’s merely what they should have been doing from the outset, con­sidering the boilers had mustered only 54 and 69 yards, respec­tively, in their previous two first quarters against the sycamores and bearcats. 
that type of slow start won’t work two weeks from now against No. 14 oklahoma, who bell-dozed out of the gates with three scoring drives of 72 yards or more on its first three posses­sions saturday against tulsa. 
Notre Dame bailed itself out of a lifeless start by holding Purdue was relatively quiet in the first half, finished with a career-high eight catches for a career-high 167 yards, the most for a Notre Dame player since former receiver Golden tate tallied 201 yards in 2009. 
“It was interesting because we got on him pretty good in the first half,” Kelly said of Daniels. “He went out of bounds one time. He stepped up his game big time in the second half. He played more physical. obviously on the first touchdown it was a ball that he had to really take away form the defender and then the run after the catch [for the second touch­down] was just phenomenal. 
“He’s just that kind of player. He’s one of those guys once in a while that you have to light a fire under. … but he’s just a talented 
to 219 yards and 17 points after the boilermakers undressed the Irish on that opening touchdown drive. Purdue punted twice and threw a costly interception on three of its last four possessions saturday night. 
that type of second-half de­fensive turnaround won’t be as easy three weeks from now against No. 23 arizona state, a team that scored touchdowns on three of its last four possessions saturday night against then-No. 20 Wisconsin. 
Late in the first quarter, tJ Jones made a fair catch at his own 4-yard line, and the Irish followed it up by racking up one yard on three plays. Notre Dame punted and Purdue had terrific field position, but the boilers couldn’t capitalize, missing a 27­yard field goal. In fact, Purdue’s average field position on its three young man. He’s maturing every day. and he showed how good a receiver he can be.” 

Daniels said the first half was frustrating, both for him person­ally and for the Irish as a team. and while Daniels admitted he took some heat from Kelly and the coaching staff at halftime, the ju­nior receiver said he already knew he had to rise up. 
“It’s something I already knew. I had to step my game up. everybody had to step their game up,” Daniels said. “especially when you’re trying to be that guy, that’s something you’ve got to do and you have to take the team on your back, I guess, sometimes.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
first-quarter drives was its own 41.7-yard line, but the boilers only walked away with seven points. 
that type of Nik Wallenda tight-rope walk won’t succeed against usc, who never started a drive in enemy territory against boston college on saturday but still posted 35 points by churning out four scoring drives of at least 75 yards. 
so, call it a flat start for Notre Dame against Purdue. call the Irish an unfinished product. 
Whatever saturday was and whatever the Irish are, things won’t be as easy moving forward as they were in week three. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
rees ascends all-time list 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports Writer 
With his two second-half touchdown throws, senior quar­terback tommy rees now has 41 touchdown passes in his career, bringing him into a tie for fourth with rick mirer on Notre Dame’s all-time list. 
rees now has three straight games with 300 yards pass­ing and multiple touchdowns. His second touchdown pass to junior receiver Davaris Daniels, which went for 82 yards, was the longest pass of rees’ career and the ninth-longest pass in Notre Dame history. 
Defense to offense 
after senior cornerback bennett Jackson’s 34-yard in­terception return, the Irish de­fense has forced two turnovers this season, and both have been returned for touchdowns. the other turnover occured last week at michigan stadium, when ju­nior defensive end stephon tuitt intercepted michigan quarter­back Devin Gardner in the end zone for a quick pick-six. 

Notre Dame’s defense also held boilermakers junior run­ning back akeem Hunt to 27 yards rushing. starting running backs are averaging 35 yards per game against the Irish defense. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  3  7  21  31  
7  3  7  7  24  






PURDUE 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
akeem Hunt 15-yard pass from Henry (Griggs kick) 

9:08 remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 75 yards, 5:52 elapsed 
PURDUE 10, NOTRE DAME 0 
Paul Griggs 47-yard field goal 

10:44 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 31 yards, 4:00 elapsed 
PURDUE 10, NOTRE DAME 
Kyle brindza 20-yard field goal 

0:44 remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 80 yards, 5:14 elapsed 
PURDUE 10, NOTRE DAME 10 
cam mcDaniel 1-yard run (brindza kick) 

10:37 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 4:23 elapsed 
PURDUE 17, NOTRE DAME 10 
b.J. Knauf 18-yard pass from Henry (Griggs kick) 

6:28remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 54 yards, 4:09 elapsed 
PURDUE 17, NOTRE DAME 17 
Davaris Daniels 9-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 

14:47remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 66 yards, 4:03 elapsed 
PURDUE 17, NOTRE DAME 24 
Davaris Daniels 82-yard pass from rees (brindza kick) 

12:40 remaining 

Drive: One play, 82 yards, 0:10 elapsed 
PURDUE 17, NOTRE DAME 31 
bennett Jackson 34-yard interception return (brindza kick) 

11:18remaining 

PURUE 24, NOTRE DAME 31 
Justin sinz 9-yard pass from Henry (Griggs kick) 

8:16remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 75 yards, 3:02 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
RUSHING YARDS  
38  
91  
PASSING YARDS  
226  
309  
Time of Possession  Time of Possession  

 31:12  
 28:48  
PASSING  
Rees  20-33-309  Henry  25-40-256  
RUSHING  
McDaniel  16-56  Hunt  12-22  
Atkinson  5-27  Dawkins  3-8  
Carlisle  11-16  Knauf  2-6  
RECEIVING  
Daniels  8-167  Hunt  9-72  
Jones  4-57  Sinz  6-45  
Carlisle  3-16  Knauf  4-51  
Brown  1-40  Mikesky  2-56  
TACKLES  
Grace  10  Richards  9  
Russell  4  Brown  7  
Calabrese  4  Gilliam  6  
Jackson  4  Williams  6  


tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | NDsmcobserver.com 


OE KENESEY | The Observer 
Irish senior quarterback Tommy Rees drops back to pass during Notre Dame’s 31-24 victory over Purdue on Saturday night at Ross-Ade Stadium in West Lafayette, Ind. Rees com­pleted 20 of 33 passes for 309 yards and two touchdowns against the Boilermakers. 
Notre Dame needed a fourth-quarter surge to secure the come-from­
behind victory over in-state rival Purdue on Saturday. Tommy Rees and DaVaris Daniels led the Irish offense, while cornerback Bennett 
EDGING THE 
Jackson secured a pick-six in the fourth quarter. Junior running back 
Cam McDaniel took  a bulk of the carries on the night, finishing with 
BOILERMAKERS 
56 yards and a touchdown as Notre Dame regained a winning record. 





The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
DARK, COLD, CREEPY PLAYLIST 




Welcome to South Bend, it’s about to get cold! Seriously, the low today is 45 degrees. You could see people’s breath at night this weekend. So in honor of the dark, scary permacloud of coldness about to hit us, here’s a playlist of cold, dark, scary music. 

“Requiem” 
Mozart 

“Luz Aeterna” 
Clint Mansell 
“Bones” 
MRMS 

“Baby, It’s Cold Outside” 
Dean Martin 
“Creep” 
Radiohead 
“Hurt” 

Johnny Cash 
“Mad World” 
Gary Jules 

“Where is My Mind?” 
The Pixies 
“Stan” 
Eminem 

“Hide and Seek” 
Imogen Heap 

By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 
The student activities board (sub) is preparing for a year full of entertainment and events that will appeal to the majority of students on campus, according to board manager Kaitlyn Keelin. 
Kaitlyn gave scene an overview of every­thing the board has planned for this school year. its biggest concern will be matching events to students’ interests. 
in addition to continuing with online surveys, sub will also have tables set up at events to allow students to give feedback and to tell the board what they would like to see in the future. according to Kaitlyn, “one of the most difficult things for us as student event programmers is identifying events or performers that both appeal to students and are within budget.” 
To solve this problem, sub plans to build a database of student contact information in order to reach out to all students for in­put via email. 
also, sub is using social media sites to reach out to students. it currently has a Facebook page, a Twitter and an instagram account, as well as a webpage, sub.nd.edu, which is going through construction and will soon be up and running. 
For those who are new to campus, sub is a board run by students, for the stu­dents, which provides various programs throughout the year. The most popular event, and Kaitlyn’s personal favorite, is antostal, a week at the end of the spring semester full of complimentary refresh­ments and entertainment. 
“it’s my favorite event because i believe that it fully captures the essence of student programming,” Kaitlyn said. “not only is it a week of free food and events, but it’s also one last chance to bring the student body together to relax and enjoy campus before the chaos of finals and move-out sets in.” 
in addition to antostal, sub runs 12 oth­er programs, including acousticafe, the holy half marathon and the notre dame literary Festival. Kaitlyn said that without sub, students wouldn’t have the chance to see famous artists at awesome prices, get free food randomly or have weekly debart movies, so, basically, campus would be pretty boring without it. 
if you are interested in helping sub bring the best entertainment to campus, there are several easy ways to get involved, Kaitlyn said. For freshmen, there is a street Team, which serves as the main publicity team for sub. 
“it’s a great way to get a feel for how sub works as an organization, and it also al­lows freshmen to become familiar with our programs and events before stepping into higher roles,” Kaitlyn said. 
working for sub will put you up close and personal with the biggest entertain­ment on campus, and there are plenty of opportunities after freshman year to be­come more and more involved, Kaitlyn said. 
sub needs upperclassmen to take the five-minute surveys provided at events in order to help the board best match stu­dents’ interests. participation in these surveys will put students on sub’s email list, which will provide online surveys for future events. To hold a higher position on the student union board, students can participate in interviews that take place in February and march. every student on campus receives an email with the appli­cation, so keep your eyes out. 
“while this year’s positions have been filled,” Kaitlyn said, “if you would like to get involved with sub, please email us at sub@nd.edu and we can evaluate from there.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

nascar: racing for respect 

Mary Green 
sports writer 
in an unprecedented move saturday, nascar chairman bill France announced that Jeff gordon would be added as the 13th driver in the field for the chase for the sprint cup. he said the addition came as a result of discover­ies of competing teams mak­ing deals with each other to fix the finishes of recent rac­es as to gain enough points to make the 12-driver roster. 
For any fan of motor sports, this is huge news. it is as if bud selig decided to let two more wildcard teams into the playoffs be­cause he found out that two other teams had cheated to improve their playoff standings. 
if that had been the case, we wouldn’t have heard the end of it. sportscenter would cover each new dis­covery in the unending saga, the sports reporters would debate whether selig made the right choices in how he handled the matter and ev­ery newspaper in america would feature the story on the front page of its sports section. 
but that’s not the case. This isn’t baseball; this is nascar, and so the news was relegated to the insides of sports sections and a spot on sportscenter only after all the major college football games had been covered. 
so why don’t we care about nascar? 
in most of the south and the midwest, people care about nascar. but in the united states as a whole, racing is just a hobby, not a sport. it’s apparently not that worthy of our atten­tion, seeing as a huge move like saturday’s didn’t cause seismic shifts in the sports scene like it would have had the event occurred in foot­ball, baseball or basketball. 
Jimmie Johnson won the sprint cup five years in a row from 2006 to 2010. lebron James has won con­secutive nba champion­ships, but you can bet that his two garnered much more praise and celebra­tion across america than Johnson’s five. we couldn’t stop talking about James’s second ring for weeks after he hoisted the larry o’brien Trophy, but when Johnson won his fifth (fifth!) sprint cup in a row, it was more of a “hey that’s cool, but let’s get back to football” kind of reaction. 
nascar certainly brings in the big bucks, so corpo­rate america finds it appeal­ing. nbc signed a 10-year contract last summer with the league to put racing back on its schedule. and how much did nbc pay for that? $4.4 billion —– and that doesn’t even include the biggest race of the year, the daytona 500, on which Fox has had a stronghold since 2007. 

some people say they don’t like stock car racing because it’s boring. They like the rough and tumble of “con­tact sports” and the element of danger they bring to each game. 
well, nascar brings that element week after week. experts fear that football has become so violent that, sometime in the near future, a player will die during a college or nFl game. since nascar’s inception in 1948, 52 drivers have died at some level of its racing, most no­tably dale earnhardt, sr., at the 2001 daytona 500. That seems like enough “contact” for me. 
nascar drivers have to sit for hours in a hot car wear­ing a flame-retardant suit. They have to concentrate on themselves, their cars and their crew chief yelling in their ears for the duration of the race, all while other cars buzz past them at almost 200 miles per hour. if they lose concentration, the con­sequences can be fatal. 
Trust me, i am no nascar expert or superfan by any means. i don’t religiously watch races every sunday, and i don’t tear up at the memory of dale, sr. i don’t have a sticker of the num­ber three, 24, 48 or 88 on the back window of my car, and you certainly would never catch me dead in one of those ridiculous racing jackets. 

but maybe it’s my upbring­ing in the south by family from the midwest. maybe it’s my understanding of how crucial nascar was for the growth in popularity during espn’s early years and vice versa. maybe it’s because i know that daytona is more than beautiful beaches on the atlantic. 
but maybe it’s just time i realized nascar deserves a little more respect than it gets. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL | bears 31, viKings 30 
Cutler delivers clutch win for Bears 
Associated Press 

Jay cutler came through just in time again. 
cutler threw a 16-yard touch­down pass to martellus bennett with 10 seconds left to lead the chicago bears to a 31-30 victory over the minnesota vikings on sunday. 
minnesota’s blair walsh had just kicked a 22-yard field goal with 3:15 remaining when chicago took over at its 
34. cutler, who led the bears back from an 11-point deficit in a season-opening win over cincinnati, struck again. 
a 23-yard pass to bennett along the sideline put the ball on the 16. cutler then spiked the ball before connecting with bennett in the front corner of the end zone. robbie gould kicked the go-ahead extra point and chicago (2-0) remained un­beaten under new coach marc Trestman despite committing four turnovers. 
cutler completed 28 of 39 passes for 290 yards and three touchdowns. but he was also in­tercepted twice and got stripped by Jared allen on a sack, leading to a 61-yard touchdown return for brian robison in the second quarter. 
devin hester returned five kickoffs for a bears-record 249 yards — including a 76-yarder and an 80-yarder. 
bennett had 76 yards re­ceiving and two touchdowns. brandon marshall had seven catches for 113 yards and a touchdown. matt Forte chipped in with 71 yards receiving and 90 yards rushing. 
minnesota’s cordarrelle patterson returned the open­ing kickoff 105 yards to tie a club record. christian ponder threw for 227 yards, a touchdown and an interception after get­ting picked off three times in a season-opening loss to detroit. adrian peterson ran for 100 yards, but the vikings (0-2) re­mained winless at soldier Field since 2007. 
They looked as if they might pull this one out after two 13­play drives led to 28-yard field goals by walsh, turning a 24-21 halftime deficit into a 27-24 ad­vantage in the fourth quarter. 
The first came after chicago’s isaiah Frey recovered a fumble by Jarius wright in the end zone, only to have it overturned on a replay review. harrison smith set up the second when he intercepted a long pass from cutler to marshall at the 12 on the first play of the fourth quar­ter. peterson kept the drive go­ing with a 4-yard run to the 14 on fourth-and-1, only to be hit with a 13-yard loss on the next play, and walsh booted the go-ahead field goal with just over 8 minutes left. 
letroy guion stripped Forte of the ball near midfield on chicago’s next possession. That led to walsh’s 22-yarder that made it a six-point game, but cutler and the bears had one more rally in them. 
The late theatrics capped a game that featured no shortage of big plays in the early going. 
patterson got this one off to an explosive start with that huge return to start the game, taking advantage of some big holes and sprinting past a lunging gould on the way to the end zone. The 105-yarder matched the club record set by percy harvin last year and was the first kickoff re­turn for a touchdown by a bears opponent since 2007. 
after patterson’s big return, hester returned the kickoff 76 yards before being pushed out of bounds at the 32. That led to a 1-yard Td catch for bennett. 
MLB| piraTes 3, cubs 2 

morneau acquisition pays dividends for pirates 
Associated Press 

Francisco liriano took a no-hit bid into the seventh inning before faltering in his first no-decision this season, and pinch-hitter Justin morneau singled in the go-ahead run in the eighth sunday to lead the pittsburgh pirates over the chicago cubs 3-2. 
pittsburgh, which began the day tied with st. louis for the nl central lead, took three of four from the last-place cubs and won for the sixth time in seven games. 
morneau, acquired from minnesota on aug. 31, drove in his first run for the pirates. The 2006 al mvp is batting .279 (12 for 43) with pittsburgh. 
with the score 2-2 in the 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSINGS TOWNHOME for rent from ND Alum for 14-15 yr; 4 bdrm/3.5 bath; call/text 
eighth, andrew mccutchen was hit by a pitch from pedro strop (2-2), took second on marlon byrd’s bloop sin­gle to center and scored on morneau’s single. 
Kyle Farnsworth (1-0) pitched a scoreless eighth, and mark melancon completed a three-hitter with a perfect ninth for his 16th save in 18 chances. 
liriano didn’t allowed a hit until Junior lake singled into the hole between third base and shortstop leading off the seventh. shortstop Jordy mercer made a diving effort and stopped the ball on the outfield grass, but lake easily beat the throw. 
welington castillo followed with a tying, two-run homer into the bleachers in left-cen­ter. castillo’s seventh homer of the season stopped liriano’s streak of 22 consecutive score­less innings at pnc park. 
liriano allowed two runs, three hits and four walks in six-plus innings. at 16-7, he became the first pirates pitcher with a decision in his first 23 starts since larry French opened with 24 in a row in 1930, according to sTaTs. 
cubs starter Travis wood gave up two runs, five hits and two walks in six innings. 
Jose Tabata led off the first inning with a triple and scored on a wild pitch, and Tony sanchez doubled the lead when he homered in the fourth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
John 281-635-2019;email john.dim-
PERSONAL 
pel@raymondjames.com 

FOOTBALL RENTAL: Availability Private Voice Lessons for Children for all home games. Email nd-house@ and Adults. 574-256-9836 sbcglobal.net 


SMC SOCCER | alma 4, smc 0 
Belles shut out, lose three of four 
SMC GOLF | sevenTh place, o’brien naTional inviTaTional 
saint mary’s sits in seventh place in own tournament 

Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s was shut out for the second straight game saturday, falling 4-0 to alma to finish its four-game road trip with a record of 1-3. 
The scots (3-2, 3-0 miaa) dominated possession in the first half, outshooting the belles (2-4, 0-2 miaa) 10 – 1, but only managed to find the back of the net once, when sophomore forward Kelly wilson squeaked a header by belles junior goal­keeper chanler rosenbaum in the 27th minute. 
The belles weren’t so lucky in the early minutes of the sec­ond half. The scots struck right out of the gate when freshman midfielder Jessica burg scored on a rebound off of rosenbaum in the 47th minute. it was all alma from there, as they scored twice more in the second half to coast to the win, finishing the game having outshot the belles, 17 – 9. 

sophomore defender lindsay rzepecki had two of the five saint mary’s shots on goal after subbing in the 27th minute, with both coming in the second half. rosenbaum finished with five saves in the loss. 
The belles return home wednesday after four straight on the road to take on calvin. The belles defeated illinois Tech, 4 – 0, on sept. 2 in their only oth­er home game this season. 
paid adverTisemenT 


By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 

after a rainy first day of play sunday at the warren golf course, the host belles sit in seventh place out of nine schools in the o’brien national invitational with a team score of 333. 
senior paige pollak shot an 80 to lead the team, while sophomore sammie averill finished one stroke behind her at 81. rounding out the saint mary’s quintet were senior alexi brown with an 85, ju­nior Janice heffernan with an 87 and freshman ali mahoney with a 91. 
coach Kim moore said the performances of pollak and averill especially impressed her in the opening round. 
“we had a pretty consis­tent round for our no. 1, paige pollak,” she said. “but our no. 5, sammie averill, really stepped up today and shot an 81, so i’m pleased with that score.” 
among the saint mary’s golfers competing outside the team competition in the in­dividual bracket, freshman emmie schultz shot an 88 to tie for 33rd place out of 60 golf­ers. Three of her teammates followed, with sophomore Katie Zielinski at 89, freshman rachel Kim at 92 and freshman courtney carlson at 107. 
no. 3 depauw stands in first place with a team score of 316, and no. 8 centre and no. 22 olivet finish out the top three after shooting 323 and 327, respectively. 
moore noted this year’s saint mary’s scores were a little higher than they were after the first round of last year’s tour­nament, but she said the less-than-ideal conditions in the rain probably had some effect on how her team did. 
with better weather fore-casted for tomorrow, moore said she hopes the belles will be able to correct the mistakes they made sunday to make a run at a solid team finish monday. 
“i think a little course man­agement will go a long way, if they can really work on where to leave their shots,” she said. “it looked like they were re­ally putting them in some troublesome spots today. and short game is always impor­tant as well. if they can get up and down, it doesn’t really matter where you hit the ball.” 
although  the  belles  have  
hosted the  o’brien  national  
invitational  since  2009  at  
the  warren  golf course, the  

course is not actually their home course. The team regu­larly practices at blackthorn golf club in south bend, but many saint mary’s golfers are still familiar with the play at warren. 
“most of the players have played [warren] a few times because of this tournament,” she said. “They’re familiar with the layout and some of the yardages, but it’s definitely a challenging course as well.” 
The belles will see if any of their prior experience with the course comes in handy to­morrow as they finish out the second of two rounds in the o’brien national invitational. The first group tees off at 8:30 
a.m. at the warren golf course. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | Third place, mary Fossum inviTaTional 
Armstrong leads Irish to third-place finish 

By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 

after a hotly-contested three rounds at michigan state’s mary Fossum invitational, notre dame concluded the weekend with a third-place finish. 
Just three years removed from a win in the same tour­nament, the irish continued to excel in east lansing this weekend. 
leading the effort was the team’s junior captain ashley armstrong. with a second-place individual result, armstrong shot a three-round average of 73.3 in her season debut. not even sunday’s rain could deter her, as armstrong wrapped up the weekend with one of just five rounds below par, shooting a 69. 
additionally, on a course that caused most golfers’ scores to rise from round to round, armstrong was the only top-five finisher to improve on her score each round. 
“ashley essentially hasn’t played golf for the last two weeks because she’s been re­covering from a wrist injury. with that being said, i thought that she did great,” irish coach susan holt said. “ashley more than showed up and did her part.” 
not to be outdone, junior Kelli oride also stood out by shoot­ing a 223 over three rounds, just three strokes more than armstrong’s total. Finishing in seventh place, oride got off to a hot start on the invitational’s first day when she shot a 72 and a 74 in the first two rounds. on sunday, oride finished the weekend with a 77. 
Following her own strong performance last weekend, se­nior Kristina nhim finished in 34th place at 16 over par. after starting off with a 76, nhim wrapped up her weekend with a pair of 78s on her final two rounds for a 232 total. 
Just two strokes behind nihm was sophomore Talia campbell, who shot a 234 fol­lowing a rough sunday in the rain, when she finished 10 over par. on saturday, campbell jumped out to 22nd place with rounds of 75 and 77, but follow­ing an 82 yesterday, campbell finished the weekend in 44th place. 
rounding out the group for the irish, freshmen Jordan Ferreira and Janie Fineis man­aged to finish 53rd and 90th with scores of 238 and 262 respectively. Facing tough weather conditions, Fineis showed solid consistency, matching one of her first day scores, while Ferreira faltered slightly, adding 12 strokes to her three-day total. 
“Today was just a blip on the radar, and we’ll just look to move past it,” holt said about the freshmen’s performance. 
moving forward, the notre dame will head to Knoxville, Tenn. for next weekend’s mercedes-benz collegiate championship at the cherokee country club. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 
MLB 

rays lose chance to take wild-card spot 
Associated Press 
minneapolis — This was a tough one for the Tampa bay rays to lose. 
with reigning cy young award winner david price on the mound facing a minnesota team hadn’t beaten them since last year, the rays blew a three-run lead and wasted a chance to overtake Texas for the al wild-card lead. 
not exactly what the rays wanted heading into a four-game series with the rangers that opens monday. 
“we’ve had way too many missteps already this year. That’s what’s got us in this position,” rays man­ager Joe maddon said after watching Joel peralta allow eighth-inning homers to ryan doumit and Josmil pinto in a 6-4 loss sunday. “we have played well enough to have a much better record. we haven’t closed the deal.” 

Tampa bay appeared on its way to a season sweep of the Twins after wil myers and sean rodriguez homered to build a 3-0 lead. with his team up 4-2 and two outs in the eighth, peralta threw a first-pitch strike to doumit. 
next pitch: gone. 

Then Trevor plouffe sin­gled, Josh willingham walked and pinto followed by sending an 0-1 pitch into the rays bullpen in center field. 
by the time the rookie came out of the dugout for a curtain call following his second career homer and all-star closer glen perkins came in from the bullpen, the cheering crowd had com­pletely forgotten about how futile price had made the Twins lineup look earlier. 
“This one hurts the most,” peralta said. “we really need these games. we need every game.” 
Tampa bay, which had won its previous three games, dropped to 7-14 since aug. 
25. The rays remained tied with Texas for the two al wild-card spots, a half-game ahead of cleveland. 
minnesota had lost 11 in a row to the rays. 
“you go through funks like this, and hopefully we’re done with that one and we can move forward,” Twins manager ron gardenhire said. 
peralta (2-8) blew a save for the third time in four chances, but his teammates and manager refused to crit­icize him. 
“i’ll take peralta any day,” price said. “i don’t care what the score is, how many runs there are. That guy has been an absolute warrior for us. it was just a tough loss.” 
Tampa bay left the bases loaded twice. delmon young hit an inning-ending flyout in the fifth and casey Fien (5-2) retired pinch-hitter david deJesus on a bases-loaded flyout in the eighth. 
“we should have won that game easily,” maddon said. “we had plenty of opportu­nities to score more runs, so it wasn’t just about giving up four in the eighth. we had our opportunities, and we have to continue to push and push and put runs on the board.” 
perkins pitched a perfect ninth for his 35th save in 39 chances. 
price allowed two runs and six hit in 6 1-3 innings. myers put Tampa bay ahead in the fourth with a two-run homer off pedro hernandez that reached the middle deck in center. rodriguez hom­ered leading off the fifth. 
chris parmalee’s two-run single off Jake mcgee in the seventh ended minnesota’s season-high 25-inning scoreless streak. James loney had an rbi single in the eighth. 



MEN’S TENNIS | olympia Fields counTry club and vredevelT inviTaTionals 
Irish get mixed results on split-squad weekend 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Junior Dougie Barnard returns the ball during the Big East tournament, held April 21 in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Irish won the tournament, earning their ninth Big East Championship. Barnard competed in the Vredevelt Invitational over the weekend, winning two of his three individual matches. 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
notre dame overcame a poor performance on its first day of competition to record several key victories in its first weekend of tournament action. 
The team split up for the weekend to compete in two separate three-day tourna­ments, as eight members of the squad traveled to the olympia Fields country club (oFcc) invitational in olympia Fields, ill., and six members competed in the vredevelt invitational in Kalamazoo, mich. 

paid adverTisemenT 

The irish struggled Friday in the oFcc invitational against a tough field that included illinois, Kentucky, memphis and defending ncaa cham­pion virginia. Junior wyatt mccoy recorded the only sin­gles victory of the day when he won, 7-5, 6-1, over virginia sophomore Jonnie cornish. The only other win came from the doubles team of senior greg andrews and sopho­more Quentin monaghan, who topped Kentucky fresh­men Kevin lai and Juan pablo murra, 8-7. 
“we stress consistency with our guys,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “it’s about the process and if you do well with the process, the results take care of themselves. certainly, the aspects of the process we did not take care of on Friday were coming out with good energy and coming out with confidence.” 
notre dame performed much better on the second day of competition at the oFcc invitational, as the irish won 12 of 15 singles matches. andrews, monaghan, sophomore nicolas montoya and freshmen eddy covalschi and Josh hagar each picked up two singles wins on the day. 
sachire said he was im­pressed with covalschi and hagar’s performances in their first collegiate tournament. 
“They’re both going to be great college tennis players,” he said of the freshmen. “They both have a ton of talent, a ton of upside, potential to be great college players, and it was ex­citing to watch them compete.” 
The irish concluded the oFcc invitational on sunday with victories in five of six sin­gles matches. 
“There was a big difference in terms of how we approached the competition from day one to then day Two and day Three, and it was just with a much greater sense of confidence and professionalism,” sachire said. “we really went after it and played to win in the last two days and played like a team that’s capable of having a great season.” 
competing against a less-heralded field at the vredevelt invitational, notre dame turned in a number of strong performances. 
The irish earned five singles wins and two doubles wins Friday. They followed it up by winning nine of 12 singles matches and two of three doubles matches saturday. in sunday’s final round, notre dame won two of its four sin­gles competitions and swept both of its doubles matches. 
senior ryan bandy went un­defeated in singles play, con­cluding the tournament by defeating western michigan senior nadin indre in straight sets, 6-3, 7-5. The doubles duo of juniors michael Fredericka and dougie barnard swept its three matches, defeating the team of Xavier sophomore michael moe and freshman adam Krull, 8-6, in sunday’s final round. 
going forward, the irish will use the results from this week­end’s tournaments to tailor in­dividual developmental plans for each team member, sachire said. 
“our staff will sit down and try to come up with a plan for each guy to find two or three key areas of their games to work on,” he said. “as a whole, i think our group needs to keep buying into the process of taking care of the details every single day and being prepared to practice and to compete.” 
notre dame will next com­pete at the iTa all-american championships in Tulsa, okla., which begin sept. 28. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 




as the second half began 
W Soccer 
and north carolina contin­
conTinued From page 16 
ued to ramp up the pressure, 

the irish packed it in for the up. it looked like she was as final 45 minutes, seemingly high as the crossbar.” content to play tight tough in the defending third. while the strategy, helped in part by little’s five saves, proved to stymie the Tar heels, waldrum said it was not his team’s intention to play so defensively. 
“we didn’t plan to sit in for the whole half as we did. it was more a result of carolina re­ally controlling the tempo, as the home team usually does,” waldrum said. “we wanted to be more efficient on the coun­terattack and controlling the ball, but i was really happy with the defensive effort. we were quite solid in that part of the game.” 
only lightly tested through notre dame’s preseason schedule, little proved up to the task on the biggest of stag­es, claiming the clean sheet while collecting five saves and clearing numerous balls from danger. 
“Kaela was great today,” waldrum said, while also singling out sophomore midfielder cari roccaro for her marking of dunn, who amassed seven shots but was kept off the score sheet. “she handled a lot of crosses and balls played in a crowd, which are always tough for a keeper. she made a couple fantastic saves.” 
The irish will be back on the field Thursday for their acc home opener against syracuse at alumni stadium. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

in the 17th minute, senior forward and captain harrison shipp took the corner, swing­ing the ball near post, where panken deflected the ball past bono. 
six minutes later, on another irish corner, o’malley received the ball at the back post from sophomore midfielder patrick hodan and buried it in the back of the net to put the irish up 2-0. 
clark said he expects some­one to score on all corners, but he was happy for panken and o’malley. 
“we are looking for all of our players to be in dangerous spots on corners, so it wasn’t surprising for me,” clark said. “i expect all of our attacking play­ers on corners to go get a goal, but for andrew and evan it was special to get their first goals. it is panken’s first year playing, so there are a lot of new things for him. hopefully, it won’t be long until he nets his next one.” 
hodan added to his assist and the irish lead, with a goal of his own in the 51st minute to make the score 3-0. 
senior goalkeeper patrick wall earned his second clean-sheet of the year. wall tallied one save to earn the shutout. 
The irish host michigan at alumni stadium on Tuesday at 
7:30p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
against oakland, the irish fell in the first set, 21-25, but came back for a close 26-24 victory in the second. The irish kept the momentum going as they won the third set 25-19 and the fourth 25-20 to take the match. 
alugbue and houser once again led the irish. alugbue contributed 18.5 points for the irish and houser contrib­uted 14. senior right side and defensive specialist sammie brown also had a strong game, chipping in 11 points for the irish. 
senior setter maggie brindock totaled 38 assists on the match while senior libero andrea mchugh led the team in digs with 22. 
The irish fought hard against auburn in their third match and clinched the shamrock invitation Title. 
notre dame fell in its first set, 26-28, and again in the second,17-25. The irish luck then started to turn around as they won the third set, 25­16 and the fourth, 25-16. The irish finished strong in the fifth set, winning with a score of 15-11. 
houser dominated the match, contributing a total of 
26.5 points for the irish with 18 kills, 32 total attacks and a career-high 13 blocks. The ju­nior stepped up with the irish down 2-0, contributing 10 of notre dame’s 17 kills in the set. 

“i believe that my blocking and offense really helped our team pull out the win against auburn,” houser said. 
other irish players, such as olsen (12 kills and three blocks) and alugbue (12 kills and 13 digs) assisted houser in the victory. brindock also had an impressive game, notching 47 assists, eight digs and six blocks. 
The irish win over auburn was even more impressive because auburn swept both loyola-chicago and oakland in their first two matches. in addition, the loss for auburn marked their first loss with a 2-0 lead in five seasons. 
houser picked up mvp hon­ors for the weekend after to­taling team highs in kills (42) and blocks (20). alugbue and brown also joined houser on the all-tournament team. 
houser said these three wins will give the irish a huge confidence boost and that they will now be able to un­derstand what they need to do in order to keep up their win­ning ways. 
The irish will next travel to lawrence, Kan., to compete in the Kansas invitational. The irish will play two games saturday and one sunday. 
Contact Meredith Kelly at mkelly29@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: prince harry, 29; Tom hardy, 36; Tommy lee Jones, 67; oliver stone, 67. 
Happy Birthday: you are quick thinking, adaptable and ready to do whatever it takes to make your world better. your desire will motivate you to carry out your plans. your ability to convince others to help will ensure that the work gets done. you can make great strides this year if you refuse to let anything or anyone stand in your way. your numbers are 2, 8, 15, 22, 27, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a challenge will get your heart beating and your mind racing. The outcome will be an interesting lesson that will help you make the altera­tions necessary to bring you greater satisfaction. embrace life.   


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): getting together with people who share interests or concerns will turn out favorably. what you discover can make a difference to your ability to earn or provide for a better life. someone you are connected to emotion­ally will be difficult. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll regret an impulsive purchase. look for ways to improve your home and stay under budget. you are capable of doing far more than you realize and for much less, if you do the research to follow through with your plans. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you deserve a break. get out and have fun with friends or family. Take time to do a little self-nurturing. a new outfit or something that makes you feel relaxed or more comfortable in your environment will be well worth the effort. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): personal problems will affect your health and emotional well-being. visit a destination that brings you peace. Think matters through before making a change or decision that alters the way you live. put your needs first. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): expand your interests and take part in something you want to contribute to. work to bring about changes in your community that will improve your life. you will make new acquaintances who will become great allies. love is in the stars. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let uncertainty take over, especially if it’s concerning your personal life. waffling will only lead to bigger problems. Face any dilemma head-on to ensure that there is no time for matters to escalate or spin out of control. Take action fast. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): educational pursuits will pique your interest and lead to new possibilities. don’t worry if someone is threatened by what you are doing; eventually, it will be clear that you have made the right choice. romance will help any relationship that is faltering. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can lend a helping hand, but don’t let anyone take advantage of you. put more into your surroundings and fixing up your place. entertaining friends or making plans to alter your personal life will bring positive results. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll have some nifty ideas that draw the interest of someone you have worked or played with in the past. a money deal can be drawn up that you can work on from home during your off hours. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): expect your emotions to take over when dealing with people trying to control your life. use your intelligence to overcome any control issues that arise. a change may be required, but it has to be one that works for you.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): combine the things you enjoy doing most with the people you love or respect and have a get-together that is geared toward collabora­tion. love is highlighted, and bringing romance into your day will contribute to making your life better. 


Birthday Baby: you are intelligent and in control. you are resilient and goal-orient­ed. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, unc 0 
Lone goal takes down Tar Heels 

By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
playing against the coun­try’s top team, the no. 8 irish played clutch defense and op­portunistic offense on their way to taking down no. 1 north carolina 1-0 in chapel hill on sunday. 
but notre dame also ben­efitted from a lucky break. 
in the 52nd minute, north carolina senior midfielder crystal dunn cut past two irish defenders to the top of the 18-yard box and lofted a shot over the outstretched arms of notre dame fresh­man goaltender Kaela little. The ball caught the under­side of the crossbar and rico­cheted downwards, landing about a foot inside the goal line. little quickly recovered and caught the bounce, and the linesman gave no signal. 
while replay showed that the ball clearly crossed the goal line, irish coach randy waldrum said it was fortu­itous break that teams need to win games from time to time. 
“From where we were sit­ting, there was no way to tell whether the ball crossed the line,” waldrum said. “we might have caught a break on that one, and it’s about time that we did. you need these things to win sometimes.” 
The win gives notre dame (6-1, 2-0 acc) its second con­ference victory. waldrum, however, said the win was important for reasons other than keeping the irish atop the conference standings and near the top of the national rankings. 
“as young as our team is, i’m really proud to see them get better. They’ve really made strides since the ucla loss,” waldrum said. “The win is important for the standings and for the acc, but i’m more proud of how our team played and competed.” 
The win came courtesy of the game’s lone goal, scored by freshman midfielder morgan andrews, who head­ed in a cross by sophomore defender brittany von reuden midway through the first half. 
“we got down the flank and served it in, and it sort of came back out to von reuden, who put it back into the mix,” waldrum said. “Then it was really a world-class finish from morgan, who really got 
see w soccer PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, syracuse 0 
irish secure first acc win 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 

The no. 4 irish picked up their first acc victory with a 3-0 shutout of no. 25 syracuse at a packed su soccer stadium on Friday. 
notre dame (2-0-2, 1-0-1) overcame the wet weather and rowdy crowd on the road in or­der to remain undefeated on the season. despite the rain, there were more than 1,500 in attendance, which made for an electric atmosphere, irish coach bobby clark said. 
“i thought the team played very well,” clark said. “it wasn’t an easy night to play. it was very wet, slippery and we were away from home. There was a very good crowd ... with a good atmosphere, so syracuse opened strongly, but we got a grip of the game and had a lot of opportunities.” 
The irish had many scor­ing opportunities on the night, 
ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, loyola-chicago 0; nd 3, oaKland 1; nd 3, auburn 2 
Juniors lead way at invite 

By MEREDITH KELLY 
sports writer 

The irish continued non-conference play with a suc­cessful weekend at home, sweeping all three of their games in winning the shamrock invitational. 
on Friday, the irish (5­
3) won 3-0 against loyola­chicago (5-6) before taking both games saturday, beating oakland (4-4) 3-1 and auburn (9-2) 3-2 . 
“we made really strong defensive plays and we were blocking a lot better,” junior outside hitter Jeni houser said. “i think our serving helped us out a lot because we were able to get the other 
team in  difficult  offensive  
situations.”  
The  irish  took  all  three  

sets against loyola-chicago, 
winning 25-19 in the first set, 25-12 in the second, and 25­19 in the last. 
Junior outside hitter Toni alugbue gathered 17.5 points for the irish, with a total of 13 kills and 23 total attacks. houser obtained 14 points for the irish, with 12 kills and 19 total attacks. 
in the second match 
see volleyball PAGE 14 

outshooting the orange (3-2-0, 0-2-0) 17-4, and converted two of the team’s 11 corner kicks. sophomore midfielder evan panken and senior defender and captain andrew o’malley both picked up their first career goals on the corners. 
“it was funny in a way,” clark said. “we had some very, very good chances, and their keep­er [freshman alex bono] had some very good saves, but it came down to panken on the near post and o’malley at the far post. one corner from the right side and the next from the left.” 
see m soccer PAGE 14 




