The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 110 | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Prospective students flock to ND 
Spring Visitation weekend aims to draw minority students to join the Notre Dame family 
activities, meeting alumni, cur-volunteered to host a prospec-moxley said her prospective people were and the opportuni-
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer rent students, going to see club tive student. she said the four-student shared the same feelings. ties i could have i realized this 
shows, sports games, trying the day, three-night stay convinced Junior briana cortez also chose was the place for me. i hosted 
campus was buzzing this past food, etc.,” freshman Jasmine her to attend notre dame. to host a prospective student af-a student because i wanted to weekend with a new type of ex-moxley said. “when you leave, “i think notre dame is doing a ter having a positive experience show my prospective student citement: prospective students. you’re exhausted, but still wish-fantastic job right now welcom-attending spring visitation as a how great the campus was like 
spring visitation weekend, an ing the trip was longer. and, you ing prospective students,” she high school senior. my host showed me.” annual event held for minority are convinced that you want said. “when i was a prospective “before i came on spring moxley said prospective stu­students, drew hundreds of po-to come join the notre dame student, the minute i stepped visitation weekend, i was not dents are eager to get a feel for ev­tential future undergraduates to family.” on campus i felt welcomed and considering notre dame as an erything from the academic life campus for a weekend of expo-moxley, who attended spring really comfortable here and the option,” cortez said. “after i vis-and opportunities to the social sure to life at notre dame. visitation last year, said she events during the weekend just ited the campus and saw how 
“The weekend is filled with wanted to reciprocate and enhanced those feelings.” beautiful it was, how great the see visiT PAGE 3 


cuse establishes 


SMC dances for charity 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
saint mary’s editor 
The eighth-annual saint mary’s dance marathon, a student-led fundraiser for riley hospital for children in indianapolis, raised an all-time high amount of funds at this year’s event. 
committee members said saturday’s event in the angela athletic Facility raised $104,374.83 for the hospital. 
“seeing the total reveal at the end was so exciting and unexpected,” dance marathon president amy Tiberi said. 
Tiberi said she first became involved with the event in her high school and developed a passion that she wanted to carry over to her college “it was a very natural tran­experience. sition for me to be a part of 

“i am from the indianapolis the committee here at saint area and was involved with mary’s. i have had close friends dance marathon all through­out high school,” Tiberi said. see dance PAGE 5 


journal clubs 
By GRACE McCORMACK 
news writer 

students interested in biology, humanities or the social sciences now have the chance to discuss their interests and prepare for graduate school opportuni­ties with three journal clubs started this semester at the 
center  for  undergraduate  
scholarly  engagement  
(cuse).  

club founders dawn hopkins and caroline wilky, both graduate fel­lows at cuse, said these journal clubs provide a chance for undergraduates to engage in more recent and challenging literature than they might get in a classroom. 
“[For] students who know they’re interested in the humanities but haven’t re­ally decided which specific major they want to be or whether they’re interested in history or philosophy, this is a good place to dis­cern those interests,” wilky said. 
see cuse PAGE 4 


runners conquer 13.1 miles in holy half 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
news writer 
whether they were running to meet a personal goal, return to top physical condition, ben­efit local charities or spurred by other motivation, this year’s 1,300 holy half participants en­sured the event’s continued suc­cess and recognition as a valued notre dame tradition. 
low temperatures on saturday posed the possibility of having to cancel the ninth-annual event, but by race time, runners received the go ahead from safety crews monitoring the event. 
Junior connor reider, run­ning in his first holy half, commented favorably on the weather conditions at the start of the race. 
“when we started the race, the weather was beautiful. once we were done, though, we were quickly reminded it was only 30 degrees outside,” reider said. “The freezing wind combined with being soaked and not run­ning around made a long warm shower even more appealing.” 
after volunteering for the event last year, reider said he immediately added the event to his notre dame bucket list. while maintaining motiva­tion often arose as a challenge throughout the training process 
see run PAGE 4 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 mens baskeTball PAGE 20 hockey PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna                               Online Editor:    kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

News Sports 
mel Flanagan Jack hefferon meg handelman cory bernard nicole mcalee mary green 
Graphics Scene 
maria massa maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Jodi lo dan brombach 
Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Who will win the NCAA tournament? 

Mark Gianfalla 
sophomore morrissey manor 
“michigan state.” 
Rachel Tonnis 
junior 
ryan hall 
“louisville.” 
Julia Hermann 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
“honestly, i  can’t even tell you who is still in it.” 


Catherine Michels 
freshman 
welsh Family hall 
“wait, notre dame is out?” 
Jenna Ahn 
junior walsh hall 
“duke.” 
Brendan Coyne 
junior st. edward’s hall 
“creighton.” 

Want your event included here? 
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
Baseball vs. Kent  Film: “The Weight of  Colloquium:  Zen Meditation  Celebration of the  
State  the Oath”  Neutrinos  Coleman-Morse  Lord’s Passion  
Coveleski Stadium  Snite Museum of Art  Nieuwland Science  Center  Basilica of the Sacred  
1:30 p.m.  6 p.m.-8 p.m.  Hall  5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m.  Heart  
The Irish take on Kent  Hunters in West Africa  4 p.m.-5 p.m.  Practice sitting and  3 p.m.  
State.  live by their own rules.  Physics lecture.  walking meditation.  Good Friday service.  
Get Up and Pray  Four:7 Catholic  Borderlands Poetry  Adoration  Stations of the Cross  
Carole Sandner Hall  Fellowship  Reading Project  Basilica of the Sacred  Basilica of the Sacred  
6 p.m.-12 a.m.  Cavanaugh Hall  DeBartolo Hall  Heart  Heart  
Explore new ways to  8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m.  7 p.m.-9 p.m.  6:30 p.m.-11 p.m.  7:15 p.m.  
pray in this self-guided  Student-led Catholic  Poetry about borders,  Adoration for Holy  Meditate on the  
prayer exercise.  fellowship.  migration and home.  Thursday.  Passion.  



College hosts younger siblings 
Saint Mary’s invites students’ family members for weekend of activities on campus 
students to share their cam-snacks,” derank said. “we had 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 

news writer pus with younger siblings and this game called ‘spray away’ relatives, including spending a ... and i think that was prob-saint mary’s college wel-night in the residence halls. ably the biggest hit.” 
comed a variety of young events began with registra-sophomore kaitie faces to campus to celebrate tion at 5 p.m. on Friday, where maierhofer coordinated “spray little sibs weekend with sev-participants received a t-shirt away,” a game that allowed the eral days of circus-themed that displayed the circus younger siblings to squirt wa­activities. theme. The group ate s’mores ter at her. she also hosted her “i brought my brother to and played board games in own siblings for the weekend. little sibs last year, and i re-regina Friday evening, derank “‘spray away’ went really ally wanted to be a part of it said. well,” she said. “i don’t know if this year,” sophomore chloe derank said saturday’s cir-[the siblings] enjoyed squirt­derank, co-chair of special cus in regina north lounge ing me or the balls more, but it 
events for the residence hall drew the largest crowd. she worked out.” 
association (rha), said. “i was estimated about 120 siblings other attractions included morning with an obstacle a lot.” 
reading ‘water for elephants,’ showed up, accompanied by magic shows, a temporary-tat-course for the siblings to play maierhofer said she and her 
and i was like, ‘we should have around 75 saint mary’s hosts. too parlor, a photo booth and on. sister enjoyed the flexibility of 
a circus!’ and that’s what we “From 9 [a.m.] to 12 [p.m.] slushies, first-year maureen “it was really fun,” the weekend. 
ended up picking.” we had a circus with a bunch hutchinson, fellow rha maierhofer said. “in my per-“it works out well, know-The weekend was an op-of different games, and [the special events co-chair, said. sonal experience, [it was] bet-ing that you can do all of the portunity for saint mary’s siblings] could get prizes and in the afternoon, siblings ter than last year. my sister had activities, or just have your had the opportunity to make more fun this year than she sibling come out and just [en­
paid adverTisemenT their own chex mix and col-did last year.” joy the weekend] with them,” or easter-themed coloring derank said her participa-maierhofer said. pictures for arts and crafts, tion in last year’s event in-despite the inevitable stress hutchinson said. after, the spired her to become involved involved with planning, group visiteddancemarathon, with planning this year’s derank and hutchinson said a dance-themed fundraiser for weekend. they felt the success of the riley hospital for children in “a lot of the ideas for weekend was worth it. the angela athletic Facility. things came from pinterest,” “The best part was a little “we did a scavenger hunt hutchinson said. “The crafts kid, probably 3 or 4, [getting] through there with [the sib-[especially].” his T-shirt at registration,” lings], and got to see all the fun little sibs weekend accom-derank said. “his sister held stuff,” derank said. modated visitors ranging from up the shirt ... and he got so saturday’s activities con-around one year old to 18 years excited because there was a cluded with an evening show-old, derank said. circus animal on it ... and that ing of the dreamworks picture “i think we did a pretty good was just the best moment.” “madagascar 3: europe’s most job [of entertaining with that wanted.” age range],” she said. “i think Contact Tabitha Ricketts The weekend ended sunday the circus was able to do that tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
their firsthand accounts of what 
Visit 
they think of notre dame,” she 
conTinued From page 1 

said. “whether they choose scene and dining hall food. notre dame or not, they made a 
“The coordinators make sure fully educated decision with all 
to expose the prospective stu-the cards in their hands.” 
dents to the best things notre cortez said the university 
dame has to offer academically, plans the spring visitation week-
socially, physically and spiritu-ends when there are fun events 
ally,” she said. on campus so that students are 
moxley said prospective stu-exposed to the best sides of notre 
dents also worried about the dame. 
ratio of minority students at the “They bring prospective stu­
university and how that would dents during great weekends 
affect them if they go here. The where a lot of cool student activi­
trip successfully demonstrates ties are happening,” she said. “if 
how those in that category can only they could bring the stu­
excel on this campus, she said. dents when it was a little warmer, 
in the end, the potential stu-i’m sure a lot more people from 
dents are most interested in california and other warmer 
learning about what their lives states would come.” 
would be like if they chose to at-by covering all costs of the trip, 
tend notre dame, cortez said. moxley said notre dame opti­
“There were so many things mizes the chances of attracting 
that they wanted to know, from high school students to attend 
serious things like how the class-spring visitation to experience 
es were to silly things like how the wealth of opportunities 
cute the boys are,” she said. “but notre dame can offer them. 
i think what they asked about the “notre dame pays for the 
most was what life is like here at plane ride here if you are travel­
notre dame and how it is unique ing from far away, they provide a 
from other campuses.” card to swipe into the dining hall 
cortez said spring visitation and they provide bus transporta­serves prospective students by tion to any events held off cam-letting current students help pus,” she said. “you don’t have show them practically every-to pay for a thing while you’re thing they need to know in order visiting, which is really nice and to make an informed decision definitely makes the trip more about attending notre dame. enjoyable.”
 “i feel like it is the students 

that know the school better than Contact Meg Handelman at 
anyone, therefore they can give mhandelm@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

CUSE 
conTinued From page 1 
Following the traditional journal club format, members have a week to read an article pertaining to their club’s sub­ject before meeting to discuss the content, hopkins said. The three clubs each have a different subject to explore throughout the semester and are titled “biology,”  “biology, politics, and religion” and “environment and emotion.” 
hopkins said the clubs’ in­teractive formats get students to think on a higher level 
“We discuss and we ask questions about the things we may not have understood, about the literature or the methods used...” 
Dawn Hopkins 
club founder 
about their chosen discipline. 
“you can read the literature as it comes out, not stuff that was published five years ago,” hopkins said. 
students interested in sci­ence or medical school can particularly benefit from jour­nal clubs, hopkins said. she said the ability to analyze and evaluate primary literature is invaluable to any student, es­pecially one seeking graduate or medical school.
 “science is moving quicker than a textbook,” hopkins said. “we discuss and we ask questions about the things we may not have understood, about the literature or the methods used … and learn more from reading primary literature, which is different than reading a textbook … you have to read on a higher level.” 
The humanities and social science clubs are also ben­eficial to students of all dis­ciplines by allowing them to engage in the scholarly pro­cess, wilky said.  Through thoughtful reading and dis­cussion, students learn to become “contributors to knowledge, not just consum­ers,” she said. 

“This [journal club] is a great place for students to practice those skills that you need to be a successful gradu­ate student or to produce, as an undergraduate, a research project,” wilky said. 
commonly employed in scientific graduate studies, journal clubs not only teach students important lessons in research evaluation and anal­ysis, but also articulate ideas and intellectually discuss, wilky said. 
students are encouraged to join any of the three jour­nal clubs, which meet twice a month. To join, contact urnd@nd.edu or visit the cuse website at cuse.nd.edu 
Contact Grace McCormack at  gmccorma@nd.edu 
Run 
conTinued From page 1 

and on race day, reider said he held no regrets with his race experience. 
“i am definitely glad that i ran it and proud of my ef­forts. all my goals were met,” reider said. “plus, not every­one can say they have run a half-marathon.” 
months of planning gave student programmers the as­surance of successful race day operations. Junior maria murphy, lead programmer for the holy half, expressed complete satisfaction with the event. 
“The 2013 holy half was fantastic,” she said. “we had no major injuries, decent weather, lots of compliments on the course and overall ex­perience, and a bunch of great volunteers who helped make the race a success. The race ex­ceeded all of my expectations.” 
The official fundraising numbers have yet to be calcu­lated, but murphy estimated the event raised $35,000 for the women’s care center and the Family Justice center of st. Joseph’s county. 
senior ashley markowski, director of the student union board (sub), echoed murphy’s enthusiasm for the success of the event on race day. 
while responsibilities for holy half operations have shifted between groups dur­ing previous years, markowski said sub assumed command of programming and running the half marathon this year and into the future. 
“by placing the holy half under sub, it gives it a perma­nent home under one orga­nization,” she said. “This will hopefully make it more suc­cessful in future years as we will be able to make changes each year, based on the previ­ous year’s experience.” 
comments from communi­ty members and initial fund­raising numbers for saturday’s event certainly point towards future success for the holy half under its new leadership,” murphy said. 
“in its nine years, the holy half marathon has become a great notre dame tradition. i think the race has grown so much since its start because of the challenge the race itself presents to runners and the community-focused nature of the event,” murphy said. “runners can challenge them­selves physically and, at the same time, help those in their community. The race is about so much more than running.” 
Contact Aubrey Butts at       abutts@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Jackpot ticket sold in NJ 
about 20 minutes later, after 
Associated Press 

checking each ticket at least a 
TrenTon, n.J.— when couple times, Jackson realized Teddy Jackson heard sunday he would have to go work on morning that the lone win-monday. ning ticket for a $338.3 million “There were a few where powerball drawing was sold i had one or two numbers, in new Jersey, the Toms river but that was it,” the 45-year­resident combed through his old electrician said sunday. 40 tickets and hoped for the “now, i have to watch some-best. one else get my money, buy 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


the powerboat i would have gotten .... it was fun to dream about those things for a few minutes while i checked everything.” 
details on where and when the winning ticket was pur­chased and other related in­formation were not disclosed sunday by new Jersey lottery officials, who also would not say if anyone claiming to 
hold the ticket had contacted 
them as of sunday afternoon. 
They said information 
on the ticket would be re­
leased at a news conference 
on monday morning at the 
lottery’s headquarters in 
lawrenceville. 
lottery officials say it was 
the fourth-largest jackpot in 
powerball history. The num­
bers drawn were 17, 29, 31, 52, 
53 and powerball 31. a lump 
sum payout would be $221 
million. 
retailers in new Jersey 
said the growing jackpot had 
spurred a big boost in ticket 
sales in recent days, and 
many people were willing 
to stand in long lines to get 
their tickets. staffers at some 
stores said sunday that they 
didn’t know where the win­
ning ticket had been sold. 
“we are hoping that we sold 
it here because that would be 
a blessing for one of our cus­
tomers in these tough times,” 
said a worker at a camden 
area convenience store. 
Dance 
conTinued From page 1 
treated at riley hospital, so there is that personal connec­tion, but really just seeing how much this hospital positively affects lives is enough for me to want to be involved.” 
she said the commit­tee hosts several fundrais­ers throughout the academic year, but the marathon is its most well-known campus fundraiser. 
“each year we pick a theme for dance marathon and throughout the year we raise money through sponsors and local business support,” Tiberi said. “This year the theme was ‘rock of ages’ and we went in with the goal of raising $88,000.” 
Tiberi said the event gives students who are not on the committee the chance to fun­draise for the cause. 
“i knew i couldn’t be a board member, but at the same time i wanted very much to be a part of this marathon because it is for such a great cause,” se­nior gabriell sabatini said. “i was able to sign up as a dancer and raise about $200 for the riley hospital”. 
This year the marathon fea­tured music, dancing, games, crafts and other entertain­
“Never doubt the Riley staff. They are an army of amazing people and have a true compassion for the children they care for.” 
Brooke Young 
mother of Riley Hospital patient 
ment. Tiberi said she encour­aged students from other area colleges to come, as well as members of the community. an estimated 300 people at­tended the event. 
salon rouge, a local salon, sponsored a table at the event giving away gift bags and of­fering services for a low price. 
“we are a small business in town and we want the com­munity to know we are here to help,” manager ann malencia said. “we are not just here to make money. you never know the background of the person walking through the door of the salon and we want to show the community we are here to listen and we are here to help.” 
Tiberi said most partici­pants’ favorite part of the marathon is when local riley families come in and share their stories to the crowd. 
gary newcomb, whose child receives treatment at riley, publicly shared the story of his daughter, emily, for the first time at the event. 
“about eight months ago, after a misdiagnosis from a local hospital, emily had to be rushed to riley hospital where they found out her liver was very enlarged and tumors were on it,” newcomb said. “a couple of months later we received a phone call saying emily had fluid in her brain.” 
newcomb said he and his wife “literally thought we were watching her [emily] pass in front of us”. after two brain surgeries, newcomb said emily is in the recovery pro­cess thanks to the compassion and care of the staff at riley hospital 
“her brain surgeries were right around christmas time and we mentioned to the staff we were unable to get a family picture with santa,” newcomb said. “after emily was out of her second surgery a nurse came and got us. one of the doctors, not even emily’s, drove to his house to pick up a santa costume and came back to the hospital so we could get our family picture. This is just one example of the compas­sion of the riley staff.” 
newcomb thanked the crowd and said riley families hugely appreciate fundraising events like dance marathon. 
“emily is easily over a mil­lion-dollar baby,” newcomb said. “without this type of monetary support we really don’t know what we would have done.” 
brooke young also spoke about her son, seth, and his experience with the hospital during the marathon. 
“one minute we were pack­ing for a family vacation to Texas and the next minute our world was turned upside down,” young said. “we re­ceived a phone call from seth’s doctor saying there were ab­normalities in seth’s blood-work. he was admitted to riley hospital and we were told our 12-year-old son has acute lymphoblastic leukemia.” 
young said her family was “forced to endure a journey they never thought they would be taking”, but the hospi­tal staff at riley was there to throughout its duration. 
“we have developed loving relationships with the nursing staff at riley hospital,” young said. “They have become what we consider parts of our ex­tended family.” 
young ended her remarks by thanking the crowd and the saint mary’s organizers of dance marathon. 
“know what you are doing is absolutely amazing,” young said. “you are truly help­ing families. never doubt the riley staff. They are an army of amazing people and have a true compassion for the chil­dren they care for.” 
Tiberi said the commit­tee works to support fami­lies like the youngs and the newcombs. 
“it truly is a good cause,” Tiberi said. “i can’t wait to see the passion for dance marathon continue to pour out next year.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Amputee trains troops 
Associated Press 
san diego — The sailor had been back from war for just over a year when friends invit­ed him to watch an unusually emotional training exercise for troops preparing to deploy. 
The drill happened not on a military base but at a film stu­dio, where marine and navy medics role-played wartime rescue missions with actors who had, in real-life, lost limbs in motorcycle or car accidents or to ailments such as cancer. 
Those on hand weren’t sure how Joel booth would react. The 24-year-old had been at­tached to a marine battalion in afghanistan as a naval combat medic — until he stepped on an explosive and doctors, two years ago, amputated his right leg below the knee. since re­turning home he’d had to learn to adapt while also coping with the post-traumatic stress. 
but booth was transfixed as fake bombs exploded and medics practiced the type of rescue missions he’d once been on, saving the amputee actors 
— as he, in the end, had to be saved. 
Then the young veteran did something unexpected: he asked for an audition. 
perhaps, he thought, this in­jury that had forever altered his life could help save someone else’s. what he didn’t know was how much reliving the horrors of war would help him, too. 
“in society, amputees are seen by people on a large scale as having a disability, being weaker. but ... even someone who doesn’t have a hand can still operate a weapon to be able to defend themselves,” he said. 
“it’s the same thing for me. 


AP 

Former Navy corpsman Joel Booth readies himself to play a downed pilot in a military training exercise in San Diego on Feb. 12. 
i’m not afraid of it just be­cause something bad hap­pened. For people who haven’t been in combat, it’s hard to understand.” 
producer stu segall, best known for the Tv show “silk stalkings,” started strategic operations in 2002 shortly af­ter the launch of the iraq war to offer the military what it calls “hyper-realistic” training by using movie-making special effects and actors. 
The group has since trained hundreds of thousands of troops in recreated scenes from iraq, afghanistan, somalia and other hotspots. The creators strive to make the re-enact­ments as jarring as possible so troops experience war first in a controlled environment, and learn not to be rattled by it. 
marine 2nd lt. duane blank, a commander who has gone through similar training, said amputee actors add a degree of realism that no one else can. 
“The visual effect is invalu­able because it’s something you don’t encounter every day,” said blank, an iraq war veter­an. “There is no way to recre­ate that aspect of real combat, seeing a brother hurt in that sort of way.” 
since the inception of strategic operations, the group’s founders had made a concerted effort not to use veterans who lost limbs in combat. 
“we felt it was one of those things: why would you ask somebody who has gone through this experience to relive it? and we had plenty of amputee actors,” said execu­tive vice president kit lavell. 
lavell flew 243 missions in vietnam as a naval aviator. he knows how hearing screams and explosions — even on a studio lot in san diego — can quickly bring back the stress of battle for even the most hardened soldiers. 
but booth convinced lavell to let him join the group. 
“he was so well-prepared as a corpsman,” lavell said. “we felt: he’s the perfect one to do this.” 

skydivers fail to deploy parachutes 
Associated Press 
miami — Two icelandic sky­divers who died during weekend jumps at a popular southwest Florida camp did not deploy their main parachutes, the co-owner of the facility said sunday. 
deputies found the bodies of the skydiving instructor and a student saturday after the two didn’t return from a jump with a group, setting off an hours-long air and ground search around the Zephyrhills facility, about 30 miles northeast of Tampa. pasco county sheriff’s authori­ties identified the victims as 41-year-old instructor orvar arnarson and 25-year-old stu­dent andrimar pordarson of iceland. The men jumped sepa­rately, not in tandem. 
The fact that the men didn’t deploy their main parachutes could mean that they lost al­titude awareness and didn’t know where they were during the dive, which is unusual, said 
T.k. hayes, co-owner of skydive city. 
both men had backup auto­matic activation devices, which deploy if the main parachutes are not deployed in time. 
“Those devices activated on both of them ... but the reserves did not have time to deploy ful­ly,” hayes said. “They were out of the containers but not inflated in time before they impacted.” 
hayes was at the scene with officials saturday, sorting through the men’s gear to deter­mine whether all parts had been functioning properly. 
“like most accidents, most of the time it’s human error,” he said. “i doubt there’s an equipment problem here, to be honest.” but he stressed that au­thorities are still investigating. 
The two men had successful­ly completed two other jumps saturday morning with 20 other people. but when they didn’t return from their third jump, their disappearance tipped off a search, pasco county sheriff’s spokeswoman melanie snow said. 
The bodies were discov­ered by spotters from the air early saturday evening in woods south of the Zephyrhills municipal airport, snow said. 
The victims were part of a group of about 12 who travel from iceland to Florida every year to jump, hayes said. 
arnarson, the instructor, had been to the facility before, but pordarson had not, hayes said. 
The area is a popular destina­tion for skydivers. skydive city is a 14-acre property that includes rv campgrounds, a tiki bar, cafe and regular shows by a reggae band, according to its website. 
hundreds of skydivers jump each day at the site this time of year. hayes estimates that overall, the facility assists about 75,000 jumps a year. accidents are rare, but they happen, he said. 
last year, dr. T. elaine mclaughlin died on a jump at skydive city on new year’s day after her chute failed to open properly. she was a resident of the Tampa bay area and prac­ticed family medicine in st. petersburg. 
last year across the u.s., 19 skydivers died out of 3.1 million jumps, according to the united states parachute association. 

mother of boy killed at airport critically injured 
Associated Press 
monTgomery, ala. — as airport officials tried to figure out how a 300-pound arrival-departure panel fell off the wall and onto a family, the mother of a boy who was killed by the sign lay in a hospital with her own injuries, still unaware of what happened. 
heather bresette and two of her other sons were seriously hurt when the panel fell Friday at the birmingham-shuttlesworth international airport. she had surgeries for broken ankles and a crushed pelvis over the week­end, but she was still in intensive care and unconscious. 
“she does not know that her baby is dead,” the family’s priest, the rev. don Farnan, said. 
The bresettes, a family of sev­en, took a weeklong spring break vacation to destin, Fla., and were about to fly home to overland park, kan., when the flight infor­mation panel fell. 
luke bresette, the middle of five children, was killed. his brother, 5-year-old Tyler, suf­fered a concussion. his 8-year­old brother, sam, had a broken leg and nose. 
Tyler was released from a chil­dren’s hospital sunday; sam was still there. 
The boys’ father, ryan bresette, and an older son and daughter, were at the airport when the sign fell but not hurt. 
heather bresette’s condition improved to serious on sunday, university hospital spokeswom­an nicole wyatt said. 
during their vacation, the family swam in the gulf of mexico and luke went parasail­ing for the first time. 
“his dad said he was thrilled. he was an adventurous kid. he loved sports,” said Farnan, a priest at st. Thomas more in kansas city, mo. 
after the sign fell, it took six people to lift the large board and a dozen people to hold it up while first responders administered aid. officials were investigating how the sign fell at the newly ren­ovated airport and took down an identical billboard on saturday. 
The renovated concourse opened march 13. it was part of an ongoing $200 million up­grade of birmingham’s airport. The construction began in June 2011 and is being overseen by brasfield & gorrie global services group. 
The birmingham-based com­pany said in a statement it was working with airport authorities to determine why the sign fell. 
“This is a terrible tragedy that none of us fully understand, and we hope that the family who lost their loved one will find strength through prayer and the support of all of us,” the statement said. 


at st. Thomas more, hundreds of worshippers showed up for a saturday morning mass that usually has about 75 people. luke’s uncle alex bresette placed a rockhurst high school jersey on the altar. 
“he would have been in the class of 2020,” he told the kansas city star. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Trust the ‘Landlord’ 

INSIDE COLUMN 

cute as a button 

Christian Myers 
news writer 

if you take a step back and think for a sec­ond about the expression “cute as a button,” you’ll probably end up thinking to yourself, “what does that even mean?” The obvious reply is: “nobody knows what it means, but it’s provocative.” True, very true, but what if we dig a little deeper? 
don’t worry. i did the digging for you. after exhaustive research, i’m prepared to share the true origins of the phrase “cute as a but­ton” with the notre dame community. 
First, both the words cute and but­ton come to english from latin by way of French. 
The etymology of button is as follows: late latin bottonem became the French bouton and subsequently the english button. 
The word cute is an abbreviated form of acute, which means small (you may remem­ber something of acute angles in geometry). so, the sources of cute and acute are the same. The precedent for acute is aigu and for aigu, acutus. 
what does all of this mean? well, it turns out that in addition to the meaning of small, aigu is often used in medical terminology to mean a condition that appears abruptly and needs urgent care, which is also true of the english acute. This seems irrelevant until you consider that bouton can refer to a pimple or spot. 
Finally, the term “cute as a button” is known to have arisen in the 1800s, a time when diseases like chicken pox, measles, mumps and the dreaded small pox threat­ened lives daily. 
now, we bring it all together. in a time when chicken pox and other diseases ran rampant, a word recently derived from an­other word used for sudden symptoms and the need for urgent care and a word derived from another word used for dermatological spots find themselves in the same unex­plainable colloquialism. 
To state what is by now obvious, “seeming as in need of medical care as someone with spots from chicken pox, measles, etc.” was the original meaning and proper usage of “cute as a button.” 
For example, a common 19th century encounter may have gone something like this: “good day bartholomew! your com­plexion is quite robust this morning, much like our impeccable attire.” “Thank you, reginald, and a good day to you as well! unfortunately, i would have to say you look positively as cute as a button!” “heavens. do you believe i should locate the nearest apothecary?” “please do. in fact, i shall ac­company you forthwith.” 
so, don’t think the next person who says you are “cute as a button” actually thinks buttons are cute. with the exception of one ryan hall resident, nobody thinks that. you should, however, confirm the person speak­ing to you is a medical professional before taking their advice and going to st. liam’s. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Carly Anderson 
guest columnist 
shortly after my graduation, i had the pleasure of taking a weekend road trip to the new hampshire coast with some friends after beginning my work with a group of americorps volunteers in new haven, conn. we had every­thing we needed to make the most of a new england summer afternoon: a sandy beach that tapered off into a wild and craggy coastline, sweet salt air, a warm breeze, cold drinks and easy conversation. while tossing the frisbee in the shallow surf, i noticed a rocky outcrop a few hundred yards offshore.  
 “want to swim out to that island?” i asked my fellow frisbee-tosser. 
“what are you talking about? Those rocks?” he replied. To his point, my destination was less an island and more a large cluster of rocks peeking over the waves. 
“yes. it’ll be an adventure.” as i ar­ticulated my plan, its appeal only grew in my mind. i assumed my companion would be equally willing to join in my little expedition, yet his response took me aback. 
“no way,” he said. “oh, it’s not that far…” i cajoled. “carly, i’m not swim­ming out there.” in his defense, the wind had picked up and the surface was a bit choppy. Furthermore, the rest of our group was languidly sun­ning further up the beach. i suppose, given the choice, my idea of swimming out to an ambiguous destination in the cold water could hardly compete with the comforting lure of the warm sand.  i was decided, however. despite the temperature, despite my compan­ion’s protestations and despite the fact my “island” was an unknown mess of rocks a small distance from the shore, the moment offered a question: will you swim to the island? 
i met ms. alison rivera, president of st. martin de porres academy, while she was on notre dame’s campus for a fall recruiting visit. we instantly con­nected, both being vegetarian yogis. she possessed the spark of a kindred spirit, committed to living with a sense of mission and compassion. we remained in touch and in late march, i received an email from st. martin de porres. ms. rivera invited me for a weekend visit. They were searching for teaching fellows, and she wanted me to consider a position at the school. despite my uncertainty, despite my reservations and despite the fact this wasn’t part of “the plan,” i went. 
ultimately, i chose to join the com­munity of young teachers at st. martin de porres in an old convent on the out­skirts of new haven, conn., embark­ing on a year-long journey in urban education.  officially, i’m serving with the notre dame mission volunteers americorps through an adminis­trative post — “graduate support coordinator” — at our nativity school. unofficially, however, i am a surrogate parent, sibling, coach and mentor to the 57 students in our building as well as to our high school-aged “gradu­ates,” now spread across various local public, private and parochial high schools. i monitor grades, coordinate tutors for the academically lackadai­sical, sign reluctant teenagers up for service and enrichment opportunities, collaborate with guidance counsel­ors and confiscate cellphones when texting girls becomes more appealing than geometry homework. not even my wild imagination could have envi­sioned myself living this life from my perspective as a wide-eyed freshman moving into mcglinn hall. it is the un­expected, however, that makes the ad­venture so thrilling. my life and work at st. martin de porres is exhausting, and it’s certainly neither a sexy nor lucrative business. it is, however, some of the best work i can imagine. 

in “The pilgrim’s regress,” c.s. lewis writes, “you may be sure the landlord has brought you the shortest way: though i confess it would look an odd journey on a map.” i am certain mine would look an odd journey on a map. i’m equally certain my future wanderings will look odder still. even so, i trust the “landlord.” 
in any great journey, the defining moments pose resounding and ter­rifying questions. is your conviction stronger than your fear? will you go to this place you do not know? on that summer day in new hampshire, i abandoned the beach, braving the waves alone to swim to my “island.” when i finally reached the barnacle-covered rocks, the wind and the waves crashing against the rocks roared, the silence was loud and breathtaking. From my little island off the coast of new hampshire, for a few brief min­utes, all i could hear or see was the sky and the ocean. and in that moment, i felt victorious. 
i pray that you always choose to swim to your islands.  There will al­most certainly be good, sound, ratio­nal reasons why it is impractical or inadvisable to risk the waves.  let your conviction be stronger than your fear. keep the faith. relish the adventure. 
Carly Anderson is a 2012 graduate of Notre Dame. She can be reached at canderson@saintmartinacademy.org 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Is there such a thing as private property? 
Connor Roth 
Think. it’s not illegal yet. 

an issue i’d like my fellow class­mates, faculty and staff to consider is the role of eminent domain in american politics. For those who do not know, eminent domain is defined as “the power to take private property for public use by a state, municipal­ity or private person or corporation authorized to exercise functions of public character, following the pay­ment of just compensation to the owner of that property.” eminent do­main stems from the Takings clause in the Fifth amendment of the united states constitution, which reads, “… nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just com­pensation.” while one may initially think this power may benefit society for the betterment of “public use,” i think eminent domain is an issue in itself that we americans need to further consider. we should also dis­cuss whether a free society can exist with a clause similar to this in the constitution. 
The Takings clause is recognized historically as the Founding Fathers’ attempt to curb the manipulative seizing of property, but it has not always been interpreted as such. eminent domain has been recently criticized in the supreme court’s de­cision in “kelo vs. new london,” and has also been described as the “des­potic power” by the supreme court in “vanhorne’s lessee v. dorrance,” a 1795 case regarding constitutional law and power. without a doubt, this power has faced consistent opposi­tion from the beginning of this nation to the present. since this country’s founding, eminent domain has be­come more and more of an issue, gaining most recognition through the 1954 supreme court case of “berman 
v. parker.” in its decision, the supreme court ruled “public use” could be interpreted much more broadly than it had been previously, opening the floodgates for abusive governments and private developers to “reason” that property should be seized for redevelopment — which in turn would provide for the “public use.” Thirty years later, the decision in “hawaii housing authority v. midkiff” stated the government could break up oligopolies and redistribute their property as an intention of lowering housing prices. unfortunately, what actually happened afterwards is that property values doubled over the next six years since the fee simple titles were just transferred to other owners, who then sold the land for profit. 
The culmination of a state using eminent domain as a police power can be found in “kelo v. new london,” a 2005 case in which the supreme court ruled private property can be seized and transferred for private commercial development, citing “economic development” and “more tax revenue” as justifications for the decision. a private company intended to build its headquarters in new london, conn., which the city argued would bring in economic stability to the region, more money for the city through taxes and commerce and would benefit the public as a whole through its business. For these rea­sons, the five-to-four majority of the court ruled that since taking susette kelo’s home would benefit society at large economically, the taking was legitimate. The dissenting justices ruled this decision would set prece­dence for a “reverse robin hood” form of action, in which the powerful could take from the poor. Justice sandra day o’connor wrote in her dissent, “any property may now be taken for the benefit of another private party, but the fallout from this decision will not be random. The beneficiaries are likely to be those citizens with dis­proportionate influence and power in the political process, including large corporations and development firms.” again, in this statement she is illustrating that the wealthy can lobby for their own interests against the less powerful, with Justice clarence Thomas arguing, “something has gone seriously awry with this court’s interpretation of the constitution. Though citizens are safe from the gov­ernment in their homes, the homes themselves are not.” To make matters more embarrassing for the supreme court, if you google-search, “what happened to kelo’s property,” you can find images of an empty field where that private firm was supposed to develop. so while the supreme court effectively chose a winner and a loser in the “free” market, the winner end­ed up building somewhere else. new london is still the same town it was before the case, and mrs. kelo had her beloved home moved to another location. 
of course, people can always create an argument for a scenario that would seemingly make sense for eminent domain. what about building air­ports, roads or other things the public uses? a student in one of my classes pointed to a home in the middle of a street in boston, mass., arguing get­ting rid of eminent domain would end up with ridiculous situations like that all over the country. while i think that is actually funny, laudable and principled of the property owners, that kind of argument for eminent do­main leaves me fearful for the future. it seems people today feel like they are entitled to the private property of others, as long as they can form a ra­tionale why that land can benefit the “public interest” or will “economically develop” the local area. what both­ers me most about eminent domain is there is no arguing against it. There is no choice for the property owner. eminent domain is essentially forcing someone to sign a contract which by definition isn’t a contract in itself. if someone wants to buy your house for $500,000 and it’s worth half of that, you don’t have to sell, even if it would make sense financially. but if a man wearing a badge from the government wants your land for some “compel­ling purpose,” he can take it if there is a strong enough argument. The only way to fight back is in the courts, and look where that got mrs. kelo. if we want to form a more free soci­ety, shouldn’t people have the right to choose whether they want to sell their property, even if that land may actually be beneficial if used for the public? even if the owner will receive “just compensation,” is the property value of a home really all it is worth? do memories of sitting on the porch, playing football in the backyard or grilling out in the summer account for nothing? people may call this notion against eminent domain idealistic or even far-fetched, but i’d invite you all to consider the moral hazard property seizing has on society and whether or not a truly free nation would engage in this practice. but then again, may­be we just don’t want to be truly free. 

Connor Roth is a sophomore economics major and constitutional studies minor. He can be reached at croth1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

discrimination exists in proposed training wage 
The Daily Orange Editorial Board 
The daily orange 

new york state senate republicans have proposed allowing employers to offer a “training wage” to work­ers younger than 20 years of age. This is a discrimi­natory action state legislators should not consider or implement. 
in January, gov. andrew cuomo proposed in­creasing the minimum wage from $7.25 to $8.75. lawmakers are attempting to adopt a budget, in­cluding wage decisions, by the end of this week, as the state’s $136.5 billion budget must be adopted by march 31. 
republicans fear these hikes will hurt small busi­nesses in new york, and have made proposals to lessen the effects of wage increases. specific details about the training wage have not been released, but it is known that the reduced wage would apply to work­ers younger than 20 for the first several months of employment. 
a training wage is not a worthy option to be consid­ered by lawmakers trying to compromise on the mini­mum wage disagreements. 
if a there was a proposal suggesting men or women should receive lower wages than the opposite sex for the first few months of employment, it would never be a discussion. The training wage proposal creates a similar situation in the form of discrimination by age. 
many young people in new york who fall into this age group are adults enrolled in college who must save money to pay off loans. others are finan­cially independent and responsible for supporting themselves. 
The current minimum wage has been proven insuf­ficient. keeping wages at this level for select individu­als or lowering them further would prove detrimental to those making a living. 
For workers younger than 18, the summer is often the time most of these individuals work and build their savings. a training wage that would last a few months would consume much, if not all, of this time and would make saving difficult. 

large hikes may hurt small businesses that can­not afford to pay employees the proposed amounts. but the answer for reaching a compromise fair to all workers in new york may still lie in raising the mini­mum wage, either by a smaller amount or as a gradual increase. 
other options legislators should consider is lower­ing wages only for a short period of job training or making the training wage only applicable to people younger than 18 who are still financially dependent. 
workers younger than 20 years old are capable of doing the same jobs and at the same skill level as those of older individuals. being singled out because of age is not acceptable. 
This column originally ran in the March 19 edition of The Daily Orange, serving  Syracuse University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

“The Constitution only guarantees the American people the right to pursue hap­piness. You have to catch it yourself.” – Benjamin Franklin 
benjamin Franklin’s noble words perfectly begin the documentary “happy,” a film that pursues hap­piness all across the globe in attempts to catch a glimpse on how to achieve it for ourselves. 
The documentary starts off by introducing an indian rickshaw driver, manoj singh, who lives in a shack with no running water. in the monsoon sea­son, rain soaks him, his wife and his children. every day he pulls wealthy families around in a makeshift rickshaw cab in his flip-flops. and yet, the female voice that narrates the scene soon informs me that this man—who i had been pitying seconds earlier— is as happy as the average american. 
“i feel that i am not poor,” manoj singh says, “but i am the richest person.” 
why is this man happy, when he seems to have so little? no house, no television, no modern amenities 
— and somehow, a joyous smile graces his face. This wonderful documentary seeks to find out what happiness is and how to obtain it. 
The examples depicted in this film are quite tell­ing. For those of you who didn’t get to see the film showing this weekend on campus, here are insights into the keys to happiness from the film: 
“Nature is good medicine — this is my happi­ness.” –Roy Blanchard Sr. 
one key to happiness is centering yourself with your surroundings. 
roy blanchard sr. lives in the bayou of louisiana. his house is humble, small and he watched the de­struction of hurricane katrina destroy his family’s land. 
on his little motorboat, cruising past birds and crocodiles in the muddy swampland, his childlike smile teaches an important lesson. 
so often we are running nonstop and we forget about the beauty that surrounds us. roy blanchard finds happiness sitting on the edge of the bayou, taking in the birds, the sky and the splendor of this earth. without moments of stillness such as roy’s, we can often lose sight of what is really important. a moment of clarity can put a lot in perspective and can force us to put away our trivial worries. 
This problem is very common for the typical col­lege student: another week, another exam, another problem that seems like the end of the world. you’ve got a philosophy paper, an accounting test and you’ve run out of flex points. 
as you mope back to your room from another late night of studying, stop for a moment and look around you. 
you might be surprised by what you see and hear: the signs of spring beginning to show, a bird chirp­ing in the distance, the weeping willow standing proudly in front of walsh — things you may never had noticed before. 
maybe in that moment you’ll see that roy is right; a moment on a park bench on god Quad looking at the dome could be just the medicine you need. 
“I think that each person has to be what they want to be.” –Ronaldo Fadul 
another key to happiness is doing things that bring you peace. 
ronaldo Fadul spends his days surfing the waves on the coast of brazil. his house is bright pink, sur­rounded by palm trees and buzzing with life but otherwise unremarkable. his hair is long, curly and overgrown. he’s wrinkled and tanned from the sun. he seems unexceptional, but his philosophy is un­doubtedly noteworthy. 
To be yourself, is to do what brings you tranquility in life — that is his motto. 
he casually addresses the camera with his laid-back air and eloquently suggests that we follow the trail that brings us closer to peace, no matter what the path might be. 
For us, his philosophy means to major in what you love, major in something that brings you peace and enriches your soul. or perhaps, it means take this time in your life to live the dreams never realized — learn to rock climb, knit and bake soufflés. whatever brings you contentment can bring you closer to joy. 
“You can make a choice and you do make a choice when things happen in life.” – Melissa Moody 
another key to happiness is being able to over­come adversity. 
melissa moody was a debutant, voted one of the most beautiful women in america. she had a loving husband and great kids. one day her hand got stuck in the handle of a truck and she was run over. The whole right side of her face was crushed. she went through hundreds of surgeries over nine years to reconstruct her face and even still gets weird looks from strangers. after the accident, her husband di­vorced her and became an alcoholic. The trauma reawakened memories of being molested by her fa­ther. in all respects, her life was in a period of great adversity. 
however, melissa professes that she is happier and more grounded than she was before. adversity has taught her to appreciate life, not to fret over the little things. 

perhaps that c+ on your last test isn’t the end of the world. instead of looking at the bad grade and dwelling on the past, melissa teaches us to look to the future and see where we can improve. 
instead of looking at our weaknesses, we should appreciate our strengths. For happiness does not mean our lives are void of adversity, quite the oppo­site. melissa shows us that in the face of turmoil, we must grow, persevere and hold on to hope. 
“Compassion from birth is in our blood.” – the Dalai Lama 
another key to happiness is compassion. 
The san bushmen tribe of the kalahari desert is more closely genetically related to our ancient an­cestors than any other group in the world today. They are hunters and gatherers and rely heavily on each other for food and shelter. They live in grass huts and are virtually shut out from the modern world. 
“it doesn’t matter what we’re doing, just being to­gether makes us happy,” one humble member of the tribe said, as if this is the most simple idea in the world. when one member of the tribe becomes sick, everyone, young and old, comes together to aid that person in the healing process. They care for each other, love each other and laugh with each other. 
companionship and friendship are things that we cherish as a notre dame community.  even more, we must be aware that showing love and compassion for others can fill us with the greatest happiness. maybe buy a coffee for a stranger behind you in line at starbucks or give the last piece of treasured ba­nana bread to a friend having a rough day. give and you shall receive. 
“happy” provides us with some ideas on how to achieve happiness successfully, revealing the keys to joy. if nothing else, consider watching this docu­mentary on netflix over spring break. i’m not sure if this movie has all the answers, but it seems like a step in the right direction for our journey to joy. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 
“Happy” 

Wadi Rum Production 
Director: Roko Belic 
Starring: Gregory Berns, Roy Blanchard, Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi 

The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013| ndsmcobserver.com 


By MAGGIE WAICKMAN 
scene writer 

This past Friday, marty mcconnell gave a group of notre dame students and community members a crash course in slam poetry. mcconnell is both a liter­ary and oral poet, with her book “wine for a shotgun” recently released and a history of touring and compet­ing as a slam poet. in one jam-packed hour, mcconnell led a poetry slam workshop that went through the rules of slam poetry and techniques that can enhance a po­et’s performance. mcconnell’s skill and wisdom suc­cessfully imparted knowledge upon attendees, but the value of the workshop moved past mere skill building. 
mcconnell described a poetry slam as a game involv­ing poems. participants each perform three-minute po­ems that are then judged by three to five judges. These slams, usually occurring in bars and coffee shops, are “just a way to get people in to hear poetry”. 
The real value of poetry slams, mcconnell said, is the ability of a poetry slam to make the poet accountable to the audience. poetry slam judges are random audi­ence members, not professionals with special train­ing. some slams encourage the audience to let the poet know if they dislike what is happening on-stage. 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

on saturday night, a small crowd gathered around the stage at legends to watch pop-punk band The ataris. The four-piece band wailed on their instruments, and drum and guitar-heavy music filled the room as front man kris noe belted out songs old and new. 
The ataris, originally from ind., returned back to their home state to give an impressive show put on by tal­ented musicians. Though i would not consider myself a pop-punk fan, i found myself nodding along to each song and was consistently impressed by the energy the group brought to the stage. it quickly became clear that this band was not new to touring. in fact, The ataris has been around since 1995 and has become seasoned pro­fessionals in the tour circuit (they mentioned that they were leaving for their european tour the next day).  each member had an absolute mastery of their instrument, and i stood in amazement as drummer erik perkins talked and joked with the audience and his band mem­bers while playing some of the best drums i’ve ever seen live. 
similarly, kris noe impressed the audience with his Through finger-snapping, foot-stomping or outright booing, the poet has to face the audience’s feedback. 
despite the threat of being booed off stage by angry drunk people, mcconnell told the audience over and over that performing in slams should be fun. The fun might come from the intensity of performing, con­fronting fears of rejection or a love of performing. if it’s not fun, stop performing, at least for a little while. 
after a half-hour of hearing mcconnell’s talking points, she moved on to coaching volunteer audience members on their performance poetry. Throughout this coaching, she held on to the concept of perfor­mance poetry as fun, greeting each audience member with a hug and encouraging positive feedback from the audience. 
The constructive criticism given to performers was centered around the techniques encapsulated in mcconnell’s acronym paves. when coaching, mcconnell thinks about pacing and speed, action and stillness, volume and enunciation, emotion and au­thenticity and shifts and variety. performers were given feedback focusing on their physical actions, emotional intensity and breathing patterns. 
besides imparting performance poetry skills upon the notre dame community, mcconnell also showed 
vocals as well as his interaction with the crowd. he talk­ed about each song, took requests and played both new music and old hits. Fans sang along to what is perhaps The ataris biggest hit, a cover of don henley’s “The boys of summer.” Though the song was originally released in 1984 and covered by The ataris in 2003, it felt fresh and was hands down my favorite moment of the show. 
as previously mentioned, pop-punk music is not exactly my cup of tea, but i could not have been more impressed by The ataris’ performance. however, what did not impress me was the turnout for the group. The ataris have been writing music and touring for almost 20 years and somehow drew only a small, tame crowd. This wasn’t the first time i had gone to a small, intimate show at legends, but it was the first time i felt truly dis­appointed by notre dame’s turnout. The energy the band brought to the stage was not even close to being matched by the audience, and i could not help but feel bad for the men on stage. 
This throws into sharper relief a more general prob­lem with on-campus shows and concerts. while not every group that comes to notre dame is high caliber, many of the groups that come are widely appreciated outside of the notre dame bubble as not only talented the audience how poetry can be used to relay authentic emotions that might be controversial. mcconnell per­formed her poem “The world’s guide to beginning,” a poem about sex and its links to personal and literal beginnings. mcconnell describes the poem as a sex-positive personal anthem. 

The topics and language of “The world’s guide to beginning” could have been considered a bit contro­versial for her audience at notre dame. mcconnell’s choice of poem, however, taught audience members one of the great values of the poetry slam: it allows ex­pression for all ideas and emotions, whether or not they follow social convention. 
mcconnell’s coaching in performance style and the value of poetry is a precursor to “wham, bam poetry slam,” a slam poetry contest hosted in the snite museum on april 18 at 5 p.m. students can compete in this one-round poetry competition to put marty mcconnell’s coaching advice into action. students looking to work on improving their poetry before the poetry slam can attend meetings with spoken word nd, a student group dedicated to growing as performance poets, at 8 p.m. on Thursday nights in 108 debartolo hall. 
Contact Maggie Waickman at mwaickma@nd.edu 
musicians but also solid performers. The apathy and in­dolence of many of the students on campus contributes not only to a disappointing turnout for the performers and the people who organize the show, but also ulti­mately speaks to a more pressing idea--the lack of ap­preciation for live music. 
hardworking musicians come to the university ex­pecting to play to a venue full of enthusiastic college students, not a small group of the usual legends attend­ees. while these groups are touring through major cit­ies, performing at music festivals and selling out shows elsewhere, the notre dame community can’t seem to give artists their time even when offered a free show on their own campus. 
The ataris served as the perfect example of this kind of indifference towardslive music on this campus. Though they surprised my skeptical self with an upbeat and en­tertaining set, i couldn’t help but leave legends frustrat­ed and disappointed in the end. i wish The ataris the best in their forthcoming tour and hope that someday that notre dame can meet the bands they invite with as much energy and enthusiasm that they bring to us. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollacks@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

crying reveals best of sport 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
i hate crying. i can’t stand it. seeing another adult burst into tears fills me with paralyzing dread. i wish the no-crying-in-baseball adage could be extended to cover homecoming dances, room picks and getting back mid­term grades. 
so you would think that i hate Tray woodall’s break­down after pittsburgh lost to wichita state in the ncaa tournament Thursday. not so. 
when the senior guard went to face the media and declared his performance the worst of his career before dissolving into tears, he man­aged — at least for a moment 
— to sweep away the cyni­cism that surrounds big-time athletics. 
after the sexual assault-scandals at penn state and in steubenville, ohio, unceasing ncaa sanctions at power­houses like ohio state and the university of miami and olympian oscar pistorius’ 
 Woodall’s emotional reaction flies in the face of stereotypes that paint all athletes as arrogant, overly macho and self-centered. 
alleged murder of his girl­friend, all the claims about the “character-building” effects of athletic competi­tion begin to sound like a load of mumbo jumbo. look at Johnny manziel ‘s online course load or matt leinart’s ballroom dancing-only schedule in his last year at usc — neither example lends much credence to the “stu­dent coming before athlete” talk. and even if we disregard any allegations that cam newton’s father shopped him to the highest bidder, it’s hard to believe that newton was fully dedicated to his team­mates or auburn after trans­ferring twice. 
but when woodall tearfully apologized for letting his team down after he scored just two points in the last game of his college career, it was painfully obvious that he meant every word. as team­mate dante Taylor put his arm around the despondent point guard, the whole world could see that these weren’t just a bunch of guys in search of individual glory while wearing matching shirts. These were teammates in the purest sense of the term 
— young men who worked together, cared about each other and were accountable to one another. 
any general manager or professional free agent will say that sports is a business. well, that’s true. it would be silly to act like any form of entertainment with revenue streams in the millions of dollars isn’t a business. but i sincerely doubt that ex­ecutives at coca-cola sob openly after unsuccessful board meetings. pittsburgh itself would have benefitted financially if the team had made a deep run in the tour­nament, but woodall would be no richer today if he had led his team to victory. he hadn’t hurt his draft stock — he didn’t really have any to begin with. he wasn’t mourn­ing lost dollars and cents, but a lost opportunity, the last chance he had to cut down the nets and bring glory to pitt. That doesn’t strike me as business as usual. 
woodall’s emotional reac­tion flies in the face of stereo­types that paint all athletes as arrogant, overly macho and self-centered. i can’t speak to woodall’s behavior in other situations, but no one who has seen the video could fairly conclude that he is an insensitive meat­head. he certainly wasn’t on Thursday night. 
and in an odd, roundabout way, woodall has reminded us of the very best part of the tournament. in a few weeks, the new national champions will celebrate as they are serenaded by “one shining moment,” and each of them will be as overjoyed as woodall was heartbroken. neither emotion would exist without the other; woodall wept openly because he knew he would never experience the joy of winning a national championship. and a nation­al championship wouldn’t mean half as much to the vic­tors if they hadn’t outlasted 67 other tournament teams who desperately wanted to win. 
i’m not happy that i watched woodall cry on na­tional Tv. but i am glad that he cared enough to do so. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Indiana escapes near-upset by Temple 
Associated Press 
dayTon, ohio — indiana’s season, the one that’s supposed to finish with confetti falling and nets coming down, was min­utes from ending in shock and disappointment. 
The hoosiers were on the brink. 
as the clock ticked down, coach Tom crean wouldn’t allow himself to thing about defeat, so his mind wandered elsewhere. 
“That’s when you just pray,” he said. 
request answered. 
victor oladipo hit a 3-pointer with 14 seconds remaining and the top-seeded hoosiers, unable to stop Temple star khalif wyatt for most of the game, shut him down in the final three minutes for a 58-52 win on sunday in the east regional. 
Trailing by four with 2:56 left, the hoosiers (29-6) closed with a 10-0 run and advanced to the round of 16 for the sec­ond straight year. after stopping to tell Temple’s players they’re as good as any big Ten team, crean, his red tie askew and his hair messed, was overcome by emotion. 
“That,” he said, “was relief.” 
indiana, with its sights set on a sixth national championship, will play no. 4 seed syracuse in the regional semifinals on Thursday in washington, a re­match of the classic 1987 title game won by the hoosiers. 
wyatt scored 31 points to lead the owls (24-10), who for 37 min­utes gave top-seeded indiana all it could handle before collapsing when it mattered most. 
“we competed really hard,” wyatt said. “we battled. a cou­ple plays here and there, we win. it was just a tough battled game, and they came out on top.” 
oladipo, who drew the assign­ment of chasing wyatt around the floor and needed plenty of help from his teammates, scored 16 and cody Zeller added 15 for the hoosiers, the regular-season big Ten champs. 
“if they were in our league, they’d be fighting for a champi­onship too,” crean said. “i don’t think there’s any doubt about 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 


that. They’re that good.” 

after oladipo’s long 3 put the hoosiers up 56-52, indiana had to buckle down on wyatt, the atlantic 10’s player of the year. wyatt was way off with a 3-point­er from the right wing with six seconds left and indiana’s christian watford grabbed the rebound and was fouled. 
with his hands on his hips, wyatt walked dejectedly up the floor as dayton arena rocked and the senior pounded his chest. The hoosiers’ heartbeats finally slowed. on saturday, gonzaga became the first no. 1 seed to be knocked off and, un­til wyatt’s miss, indiana was in danger of zigging with the Zags. 
instead, indiana will pack up and head to the nation’s capital and a homecoming for oladipo, who is from upper marlboro, md. The junior will get to play in front of family and friends. most importantly, he’ll get to play. 
“it’s a great feeling,” oladipo said. “i’m just glad that we’re going.” 
after watford, who earlier made a huge block on anthony lee with indiana trailing 52-50, hit two free throws to seal the win, the red-and-white-clad indiana faithful relaxed and cel­ebrated much the way big Ten brethren ohio state did earlier, when aaron craft’s 3-pointer in the final second beat iowa state and pushed the buckeyes ahead in the west regional. 
wyatt nearly turned this tournament into his national coming-out party. despite play­ing with an injured left thumb, wyatt, who also scored 31 in the opener against north carolina state, gave the hoosiers fits. with the score tied at 52-all, he broke free from oladipo, but missed a 3-pointer and indiana got the rebound. 
oladipo was fouled, and during a stop in action, wyatt stared at the ball at his feet and yelled in frustration. oladipo split a pair of free throws, but he was able to keep the ball from wyatt on Temple’s next trip, which ended when rhalir hollis-Jefferson’s contested shot missed everything. 
Then, with indiana needing a score to open some breathing room, oladipo hit a shot hoosier fans will add to the pantheon of big ones by iu players. 
“i was just open, and i shot it,” oladipo said, downplaying his heroics. 
indiana senior Jordan hulls, who has played in more games for the hoosiers than any other player, returned in the second half with a protective wrap on an injured right shoulder. he knocked down a 3 with 8:49 left to pull the hoosiers within 41-40 and give indiana’s fans some­thing to do other than complain about the officiating. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Butterflies  taste  with  their  feet.  An ostrich’s eye is bigger that it’s brain.  
Elephants  are  the  only  ma- The  longest  recorded  flight  of  
mals  that  can’t  jump.  a  chicken  is  thirteen  seconds.  
Starfish  don’t  have  brains.  The fingerprints of koala bears are  
virtually indistinguishable from those  
Polar  bears  are  left  handed.  of humans, so much so that they  
could be confused at a crime scene.  
A  duck’s  quack  doesn’t  
echo,  and  no  one  knows  why.  Porcupines float in water.  



MEN’S TENNIS 

irish overwhelm william & mary 

By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
Facing william & mary for the second time this year, no. 27 notre dame defeated the Tribe, 6-1, on saturday in williamsburg, va. 
The irish (11-7) took two of three doubles matches to se­cure the doubles point and won five of six singles match­es to take down william & mary (8-13). although the event was played in a differ­ent format saturday, notre dame had previously de­railed the Tribe in november at the Tribe invitational, held in williamsburg, va. 
“i think we did a good job of adjusting to the surface there,” irish coach bobby bayliss said. “we were forced to play indoors as it was a little chilly. Their courts are rubberized so we made a nice adjustment. For the most part, everybody was in con­trol of their matches.” 
entering saturday’s match, notre dame had lost six of its last nine doubles points. The team reversed that trend, taking two matches at no. 2 and no. 3 doubles, 8-5 and 8-6, respectively. 
The irish continued their strong play in the singles lineup, winning all the matches at no. 1 through no. 5 singles. irish junior greg andrews first defeated Tribe senior anton andersson 6-2, 6-0, at no. 1 singles. irish se­nior michael moore finished his match next, winning at no. 5 singles by the same margin. 
“i was particularly im­pressed with michael moore,” bayliss said. “when [junior ryan bandy and sophomore wyatt mccoy] have had to miss [due to in­juries], michael has stepped in and really caught fire and had some pretty significant wins.” 
irish senior blas moros and freshman Quentin monaghan both won their matches in two sets, los­ing only five and three total games, respectively. 
“The top three guys re­ally took care of business,” bayliss said. “we won all three of those matches pret­ty quickly as with michael’s. so we were ahead 5-0 before we had the two matches that had to finish. The drama was gone fairly quickly, but i was happy to see the adjustments we made on all the courts.” 
although irish junior billy pecor dropped the first set at no. 4 singles, 4-6, he fought back to win the second set, 7-5, and the third-set super tiebreaker, 10-7. irish fresh­man alex lawson also start­ed slowly, but he was unable to win the third-set super tie­breaker and ultimately lost his match. 
with the victory, notre dame improved to 5-2 in its last seven matches. Five reg­ular season matches remain on the irish schedule before the team hosts the big east championships at the eck pavilion. 
“i think the rest of the way the goals are to get a little cooperation from mother nature and become readjust­ed to outdoor play and tie up the loose ends in our résumé, which includes more reliable doubles,” bayliss said. 
The irish will play ball state on april 1 in muncie, ind. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Offense carries team to weekend sweep 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
in their opening weekend of big east play, the irish swept seton hall by large margins across the board and extended their winning streak to seven. 
The weekend began with a doubleheader saturday. in the first game, the irish (22­7, 3-0 big east) pulled ahead early. sophomore outfielder emilee koerner hit a double to start the action for the irish and scored off of a sac­rifice fly from senior catcher amy buntin. another double hit by junior pitcher laura winter brought the score to 2-0 before the first inning was over. 
“The top of our lineup re­ally stepped up and per­formed this weekend,” senior outfielder kelsey Thornton said. “emilee koerner had an amazing weekend. on top of that our pitching staff was able to completely shut down their hitters.” 
notre dame pulled ahead to 4-0 in the top of the third. in the top of the fourth, buntin hit an rbi single, sending koerner home. winter followed with a dou­ble, sending two more of her teammates to the plate and bringing the score to 7-0. 

The irish brought the lead to 10-0 before the pirates (10-14, 0-3) were able to re­spond. in the bottom of the fifth, seton hall scored off of a solo homer and an rbi single, bringing the final score to 10-2. 
in their second game of the day, the irish took an­other early lead. at the end of the first inning, the irish led 4-0. in the top of the sec­ond, buntin hit an rbi single and winter hit a three-run homerun to bring the score to 8-0 at the end of the sec­ond inning. 
The progress of the sec­ond game mirrored the first game’s action. at the top of the fourth, the irish lead 10-0. The pirates respond­ed with a solo home run to bring the final score to 10-1. 
sunday, the irish proved they retained their momen­tum from the previous day’s successes when koerner hit a home run on the first pitch of the game and kicked off a strong first inning that saw the irish pull ahead, 4-0, by its conclusion. in the top of the second, koerner smacked another ball over the fence, bringing the score to 5-0. 
The pirates responded in the bottom of the second with a two-run home run, but the irish never gave them another chance to score and the game ended with a 10-2 advantage. 
despite the long weekend, Thornton said the team’s overall goals for their big east conference schedule kept them motivated in ev­ery game. 
“one of our team goals is to win every game in our big east schedule,” Thornton said. “we had a great start to that goal this weekend and i think we were able to send a message to the rest of the big east. i think they know that we are here to win this conference.” 
The irish next get the chance to prove their domi­nance Thursday when they take on western michigan at 4:30. 
Contact Katie Heit at             kheit@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

reaney leads record-setting ncaa performance 
By MATT UNGER 
sports writer 
notre dame swimming and diving collected three school records en route to a 16th-place finish in the 43-pool schools in the ncaa championships. The irish scored 55 points over the course of the weekend to ob­tain the highest finish in school history in the perennial college swimming event in the iupui natatorium in indianapolis, ind. 
sophomore emma reaney led the team’s efforts through­out the weekend, earning four all-america citations and fin­ishing fifth in the 200-yard and 100-yard breaststroke events. 
“i think that [our finish] shows a lot about the girls that were there and how far deter­mination and hard work can get you,” reaney said. “we real­ly wanted to prove ourselves on the national stage and i think we’re beginning to do that.” 
reaney was the only irish swimmer to reach the finals, which feature the top eight swimmers in an event, and she did so in both the 200-yard and 100-yard breaststroke. 

in the 200-yard breaststroke, reaney placed fifth with a time of 2:06.77, which broke her pre­vious school record set earlier in the season. she became just the third irish swimmer or div­er in program history to finish in the top five of an event at the ncaa championships. 
on saturday, reaney also took fifth in the 100-yard breaststroke with a time of 59.19, just 0.05 seconds behind third place. 
“we have been working on the little things a lot and so i made sure to keep all those things in mind [during the race], reaney said. “i’ve been counting strokes a lot more often than normal and con­sciously thinking about turns.” 
in addition to receiving all­america honors in those two events, reaney also received all-america citations in the 200-yard individual medley and 400-yard medley relay. 
senior kim holden closed her irish career by reaching the consolation finals in both the 200-yard backstroke and 400-yard medley relay. in the backstroke event, she placed fifth with a time of 1:54.29, good for 13th place overall. her finish earned her honorable mention all-america honors, the first such accolades in her career. 
Junior kelly ryan also earned all-america honors in the 200­yard backstroke with a 16th place finish overall in the event. in addition, she was a part of the 400-yard medley relay squad. 
on the diving side, senior Jenny chiang reached the con­solation finals of the 3-meter diving event and finished 12th to receive the first all-america honors of her career as well. 
after finishing second in the big east to louisville, and 16th out of 43 schools at the ncaa championships, the irish hope to continue their momentum going forward into next season. 
“as far as recruiting, it will bring a lot of very fast girls to look at the team and school that probably wouldn’t have other­wise,” reaney said. “it’s great to watch this program grow and to be a part of it.” 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

FENCING 

ND finishes second in nation 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame placed second over­all at the ncaa championships in san antonio, Texas, behind princeton. The irish fell seven match wins short of the Tigers for first overall, but as a whole had a set of strong performances that put them directly ahead of penn state, who placed third, and the 22 other teams in the tournament. 
The tournament combined both the men’s and women’s scores, and both groups performed well in san antonio. one of the high­lights of the day for the irish was the women’s foil, where notre dame gained the most points out of any team towards its team score.  in the women’s foil the irish accumu­lated 40 compared next to the next best point total of 28 accrued by columbia. 
irish freshman foil lee kiefer placed first overall and sophomore foil madison Zeiss placed third. 
additionally, in the women’s epee event senior courtney hurley re­turned to her hometown of san antonio and won the weapon championship. in the men’s foil, se­nior gerek meinhardt had a strong performance and placed third, los­ing to stanford’s eventual champi­on, freshman alex massialas. 
despite the disappointment of not winning the ncaa national championship like the team set out to do at the beginning of the season, the meet and season showcased a strong irish team. The irish placed at least one fencer, and often two or three, within the top ten at the ncaa championships. while the ncaa national tournament was the last meet of the year for the irish fencing team, notre dame will re­turn in the fall and aim to improve one spot and reach the top of the podium. with a large crop of young talent and national champions in their respective weapons, notre dame’s future looks promising. 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

holt expects victory in s.c. 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
Following recent successful invi­tational appearances, the irish take to the course again at the briar’s creek invitational in John’s island, s.c., on march 25-26. 
no. 23 notre dame enters the invitational as the highest ranked team in the field. The irish are con­fident in their ability to win the tour­nament, irish coach susan holt said. 
“based on the rankings, we are looking to win this entire thing,” holt said. “i like our chances. our confidence is good. we have an op­portunity to get a win, and it would be a good win to keep our confi­dence up heading into the big east tournament.” 
The irish will match up against kansas and wisconsin, among other schools. notre dame holds a 3-0 record against the Jayhawks this season and has defeated the badgers two times already this year. Freshman lindsay weaver is cur­rently ranked eighth nationally and will face fellow top-50 player, no. 45 laura wearn of Furman. 
The irish head into this tourna­ment after a successful finish last week at the insperity lady Jaguar intercollegiate in augusta, ga., at the Forest hills golf club. The team finished third out of eighteen teams with a final team score of 24-over­par 888 and sophomore ashley armstrong finished as the medalist with a one-under-par score of 215 (76-69-70). coming off last week’s solid finish, the irish feel confident about this invitational, holt said. 
“our confidence is high right now,” holt said. “we’ve had great finishes recently.” 
with team confidence high, the only challenge facing the irish in south carolina is the inclement weather. rain showers have limited the team’s opportunities to practice and the team’s chances to perform well, holt said. 
“we have been hoping to get a practice round in, but it has been pouring rain here,” holt said. “if it’s the case that we cannot get a prac­tice round in, then it will be much more challenging to finish at the top.” 
despite the undesirable weather both in south carolina and back in south bend, holt said the irish have seen gains in their performance on the course. 
“we have not been able to prac­tice outside at home,” holt said. “we have been trying to do the best we can, and considering all these fac­tors we have made improvements.” 
as the irish enter this tournament, the team’s focus is consistency, holt said. 
“our top three players are playing well, so we want to get that rock con­sistency throughout our top five,” holt said. “we want to get our four and five spots to come through to help the other three out and get that balance.”
 The no. 23 irish hit the links for the briar’s creek invitational at the briar’s creek club golf course in John’s island, s.c., on march 25-26. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

irish impress in opener 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish kicked off the out­door season this weekend with an impressive showing at the victor lopez invitational in houston, taking first overall on the women’s side and fifth over­all on the men’s. 
notre dame amassed six first-place finishes, five runner-up finishes and 23 top-five finishes throughout the day. on the wom­en’s side, sophomore Jade barber won the 100-meter hurdles and contributed to the first-place 4x400-meter relay team with ju­niors megan yanik and michelle brown and freshman margaret bamgbose. yanik also won the 400-meter race and sophomore mary esther gordon won the triple jump. on the men’s side, sophomore chris giesting won the 200-meter sprint and par­ticipated on the winning 4x400­meter relay team with juniors pat Feeney and Jarrod buchanon and senior brendan dougherty. 
senior captain chrissy Finkel said that the squad was happy to get back outside. 
“The start of the outdoor sea­son is always exciting,” she said. “a lot of athletes from the south or far west only competed out­doors in high school, so this is the season and experience they love. The weather adds a new ele­ment and can have a big impact on performances. we’re really optimistic in our outlook after coming off of such a strong in­door season.” 

along with the change in scen­ery, a number of events change the shape of the meet during the transition from the indoor season to the outdoor season. Javelin and steeplechase are added to the field events and 400-meter hurdles are added on the track. also, the short hurdle distance moves from 60 meters to 100 meters for the women. 
Finkel said she is pleased with notre dame’s showing this weekend but knows the team needs to keep working if they are going to reach their goals of win­ning the big east championship and qualifying for the ncaa 
paid adverTisemenT 
championships. 
“as a team, we need to focus on consistency and making a smooth transition,” she said. “additionally, injury prevention will be key over the next two months. many distance runners have been at full intensity train­ing since the cross country sea­son and that pounding adds up over time.” 
in their next competition, the irish team will split and send athletes to both the oliver nikilof open in cincinnati and in the stanford invitational in palo alto, calif. both events run from march 29-30. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 




MEN’S GOLF 

Sciupider leads first round effort 

Observer Staff Report 
The irish had a mediocre start to the c&F bank intercollegiate on sunday, shooting a 289 (+9) to claim 10th place out of 32 teams at kingsmill resort in williamsburg, va. 
notre dame’s starting five for the tournament were senior paul mcnamara, junior niall platt, junior andrew lane, sophomore Tyler wingo and freshman cory sciupider. 
lane had an excellent first round, scoring two-under par for a score of 68, which tied him for third place individually. he played consistently through­out the day, and registered five straight pars and two consecu­tive birdies to conclude the first nine holes. lane logged a total of four birdies and one bo­gey, showing his maturity and strength on the course. 

sciupider also soared out of the gates with a three-under par score of 67, which tied eastern michigan’s casey olsen for the best round of the day The fresh­man didn’t shoot a bogey in the first round and showed compo­sure and mastery of the course. 
while lane and sciupider had little trouble leading the irish, their other three golfers strug­gled throughout the first round. wingo logged three straight dou­ble bogeys (holes 7, 8 and 9) and three straight bogeys (11, 12 and 
13) for a final score of 79 (+9). 
mcnamara also struggled in his opening round, carding five bogeys and one double bogey (+7). platt tied mcnamara’s mark of 77 (+7), with only one birdie on the day. 
with leader James madison at three-over par (283), the irish will look to play more consistent­ly in today’s second round. 
paid adverTisemenT 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 97, Tennessee-marTin 64 

loyd spearheads irish rout 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
on a notre dame roster full of ncaa tournament veterans, it was a postseason newcomer who led the no 2 irish to victory. 
Freshman guard Jewell loyd had a career-high 27 points to propel the top-seeded irish to a 97-64 victory over no. 16-seeded Tennessee-martin on sunday at carver-hawkeye arena in iowa city, iowa. 
“you know, you go into your first ncaa tournament game, and you wonder how the freshman is going to do,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “you look back at [loyd’s] previous career high against baylor [on dec. 5], and you think, she’s definitely a gamer … but you never know if she’s going to come out nervous, and she did not. she had a phenomenal game.” 
victorious in 27 consecutive games to date, notre dame (32-1, 16-0 big east) set the tone of the game early, using its considerable height advantage to score points in the paint and jump out to a 14-4 lead. 
but the skyhawks (19-15, 11-5 ohio valley) didn’t go away quite so easily, embarking on a 7-0 run to cut the irish lead to 20-16. Tennessee-martin again came within four points of notre dame at the 8:51 mark of the first half, when junior guard heather butler’s free throw made it a 28-24 game. 
lloyd said the irish were able to withstand the skyhawks’ come­back attempts by playing strong defense. 
“we just had to stay together and when we come together as a team, we play really strong and defen­sively,” loyd said. “we get better at talking and stuff like that, but we played really a tough defense.” 
butler, who had 23 points in the first half, hit a jumper and a 3-pointer to reduce notre dame’s lead to 38-31 with 4:19 left in the half. but the irish went on a tear after the subsequent television timeout, scoring the final 11 points of the first half to take a 49-31 lead into halftime. 
“i think it was just getting our transition game going and it start­ed on defense,” irish junior guard kayla mcbride said of the late first-half run. “They missed a few shots, and they got our transition game going.” 
after an occasionally tight first half, notre dame cruised in the game’s second frame. The irish went on an 11-2 run to open the second half, widening their lead to 60-33. 
The irish never led by fewer than 18 points in the second half en route to finishing the game with a 97-64 victory. 
notre dame dominated the game on the boards, outrebound­ing Tennessee-martin 49-14. The irish also scored 55 points in the paint, while holding the skyhawks to only 22 points inside. 
“i was really pleased with our offensive play today,” mcgraw said. “i thought we got a lot of good shots, a lot of good layups and at­tacked their zone very efficiently.” 
butler, currently seventh in the nation in scoring, finished with a season-high 37 points to lead all scorers. skyhawks junior guard Jasmine newsome, the na­tion’s fourth-leading scorer at 22.9 points per game, was limited to 15 points in the contest. 
“i thought [butler] had prob­ably the best individual game any­body’s had against us all season long,” mcgraw said. 
notre dame junior guard kayla mcbride finished with her first double-double of the season, recording 22 points and 10 re­bounds. Junior forward natalie achonwa added 16 points for the irish and scored her 1000th career point on a layup at the 18:04 mark of the second half, becoming the 32nd notre dame player to reach the milestone. 
“i was so happy for [achonwa] to get her thousandth point,” mcgraw said. “and kayla mcbride, she’s an all-american… she’s played well all year long, very steady, very consistent and did it all tonight.” 
notre dame will face no. 9-seeded iowa in the second round of the ncaa Tournament at 
9:30 p.m. on Tuesday in iowa city. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 7, ruTgers 6 

Hilling sets wins record 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
senior ellie hilling has won sev­eral games over her long career that were more important than this weekend’s matchups against no. 19 rutgers and villanova. 
but after helping no. 7 notre dame shut down both the scarlet knights (8-2, 0-1 big east) and wildcats (5-4, 0-1), no goalie in irish history has recorded more wins than her 41. 
“These two wins were just a tes­tament toellie and all the work that she puts in,” irish coach christine halfpenny said. “she worked very hard this week in scouting our op­ponents, and it’s special thing for her to be able to have her name in the record books.” 
hilling’s record-setting week­end featured 20 saves and just eight goals allowed but was far from notre dame’s only excep­tional performance as the irish (8­0, 2-0) continued their unbeaten start. 
against rutgers on Friday, the offense propelled the irish early, as the team jumped out to an early 3-0 lead and never trailed in their 9-3 victory. seven different athletes scored for the irish and the defense allowed the scarlet knights just one first-half goal. in addition to stopping shots, hilling was a force on defense, leading the team with five ground balls as she recorded her record-breaking 40th win. 
“ellie has been unreal this sea­son, especially these past two games,” sophomore defender barbara sullivan said. “if we com­mit a foul and give them a free-position shot, i know she’s going to stop it, because she will.” 
notre dame rode that momen­tum into its game with villanova on sunday, and the irish defense won the day. The wildcats man­aged just one goal in each half, while the irish offense exploded in the second half to secure a 14-2 victory. irish sophomore midfield­er caitlin gargan was the breakout star of the day, as she tallied four goals and six points after scoring just three goals in her previous six games. 
“[gargan] has been consis­tent, and has persevered through her development this season,” halfpenny said. “Today’s game is the perfect example of what hap­pens when you stick with it, work hard, and stay focused on the moment.” 
sullivan also had a break­through moment of her own, as the preseason all-conference se­lection sparked a fast break and punctuated it with her first career goal. halfpenny said the team couldn’t have been happier to see sullivan, who leads the team in ground balls and draw controls, finally find the back of the net. 
“barbara can be a force all over the field,” she said. “she’s the most selfless player; whatever we need, she gives it to us.” 
with the pair of wins, notre dame has now won its first eight games for the second consecutive season. The irish will have 12 full days off but halfpenny said they won’t be able to rest on their laurels as they prepare for their next game at no. 20 louisville on april 5. 
“it’s a huge confidence boost for us to be able to come in here against two solid teams that had really good game plans for us and be able to finish both games off in the second half,” halfpenny said. “but we need to work on being on the same page, every play, for 60 minutes. coming up against a very well-coached, physical, and tal­ented louisville team, we’re going to have to bring all our weapons for that battle.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BASEBALL | sh 4, nd 3; nd 3, sh 2; nd 3, sh 2 
ND takes series from Seton Hall 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
after dropping a close 4-3 game Friday, the no. 15 irish bounced back and beat seton hall 3-2 in both doubleheader games saturday to clinch the series. 
in notre dame’s past 13 matchups with the pirates (8­12, 1-2 big east), 11 have been decided by one run. The irish (14-6, 2-1) redeemed themselves after the pirates swept them in three games last season. 
irish coach mik aoki attribut­ed the close matchups to pitch­ing and both teams’ scrappy mentalities. 
“i don’t know if we necessarily get the upper hand because we dropped three of them to them last year,” aoki said. “i think a lot of it has to do with how well they pitch. i think a lot of it has to do with how well we pitch, and i think they are two very similar teams in terms of their makeup. They might run a little bit better than we do, we might have the edge in terms of hitting, but like i said they pitch it so well.” 
on Friday, notre dame trailed early and could not make a comeback. seton hall grabbed a 1-0 lead in the top of the first inning on a wild pitch by irish junior right hander sean Fitzgerald. The major damage came in the top of the third, when the pirates plated three unearned runs. pirates senior shortstop giuseppe papaccio and sophomore first baseman sal annunziata hit back-to-back doubles to put seton hall up 4-0. 
in the bottom of the fifth the irish began chipping away at pirates senior ace Jon prosinski. irish sophomore designated hit­ter ryan bull singled and then advanced two bases on an er­ror and passed ball, consecu­tively. Freshman right fielder Zak kutsulis brought bull in with an rbi single to make the score 4-1. sophomore left fielder mac hudgins and senior second baseman Frank desico added a pair of rbi singles to make the score 4-3 but the irish comeback attempt stopped there as they dropped their big east opener.
 “[seton hall] makes big pitch­es, over and over,” aoki said. “we had runners in scoring position all night long and they just made big pitch after big pitch.” 
a weather-induced schedule change forced the teams to play a doubleheader saturday night and the irish rose to the occa­sion, taking the series. 
“it’s a tough thing to do espe­cially against a team, a really quality team like seton hall,” aoki said. “i know that you can look at their record and just write them off, but they pitch so well they compete so hard, they are a really good team. For us to bounce back after a tough loss, not to take anything away from them, i didn’t feel like we came out in the first three innings completely locked in, is great.” 
on saturday the irish relied on small-ball and clutch pitch­ing to overcome seton hall. senior pitcher adam norton led the irish in the first matchup. 
“adam norton, was once again outstanding and gave us everything we desperately needed,” aoki said. “he was awesome.” 
The still-perfect norton (6-0) pitched 7.1 innings, giving up two earned runs, walking none and fanning four. 
“i think the main thing [that is working for me] is fastball command and being able to throw my off speed for strikes, so i can mix speeds pretty well,” norton said. “it’s easy when you are confident in the defense be­hind you, just pump strikes and not really worry about anything going on behind you.” 
The pirates finally caught up to norton in the eighth after pirates junior center fielder Zac granites’ rbi double and junior third baseman chris seldon’s rbi ground out. irish Junior closer dan slania came in with two outs in the eighth and shut seton hall down. slania closed out the game for the irish victory. 
The second game of the night was similar to the first, with slania coming in to put down the pirates’ attempts at a come­back with his seventh save of the season. 
“danny has been doing that for us for two-and-a-half years, going on three,” aoki said. “you can’t say enough. you can’t say about how much of a security blanket that is for our coaching staff, for our team, for every­body to know we have a shut­down guy at the back end.” 
The two squads were dead­locked at one until the bottom of the seventh. with the bases loaded and two outs, bull hit a sharp rbi ground ball up the middle. pirates sophomore Jose lopez deflected the ball with his glove and all runners reached safely. kutsulis then came to the plate and hit a routine ground ball to third, but seldon threw the ball down the line and the irish scored on an error to make the game 3-1. 
irish freshman reliever nick mccarty picked up the win in three innings of relief. mccarty (3-3) ran into some trouble in the eighth giving up a run, but slania came in to get the last six outs for an irish victory. 
notre dame will host kent state at 12:30 p.m. today at coveleski stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@ nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 7, ruTgers 6 

irish scrape by knights 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame barely es­caped with a 7-6 win over rutgers on sunday in piscataway, n.J., behind three fourth-quarter goals from junior midfielder Jim marlatt that propelled the irish in their big east opener. 
irish coach kevin corrigan, however, was not at all pleased with his team’s performance on either end of the field. 
“i thought we did not play well at all,” corrigan said. “but we made enough plays to win. we’re not going to win many games playing like that.” 
The scarlet knights (2-7, 0-2 big east) held notre dame (6-1, 1-0) scoreless for the entire first quar­ter and nearly 10 minutes of the second stanza. Freshman attack matt kavanagh broke through with a goal at the 5:35 mark. senior midfielder Ty kimball fed kavanagh with an assist. kavanaugh had two goals, and senior midfielder ryan Foley and junior attack John scoscia each scored once. sophomore attack will corrigan had two assists. 
but kevin corrigan didn’t see anything in rutgers that caused the lack of offensive output early. The irish simply were not executing. 
“it had very little to do with what rutgers was doing,” corrigan said. “They played the same game plan that we’ve seen and expected them to play. we just played very poorly.” 


For much of the game, the irish were ineffective, turning the ball over 14 times, grabbing two fewer ground balls than rutgers and putting only 21 of its 38 shots on goal. but marlatt saved the irish with his fourth-quarter barrage. 
“we didn’t move without the ball,” corrigan said. “we didn’t attack the cage. we didn’t handle the ball well, and we didn’t shoot well.” 
notre dame is now 4-1 this season in games decided by one goal. but according to corrigan, the irish need a larger margin of victory and better play over­all if they want to compete for a big east championship and an ncaa title. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“my takeaway is that we’re not going to win that many games if we play that way,” corrigan said. 
notre dame outshot rutgers 38-25. irish senior goalie John kemp had six saves. 
There were a few bright spots for notre dame in the otherwise frustrating day. Junior midfielder liam o’connor won 11 of his 17 faceoffs, and the irish killed all but one of the rutgers man-up opportunities. 
The irish have played three games in eight days and corrigan said they will take a few days off before preparing for a matchup with st. John’s on saturday at arlotta stadium at 1 p.m. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 




CCHA 
conTinued From page 20 
forward derek deblois’ initial shot, but wolverines freshman defense-man Jacob Trouba corralled the re­bound and passed back to deblois for an easy shorthanded finish on the crease past the scrambling summerhays. 
The goal seemed like it could have swung momentum in michigan’s favor, but Tynan said notre dame’s experience in ral­lying from deficits gave the irish confidence. 
“obviously, that was a bad one to give up, but the same thing hap­pened [saturday in a 3-1 semifinal victory over ohio state],” Tynan said. “we were down a goal, we know what we’re capable of. we just came back harder. i thought we had a ton of chances all game long.” 
notre dame capitalized on one of those chances in the sec­ond to tie the game when junior captain and center anders lee scored his team-leading 20th goal of the season at the 10:35 mark. Junior defenseman stephen Johns’ slapshot sailed wide of the net, but rebounded off the boards to junior forward Jeff costello who back­handed a pass to lee in front of the goal. 
“our whole practice on Friday was all board play, because [irish assistant] coach [paul] pooley and myself have been [to Joe louis arena] for a number of years, so we know how the boards are lively,” Jackson said. “we were having our defense work on it, we were having our forwards work on cycling low. everything we did was basically board related.” 
with 1:20 left in regulation, summerhays made a difficult pad save on wolverines senior defenseman lee moffie to keep the irish ahead. Just 13 seconds later, costello made the lead two goals when he scored past diving wolverines freshman goalie steve racine, who had started to skate toward the bench for an extra at­tacker and couldn’t make it back to the net in time after michigan turned the puck over. 
The summerhays save against moffie was one of 20 on the day for the alaska native, who allowed just five goals in four ccha tourna­ment games. 
“obviously, your goaltender makes a big difference,” Jackson said. “[summerhays] didn’t have a lot of work early on. i’d rather have him maybe get some shots early on, so he gets into his comfort zone. he made some great saves when we needed him in the end, and that’s what you need to win a championship.” 
Tynan, wuthrich and Johns were each named to the all-tournament team, with Tynan earning tour­nament mvp honors. michigan freshman center andrew copp, Trouba and racine rounded out the all-tournament team. 



notre dame’s victory ended michigan’s season and prevents the wolverines from participating in the ncaa tournament for the first time since 1990. 
“They obviously had to win the [ccha] tournament to continue their season and for us to [end their season is] very difficult,” lee said. “any time you’re trying to take someone out of their season, it’s going to be hard. They put up an absolute fight.” 
it also marked the final game in ccha history, something 
paid adverTisemenT 
particularly meaningful to Jackson, who coached fellow ccha member lake superior from 1991-1996 before his tenure at notre dame began in 2005. 
“This one’s extra special to me, because the first team i ever coached as a head coach in col­lege hockey in 1991 won this tour­nament and this will be the last opportunity to win one of these tournaments,” Jackson said. “i’ve said many times over the last couple months when people asked me is that there was a day when this thing meant more than being in the ncaa tournament. … obviously we all want to play for a national championship, but winning a conference tournament should be special and i think the ccha’s done a great job in making this event special.” 
bolstered by their conference championship, the irish were awarded the top seed in the Toledo regional, and will take on st. cloud state in the first round of the ncaa tournament saturday at 1:30 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


Grace 
conTinued From page 20 
along with grace, fifth-year seniors dan Fox and carlo calabrese and senior kendall moore will vie for time at both inside linebacker positions. 
“everyone wants to be a start­er, everyone wants to be that guy,” grace said of replacing Te’o. “we want to compete, we want to fill that role. no mat­ter what happens we have a lot of great guys that can play in­side linebacker. we’re all going to be working for whatever role we end up having and we’re all going to bust our butts off to get that.” 
irish coach brian kelly said there is no depth chart at this point, but grace practiced with the first team-defense during the 30 minutes of media avail­ability during wednesday’s opening practice. 
“i think when you talk about the spring, especially when you’re coming in and taking over for somebody like manti, we’re going to get the best guys on the field,” kelly said Tuesday. “certainly [grace] has some experience at the position. it would not surprise me that he 
Guards 
conTinued From page 20 
halftime whistle even sounded. irish coach mike brey’s squad made a small run in the second half, but the period was more formality than competition in front of a dwindling dayton crowd. 
“[it’s] the unfinished busi­ness for this program nation­ally,” brey said. “it’s really well-respected nationally, had a great identity in the big east. not sure what it will be in the acc. we even got to the semis of the big east four years in a row. but this is a hump we can’t get over yet.” 
so disappointment it is for the irish. again. is that good enough? 
many will say that notre dame and its fans have long been content with modest success in basketball. That content is slowly eroding as this team shows glimpses of what it can be. with the team moving with the rest of notre dame’s athletic programs to the atlantic coast conference (acc) on July 1, it invites a natural evaluation of the state of notre dame basketball. 
one thing is clear — this team needs a spark. and that spark needs to come from the guards. with Jack cooley hanging up his jersey for the last time, this program belongs to point guard eric atkins and shooting guard Jerian grant. The rise of notre dame to a level above where it currently sits rests on their shoulders. if brey is to bring this group into the second weekend of the ncaa tourna­ment with this group, it’s his guards who need to take him there. 

becomes a key player for us. but, again, great competition at that position. it’s going to be fun to watch.” 
diaco said he has been im­pressed with the variety of skills that grace possesses, both tan­gible and intangible. 
“he’s got good speed and good change of direction,” diaco said. “intangibly, he’s got 
“Everyone wants to be a starter, everyone wants to be that guy. We want to compete.” 
Jarrett Grace 
junior inside linebacker 

a great sense for where the ball is going to end up. so he’s got a good feel in the coverage. he’s got a good feel for fitting the runs. so we’re excited about what we have there. There’s re­ally not a negative right now to say about grace.” 
“my guards have been so good all year with tempo and making decisions,” brey said. “if our guards aren’t in a good tempo, we probably can’t beat anybody. 
an era in notre dame bas­ketball came to an end Friday night, and next year brey’s program will enter the acc with a reputation it has built over the past six years in the big east — regular-season stal­wart, non-factor in march. The next level won’t be reached without a spark. atkins and grant will enter next season billed as one of the nation’s best backcourts — and they are. but they fell short of that billing Friday night. 2-for-10 
grace said even while not see­ing much game action through his first two seasons he learned the position and gained con­fidence from none other than Te’o. 
“he was a mentor figure to me,” grace said of Te’o. “a lot of times when he spoke to me he said, ‘alright, when it’s your time, when your in this role’ … so we had those kinds of talks and he really guided me while he was here. 
“he instilled a lot of confi­dence in me while i was taking that backseat role. he was still helping me out, helping me im­prove my game.” 
and now grace has the op­portunity to replace his former mentor, someone he agreed is irreplaceable. Just like diaco, grace said rebuilding the de­fense will be a collective effort. 
“[diaco] talks about the de­fense as a whole, not as individ­uals, even though we had a great individual performer last year [in Te’o],” grace said. “we’re definitely concerned about the team production as a whole.” 
a whole with new ingredients. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
shooting from atkins and nine points to go with six turnovers for grant isn’t going to cut it. The only way this program can break into the next tier is if a transformational group of players can will it there. atkins and grant can be those play­ers. The question heading into 2013-14 is: are they willing to take on that burden? 
if not, brey will spend an­other season with his program stuck in the mud. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Cyclones 
conTinued From page 20 
18-14 lead with 11:18 remain­ing in the first half on a jump­er by senior forward garrick sherman — the irish frontcourt scored 15 of the team’s 23 first-half points — and mustered just five points the rest of the stanza as one turnover followed anoth­er for a total of 14 by halftime. 
“with 14 [turnovers] in the first half, it’s hard to stop them from scoring easy ones with that many turnovers,” senior forward Tom knight said. 
Fellow senior forward Jack cooley, playing in his final col­legiate game, struggled to make a meaningful impact for notre dame, a trend that began earli­er this month at marquette and culminated in a temporary sec­ond-half benching by brey once the contest was out of hand. 
after recording 18 double-doubles in the first 28 games, cooley notched just one in the season’s final seven games to close out his irish career. 
The loss to the cyclones (23­11, 11-7 big 12) marked the third consecutive year that a 10-seed has eliminated notre dame from the ncaa tournament. The year before, 11-seeded old dominion defeated the irish in the first round. 


“it hurts,” said junior guard Jerian grant of the latest chap­ter in notre dame’s tournament nightmares. “all season we felt that this year we had a team that would make a long run in march.” 
The silver lining after the un­derwhelming performance is that notre dame returns each of its contributors next year with the exception of cooley and welcomes an impressive list of recruits to campus as the irish transition from the big east to the atlantic coast conference. 
but until notre dame proves its worthiness in march, reg­ular-season success will only give the program so much re­spect on a national level, a fact brey knows all too well. 
“it’s a hard one to swallow,” he said. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &                 paTrick cross 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: peyton manning, 37; alyson hannigan, 39; Jim parsons, 40; louie anderson, 60. 
Happy Birthday: Follow your gut. make personal and financial changes that will allow you to reach your goals. expand your interests and friendships. let your emotions rise to the surface and speak from the heart and you will make a difference. reconnecting with old friends or colleagues will lead to greater confidence and security. love is highlighted. your numbers are 2, 9, 17, 24, 27, 35, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let anyone stand in the way of an oppor­tunity. someone from your past will make an offer. an emotional matter will turn in your favor. get together with someone you want to spend more time with. romance is looming.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): go shopping or take on a new hobby or chal­lenge. short trips or sharing information with like-minded people will increase your chance to get ahead. avoid a past partner and you will not face confusion due to deception. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): share your services, skills and talents. you’ll attract someone who will take a great interest in your abilities and your future. love is on the rise, and sharing your beliefs and intentions will encourage someone who interests you.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): say what’s on your mind and stick up for what you believe in even if someone opposes you. strength and courage will separate you from someone unpredictable and impulsive. stick to what you know and have your facts ready. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): look for adventure and you will make new friends. a change in the way you live will ease the stress you have put up with in the past. call the shots and make your move. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t believe everything you hear. you have to decipher what’s actually being said and why. a power play may be in force, and it’s up to you to look out for your interests. avoid overindulgence in any way shape or form. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Find out all the information required to pursue an idea, plan or goal of yours. a change in the way you view someone will alter your relationship and your future. speak openly about the way you feel. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put a creative idea into motion. The changes you make at home will enhance your love life, but you must do them on a budget that won’t add to your stress. networking will lead to a proposal and future opportunities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): entertain if you like, but don’t let anyone take advantage of you. you are best to share costs no matter how guilty someone makes you feel. Travel and getting involved in new interests will lead to love and romance. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): refrain from sharing your thoughts. The less others know about you, the easier it will be to avoid responsibilities that you don’t have time for. avoid unpredictable or overindulgent people. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can make positive changes that will help you achieve your personal and financial goals. love and romance will keep you busy and play into the decisions you make regarding your future and your livelihood. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): stick to the truth and be precise in the way you phrase what you want. a budget will be required when dealing with joint ventures. a problem with medical, contractual or emotional matters must not be allowed to fester or cost you financially.  


Birthday Baby: you are competitive, aggressive and strong-willed. you are emotional and helpful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | iowa sTaTe 76, nd 58 
Irish bow out to No. 10 seed for third straight season 
By ANDREW OWENS 
senior sports writer 
dayTon, ohio — another ncaa tournament appear­ance arrived and vanished all too quickly for notre dame on Friday night in a cascade of turnovers, poor defense and overall sloppiness in a 76­58 irish loss to iowa state at university of dayton arena. 
irish coach mike brey dedi­cated last off-season to dis­covering a solution for his program’s annual march woes 
— notre dame hasn’t reached a sweet sixteen since 2003 and has now lost its first tourna­ment contest in three of its past four trips — but the irish once again sputtered to the finish line. 
“[it] stings, you know,” brey said. “it’s the next step for our program. it’s what keeps me up at night and trying to figure out how we can be better at this.” 
no. 7-seeded notre dame (25­10, 11-7 big east) claimed an 
see cyclones PAGE 18 
One and done 

FOOTBALL 

nd looks to grace in Te’o’s absence 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
Forget about blitzes, stunts and sub packages. irish defen­sive coordinator bob diaco is thinking about baking cakes. 
diaco’s defense returns eight starters to a unit that finished last season ranked second in the nation in scoring defense at 12.77 points per game. but though they only need to fill three positions, diaco said the irish need to tear things down and start anew. 
“you’re making a cake — a sweet vanilla cake — but you run out of vanilla and you de­cide to put chili powder in there, it’s a completely different cake,” diaco said Friday. “do you un­derstand? it tastes nothing like you were expecting it to. in fact, you might not even like it. but ev­erything else was the same. you took the same care. one interjec­tion of one new person creates a totally different dynamic. … so it’s a new thing every single year as we put the unit back together.” 
The one person who has left the biggest hole on the defense is last season’s heisman runner-up, inside linebacker manti Te’o. and just as a baker can’t put in chili powder and expect the same cake, diaco said he can’t simply plug in someone to re­place Te’o. 
“The fact of the matter is manti is an irreplaceable character,” diaco said. “he’s not going to be replaced. he’s a once-in-a­lifetime player that a coach has an opportunity and is blessed to have a chance to coach. so no one should have to carry the bur­den of replacing manti — ‘cause it’s impossible.” 
enter junior inside linebacker Jarrett grace, one of multiple candidates with his sights set on replacing Te’o as the ‘mike’ linebacker. The cincinnati na­tive did not play as a freshman but appeared in all 13 games last year, recording 12 tackles pri­marily on special teams. 
see grace PAGE 18 
Brey’s squad will go as far as backcourt takes it in 2014 


Chris Allen 
senior sports writer 

dayTon, ohio — if what you saw from notre dame at university of dayton arena on Friday night looked familiar, you’re not alone. 
That is what a program trapped in neutral looks like. 
For the fourth straight year, the irish delivered a memorable and accomplished regular sea­son to their fan base. and for the fourth straight year, to the bewilderment of those who fol­low the program, the irish laid an egg in the ncaa tournament, losing 76-58 to iowa state. 
but there was no bewilder­ment this year about missed chances, missed shots and lane violations. That’s because, in this game, notre dame never even gave itself a chance. Fourteen first-half turnovers took a team that was playing its best basketball a week ago out of contention before the 
see guards PAGE 18 
HOCKEY | nd 3, michigan 1 

irish claim last ccha title 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
deTroiT — notre dame came from behind in the last ccha championship game ever played to win the mason cup with a 3-1 victory over michigan on sunday in Joe louis arena and clinch a no. 1 seed in the ncaa tournament. 
irish sophomore forward austin wuthrich scored the go-ahead goal 29 seconds into the third period on a one-timer between the faceoff circles off a feed from freshman forward mario lucia, who received a pass from junior center T.J. Tynan. The game winner gave notre dame its third ccha championship in program history. 
“we’re just proud to be able to raise another banner at the compton [Family ice arena],” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
wuthrich’s tally came af­ter two periods which saw the score knotted at one despite notre dame owning the shoot­ing margin, 28-10. michigan coach red berenson cited the timing of the goal just out of the second intermission as one that was deflating to the wolverines. 


“after two periods, i thought our team would bounce back in the third, and they tried, but that first goal in the first shift. goals were precious tonight, you knew there wouldn’t be many of them, and giving up that goal, that was a tough one,” berenson said. 
The irish dominated play in the first period but it didn’t show on the scoreboard. despite an 18-6 advantage in shots, notre dame trailed 1-0 after 20 min­utes. an irish power play turn­over with just over a minute left in the first period led to a 3-on­2 michigan rush. irish junior goaltender steven summerhays stopped wolverines junior 
see ccha PAGE 17 




