The independenT To uncover neWspaper serving The TruTh noTre daMe and and reporT sainT Mary’s iT accuraTely 

voluMe 47, issue 22 | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 
‘A unified front’ 
Student body presidents and vice presidents from ND and SMC honored during Michigan State game 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news Writer 
notre dame football brings the saint Mary’s college and notre dame student bodies to­gether each year, and saturday it brought together the student government executives of both institutions. 
prior to saturday’s football game, saint Mary’s student body president and vice president Kat sullivan and Maddy Martin were honored alongside notre dame student body president and vice president alex coccia and nancy Joyce. 
The ceremony consisted of both teams walking the american flag across the field and presenting it to members of the irish guard, who hoisted it onto the flagpole during the na­tional anthem. The names and hometowns of the four leaders were also announced, she said. 
The four also watched the game from the press box, sullivan said. 
“i was just in shock when we were walking out. i was like, ‘This is a really surreal expe­rience,’” sullivan said. “i was just so excited, and i felt really blessed to have that experience, and the fact that notre dame re­ally considered us a part of the community.  That they allowed saint Mary’s to be involved was 
see Flag PAGE 6 

Photo courtesy of Alex Coccia 
From left: Maddy Martin, Alex Coccia, Nancy Joyce and Kat Sullivan stand behind Notre Dame band mem­bers as they carry the American flag that flew in the stadium during the Saturday’s game. 



Irish engineers continue service work in Nicaragua 
each year since By CAROLINA WILSON news Writer 2008, six engineering Feburary Krug said. “so we already talked  students to the community and they’re  By KIERA JOHNSEN news Writer  Tippet said the modern, tech­nologically driven century forces  
from the university h ave com-all thrilled for us to come back.”  society to reexamine questions  
Members of notre dame bined their passion  for aca­senior spencer ness said the  Krista Tippet, peabody award- they considered answered.  
students empowering through demics and for soci al service project includes a team trip dur­ winning journalist and broad­ “We are reimagining the very  
engineering development in designing and co nstructing ing fall break to assess the land  caster of the radio program  nature of authority, of leadership,  
(ndseed) are preparing for a bridge for a com munity in and the community, as well as  “on Being”, spoke as this year’s  of community,” Tippet said. “We  
the organization’s seventh year central america.  an eight-week trip during the  christian culture lecturer at  are fundamentally reconsider- 
of community outreach with senior and project  Manager summer of 2014.  saint Mary’s on Tuesday in  ing how we structure our lives  
plans to build a bridge in Mata Maria Krug said this  year’s lo­“We fundraise for the entire  o’laughlin auditorium.  together. We are in the midst of  
de Tules, nicaragua. cation is not far from  the bridge project, we design the entire  The lecture, titled “civic  nothing less than a reformation,  
ndseed is the university’s that was built last yea r. project, and then we go down  healing and christian virtue  but this time it’s all of the institu­ 
chapter of a multi-national non­“Mata de Tules is l ess than a and build it with the  in the 21st century,” focused  tions including  
governmental organization kilometer from the s ite where  on issues of reforming modern  
called “Bridges to prosperity,” they built this past  summer,” see ndseed PAGE 5  christian society.  see TippeT PAGE 5  

‘nothing less than a reformation’ 

Michigan State game results in few arrests 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
saturday’s football game against Michigan state university brought a victory for both the team and the game day personnel coordinating the in­flux of visitors to campus over the weekend. 
director of game day operations Mike seamon said, overall, it was a “very success­ful” home game weekend with approximately 100,000 people on campus saturday and 81,000 in the stadium. 
“The weekend unfolded very smoothly,” he said. “We were an­ticipating it to be a much busier home weekend compared to the Temple game. The noticeably cooler weather was a welcome change, as we had fewer heat and humidity-related medical calls.” 
phil Johnson, chief of police for notre dame security police (ndsp), said his staff made two arrests at the stadium on saturday. 
“one man was arrested for public intoxication and disorderly conduct. another man was arrested for trespass­ing,” Johnson said. “it was a quiet day and everything ran smoothly.” 
indiana state excise police of­ficers arrested 36 adults and six minors in the area around cam­pus this weekend, according to an excise police report. 
“The charges of those who were arrested included illegal consumption or possession of an alcoholic Beverage, driving 
see gaMe day PAGE  3 



neWs PAGE 3 vieWpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 9 FooTBall PAGE 20 Men’s soccer PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
          Meghan Thomassen                        peter Woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: Matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: Marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole Michels 
News Editor: ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: Mike Monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: William heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint Mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTMasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you first notice about someone? 

Emanuele Baruffaldi 
freshman duncan hall 
“hair.” 

Patrick Bottone 
junior 
dillon hall 
“Facial expression.” 

Ana Christian 
senior lewis hall 
“eyes.” 


Jared Lamp 
graduate student off campus 
“hair.” 


Emily McConville 
freshman cavanaugh hall 
“Face.” 


Anna Nussbaum 
sophomore pangborn hall 
“height.” 




News Sports Want your event included here? 
christian Myers Jack hefferon 

Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca o’neil samantha Zuba abi hoverman Mike ginocchio 
Graphics Scene 

samantha coughlin allie Tollaksen Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
steph Wulz 

Photo Viewpoint 
Blood Drive Annual Blue Mass Lecture: The Story Lecture: “Dante and Fall Exhibition Public 
John ning Tabitha ricketts 
Rolfs Sports Basilica of the Sacred Behind “Touchdown the Birth of Modern Reception Recreation Center Heart Jesus” Literature” Snite Museum of Art 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Hesburgh Library Snite Museum of Art 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 


Corrections 

All donors receive free Honoring police and 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. Free gallery viewing. 
The observer regards itself as 

t-shirts. firefighters. About artist Millard Sheets. Saturday Scholar Series. 
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Postgraduate Lecture: “The Practice Men’s Soccer Presentation: Family Film: “The Cat 
of journalism at all times. We do, 

Service Fair of Human Dignity” Alumni Stadium “Inflammation and Returns” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center Geddes Hall 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Cancer” DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m.-8 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Free admission to Jordan Hall of Science Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. Meet over 70 program Speaker Professor staff and students 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 3 p.m.- 4:15 p.m. representatives. Clemens Sedmak. with  I.D. card. Science Exploration Series. Screening in English. 




lecture examines mobility of ancient empires 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Managing editor 
Margaret Mullett, direc­tor of Byzantine studies at dumbarton oaks research library in Washington d.c., spoke about her research on absentee Byzantine emperors in McKenna hall on Tuesday night, in honor of the late prof. sabine Maccormack. 
Mullett’s lecture, titled, “Writing a Mobile empire” fo­cused on Byzantine emperors’ war-time lodging of choice: tents. it was the second in a year­long series of talks, “Writing empire: rome and Byzantium,” hosted by several academic departments, including the department of classics and the department of Theology. 
“The emperors were on cam­paign for half the year,” Mullett said. “[i study] how much of the [governmental] functions trav­elled with them and how much they left behind, how much evi­dence went with them.” 
Maccormack, a hesburgh professor of arts and letters who died last June, published 
“art  and  ceremony  in  late  
antiquity”  in  1981.  Mullett  
said  she  wants  to  update  

Maccormack’s ideas about the cultural impact of tents on the Byzantine empire. 
“i think that ceremony and performance were very much at the heart of what she thought about [the Byzantine] empire,” Mullett said. “i think its time to reassess. she’s right, but i think there are other things to be tak­en into account.” 
Mullett’s analysis focused on three areas affected by Byzantine’s mobile emperors: the government, court cul­ture and ceremonial tradition. despite the realm’s strengths, Mullett said Byzantium is largely ignored in comparative literature about empires. 
“The Byzantium empire reigned for nearly two millen­nia,” Mullett said. “They had impressive road systems and communications, a cultural unity project, superb tax ma­chinery and military logistics. … it was a primary empire.” 
Mullett specifically ad­dressed the “tent poetry” that arose from emperors “govern­ing from the furthest corners” of the domain. she said her interest in the cultural and cer­emonial aspects of this kind of literature was “unexpected.” 
“i got hooked on structures and soft architecture and what it might mean for the empire. [it’s] less about marble and more about fabric, the silk of tents,” she said. 
Mullett said she was happy to be a part of the colloquium, especially since she knew Maccormack from her time at oxford, where they both studied. 
“i spent a lot of time in her floor and was totally inspired by her performance in seminar and just the collegiality of [her] conversation and the power of her intellect,” she said. 
“Maccormack was a won­derful and unique scholar whom i knew in the early 70s,” she said. “she is a wonderful inspiration.” 


Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 

paid adverTiseMenT 



SMC Senate holds first meeting of the semester 
By KELLY KONYA 
news Writer 
saint Mary’s student senate met Tuesday night to discuss a new amendment to the student government constitution and to establish the fiscal budget for the remainder of the school year. 
The meeting was the first official student government association (sga) senate meet­ing of the year and was open to all students. 
student body president Kat sullivan said this all-inclusive town-hall meeting encourages members of sga, board mem­bers and students alike to come with questions and learn more about the future goals of the school year. 
“My personal goal for this year is to get more people in­volved and aware of what our student government does,” sullivan said. 
in attendance were repre­sentatives of each “big board” on campus, which includes the student diversities Board (sdB) president, residence hall association (rha) presi­dent and student activities Board (saB) president. These representatives were joined by senators elected from each class, officers of sga and ordi­nary students. 
The meeting began with an introduction of each member of the senate board, when each member took the opportunity to share their personal and sen­ate goals for the year. 
Following introductions, stu­dent body vice president Maddy Martin proposed a new amend­ment to the sga constitution related to the structure of the senate board. 
“We are proposing the follow­ing structure because we want to add more voting and non­voting members to represent the student Body in a more ho­listic manner,” Martin said. 
The new structure will in­clude nine voting members, mostly members from sga, and the rest of the senate will be made up of non-voting mem­bers from an assortment of pro­grams on campus, including a representative for international students. 
vice president of external af­fairs and junior Kelly gutrich said this way all students and their interests are repre­sented equally in the senate’s 
“[The increased traffic vol-


Game day 
ume] was due to all of the 
conTinued FroM page 1 

Michigan state fans travel-While suspended prior, ling down from east lansing,” invasion of privacy, Fleeing seamon said. “Both the White law enforcement, operating Field parking lot along the new a vehicle While intoxicated douglas road and the Burke and various drug related of-golf course experienced no­fenses,” the report stated. ticeable increases in traffic.” 
seamon said an increase in on Friday, 3,890 peo­traffic volume surrounding ple toured the tunnel in campus was a “significant dif-notre dame stadium com­ference” from the first home pared to approximately game weekend. 5,000 on Temple weekend. 
movements. 
“With such a wide variety of student representatives in the senate, all of us can be informed with what each organization on campus is doing and what deci­sions have been made,” gutrich said. 
Martin said the meetings would be run according to robert’s rules, a set of rules containing guidelines for par­liamentary order within the senate. 
“essentially it’s a way to go about things in a proper man­ner and in a way that will make our senate be most effective,” Martin said. “starting next week, the agenda will start look­ing a little different because it will be in accordance with robert’s rules procedures.” 
Martin and sullivan said they hope the guidelines will encour­age efficiency within the senate and uphold the traditions set in place by previous sga officers. 
The motion to approve the new amendment and abide by robert’s rules was unanimous­ly carried by the senate board members. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
additionally, 7,000 attended the Michigan state pep rally compared to nearly 12,000 for the home opener. 
despite these lowered num­bers, seamon said the week­end overall was “busier across the board.” 
“We are anticipating that we will continue to see even larg­er numbers in the next two games, [oklahoma university] and [university of southern california],” he said. 


 Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

paid adverTiseMenT 






tippet 
conTinued FroM page 1 
education, economies, politics, and religion. The interesting and challenging thing about this moment is that we know the old ways aren’t working, but we can’t yet see what the new forms will be.” 
Tippet said words shape how people understand the world, how they understand themselves and how they treat others. she said, in this light, tolerance is a problematic word for people of faith. 
“Tolerance was the primary civic virtue we chose to navi­gate difference. and i think this word was always problematic,” she said. “Tolerance connotes allowing, enduring and indulg­ing. in the medical context where it comes from, tolerance is about the limits of thriving in an unfavorable environment. 
“now i’m not saying that tolerance doesn’t have value and doesn’t have its place but it’s not a big enough word, and don’t think its ever a big enough word, for people of faith. Tolerance doesn’t ask us to care for the stranger. Tolerance doesn’t even bid us to know each other, to understand, to listen, to be curious.” 


Tippet said christians need acknowledgment of some-something redemptive and life to rediscover the way in which thing,” Tippet said. “i know giving about asking a better questions can be spiritual vir-very well that questions are question.” tues and civic tools. powerful things, questions Tippet said science demon­
“a simple question is not elicit answers in their image. strates that humans don’t do the same thing as the wrong a simplistic question elicits a their best thinking when afraid, question. i think what i’m simplistic answer; an inflam-but rather that is when they do talking about here is inten-matory question elicits an in-their worst. tionality in our questions and flammatory answer. There is “Fear shuts down imaginations rather than opening them up, and depend­ing how vulnerable we are to fear it sends us sheltering back with our tribe, behind our bar­ricades, and makes creative open hearted encounter with the other almost impossible,” she said. 
Tippet said humans are com­plicated creatures and change takes time. she said she is encouraged by the possibil­ity of this societal conversation working when people are real­istic and start small. 
“My encouragement is to honor the difficulty of what we face, the complexity of what it means to be human,” Tippet said. “To be realistic about how difficult this has been up until now. To start small, to realize for example the criti­cal importance of the creation of safe places before anything can happen, to realize we can immediately take part in this work,” she said. 
The annual christian culture lecture is sponsored by the humanistic studies department and honors the late saint Mary’s professor Bruno schlesinger. 

Contact Kiera Johnson at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 

ndsEEd 
trip where we’ll survey our site and come back and go through 
conTinued FroM page 1 
our entire design process with 

some advice from different community. We’ll go down dur-faculty here and members of ing fall break for our assessment bridges of prosperity staff,” 
paid adverTiseMenT 


ness said. 
during the fundraising process each year ndseed raises an average of $28,000. sophomore Jonathan Weiler said the bulk of donations have always come from generous alumni donors, although sell­ing apparel at football tailgates raises some money. 
“The biggest money comes from donations,” Weiler said. “you can only sell so much ap­parel for $20. so when we get some of our generous alumni or local organizations to con­tribute, it is so important to us and to the completion of the project.” 
sophomore andres gutierrez said he hopes word will spread about the mission of the project and organization at large. 
“although we’re standing out in tailgates to try and sell apparel, the most important aspect is making ourselves visible, getting out there,” gutierrez said. “people walk by and may buy a sweatshirt, but what’s important is that they ask what ndseed is.” 
The goal of this 2014 group is to really grow from the ex­periences of past teams, junior angelene dascanio said. 
“We are building from the previous years and also help­ing next year’s team. so last year’s team actually chose our site for this year. That way, we will actually be assessing last year’s bridge, doing an annual inspection on it and ultimately choosing next year’s site after we complete our own project,” dascanio said. “our group has evolved from just doing our bridge, to helping last year’s initiatives and contributing to next year’s successes.” 
This past weekend, some ndseed members attended the Bridge for prosperity Bridge Builder’s conference in Tenn. 
“it was a weekend of camp­ing in the smoky Mountains with about 10 other university teams. They put on some work­shops for us to learn some of the critical construction stages of the bridge. They also had presentations from people that have dedicated their lives to this organization,” Krug said. “in general, it was an extreme­ly motivating and inspiring experience.” 
dascanio said the most memorable piece of advice she received was the importance of the group’s ability to establish a strong relationship with the community of Mata de Tules. 
“That’s something we re­ally learned at the conference this past weekend, the key part of our project is building the bridge with the community. We’re not building the bridge for the community. We’re building the bridge with the communi­ty,” dascanio said. “The bridge becomes more of a model of what they accomplished them­selves, not just this gift that was given to them.” 
guitterrez said without rela­tionship and communication between the students and the community, the project would not complete its mission. 
“i think that building that relationship gives the bridge itself a life, making it another member of the community be­cause if they put so much ef­fort over five-six weeks over the summer,” gutierrez said. “The most important thing is the re­lationship. if the relationship with the community does not exist, pretty much the project is nothing.” 
The team is ready to face in­evitable challenges that will come up during their initial visit during fall break. These include establishing contacts, initiating a relationship with the community,and maximiz­ing their time there, ness said. 
“Material procurement for construction is one of our big­gest challenges, along with establishing contacts in the community, making sure that there is a lot of community in­volvement,” ness said. 
Krug said keeping commu­nication with the community after fall break is another im­portant obstacle they most overcome. 
“Keeping that communica­tion with the community from when we return after fall break to our next visit in May is going to be one of our biggest chal­lenges,” Krug said. “We leave them with some tasks that we hope will be accomplished by the time we come back, and we need to establish some way of making sure that actually happens.” 
sophomore nick hauser said members of the university community should watch for a commercial about ndseed during the usc game on oct. 19. 
“For the usc game, nBc is running a ‘What Will you Fight For?’ commercial that features ndseed,” hauser said. “We are really excited about that.” 
To learn more about ndseed, or to donate, visit ndseed. nd.edu. 


Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 


The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 



Flag 
conTinued FroM page 1 
really cool. it was just excit­ing that my whole family was there to see me for that.” 
Martin said she agreed that it was a great experience, em­phasizing how nerve-wrack­ing the experience was for her and how close they were to the players. 
“although it sounds simple,
 was so nervous,” Martin said. “We were all really ex­cited.  We got there around 
2:45 p.m. We just got a chance to walk around the field by the fifty-yard line.  i was close enough that i probably could’ve touched one of the 

“I was honored to be able to represent an incredible group of women in front of thousands of people.” 
Maddy Martin 
student body vice president 
football players, probably like Tommy rees when he was walking by.” 
Martin said this is the ninth year in which both saint Mary’s and notre dame student executives have been included in performing the ritual, and she said she felt honored to participate. 
“i know it was started back in 2004.  however, it is such an honor that Kat and i are able to share such an excit­ing experience with the notre dame student body president and vice president, especially since we are not technically students of notre dame.  it was awesome to look like a unified front,” Martin said. 
Before  the  game  com­ 
menced,  the  student  gov­ 
ernment  leaders  met  irish  
basketball  head  coach  Mike  

Brey, university president John Jenkins, assistant university vice president dennis Brown and former secretary of state condoleeza rice, sullivan said. 
sullivan said rice was very relatable and the group rel­ished the chance to meet her. 
“We shook hands with her, and she asked if we were se­niors, what our plans were for next year. she was very down-to-earth.  she’s a notre dame alumna.  she was awesome.  it was a really, very cool experi­ence.  it was really cool that all four of us got to share that as well,” sullivan said. 
sullivan credits the fellow­ship between notre dame and saint Mary’s student governments for their imme­diate association following elections last spring. 



“Maddy [Martin] and i have a really good relationship with alex [coccia] and nancy [Joyce].  We started hanging out with them ... right after all four of us were elected to plan to collaborate this year on dif­ferent events,” sullivan said. 
The two administrations and holy cross student gov­ernment will collaborate on a yearlong calendar of commu­nity events, sullivan said. 
“There’s an event called 
paid adverTiseMenT 
support-a-Belle-love-a-Belle here [at saint Mary’s].  it’s for Mental health awareness.  it was started three years ago, and when we described it to alex and nancy, they wanted to introduce something like that at notre dame.  so now they’re doing irish state of Mind.  We’re doing our own [collaboration] on three dif­ferent events.  We happened to get a hold of the holy cross student government as well this year.  so it will be all three schools, and that’s in a few weeks,” sullivan said. 
Martin said, ultimately, she was honored she was able to represent saint Mary’s college with sullivan. 
“i am so proud of my school and the women that attend it,” she said. “My opportunity to participate in the flag pre­sentation signified the im­portance of saint Mary’s as a whole.  i was honored to be able to represent an incred­ible group of women in front of thousands of people.” 

Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 







Obama welcomes signs of Iranian moderation 
Associated Press 
neW yorK — president Barack obama on Tuesday wel­comed the new iranian gov­ernment’s pursuit of a “more moderate course,” saying it should offer the basis for a break­through on iran’s nuclear im­passe with the united nations and the u.s. he signaled a will­ingness to directly engage iran’s leaders, tasking secretary of state John Kerry with pursuing that di­plomacy with Tehran. 
“The roadblocks may prove to be too great, but i firmly be­lieve the diplomatic path must be tested,” obama said during an address to the u.n. general assembly. 
obama issued a stern message to the international body itself, saying its ability to meet the test of the times is being challenged by the dispute over what to do about syria’s chemical weapons. he called on the u.n. security council to pass a resolution that would enforce consequences on syrian president Bashar assad if he fails to follow a u.s.-russian deal to turn his chemical weap­on stockpiles over to the interna­tional community. 
The president also addressed criticism of his shifting strat­egy for responding to an august chemical weapons attack in syria. The u.s. seemed on the brink of a military strike before obama abruptly decided to seek congressional approval, then joined the russians in pursuing a diplomatic resolution. 
“The situation in syria mir­rors a contradiction that has per­sisted in the region for decades: The united states is chastised for meddling in the region and accused of having a hand in all manner of conspiracy,” he said. 
“at the same time, the united states is blamed for failing to do enough to solve the region’s problems, and for showing indif­ference toward suffering Muslim populations.” 
obama announced that the united states would provide $339 million in additional hu­manitarian aid to refugees and countries affected by the syrian civil war, bringing the total u.s. aid devoted to that crisis to nearly $1.4 billion. 
as the general assembly meetings opened, the situation in syria was overshadowed by a flurry of friendly gestures be­tween the u.s. and iran’s new government. obama said recent statements by iranian president hasan rouhani, a moderate cler­ic elected in June, should offer the basis for a meaningful agree­ment on iran’s disputed nuclear program. 
The West has long suspected that iran is seeking a nuclear weapon. Tehran has consistently denied the charge. 
israeli prime Minister Benjamin netanyahu said Tuesday that the world “should not be fooled” by signs of mod­eration from Tehran. he said iran’s new outreach to the West is merely a ploy to ease interna­tional sanctions while it secretly builds a nuclear weapon. 
“iran thinks soothing words and token actions will enable it to continue on its path to the bomb,” netanyahu said. still, he added that he welcomes obama’s efforts to engage rouhani. 
obama, reflecting the skep­ticism of many in the u.s. and around the world, said rouhani’s “conciliatory words will have to be matched by actions that are transparent and verifiable.” 
obama said he was asking Kerry to pursue diplomatic prog­ress with iran, in coordination with five other world powers. Kerry will join representatives from those nations Thursday in a meeting with iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif. 

it’s unclear whether Kerry and Zarif will meet one-on-one on the sidelines of that meeting. and obama also offered no hints of whether he will meet Tuesday with rouhani. even a brief hand­shake would be significant, marking the first such encounter between u.s. and iranian leaders in 36 years. 
Zarif joined the iranian dele­gation in the hall for obama’s ad­dress. in iran, the main domestic Tv channels did not run speech live. 
obama arrived at the an­nual u.n. meetings with diplo­matic opportunities, not only on iran and syria but also on the elusive effort to seal lasting peace between the israelis and palestinians. While the pros­pects of a peace accord remain as slim as ever, the two sides have resumed direct talks, partly as a result of months of lobbying by Kerry. 
The president praised israeli and palestinian leaders for their willingness to take “significant political risks” in order to get back to the negotiating table. 
“now the rest of us must also be willing to take risks,” he said, adding that the united states must recognize that israel’s secu­rity depends on the formation of a palestinian state. 
obama will meet later Tuesday with palestinian authority president Mahmoud abbas. he’ll also hold talks at the White house next week with israeli prime Minister Benjamin netanyahu. 

paid adverTiseMenT 

health care law separates 2016 gop contenders 
Associated Press 
MacKinac island, Mich. — a clear divide over the health care law separates the emerging field of potential gop candidates for the 2016 presidential race, pre­viewing the battles ahead as they try to rebuild their party and seize the White house. 
u.s. sen. Ted cruz says he will fight “with every breath” to stop president Barack obama’s signa­ture domestic achievement, even if that means shutting down parts of the federal government. it’s an approach that former Florida gov. Jeb Bush calls “quite dicey” politi­cally for republicans. sen. rand paul of Kentucky says flatly that a shutdown is “a dumb idea.” 
“i’m acknowledging we prob­ably can’t defeat or get rid of obamacare,” paul told report­ers saturday while attending a republican conference in Michigan. “But by starting with our position of not funding it may­be we get to a position where we make it less bad.” 
allied on the other side with cruz are u.s. sen. Marco rubio of Florida and others who say they are making a principled stand, willing to oppose the law at all costs. 
Then there are those taking what they call a pragmatic ap­proach by accepting the law, if grudgingly, and moving on. This group includes govs. chris christie of new Jersey and scott Walker of Wisconsin, who says a shutdown would violate the pub­lic trust. 
“The government we have should work, so that’s why i don’t believe we should shut the govern­ment down,” Walker told reporters at the Michigan conference. 
The republican-controlled house passed a short-term spending plan Friday that would continue funding government operations through mid-decem­ber while withholding money for the health law. 
some gop lawmakers also ad­vocate holding back on increas­ing the nation’s borrowing limit, which could result in a first-ever default, unless the law is brought down. 
obama used his weekly radio and internet address saturday to scold “a faction on the far right” of the republican party, and he said he would not allow “anyone to harm this country’s reputation or threaten to inflict economic pain on millions of our own people, just to make an ideological point.” 
While attending the Michigan conference, paul said republicans could force a vote in both houses of congress, then negotiate changes to legislation in a joint conference committee. But, he added, time is running out. 
less than one-quarter of americans approve of the job congress is doing, about the same as approve of republicans in congress, according to recent national polls. democrats poll slightly higher, and large ma­jorities disapprove of the work of both. 
yet, only about a third of americans say they approve of the health care act. 
christie has accepted for his state key provisions of the law, yet campaigned on behalf of candi­dates who support dismantling it. he has taken no public position on whether to fight the law to the point of government shutdown. 
“he is either unwilling or unable to speak up against these guys,” democratic national committee spokesman Mike czin said. 
Michigan gov. rick snyder, hosting the conference where paul, Walker and louisiana gov. Bobby Jindal spoke saturday, said a shutdown “reflects poorly on the national political culture.” 
Bush was more pointed. he said republicans would be guilty of overplaying their hand if they passed a spending measure that did not include money for the 
health care law.  
noting  that  republicans  
control only the  u.s.  house in  
Washington,  or  “one-half  of  

one-third of the leverage” in the capital, Bush said Wednesday in Washington there “needs to be an understanding of that, or, po­litically, it gets quite dicey” for the gop. 
cruz said concerns that voters would blame republicans for a shutdown are unfounded. 
“if history is a guide, the fear of deep political repercussions — i don’t think the data bear that out,” he said. 
The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 


Fear of the dork 


InsIdE Column 

The art of taking it easy 
Allie Tollaksen 
scene Writer 

“sorry, i have four papers to write and six club meetings tonight, i can’t have dinner anymore.” 
Though maybe a little exaggerated, this kind of apology is not uncommon here at notre dame. The idea we have to fill our days with activities and extra credits and research jobs and interhall sports teams and student government committees is wide­spread among campus. somehow, it feels like all of my friends have full-time jobs on top of classes and a little “r&r” seems totally out of the question. 
But i have to ask — why are we doing this? sometimes i convince myself it’s because we’re passionate about so many things. We well-rounded individuals want it all; we’re domers, of course we can do everything. 
other times, i’m convinced it’s for much more shallow reasons. even as an adult, i find myself and others playing the “one-up­ping” game i remember being so prevalent in my middle school days. When a classmate or friend talks about how little sleep they got, you feel that sudden urge to explain you got even fewer hours of sleep, or maybe that you had the same work load but finished it faster, leaving time to enroll in another class or write a 10-page research proposal you’d “been thinking a little bit about.” 
We domers are competitive individuals. To feel like we’re keeping up with our peers, we’re going to bite off a sizable workload, maybe even a little more than we can chew. i just ask, for all of our sanity, that we think about relaxing. schedule in some free time. Take a study break. Just say “no” to taking on another project. pencil in a date with the university counseling center. Take a yoga class. eat real meals with other humans. if we all agree to prioritize our mental and physical health a little more, to take it easy sometimes, maybe we won’t feel like we’re falling out of the competition — everyone’s doing it! it’s cool now! 
some of you may be wondering what in the world i’m talking about. perhaps there are pockets of campus  where students are taking it easy and stopping to smell the roses. To those students: i congratulate and thank you. if there is anything i’ve learned this semester, it’s taking it easy is a lot harder than it looks. i haven’t mastered the art quite yet.  you students with free time and easygo­ing attitudes are trailblazers, possibly even campus heroes. i salute you. 
To the rest of you overachievers, let’s make a commitment this semester. not to another class or club or committee, but to ourselves. Take a little time off. resist the urge to one-up your friends and instead appreciate the time with them. These four years are going to fly by (they have so far), so instead of fill­ing every waking hour with resume-build­ing activities and mountains of homework so you can outshine your classmates, think about inviting one of them to coffee instead. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Fr. Kevin Nadolski 
Faith Matters 
growing up as children, we fre­quently fear the dark, as we don’t want to be alone with little light to shine on whatever it is we think could be lurking around us. We eventually learn to rest in darkness, confident we will be safe after some healthy reassurance from a parent or trusted adult. Thankfully, our fear of the dark dies as we mature. 
But not all of our fears die. 
in fact, we take some fears — or at least remnants of them — from our youth well into adulthood. our fear of the dark is rooted in a sense of danger, insecurity or threat to our safety. of course, it is reasonable to desire such safety, but sometimes what we perceive as threats are not always rational. and what we do to protect ourselves from these threats is not always healthy — or holy. 
For example, a person could have a fear of rejection; admittedly a painful experience. To protect against it, he may lie or misrepresent truths about him­self out of a fear that if someone ever learned the real truth about him, he would be rejected. The dishonesty then becomes a false light to protect him from the darkness of being personally dismissed. 
or, a woman might fear the darkness of defeat and work hard never to feel as if she is losing or at the short end of what she experiences as a competition. compensating for this, she may tend to over-represent her talents, achieve­ments or abilities. 
We all have insecurities that are deep within us, regardless of their nature or origin. These perceived inadequa­cies frequently hinder us from being completely free in our relationships and daily choices. 
Bullying has been presented as a national epidemic in our schools, and we can experience overly aggressive behaviors in the professional workplace and some social settings. school coun­selors agree much of this type of anti­social behavior comes from perceptibly strong students picking on the weak because the so-called bolder youths fear or loathe in themselves exactly what is visible in their victims: their own in­securities. Thus, the “fear of the dork” within prompts them to attack someone they judge to be one. 
recently, some have opined the once-forgiven tendencies of former congress­man and leading new york city mayoral candidate, anthony Weiner, grew out of a basic fear that he was not special enough. Thankfully, his wife, therapist and he are working on these matters and hoping healing is forthcoming. 
it has been said that many psycholog­ical problems have spiritual solutions. perhaps this beckons us to a deeper and closer look at our spiritual lives. 
do we turn to god with our most pressing fears? 
Whatever we fear most, in the depths of our being, can be presented to god, meditated on, placed into a gospel scene where Jesus could act on it and touched by his grace. This type of prayer serves as a healing agent of mercy that is al­ways available to us. like little children run to their parents for safety during nightmares, we adult children can run to our divine parent, in prayer, for se­curity in understanding the causes and roots of some of the insecurities that move us to be less than authentic. 
in addition to prayer, the aid of a spiritual director can be invaluable. religious women and men and those ordained have long benefitted from someone who walks with them as a dialogue partner in the spiritual life. st. Francis de sales, in his classic, “The introduction to the devout life,” as­serts all baptized people — regardless of their state in life — who are serious about growing their relationship with god need one. 
Meetings with a spiritual director usually occur once a month, last for about an hour and are simple conver­sations about experiences of prayer, temptation, grace, love, joy, sin or any­thing that pulls a soul closer to or away from god. choosing a director may be a challenge, but it is a necessary effort. Qualities of good candidates include a sense of maturity, facility in praying and understanding the spiritual life, familiarity with the scriptures and a good sense of humor. it is also good for the one directed to feel comfortable and trusted when talking about sensitive and personal matters. 
Throughout these conversations many issues may be unearthed and examined at their roots to show a con­nection or disconnect between the disciple’s life and the life of Jesus. The art of the conversation recalls how Jesus did his best work, visiting with people, touching their hearts with clear words, listening to them to help healing and walking with them to assure them of god’s love to tame their fears. 
Without Jesus, many of his compan­ions would have remained in the dark and in fear.  Without a spiritual director, so might we. 
Fr. Kevin Nadolski, a priest with the Oblates of St. Francis de Sales, works for his community as director of development and communications. He has served the church as a Catholic high school teacher, campus minister and principal, as well as vocation and formation director for the Oblates. He lives with his community in Wilmington, Del., and can be reached at knadolski@oblates.org 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EdItorIAl CArtoon 




The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 


Improving education 

Adam Newman 
scientia potentia est 

improving our education system is one of the most important goals we can strive for as a society. Many to­day believe the best way to improve education is to spend more on edu­cation and anti-poverty programs. spending more on education allows schools to provide broader educa­tional services and spending more on anti-poverty programs places students in a better position to learn because they are well-fed, have good housing, etc. however, this plan for improving education becomes in­creasingly unlikely given america’s long-term fiscal scenario. 
as the cost of healthcare rises and the baby boomers retire, the federal government will have to spend more on the rising cost of social security and Medicare, which together constitute roughly $63 trillion in unfunded liabilities according to the social security Trustees (an un­funded liability is the amount prom­ised in benefits minus the amount in dedicated expected tax revenues given current law). 
While the federal government only provides 10 percent of educa­tion funding, it is a critical source for schools in poorer areas through Title i funding and other education programs. 
states also face tremendous un­funded liabilities due to the retire­ment pensions and health care promises they made to public sec­tor employees, which constitutes a whopping combined $1.38 trillion of unfunded liability accorded to the pew research center. states contribute a greater percentage of education funding at roughly 47 percent. 
Finding a way to deal with these unfunded liabilities will be one our country’s greatest future chal­lenges. cutting Medicare and social security is very difficult due to po­litical opposition from seniors and cutting employee retirement bene­fits is very difficult due to legal ob­ligations. While raising taxes is one solution, raising taxes to cover even a portion of the unfunded liabilities will push tax revenue beyond his­torically high levels. 
a politically easier way for poli­cymakers to cover these liabilities is by cutting education funding and other anti-poverty programs. This is already happening in 35 states where school funding now stands below 2008 levels. Moreover, much of the recent federal “sequester” cut education funding: head start was cut by $406 million, Title i funding by $740 million and special educa­tion by $650 million.
 Thus, the amount of unfunded li­abilities the federal government and state governments will need to cover in coming years coupled with the preference of policymakers to cut education and anti-poverty fund­ing over other programs makes the belief that the only way to improve american education is by spending more increasingly unlikely. 
however, there is a strategy that can handle future education spend­ing decreases and still raise student outcomes. This view is largely asso­ciated with the “reform” movement in education, which focuses less on the extraneous factors of poverty and rather works to optimize con­trollable factors, such as teacher quality, the number of school hours, curriculum, etc. 
reformers also work to lower costs in education by closing failing and underused schools, streamlining the central bureaucracy, utilizing technology to reduce labor costs, laying off unnecessary staff, creat­ing accountability at every level and investing the created savings into students. This vision can and will lead to better outcomes at a much lower cost to taxpayers. 
helping those who cannot help themselves with healthcare, hous­ing, food, etc., is a moral impera­tive. however, those who believe the only way to improve education is by spending more on these items ignores the reality that, like it or not, the federal government and state governments are beginning to cut funding for education and anti­poverty programs to help pay down unfunded liabilities. 
even still, some ignore our fiscal reality and continue to advocate for more spending as the only way to save american education. These people certainly are entitled to their opinions, but they should know their plan deserves a failing grade. 
Adam Newman is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


imagination for your contemplation 
Jon Schommer 
viewpoint columnist 
pope Francis is a sinner. 

i know this because he said so in a recent interview with america mag­azine where he explains who he is by saying, “…the best summary, the one that comes more from the inside and i feel most true is this: i am a sinner whom the lord has looked upon.” 
The pope illustrates his self-reflection by describing the caravaggio painting of “The calling of st. Matthew.” (look it up!) in the piece, pope Francis sees himself in the hesitant Matthew, singled out by christ: “it is the gesture of Matthew that strikes me: he holds on to his money as if to say, ‘no, not me! no, this money is mine.’ here, this is me, a sinner on whom the lord has turned his gaze.” 
While the whole interview is inter­esting, the pope’s appeal to a work of art in an attempt to communicate his being struck a particular chord with me. By holding up this image, pope Francis is inviting me to enter into a conversation with him. as we contemplate together, i try to both understand what the pope is saying about himself and reflect upon what i understand about myself and my own experience. 
pope Francis is not using this form of communication arbitrarily. he was being asked to describe himself to the whole world in a few lines of text. how can a person de­scribe all of the experiences, trials and joys that make him who he is using only words? Words alone are inadequate. But pope Francis’ use of art to illustrate his reflection gives immense depth to his words. it al­lows us to dive into his meaning in its relation to his life and relevance to ours. 
The question the pope is asked re­minds me of the question frequently posed at the beginning of the school year: “how was your summer?” 
This is one of the hardest ques­tions for me to answer. i have par­ticipated in two summer service learning programs (sslps) and one international summer service learning program (isslp) through the center for social concerns. in each of these summers, i encoun­tered a different community of people who are marginalized and experiencing injustice in some way. Through these encounters, i formed relationships that gave me many les­sons to ponder about life, love and dignity. 
But, as you can see from that somewhat lifeless sentence, when asked the “summer question” it is really hard to describe these kinds of experiences in a concise and meaningful way. This is especially true if your response time is lim­ited to the five minutes before class as you run from the dining hall to deBart. oftentimes we are forced to simply answer in one-sentence or one-word responses and the experi­ences become neatly filed away into the obese list of items to add to our resumes once the career fair rolls around. 
The inability to communicate the meaning of our experiences can also lead to a hopeless feeling of isola­tion. it is very easy to look around at the notre dame population and be fooled by the façade of perfection we like to put around our lives. after spending a summer encountering the brokenness of others and my own brokenness, it was suffocat­ing to enter an environment where everyone around me pretended to be fixed. last year, however, i found space to breathe through song. 
during my summer in Kolkata, india working with the Missionaries of charity, i wrote five songs that became the handholds i used to climb the “summer question” mountain. 
Through music and lyrics i found a way to convey to my friends an image of the people i encountered, the brokenness in which i was im­mersed and the joy i experienced during those nine weeks. i found af­ter i played for people, they sounded back to me their own experiences with this sort of beauty and we started a conversation. We learned more about ourselves and each other. 
This is the genius of the pope’s use of art. Through an image, we can encounter each other in our broken­ness and vulnerability, tapping into the depths of our experience. This is how we grow as persons and as a community of persons. 
so, i invite you all to make like the pope and find some book, painting, song, poem, sculpture, etc. with which to contemplate your experi­ence. Then share that contemplation with another person. 
if you are looking for a sharing space, come join the campus group, voice, for a monthly homemade supper and conversation in geddes hall. you can email me at voice1. nd.edu for more information. 
Jon Schommer is in his fifth-year studying Civil Engineering and the Program of Liberal Studies. He lives off-campus in an intentional community made up of Notre Dame students called the Peace House. He has three couches on which to crash, two ears with which to listen and much food to share if you find yourself in need of anything. He can be contacted at jschomme@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 



Dan Brombach 
viewpoint editor 

after listening to drake’s hotly an­ticipated new album, “nothing Was The same,” i sat at my desk feeling duped. like a 19th century company claiming its cigarettes could cure asthma, or a pizza ranch convincing people its food doesn’t cause cardiac arrest or spontaneous combustion, cash Money records snared me in the sticky web of false advertising. drake’s new album should not be named “nothing Was The same.” it should be titled, “nothing Was above average.” 
This review pains me to write. i thought “nothing Was The same” would be on par with “Take care,” drake’s most recent and wildly successful studio al­bum. Maybe it wouldn’t be essentially golden from top to bottom but hey, it would still provide multiple classics to add to the iTunes library, right? Wrong. if it weren’t for its several redeeming tracks, “nothing Was The same” would have joined “Tha carter 4” in the ranks of my all-time musical disappointments. 
drake has always tried to balance rapping and singing, bragging and in­trospection, fast flows and crooning over moody, piano accompanied beats. if i had to put my finger on it, i guess the main problem with “nothing Was The same” is that he let this delicate balance drop right on its head. Make no mistake, drake did plenty of singing and moping in “Take care,” but he always managed to blend it well within the broader flow of the album. This was simply not the case with “nothing Was The same,” the only noticeable exception being the well-executed change of pace exhibited in the song “Too Much.” 
in songs like “it’s yours” and “connect,” it seems like drake is sacrificing musi­cal quality in a bid for sympathy, mak­ing “nothing Was The same” into a sob story rather than a hip-hop album. drake slowing things down and delving into his personal life — giving us a glimpse of his struggles, successes and fears — gives the album an undeniably unique and attrac­tive flavor at several points (as it does in “From Time”). however, this doesn’t change the fact that he took things over the top. if you want to tell your life story, write an autobiography called “Toronto Troubles” and go plug it on “The Maury show.” 
after listening to the album for a sec­ond time, i came to a sudden realization. With all his whining about relationship problems, give drake cowboy boots and a curly blonde wig and he would be the undisputed Taylor swift of rap. “oh but it’s so refreshing to see a rapper in touch with his emotions. he’s so sensitive and versatile,” his supporters will exclaim. Well, Taylor swift is versatile too: she can cry and play the guitar at the same time. 
Fortunately, “nothing Was The same” does have some songs that showcase drake at his best: delightfully arrogant with razor sharp lyrics and a smooth yet aggressive flow. if you want the drake from songs like “over,” “headlines” and “We’ll Be Fine,” i can guarantee “The language” and “all Me” will be right up your alley. 
i’m not leaving “started From the Bottom” off the list of album-redeeming tracks because of some temporary bout of amnesia, i’m excluding it because i can’t stand repetitive rap. if you enjoy listening to the same line repeated 28 times over the course of a three-minute long song then be my guest. it’s a free country. Bang your head against a wall 28 times in three minutes for all i care. 
i apologize that the beginning of this column turned into a drake bashing session. drake is one of my favorite rap­pers. if he keeps working and churning out music, he could end up carving out his own unique and enduring place in hip-hop. people can get carried away with their attacks on drake’s toughness, saying things like “drake is softer than wet tofu,” “drake cries during golden girl reruns” or “drake voted for ralph nader.” 
let me remind those critics that drake has the potential to blow the doors off any track he touches. he can make rappers look like preschoolers on their own tracks, just like he did with French Montana in “pop That.” he’s also incredibly powerful and well connected, so if i go missing, it’s probably because he sent someone who looks like huell from “Breaking Bad” to sit on me and break my legs. 
drake is still fiercely talented, so when he tells people not to “sleep on him,” i lis­ten.  at the end of the day, i will never sleep on drake’s ability as a rapper, even if most of the songs off his recent album made me want to take a nap. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

“Nothing Was The Same” 

Drake 
Label: Young Money Entertainment 
Tracks: “Too Much,” “The Language,” “All Me” 
If you like: “The Golden Girls,” Ralph Nader 



By JOHN DARR 
scene Writer 

you’re sitting there, in life. you’re read­ing and blinking and breathing and yawning. The world around you is a giant parking lot of normalness. 
Then a golden warrior kitten jumps onto your shoulder and lets out the cut­est battle cry in history. you whip Mace Windu’s lightsaber out of nowhere. day turns to midnight and the lights in the parking lot turn into disco balls as the stars flash, nyan-cat-like, across the heav­ens. you are about to save earth, Taylor swift and the moon’s secret population of meerkats. 
That’s what listening to “The Bones of What you Believe” makes you feel like. declarations of love and freedom ex­plode out of synthesizer tidal waves. Bass drums pulse like desperate heartbeats. snares crash like falling meteors. choirs shout into space. chvrches makes epic pop music that’s as inviting as Buzz lightyear’s outstretched hand. Believe me — you’re going to want to take that hand. 
But before grappling with this mon­ster of an album, some background: chvrches is a three-piece electro-pop band from glasgow, scotland. pronounced “churches,” the band start­ed gathering hype with “lies” and “The 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 
Mother We share,” a pair of massive sin­gles released via internet streaming ser­vices like youTube and soundcloud. in a matter of months, chvrches started receiving attention from a host of British publications including The guardian, nMe, The huffington post and BBc. in 2012, the group released the critically-acclaimed “recover” ep through virgin records, and since then, they’ve been slowly releasing new music single by single. 
Which takes us to the full album — “The Bones of What you Believe.” like a fantastic salad, “Bones” works because each ingredient in chvrches’ sound is fresh, rich and crisp. lead vocalist lauren Mayberry carries each melody with a voice that’s clear and powerful. iain cook and Martin doherty provide bass, gui­tar and synth performed with immacu­late precision. each band member has a background in music production, and on “Bones,” that skill makes the most of each musical opportunity. The bass is strong and deep but never dominates; the synths and voice intertwine but never collide. each element stands out and yet works together — the proverbial salad dressing is ever-present and yet none of the crou­tons are soggy. 
of course, ingredients are only as good as their recipes. Thankfully, the song­writing on “Bones” is five-star stuff. The clear production allows chvrches to cram numerous hooks into each song, re­sulting in tunes that are catchy from start to finish. synthesizer melodies, chopped vocal lines and even drum patterns leap out and make every song memorable. The verses and bridges are often so enthrall­ing and pleasant that the choruses seem to explode out of nowhere — the poor lis­tener’s brain is unable to comprehend an increase in what seemed unsurpassable awesomeness. although much of the al­bum stays in anthemic pop-song territo­ry, a few changing song structures such as the brooding thump of “science/visions” and the ballad-like closer “you caught the light” prevent the album from entering repetitive territory. 
and then there are the lyrics. almost in direct conflict with the joy and en­ergy exuded by the music, “Bones” finds Mayberry confronting flawed and dying relationships, albeit passing through to solid ground. Mayberry’s voice carries words as if they were mantras — each syl­lable is a statement and a step forward. album opener “The Mother We share” comes to terms explores a partner’s pain­ful silence in a one-sided relationship: “never took your side/never cursed your name/i keep my lips shut tight/until you go.” 
in “We sink,” Mayberry warns a com­panion that “We will fall if you lead us” before declaring, “i’ll be a thorn in your side till you die, if we sink we lift our love.” it’s a sense of directness and acceptance that differentiates chvrches’ roman­tic narratives from the average pop hit. Mayberry does not complain or accuse, but rather declares, triumphs and moves on.  and when you’re listening to her, it’s hard not to feel as if anything can be overcome. 
“The Bones of What you Believe” is an expertly crafted pop album that bursts with life and spirit. it boasts insanely catchy hooks, near-Kanye level produc­tion and lyrics that actually add to the music. chvrches are one of the catchi­est, most exciting bands to come out of the indie scene in the last decade, and as is the band’s namesake, everyone is in­vited to listen. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 



“The Bones of What You Believe” 

CHVRCHES 
Label: Virgin Records Tracks: “We Sink,” Mother We Share” If you like: Purity Ring, Lorde 



The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 



There’s no way of getting around it. The 65th annual primetime emmy awards, which aired sunday night, got really weird. perhaps neil patrick harris put it best when he announced, “This just in: no one in america is winning 
their office emmy pool.” The string of unlikely winners in nearly every category was so ex­
tensive that it warranted one of our society’s greatest awards of recognition, a trending hashtag. #Weirdemmys covered the full gamut of awkward moments that occurred sunday night, from Jeff daniels winning outstanding actor in a drama 
le was just what fans needed to be pushed over the edge into a preemptive depression about the ending of their favorite story. and by fans, i mean america. in the five year span of its airing, the number of viewers has skyrocketed from 1.2 million viewers at its inception to an astound­ing 8.5 million at its culmination. in the span of season 5.2 alone, nearly three million more viewers tuned in.  if “Breaking Bad” hadn’t won in its category, i’m positive that a revolt much stronger than a twitter fight would have ensued. 
Though sunday was a strange night indeed, its high points were quite memorable. amy poehler and Tina Fey heckling neil patrick harris to twerk was a superb tip of the hat to the lesser, albeit more interesting vMas.  Tiny Fey read the mind of america, saying what we all have wanted to say, when she thanked the pope for “just being cool about some stuff.” all in all, three-time emmy winning host neil patrick harris and his choreographed routines brought the night together. The 65th emmy awards cer­tainly won’t be forgotten, if for nothing else, be­cause of its status as #twitterfamous. 


#emmysfashion 
one of the most redeeming qualities of an award show is the opportunity to judge the fashion choices of those who are much more wealthy and successful than you. let’s face it, one of the only things that will make you feel better about sitting in your oversized sweat­pants on a sunday night, simultaneously shov­eling popcorn into your mouth and watching sofia vergara saunter down the red carpet in a jaw dropping vera Wang gown is to say that lena dunham’s prada dress resembled your grandmother’s tablecloth. (side note: i do love lena dunham and usually admire her bold choices.) 
perhaps equally at fault was Julianne hough in her ultra sheer dress that revealed a leo­tard-looking contraption fit more for her role on “dancing with the stars” than a trip to the emmys. Jim parsons, who would later win outstanding lead actor in a comedy, looked very dapper in a classic black tux, making “Big Bang Theory” fans go “Bazinga!” The ever taste­ful Zooey deschanel cannot go unmentioned. she wore a light blue gown that was so elegant, yet youthful, it made every girl long to be her best friend all over again. rose Byrne looked equally stunning in a light pink calvin Klein dress paired with relaxed, wavy hair. 
perhaps simplicity was the way to win over the red carpet. after all, something must be saved for oscar season. 
Contact Ally Scruggs at ascrugg1@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


sPorts AuthorIty 

Nobody wins in cupcake games 

Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
My mom is the best. Known fact. 
growing up, my brothers and i would come home from school and every once and a while there’d be a whole tray of brownies sit­ting in the kitchen, fresh out of the oven. We’d have one, maybe two, but were always told the same thing: 
“don’t load up on dessert. you’ll ruin your dinner.” 
Flash forward a few years, to saturday night. i was on duty in carroll hall after the game, and all i desired in this world was to sit on the couch and watch some quality football. But outside of hate-watching another Michigan near-choke in connecticut, there was absolutely nothing doing on saturday. 
sure, there was no. 5 stanford’s impressive blowout of no. 23 arizona state, and that ugly slug-fest in south Bend. But all across the country, Top 25 teams played games that were practically over as soon as they were scheduled. 
it’s Week 4, and college football’s top powers are still loading up on cupcakes. 
now, i suppose i understand if you want to open up with one surefire win to shake off the rust, some nobody like appalachian state, or akron (these Michigan digs are piling up). But we’re now a third of the way through the year, and the dessert buffet this week was almost offensive. 
no. 4 ohio state beat up on Florida a&M, 76-0, but that was almost tame by comparison. no. 7 louisville beat Florida international 72-0, even with a running clock in the second half. no. 8 Florida state hung a 54-6 win on “in-state rival” Bethune­cookman, which would be like notre dame taking the gridiron against “cross-town rival” Brown Mackie. and no. 16 Miami scored 77 on savannah state — through three quarters. The hurricanes agreed to show mercy and shorten the fourth quarter, covering the game’s 60-point spread without ever punting. 
no one has sought out the fluff of college football though more than Baylor. Through three ap­pearances, the no. 19 Bears are averaging 70 points and 750 yards per game, embarrassing lapdogs like Wofford, Buffalo and louisiana-Monroe. reports that Baylor’s athletic director has con­tacted Zahm house about a late-season matchup in Waco have yet to be confirmed. 
how bad was the slate of games this week? espn’s college gameday, without a single qual­ity matchup to cover, sought out the Fcs and broadcasted live from north dakota state (where even the mighty Bison kept with the theme of the weekend, rolling delaware state 51-0). 
The average margin of victory for Top 25 teams this weekend was 39 points, and the irish and Wolverines were the only ranked teams not to win by two touch­downs or more on saturday. 
These games are guaranteed victories on the schedule, but in reality nobody wins. Fans are forced to buy season tickets to get into the best games, only to have half of the home schedule filled with patsies and fourth-stringers. little schools get embarrassed on the national stage, although can make around $1 million just to show up and lose (top-ranked alabama paid colorado state $1.5 million for travelling to Tuscaloosa this weekend). 
and powerhouses get a win to put on their records — which sadly matters far more than the quality of the opponent under the current system — but don’t get any taste of actual competition, leaving them vulnerable once they enter confer­ence play. i’d bet dollars to dough­nuts scoring 209 points in three games does nothing for Baylor’s offense when they hit the Big 12. 
These easy wins may be a byproduct of the Bcs system, but don’t do any good for college football or its fans. and when a late september saturday has more cupcakes floating around than a Magnolia Bakery, it’s clearly a problem that’s gone too far. 
so, spineless teams of the Top 25, your hand has been caught in the cookie jar and it’s time to learn a lesson straight from mom: lay off the cupcakes. it’s fall, it’s conference football season and it’s time to eat your vegetables. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at @ wheffero.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


PGA 
stenson wins Fedex cup 
Associated Press 
aTlanTa — henrik stenson knows better than most players how it feels to go from the depths of a slump to the elite in golf. 
he’s done it twice now. 
and the second time was sweeter — and richer — than ever. 
not even among the top 200 players in the world two years ago, stenson capped off the best three months of his career with a command performance sunday in the Tour championship. With a birdie to thwart a late charge by Jordan spieth, followed by three pars from the sand, the 37-year-old swede closed with a 2-under 68 on sunday for a three-shot victory to capture the Fedex cup. 
he walked away with $11.44 million — $10 mil­lion for the Fedex cup ($9 million of that in cash) and $1.44 million for winning the Tour championship. 
“it shows that i never give up,” stenson said, who also moves to no. 4 in the world. “This is way beyond what i could have imagined.” 
even with a four-shot lead, the final round was a battle. There were two trophies on display on the first tee. he knew he could still win the Fedex cup even if he didn’t win the Tour championship. ultimately, he figured good golf would take care of ev­erything, and it did. 
stenson became the first player to win the Tour championship wire-to­wire with no ties since Tom Watson in 1987, the first year of this 30-man showcase. 
spieth made him work for it. 
The 20-year-old Texan left one last impression on his remarkable rookie season by running off four straight birdies on the back nine at east lake to pull within one shot after stenson went well over the 14th green and made his long bogey. 
stenson could hear the cheers and knew what he faced over the last four holes. 
“i’m not just a pretty face. i can put 1-and-1 together,” the swede said with his dry humor. 
he drilled a 3-wood into the fairway on the par-5 15th that set up an 8-foot birdie. ahead of him on the 17th, spieth was between clubs and chose to hammer a 9-iron that he caught heavy enough that it plugged in the front bunker. he made bo­gey and had to settle for a 64. 

“i was just looking up and seeing that i needed more in­stead of being satisfied with what happened,” spieth said of his four straight birdies. 
spieth wound up no. 7 in the Fedex cup, the highest ever for a rookie. he began the year with no status on any tour and finished at no. 10 on the pga Tour money list, and no. 21 in the world. 
The last challenge came from steve stricker, who rolled in an eagle putt on the 15th hole to get within two. stricker saved par behind the 16th green, and then missed two birdie chances from about 18 feet on the last two holes for a 65. he tied for second with spieth. 
stricker didn’t realize that making any of those last two putts would have been worth an extra $1 million for fin­ishing second in the Fedex cup. he only cared about winning, knowing he need­ed birdies and for stenson to make a mistake. 
“i knew the putt meant a lot. i didn’t know it meant that much,” he said with a smile. he finished third in the Fedex cup and received a $2 million bonus. 
stenson, who finished at 
“[Winning the Cup] shows that I never give up. This is way beyond what I could have imagined. I’m not just a pretty face. I can put 1 and 1 together.” 
Henrk Stenson 
PGA golfer 
13-under 267, became the first european to win the Tour championship and the Fedex cup. 
his amazing summer be­gan with a tie for third in the scottish open. stenson followed with a runner-up at the British open and the World golf championship at Firestone, third place at the pga championship and a win at the deutsche Bank championship. 
“obviously, the work was done before,” stenson said. “it’s not like i woke up in the middle of July and played fantastic.” 
The Tour championship was his second win in three tournaments of the Fedex cup playoffs. 
“since the scottish open, it’s been just an incredible run,” he said. “i’m speech­less. it was a tough day out there. To hang in there the way i did, i’m really satis­fied. ... it hasn’t quite sunk in yet. i had to fight hard men­tally to keep all this aside, and i managed to do that. it’s going to feel better as the week goes on. i’m pretty sure about that.” 
Tiger Woods, the no. 1 seed going into the Tour championship, never re­covered from his 73-71 start. he closed with a 67 to tie for 22nd, his worst finish ever at east lake, and wound up second in the Fedex cup. That still was worth a $3 million bonus. 
Woods wrapped up the pga of america’s points-based award for player of the year, and he captured the pga Tour money title and the vardon Trophy for the lowest adjusted scoring title. next up is a vote of the play­ers for pga Tour player of the year. he is the heavy favorite with five wins this year. 
The award is to be an­nounced on Friday. 
For much of the day, no one got closer to stenson than three shots, and he answered that early chal­lenge with an 8-iron to an elevated green to 2 feet for birdie at no. 7. The Tour championship came to life in the final hour, though, thanks to the youngest play­er in the field. 
Fearless as ever, spieth began a run of birdies start­ing on the 13th hole that not only moved him into sec­ond place, it put pressure on stenson not to drop any shots. stenson’s only bogey came on the 14th, when he caught a flyer over the green and missed a 20-foot putt. 
“henrik obviously was playing phenomenal golf,” spieth said. “i felt like once a few putts started falling, we have a shot at it.” 
Webb simpson had the low round of the tournament with a 63 to finish fourth. 
stenson, who only last week smashed a driver and his locker at the BMW championship out of frus­tration brought on by play­ing so much golf, finally gets a break. he was headed to his home in orlando, Fla., for a four-week break before returning in shanghai. 
next up: a chance to be­come the first player to win the Fedex cup on the pga Tour and the race to dubai on the european Tour in the same season. 
What a turnaround. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



Club wAtEr Polo 

Irish take two of four at Hillbilly Classic 
Special to the Observer 
over the weekend, notre dame traveled to Knoxville, Tenn. to participate in the annual hillbilly classic at the university of Tennessee. 
after a long trip on Friday, the irish opened the sea­son against conference rival grand valley state, losing 8-4 mostly because of trou­bles converting on man-up power plays. The irish came out slow in the first half, but did look stronger as the game progressed. goal scorers were junior dolff hanke on a man-up, grad student chris Jennis, junior Kevin Balhoff off a re­bound and sophomore david Katter out of the hole set position. 
in the second game of the tournament, the irish looked stronger against an under­manned Tennessee B squad, posting a 13-4 victory. The game gave the team a great op­portunity to give playing time to the entire roster. strong defense, ball protection and solid goaltending from fresh­man Will stone were keys to the victory. senior pat sullivan and sophomore Mike hayes scored twice in the vic­tory. Junior Teddy howe and sophomore nate urban also contributed goals for the irish. 
in their first game sunday morning, the irish faced a tough opponent in the Triangle Men’s club. after going down early, the irish prevailed in a sudden death 9-8 victory after an outside shot from Jennis won the game in dramatic fashion. The comeback was mounted due to stingy defensive play, most notably from senior Jack Turek and junior goaltender nick sayre, who slowed the Triangle offense to a halt. senior geno Freeman scored two goals, including one late in the game off a fantastic pass from junior chris catalino. hanke scored a goal late in the fourth quarter to send the game to the overtime. 
in notre dame’s final game of the tournament, it faced a strong dynamo squad and lost 6-1. While the offense struggled, the defense looked very strong, holding a potent dynamo offense to only six goals. The game was, once again, a great opportunity to get the whole roster some quality playing time. grad student Kevin overholt played solid defense, while freshmen Justin Jellinek, emerson Kirk and Mason Zurovchak showed signs of strong play both in that game and throughout the tournament. 
mlb 

Pirates clinch playoff spot 
Associated Press 
chicago — players chanted “Mvp! Mvp!” as they doused andrew Mccutchen in the visi­tors’ clubhouse, two decades of futility finally washed away. 
The last time the pirates made the playoffs, Barry Bonds was in the middle of the order. The average price of gas was $1.13 a gallon. 
yes, it had been that long. 
The pirates are going to the playoffs for the first time in 21 years, clinching at least a national league wild card Monday night when they beat the chicago cubs 2-1 and the Washington nationals lost to st. louis. and they hope that’s just the start, not the end. 
“We’re definitely not done,” Mccutchen said. “We’ve got some games left. We still could move farther.” 
now, they can turn their at­tention toward bigger goals, the kind that seemed like nothing more than a pipe dream through all those losing seasons. 

it will be pittsburgh’s first trip to the postseason since Bonds, Jim leyland and co. won three straight nl east ti­tles from 1990-92. Bonds then left for san Francisco as a free agent, and the small-budget pirates piled up 20 consecutive losing records — the longest streak in the four major profes­sional sports. 
“For me, it’s not about the last 21 years,” russell Martin said. “For me, it was just about this year, and what we could do this year. They had a good season last year, lost some steam late in september, but i knew that if you’re having a good season all the way into september, you know you have a good club.” 
starling Marte hit a tiebreak­ing homer in the ninth inning at Wrigley Field, and the pirates threw out a runner at the plate for the final out. 
The pirates sprayed each other with bubbly and beer and sparkling cider in the visitors’ clubhouse once st. louis’ 4-3 
paid adverTiseMenT 

win over the nationals became final. 
The cincinnati reds also clinched at least a wild-card berth, when they beat the new york Mets 3-2 in 10 innings. The pirates and reds, both 90-67, trail st. louis by two games in the nl central with five to go. 
pittsburgh players sang Journey’s “don’t stop Believing.” They took pictures and manager clint hurdle had them gather for a group photo in the middle of the cramped visitors’ clubhouse. 
“The people of pittsburgh have been waiting a long time,” said neil Walker, who homered. 
The pirates snapped a 1-all tie when Marte sent a drive off Kevin gregg (2-6) with two outs in the ninth into the left field bleachers. 
in a fitting coincidence, they then preserved the victory on the final out in a play at the plate. 
Mccutchen, the center field­er, picked up ryan sweeney’s bloop single after right fielder Marlon Byrd failed in trying to scoop up the ball and threw to first baseman Justin Morneau, positioned just in front of the pitcher’s mound. Morneau caught the throw on one hop and made the relay to catcher russell Martin, who applied the tag on nate schierholtz try­ing to score from first base. 
still on his knees, Martin held the ball over his head in jubilation. Then, he heaved the ball toward deep left field as the pirates celebrated near the mound, and Jason grilli grabbed him, having es­caped with his 32nd save in 34 chances. 
“Twenty-one years since we popped champagne in a pirates clubhouse — and we’re acting like it’s been a long time,” hurdle said. “The hard work, the fun. i’m just proud of each and every man in here, the fans they represent, owner­ship, general manager, presi­dent ... the scouts, players. This has been a group effort for a long time.” 
nCAA FootbAll 
penn state to restore scholarships 
Associated Press 
harrisBurg, pa. — penn state will gradually get back football scholarships taken away over the Jerry sandusky child molestation scan­dal, the ncaa announced Tuesday, crediting the uni­versity for making signifi­
cant  improvements  to  its  
athletics programs.  
Five  scholarships  will  be  

restored next year and 15 more will be phased in un­til the school reaches the limit of 85 in 2016-17, a sea­son earlier than the school had agreed to, college sports’ governing body said. The ncaa said the unanimous decision by its executive committee was based on the recommendation of former 
u.s. sen. george Mitchell, who has been serving as penn state’s athletics integ­rity monitor. 
“This action provides an opportunity to recognize penn state’s significant mo­mentum, while also provid­ing additional opportunities for student-athletes,” said Wake Forest university pres­ident nathan hatch, chair of the ncaa’s division i board of directors, which endorsed the decision. 
The penalties came amid heavy criticism of univer­sity leaders’ response to complaints about sandusky. penn state and the ncaa agreed to the penalties by entering into a consent de­cree more than a year ago, shortly after sandusky was convicted of 45 counts of sexual abuse. They also re­quire the school to pay a $60 million fine and serve a four-year ban on postseason play. The ncaa also eliminated 112 wins by the football program. 
penn state president rodney erickson called the restoration of scholarships particularly welcome news for student-athletes who want to attend penn state. 
“as we promised through­out this process, we are com­mitted to improving all our policies, procedures and ac­tions,” erickson said. 
The ncaa said it also may reduce the postseason play ban, depending on the uni­versity’s future progress. Mitchell said it was prema­ture to say which other sanc­tions might be changed. 
“This was a positive re­sponse to positive action, and as to the future, we’ll have to make judgments in the future,” Mitchell told re­porters in a conference call. he said the decision was par­ticularly warranted by the actions of erickson and oth­er university leaders “in the face of considerable opposi­tion within the penn state community.” 
“over time, their actions led to a circumstance where it became clear to me that their response was positive in the face of difficult cir­cumstances,” Mitchell said. 
Mitchell said he recom­mended the restoration of scholarships, but the spe­cific elements were decided by the ncaa and Big Ten conference. 
“it is the mechanism most directly targeted to students, student-athletes,” Mitchell said. “i felt it was an appro­priate place to provide the relief.” 
earlier this month, Mitchell issued a report on the first year of his service as monitor, crediting penn state for notable progress that included implementa­tion of 119 recommendations made last summer by former FBi director louis Freeh, who directed the school’s in­vestigation into the scandal. 


The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 

smC soCCEr | sMc 2, alBion 2 
Belles hold on to tie Albion in road game 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles finished their third consecutive double-overtime game this Tuesday, coming back from behind twice to tie albion in a 2-2 deadlock in albion, Mich. 
since the Belles (2-4-3, 0-2-3 Miaa) joined the Miaa confer­ence in 1997, it is the first time they have played three consecu­tive overtime conference games. 
albion (2-6-1, 0-5-1 Miaa) ad­vanced first, scoring on a free kick to lead 1-0 just 15:02 into the game. albion senior mid­fielder linsdey lubanski was the player that put albion in the lead. 
only four minutes later Belles sophomore midfielder Maggie Mclaughlin chipped in a goal off an assist from senior for­ward Jordan diffenderfer. Mclaughlin’s equalizer was her second goal of the season. 
albion quickly retaliated and regained the lead just 22 sec­onds later, when freshman for­ward domenique sarnecky shot from twenty-five yards out off an assist from freshman mid­fielder lauren cross. 
The game stayed 2-1 in the favor of albion until late in the first half, when the Belles scored the final goal of the game. Belles junior defender Kerry green scored a header off a corner kick by senior midfielder Mollie valencia. 
The scoring subsided in the second half, as both teams held each other scoreless and then game then advanced to over­time. Both desperate for points, the Belles and albion fought to get shots off on goal. regardless of their efforts, no goals were scored and the game remained tied at 2-2. 
The Belles out-shot albion 10-5 in the first half and 5-0 in the second half. neither team managed a shot in the first time period, and the Britons man­aged the only shot of goal in ex­tra time in the second overtime period. 
Belles junior goalkeeper natalie Warner gathered three saves and allowed just the two goals in 45 minutes of play before junior goalie chanler rosenbaum came on in relief at halftime. 
rosenbaum, saint Mary’s athlete of the Week and Miaa defensive player of the Week, picked up a save in the final 65 goal in 220 minutes of play and The Belles will host Miaa op-minutes of the game. last week, faced 21 shots with a career-ponent olivet at home saturday, rosenbaum allowed just one high of 13 saves. sept. 28 at 12 p.m. 



paid adverTiseMenT 



mEn’s GolF | 881, 7Th 

Irish struggle at home 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports Writer 
after finishing Monday’s play in the sixth position, the irish had a rough second day to finish seventh overall out of 13 teams at the Fighting irish gridiron classic at Warren golf course. 
notre dame shot a 296 on Tuesday to cap off scores of 294 and 291 on Monday and finish with a team total of 
881. not even home course advantage seemed to help notre dame, irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
“coming into it, we thought we would have good com­petition in top teams like houston, but we thought with our team and it being our course, we would finish in the top three or four,” Kubinski said. “unfortunately, that didn’t happen.” 

houston took first place with a tournament-record score of five-under 847 (282, 283, 282). houston junior platt led the irish with a golfer Kyle pilgrim finished in three-under 69 to finish the the top individual spot with a weekend with a total of 215 weekend total of 208 (71, 71, (74-72-69). platt finished in 66). Michigan state came in 12th place in his fourth last second (284-294-284) and yale gridiron classic. placed third (291-289-287). “niall [platt] did a fantastic 
Kubinski said the irish had job today,” Kubinski said. “he some good moments over the birdied his last three holes. he course of the tournament, but has played this tournament as a whole the squad did not with us for the past four years live up to expectations. and i was glad to see him end 
“overall, it was just one of it well.” those tough losses,” Kubinski it is not common for the said. irish to shoot that high as a 
on Monday, the irish were team, Kubinski said. unable to break 75, with the “other than niall, no one exception of senior captain else broke 75,” Kubinski said. niall platt. “That’s rare for us. especially 
“We didn’t play well when it’s warm like it was [Monday],” Kubinski said. [Monday] and being at home. “We were all pretty disap-We typically average 70, 71, pointed in our performance.” 72, but it was disappointing that no one else broke 75.” 

Kubinski said although the irish did not perform up to their typical abilities, they recognized some areas to fix and have time to fix the flaws. 
“The good news is that we have a couple of weekends off to improve ourselves,” Kubinski said. “We have iden­tified a few things we need to work on - each player has their own individual issues to im­prove. The good thing is that we have time to do it, we have a few weeks to work on it.” 
The irish next com­pete at the crooked stick intercollegiate on oct. 14 and 15 in carmel, ind. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
smC GolF | 341, 2nd 
Belles take second at Medalist club 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports Writer 
The Belles started strong in Miaa play, shooting a 341 as a team at the Medalist golf club, good enough to put them in second place after the first round of conference play. 
it was the Belles’ second trip to the Medalist club this season, and while their score failed to match their first two rounds at the course, they produced a better finish in the team ranking. saint Mary’s trailed only olivet college’s 329 on Tuesday in the team standings, and led third place calvin college by six strokes. 
The event’s hosts, albion college, finished in seventh place with a score of 399. in the individual standings, olivet’s Theresa damico paced the group with a 78, with saint Mary’s senior cap­tain paige pollak hot on her heels with an 80 to tie for sec­ond. While pleased with her team’s performance, Belles coach Kim Moore is hoping they can close the gap be­tween them and olivet over the next few rounds. 
“We’re a little farther back than i thought we’d be, but we can’t win [the conference] on the first day,” Moore said. “i think we definitely have some work to do before we come back for the next one on saturday.” 
outside of pollak’s stellar performance, junior Janice heffernan was the only other Belle in the top 10 individual­ly, her 86 good enough to tie for ninth on the day. sophomore sammy averill was third for the Belles and 11th overall with an 87, and freshman ali Mahoney was tied for 13th with an 88. averill was unable to match her performance from the o’Brien national invitational at the Warren, where her career-best rounds of 81 and 80 earned her rec­ognition as Miaa Woman’s golfer of the Week. despite that, Moore still saw glimps­es of excellence in averill’s round, especially her strong start to the day. 
“she didn’t finish well, but she did well,” Moore said. “i was really impressed with the first nine [holes] she had, and that’s golf for you sometimes, you have a good nine then a bad nine.” 
rounding out the Belles’ top five was freshman courtney carlson in 18th place. it was carlson’s first time qualify­ing as part of the Belles, and she finished with a 90. coach Moore was excited with carlson’s development, and believes she adds real depth to the saint Mary’s roster. 
“i think she did rather well,” Moore said. “it seemed like to­day, as with everyone, she had a good nine and a bad nine. But, i was really happy with the way she played today.” 
The Belles face a quick turnaround this week, as they return to play at Milham park course in Kalamazoo, Mich., for the second round of Miaa play. 
Contact Cassey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 


paid adverTiseMenT 
wnbA 
griner lifts Mercury to win 
Associated Press 
los angeles — Brittney griner’s performance had been up-and-down in her WnBa playoff debut. With veteran diana Taurasi urging her on, the rookie calmly sank the winning basket. 
griner’s turnaround jumper with 4.9 seconds left gave the phoenix Mercury a 78-77 vic­tory over the los angeles sparks on Monday night in the decid­ing game 3 of their first-round series. 
“it doesn’t matter what you do until the end,” said griner, who finished with six points, four re­bounds and four fouls. “i wasn’t nervous about it. i didn’t think twice.” 
candice dupree scored all but two of her 22 points in the first half, dewanna Bonner add­ed 19, and Taurasi had 18 points and 10 assists while improv­ing to 6-0 in career elimination games with the Mercury. 
phoenix advanced to the Western conference finals against top-seeded Minnesota. game 1 is Thursday. 
Kristi Toliver led the sparks with 22 points. WnBa Mvp candace parker added 18 points, and nneka ogwumike had 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
The sparks were eliminated for the second straight year with a one-point loss. a year ago, they lost 80-79 to Minnesota, which swept the conference finals. 
“i’m sick of always being on this podium talking after a loss,” parker said. “clearly, we keep losing by one point at the end of the season so it’s something we’re doing.” 
after parker gave the sparks just their second lead of the fourth on a layup with 7 seconds to go, griner responded with the winning basket for the Mercury. 
“The minute she caught it and made her motion to shoot i just knew it was going in,” Taurasi said. “i’ve seen her make that shot all year. For her to be up-and-down all series and take that shot just tells you a lot about Brittney and how men­tally strong she is. she’s willing to do anything for this team to win.” 
parker missed a fling from the wing after getting trapped in the right corner as time expired, dashing her hopes of adding her first WnBa championship to her collection of ncaa titles and olympic gold medals. 


The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 

wall 
conTinued FroM page 20 
“games are a lot of fun, es­pecially playing at home in front of our fans,” Wall said. “Whenever we have a large student section coming out and sitting behind the goals it boosts the whole atmo­sphere of the game. all of our guys love that kind of game environment.” 
But Wall does not deny that he might have developed a bit of the quirkiness often associ­ated with goalkeepers. 
“yeah, i can’t argue that goalies are different, but i don’t take that as a bad thing,” Wall said. “We have four keepers on our team all who have dif­ferent personalities. i’m a bit of a space nerd, [senior] adam laplaca has survived Marine boot camp, [sophomore] Brian Talcott is one of the best danc­ers i’ve ever seen, and chris hubbard is still a freshman.” 
Wall wasn’t kidding when he described himself as a “space nerd.” The two-time Big east academic all-star is majoring in aerospace engineering. 
“it’s not a common major, but i enjoy flying and it has been a great fit for me,” Wall said. 
Wall spent his summer in houston, where he interned with a nasa contractor – while training with the houston dynamo of the Mls. 
“so while i was a big nerd this summer working on send­ing a rocket into space, i also got to learn from some of the best soccer players in the coun­try,” Wall said. “Both experi­ences were dream jobs and the opportunity to do them both every day of the summer was unbelievable.” 

But don’t think Wall spends all his time at soccer practice or toiling in the lab. The senior says some of the best moments of his college career have come at the yacht dance, the annual event attended by st. edward’s hall residents. 
“at the end of every year i get to travel down to chicago with my best friends and party on a yacht all night,” Wall said. “every year there is a story that will be remembered long after we graduate.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
smC vollEybAll 

Belles host Manchester in non-conference match 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

sports Writer outside hitter Kelsie Thomas has 264, making her both an (196), sophomore outside hit-continuing to play great de­
with 193. Freshman middle offensive and defensive threat. ter Katie hecklinski (116) and fensively, block well and play 

after a tough weekend hitter Morgan pavelka balanc-sophomore defensive special-junior middle hitter Melanie our best,” elyea said. “We will against two nationally-ranked es the center of Manchester’s ist Morgan yoder rounds out Kuczek (113) have recorded need to get a little more con-conference opponents, the offense with 172 kills and 70 the top three for Manchester triple-digit kills. sistency out of our offense in Belles look to bounce back blocks. with 200 digs. The entire opponents have outblocked order to produce wins.” against Manchester on Freshmen dominate the spartans defense has been ac-saint Mary’s 114.5 to 61, and saint Mary’s takes the court Tuesday and earn their second spartans’ defensive statistics tive this season on its way to elyea said the Belles will focus at home against Manchester home win of the season. as well. Freshman defensive an average of 14.54 digs per on improving their blocking on Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Belles coach Toni elyea specialist Meika Kennedy has set. presence and efficiency on of-said the challenging matches snagged a team-leading 347 For the Belles, junior out-fense against the spartans. Contact Samantha Zuba at against no. 1 calvin and no. digs this season, and pruden side hitter Kati schneider “We are focused on szuba@nd.edu 2 hope exposed the areas that 
paid adverTiseMenT 
saint Mary’s (5-8, 3-4 Miaa) needs to improve. 
“coming off of a very tough week, we are very aware of what we need to get better at individually and as a team,” elyea said. “playing the no. 1 and [no.] 2 team in the coun­try, you are able to see ex­actly where you need to make improvements.” 
calvin (14-0, 6-0 Miaa) and hope (14-1, 5-1 Miaa) tested the Belles’ defense with high-powered offens­es, and Manchester (3-9, 0-0 heartland) won’t give saint Mary’s much of a break. The spartans have crushed 9.79 kills per set so far this season. 
“Manchester is a team that continues to get stronger every year,” elyea said. “They have two solid outside hitters that we will need to be focused on.” 
a pair of young outside hit­ters power Manchester up front. Freshman outside hit­ter sarah pruden comfortably leads the spartans with 343 kills, followed by freshman 




Football 
conTinued FroM page 20 
to be our best game of the year in all phases, including special teams.  and we certainly know that because we’ve played oklahoma before, and we know what to expect.” 
depth chart changes 
For the first time this sea­son, the five running backs who have seen game action (juniors george atkinson, amir carlisle, cam Mcdaniel and freshmen greg Bryant and Tarean Folston) are all on an even playing field, at least on paper. 
all five backs are listed as co-starters in this week’s depth chart, which was released Tuesday, even though Kelly called the rotation a four-man one sunday. Kelly clarified his comments, saying the irish just got to four running backs saturday and want to get to five. 
Junior inside linebacker Jarrett grace was listed as the co-starter at the Mike line­backer position along with graduate student dan Fox. 
Kelly said grace’s progress has allowed the inside line­backer positions to be fluid with grace, Fox and graduate student carlo calabrese. 
sophomore safety elijah spartans. 

no green jerseys 
despite a joint effort from the leprechaun legion and the Kelly cares Foundation to green-out notre dame stadium on saturday, Kelly said the irish will not be wearing green jerseys against oklahoma. 
according to Kelly, there will be more than 40,000 green pom-poms handed out to fans entering the game saturday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
shumate has slipped into the starting safety role opposite senior austin collinsworth and junior Matthias Farley, who are listed as co-starters. 
Freshman Max redfield is listed as shumate’s backup. 
day update 


Kelly said he expected sophomore defensive line­man sheldon day to prac­tice Tuesday. day missed the Michigan state game saturday with a sprained ankle. 
senior defensive line­man Kona schwenke started in day’s place against the 
paid adverTiseMenT The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 



Interhall 
conTinued FroM page 20 
under the lights. 
The Wildcats’ (2-0) defense recorded three interceptions, keeping the Wild Women (0­
2) off the scoreboard. one of the interceptions came during the Wild Women’s first offen­sive drive, and senior captain andrea carlson said this gave ryan an early boost. 
“That first interception was really good for getting the mo­mentum turned around since we didn’t score on our first drive,” carlson said. 
The game’s momentum continued to swing. near the end of the half the Wildcats grabbed two touchdowns, both scored by freshman quar­terback Kathleen conaty. 
Walsh was also adjusting to a new quarterback, junior Julianne carson, and the in­stallation of many freshmen players in key roles. however, junior captain Molly Johnson was optimistic about the play­ers’ potential. 
“What we saw today, even though we lost, was great con­sidering a majority of the team is freshmen who are new to flag football,” Johnson said. “We haven’t had a lot of chances to prepare so i think we’ve made great improvement since the first game.” 
Walsh’s defense recorded its only interception of the game in the third quarter, but the offense was unable to convert the opportunity into points. 
carlson, who scored the Wildcat’s final touchdown of the game on a pass from conaty, believes that the vic­tory over the Wild Women still leaves room for improvement. 
“i think we are looking to get our offense going a little more,” carson said. “23 is a good num­ber for us but we want it to be even better.” 
ryan will attempt to remain undefeated when it takes on Farley on Monday while Walsh looks to bounce back from defeat against howard on sunday. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 
Pangborn 24, welsh-Fam 0 
By MITCHELL MEERSMAN 
sports Writer 
in a late game on a chilly Monday night, the clash be­tween pangborn and Welsh Family resulted in a 24-0 rout, with the phoxes (2-0) claiming the victory over the Whirlwinds (0-2). 
The phoxes were hampered early on by a slew of penalties on both sides of the ball, but finally found paydirt near the end of the second quarter with a touchdown run by junior quarterback caitlin gargan. 
Welsh Family respond­ed with a drive deep into pangborn territory as the first half came to a close, but the phoxes bailed themselves out with a late interception they almost returned for a touch­down of their own. 
While the Whirlwinds had trouble with penalties and slowing pangborn’s offensive attack, Welsh Family sopho­more captain Johanna Blake was happy with the heart her team showed and hopes to im­prove upon their mistakes on defense. 
“We looked better on offense. We had a couple tough breaks on defense,” Blake said. “all in all i was really pleased with the effort and plays we did make.” 
in the second half pangborn dominated, racking up two more touchdowns. The first came on another run by gargan, while the game’s final score was a pass from gargan that found junior center ally Weaver in the end zone. 
“That was a great play,” pangborn senior captain Mary veselik said. 
pangborn will next match up against Breen-phillips on including freshman running sunday, while the Whirlwinds back allie griffith, pasquerilla will go for their first win West beat the pyros to the sunday against Mcglinn. edges to break multiple large 
runs, including the first touch-Contact Mitchell Meersman at down.  With a run game that mmeersma@nd.edu kept pasquerilla east on their 
toes defensively, pasquerilla Pasquerilla west 28, West exercised a deadly pass Pasquerilla East 7 game, scoring three of their 
four touchdowns through the 
air. senior captain Breezi Toole 
By ERIC RICHELSON 
said she thinks that if their young receivers, like freshman pasquerilla West’s strong Monica Busse and sophomore start offensively and defen-Mary Kate vicenzi, continue sively proved to be too much to consistently improving, for pasquerilla east to come pasquerilla West’s offense will back as the purple Weasels (2-be a force to be reckoned with 
sports Writer 
0) cruised to a 28-7 victory over in the future. the pyros (1-1). “They worked hard in prac-
The purple Weasels shut tice and it really showed to-down the pyros’ offense early day,” she said. “on offense and often, forcing punts and our young receivers really im­failed fourth down conver-proved from last game.” sions and giving pasquerilla The pyros were able to con-West excellent field posi-vert one fourth down for a tion throughout the first half. touchdown, when senior run-With an explosive backfield, ning back Kiah schaefbauer, 
paid adverTiseMenT 
who was coming off a two touchdowns in her first game, found the end zone. 
however, the pyros were unable to field any fur­ther response to the purple Weasels’ defensive wall.  after pasquerilla West scored three touchdowns in the first half, pasquerilla east looked to change their defensive scheme in the second half to prevent griffith from getting to the outside and pasquerilla West’s receivers from making big plays.  Though their strategy was successful and they held the purple Weasels to only a touchdown after halftime, the deficit was still too great for the pyros to overcome. 
The pyros will have a bye weekend to regroup, while the purple Weasels will try to re­main undefeated this weekend against lyons. 
Contact  Eric Richelsen at erichels@nd.edu 




Crossword | Will shorTZ 


hIGhly PunlIkEly | chrisTopher BrucKer 

ControllEd ChAos | hillary MangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoku | The MephaM group 

horosCoPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: spencer Treat clark, 26; erin chambers, 34; nia vardalos, 51; Kevin sorbo, 55. 
Happy Birthday: look for answers, ask questions and scout for opportunities. em­brace your emotions and share your thoughts. Focus on knowledge and incorporat­ing positive changes that will help ease stress and bring you closer to lifelong goals. let the past go and step into the future feeling confident that you are doing what’s best for you. seek the truth. your numbers are 3, 10, 19, 23, 34, 48, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): an unlikely partnership will bring about changes to the way you live. a change will do you good and must be incorporated quickly before the window of opportunity closes. Think fast, take action quickly and don’t look back. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t race through everything or you will fall short and face criticism. a job you are considering will not be as exciting as it sounds. Find out exactly what’s being offered and get promises in writing. don’t argue; be nice. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll have some good suggestions, but don’t cross the line or you will be blamed for meddling. Tables will turn quickly if your facts aren’t right. instead, put more into your home and improving your standard of living. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): use your imagination and you will come up with inter­esting ways to socialize, make new acquaintances and find romantic settings that will enhance your life. a growing interest should not be ignored. pursue what draws you with a passion. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): change your surroundings. staying at home will result in conflict. Take time to think about a personal problem you face before you confront the situation. Time is on your side and will help alleviate making a wrong assump­tion. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): head out in search of a little adventure. you need a change of scenery or mental and physical stimulation that will perk your interest and motivate you to get involved with something exciting and satisfying. Work to straighten out any emotional mix-ups. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Taking an emotional trip down memory lane will help you clear up pending issues that have been standing between you and a decision you need to make. Truth will be the deciding factor when it comes to personal relationships. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you may want to make some noteworthy alterations at home, but consider the cost involved. consider innovative ways to get what you want for less. your ingenuity will be impressive and result in raising your profile and your confidence. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a proactive approach will get the job done no matter what it is you are trying to accomplish, but expect to experience some op­position and emotional mind games along the way. don’t hesitate; make your voice heard and put your plans into motion. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): someone with a hidden agenda will charm you. don’t count on anything or anyone. it’s important to take control of any situation you face that can influence your reputation or status. change isn’t the answer -­consistency and fair play is. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put more into your surroundings. What you do to feel more at home or comfortable will lift your spirits and help you put a greater distance between you and someone who has limited you in the past. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): check over paperwork that can make a difference in the way you do business or make investments. The choices you make regarding your health and financial well-being will bring about other opportunities to pursue something or someone that interests you. 

Birthday Baby: you are dedicated, loyal and creative. you are intelligent and sophisticated. 
JumblE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

Make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, sEPtEmbEr 25, 2013 | ndsMcoBserver.coM 
FootbAll 
Close calls 

No. 22 Notre Dame prepares for touted matchup with No. 14 Oklahoma 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant Managing editor 
in saturday’s 17-13 win over Michigan state, no. 22 notre dame squeaked out its 10th win in the last 11 games in contests decided by less than a touchdown. 
in the first seven such games during irish coach Brian Kelly’s tenure at notre dame, the irish were 2-5. 
Kelly said winning close games came in due time. 
“When we first got here i don’t believe that we were able to win some of those games, and i think it’s just a matter of time,” he said Tuesday dur­ing his weekly press confer­ence. “We’re four years into our program. our kids believe that if they prepare the right way and they take care of the things that they’re supposed to do that they have a belief [they can win].” 
already this season, the irish (3-1) have two victories of seven or fewer points (against purdue and Michigan state). last sea­son, they notched five victories of seven or fewer points, in­cluding two in overtime. 
Kelly said the irish still need to execute, despite the mindset they carry into the game. 
“They believe that they can win no matter what the cir­cumstances are,” he said. “But again, i would caution you to say that it’s still about you’ve got to make plays. We made a couple more plays at the end, and we’ll have to make a couple more this weekend.” 
The irish will likely en­counter another close game this saturday against no. 14 oklahoma, who are 3.5-point road favorites over notre dame. 
Kelly said the irish need to play exceptionally well against the sooners (3-0). 
“it’s just a well coached, deep and talented football team,” he said. “We’re going to have to play extremely well. We’re going to have to be in great po-a year ago in norman, okla., sition, extremely disciplined the irish exploded for 20 points across the board and play our in the fourth quarter — includ­best game of the season.” ing the final 17 — to beat the 

sooners, 30-13. “i think you’re going to have 
see FooTBall PAGE 17 
mEn’s soCCEr 
womEn’s IntErhAll 

Wall finds niche as goalie 
dietzel leads 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports Writer 
it wasn’t a desire to emu­late a talented international keeper that inspired irish se­nior goalkeeper patrick Wall to move to his current posi­tion at the age of 11. he wasn’t looking for the adrenaline rush that follows a great save, or even the responsibility of being his team’s last defense. 
no, the young Wall was, well, not all that interested in exerting himself. 
“it all started around the age when coaches felt the need to do conditioning with the players, and one day i asked the coach if there was any way i could get out of all the running,” Wall said. “his response was ‘Well, you could be the goalie.’ so i took that advice to heart and avoided all the long running that i could.” 
The no. 4 irish are the lucky beneficiates of Wall’s decision. The sugarland, Texas, na­tive has played every minute of the season so far, allowing only three goals in six con­tests. The irish (3-0-3, 1-0-2 acc) are still undefeated, out­scoring their opponents by a combined score of 10-3. Wall has saved 21 of the 24 shots on goal so far this season, good 
cavanaugh to win 
said. 
despite a second loss in three days for the Bullfrogs (0-2), sophomore captain and start­ing quarterback Tina Techar said she saw progress from her team. she was pleased with the play of junior receiver Brianna leon, who caught four passes for 35 yards in the second half. 
“as you could start to see in the second half, we’re start­ing to gel more as an offense,” Techar said. “[leon] and i had some chemistry going in the second half and 
i think we will try to capital­ize on that going forward.” 
Both teams are back in ac­tion sunday, with the Bullfrogs searching for their first win against Farley and cavanaugh looking for another win against lewis. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 
ryan 23, walsh 0 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports Writer 
ryan shut out Walsh 23-0 in 
see inTerhall PAGE 18 


By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports Writer 
Junior running back olivia dietzel had 58 yards from scrimmage on just five touch­es, the chaos defense was stingy for a second straight game and cavanaugh defeated Badin 20-0 on Tuesday night to earn their first win of the season. 
dietzel and the chaos (1-1) scored on a 35-yard touch­down run on the first play from scrimmage after the cavanagh offense failed to get on the scoreboard sunday against pasquerilla east. 
“our offense did a much better job with all the details today,” cavanaugh senior captain Meaghan ayers said. “receivers made catches, our quarterbacks threw the ball well, and we were able to mix it up and keep the defense on their toes.” 
ayers said she was also 
pleased with the effort from 
her defense, which didn’t yield 

for a .875 save percentage. 10 games, says he doesn’t suf­a first down until the second although goalkeeping is a fer from nerves or anxiety at 
half. high-pressure responsibility, game time. 
“We had a few players out, Wall, who first saw major play-
but our freshmen stepped up ing time last season, starting see Wall PAGE 16 
and got the job done,” ayers 






