The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 33 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University bolsters local economy 
Impact report states Notre Dame generates $1.167 billion for South Bend annually 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
notre dame’s recently re­leased 2013 economic impact report indicates that the part­nership between the university and local communities is evolving and thriving. 
in a statement, south bend mayor pete buttigieg said maintaining this relationship is crucial for both parties. 
“The relationship between our city and notre dame is at an all-time high, and these numbers help tell the story,” buttigieg said. “The local econ­omy benefits hugely from the role of the university. 
“That said, i look forward to partnering to find even more and bigger ways to grow our economy around the constant activity and important re­search that takes place at notre dame.” 
The economic impact report, released sept. 25 and based on data from 2012, puts the university’s total eco­nomic impact per year in st. Joseph county at $1.167 billion. student, visitor and university spending contributed to that amount, associate vice presi­dent for public affairs Tim sexton said. 
“when you put out a number of over $1.1 billion of economic impact, i mean that’s huge,” he said. “but it’s also huge because in order for us to have this kind of an impact, we need ... the support of the community. 
“This is a two-way street. we can’t do a lot of what we do here at the university without the local community.” 
Jessica brookshire, associate director for public affairs, led a university team that worked with new york-based consult­ing group appleseed to collect and analyze data from more than 80 individuals on campus, 
see reporT PAGE 6 


SAMMY COUGHLIN | The Observer 



nanovics donate building to nd 
By NICOLE McALEE news writer  
students of political ence, economics and ciology can expect a  sci-so-new  

academic home in fall 2017. a gift from robert and elizabeth nanovic, the largest in the his­tory of the college of arts and letters, will fund nanovic hall on notre dame avenue, south of the hesburgh center for international studies. The building will contain class­rooms, faculty offices and lab­oratory and research space for those three departments. 
see nanovic PAGE 5 


men to walk against domestic violence 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
news writer 
This saturday, more than 100 local men will don three-inch, red high-heels and walk through downtown south bend for “walk a mile in her shoes” to raise awareness for domestic violence and sexual assault and raise money for the young women’s christian association (ywca). 
amanda ceravolo, direc­tor of development and com­munications for the north central indiana ywca shel­ter, said the event, officially titled the ywca’s “men’s march to end violence against women,” offers men the opportunity to show soli­darity for women who have been victims of violence, which is a community-wide issue. 
“men really do want to be involved and are looking for ways to help,” ceravolo said. 
“it’s also about showing that men can be and are vital parts of the solution to the problem.” 
ceravolo said october, which is domestic violence awareness month, offers the perfect opportunity for such an event to begin dialogues about the issue and resources available locally. 
one fact to consider is that every nine seconds a woman in the united states is beaten or assaulted, she said. 
“all men come out and for different reasons, but we al­ways remind [people that] one in four women can be a victim of sexual assault,” ceravolo said. “This could be your wife, your mom, your sister, your daughter. anyone can be impacted by violence against women.” 
according to the indiana coalition against domestic 
see walk PAGE 6 


Panelists urge students to secure economic interests 
By PAUL KIM 
news writer 
as the government shut­down stretches into its sec­ond week, finance experts advised notre dame stu­dents on how to seize control of their generation’s finan­cial future on wednesday in a discussion panel titled “mortgaging the Future: millennials’ declining share of the economic pie.” 
panelists James dunne, 
a  notre  dame trustee and  
senior  managing  part­ 
ner  at  sandler  o’neill  

and partners, stanley druckenmiller, a philan­thropist and former presi­dent of duquesne capital and Timothy Fuerst, a notre dame economics profes­sor and economic adviser at the Federal reserve bank of cleveland, discussed the growing economic dis­parity between the older generation and the younger democrats, college generation. republicans, college of arts 


The panel was held and letters, wednesday in washington hall by the college see FuTure PAGE 4 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                      peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: colby hoyer Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could go anywhere for fall break where would you go? 

Steven Seitz 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“The moon.” 

Mason Prosser 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“niagra Falls.” 

John Vidovich 
senior off campus 
“peru.” 


Darby Collins 
freshman lewis hall 
“italy.” 


Danielle Fasani 
senior 
ryan hall 

“The dark side of the moon.” 

Cesar Hernandez 
freshman Fisher hall 
“mexico.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Tori roeck meri kelly Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
lesley stevenson isaac lorton henry gens katie heit 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
samantha coughlin kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Film: Elena Mindful Meditation Domer Run VisionWalk ACMS Colloquium: “A 
emily kruse caroline lang 
DeBartolo Performing St. Liam Hall Legends Irish Green Game of Clones” Arts Center 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 9 a.m.- 11 a.m. 12 p.m.-3:30p.m. 127 Hayes-Healy 7 p.m. -9:30 p.m. Part of Stress Buster Run, or walk with family, Proceeds benefit the 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
Corrections 

Winner of the Cannes Fridays: The Art of to raise money for local Foundation Fighting On mechanisms in 
The observer regards itself as Special Jury Prize. Mindful Relaxation. cancer awareness. Blindness myelodysplasia. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Dialogue and Mobile Summit Hot 8 Brass Band Messe de Nostre Prep for the Second 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Discussion: “Walmart Eck Hall of Law DeBartolo Performing Dame Round Interview 
however, recognize that we will make 
and Beyond” 9 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Flanner 114 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Hesburgh Library Notre Dame holds its 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m. Arts Center 5 p.m.-6p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 2013 event discussing Concert of New Orleans 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. Career center 
we can correct our error. 

Free and open to public. mobile technology. street music. ND Medieval Quartet. workshop. 


Professor researches antibiotic resistance of MRSA 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
imagine a prototypical super-bug, a bacterium that mutates seemingly overnight from in­explicable causes and evolves resistance constantly to nearly every known antibacterial agent, even miracle drugs like peni­cillin. methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) is one such superbug, and a team led by shahriar mobashery, the navari professor in life sciences, recently published a ground­breaking study resolving a de­cades-long mystery in a crucial mechanism of its antibacterial resistance. 
mobashery’s lab has a long his­tory of researching mrsa, having undertaken numerous studies of the pathogen in the last 12 years, he said. 
“it is estimated that roughly about 100,000 americans per year get infected by it, and about 19,000 die from it on an annual basis, so it is considered one of the top six human pathogens in terms of clinical importance,” mobashery said. “The question that i was curious about, a dozen years ago when we started work­ing in this area, is that what it took for the common, garden-variety staph aureus to become the nas­ty, clinically-difficult mrsa.” 
staph aureus presents a unique challenge because it is a commen­sal human pathogen and colo­nizes the skin and moist surfaces of the body naturally, mobashery said. its closeness with humans has made it particularly danger­ous given the development of re­sistance to major antibiotics. 
“staph aureus typically was treated with the class of com­pounds known as beta-lactams,” mobashery said. “This class of compounds includes things like penicillins, cephalosporins and carbapenams. overnight they became resistant to this class of drugs.” 
The source of this resistance, the foreign genes, is still relatively unclear, mobashery said. The genes that provide the resistance form an inducible system that is only turned on in the presence of antibiotic. 
“To produce all these resis­tance determinants is very costly for the organism,” mobashery said. “it pays the cost of holding onto the genes, but it doesn’t turn them on to make proteins until it’s absolutely necessary, so this is some of the complexity of the situation. The organism is very insidious because, biochemically, it’s very efficient: it doesn’t acti­vate processes it doesn’t need; it doesn’t invest in resistance until the antibiotic is given.” 
mobashery said he focused his study on a particular protein, penicillin-binding protein 2a (pbp2a), responsible for one type of antibacterial resistance in the pathway. 
“so penicillin-binding protein 2a, in the work that we have just published, shows the unbeliev­able complexity that this organ­ism has developed in fighting antibiotics” mobashery said. 
“in 2005, my group showed in a study that this protein is normally silent until it has to become active for its physiological role. The or­ganism biochemically communi­cates with this protein and says, ‘it’s time to do the physiological role,’ which is, in the case of this protein, the final stage of bacteri­al cell wall assembly. The cell wall is a critical component of the bac­terium that it has to have or it dies. penicillin, for example, normally shuts down the assembly of the cell wall and the organism dies.” 
The protein pbp2a avoids anti­biotics like penicillin that bind to the active site and render it cata­lytically inactive by means of a separate site on the protein that controls whether the active site is open or not, known as an alloste­ric site, mobashery said. 
This active site must be open in order to help assemble the cell wall, and the nascent cell wall controls, via binding to the al­losteric site, whether the active site is open to receive another strand of the nascent cell wall, and hence the protein avoids in­hibition by beta-lactam antibiot­ics, mobashery said. he said his group provided definitive evi­dence of this process in its recent study. 
“by crystallography we have shown where the allosteric site is, how the drug binds to the al­losteric site and how the nascent cell wall binds to the allosteric site. it opens up a level of regula­tion of function of this enzyme that, prior to our work, was un­known,” he said. “This protein has been around for 50 years, and we just solved the riddle of how it works. it is an opportunity for design of future generations of antibacterials.” 
in the end, mobashery said he characterizes his group’s findings as crucial, but just another step in the ongoing battle against the spread of particularly pernicious strains of mrsa. 
“one has to be searching for new classes of antibiotic on a con­stant basis because resistance to antibiotics is inevitable,” he said. “sooner or later you’re going to have rampant resistance against any class of antibacterial. i per­sonally think it’s a very exciting time because the tools that are available make a lot of these stud­ies possible.” 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 

speaker addresses church’s stance on sexuality 
By KELLY KONYA 
news writer 
saint mary’s college kicked off the Theology on Fire lecture series wednesday night with a obvious topic of debate in the about sexuality and say that discussion titled “Questions on catholic church today, though it affects all aspects of the hu­sex,” led by religious studies pro-sex and sexuality are not man person in the unity of the 


fessor phyllis kaminski. synonymous. kaminski said sex is an “The catechism 
paid adverTisemenT 
body and soul, and it especially 

will talk concerns the capacity to love and procreate,” she said. “in an­other place, the catechism says that everyone, men and women, should acknowledge his or her sexual identity. it’s the conjugal acts, the homosexual acts, which get confusing sometimes.” kaminski said she defines sex as fun, powerful and holy, and because of these three aspects, it is an extremely complicated expression. after this introduction, kaminski initiated a question and answer session. students’ questions addressed the church’s stance on sexuality and the church’s conception of sexual sin. kaminski said people, at any point in life, must decide for themselves what level of affec­tion is appropriate to each stage of commitment. “There really isn’t one cor­rect answer,” she said.  “in the church, we say consult objec­tive norms, look at the objective teachings of the church, pray, talk to people who are wiser than you and trusted, and ulti­mately what you come to is you have to make a decision, and you make this decision in the best way you can. you can trust your conscience, but you also must inform it.” The degree to which people feel they need affection influ­ences the mystery of human sexuality, kaminski said. “The mystery of human sexu­ality is the mystery of our need to embrace others, sexually and 
spiritually,” she said. 
kaminski quoted pedro arrupe to support her belief that people’s personal conscience should influence their choices in love. 
“Fall in love, stay in love, and it will decide everything,” she said. 
Junior hannah Ziegeler said kaminski’s introduction to the discussion was very thought provoking. 
“i thought the idea she posed of ‘how the most effective ques­tions asked [about religion and sexuality] are those that cause us to question ourselves was enlightening,” Ziegeler said. “i 
“Fall in love, stay in love, and it will change everything.” 
Phyllis Kaminski 
religious studies professor 
think reflection is important, specifically when learning about sexuality where interpretation is subjective.” 
Junior sarah hossfeld said the series was unlike any discussion on catholicism and sexuality that she had ever heard before. 
“i thought that [kaminski] did a very good job of making the church’s teachings not seem like strict, reproachful rules or laws,” hossfeld said. “instead, it’s very much about your con­science and your personal re­lationship with god, and these things can alter your own views of sexuality.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 



SENATE 

Leaders seek feedback on report for trustees 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
during wednesday’s student senate meeting, stu­dent body president alex coccia, vice-president nancy Joyce and chief of staff Juan rangel presented the report they will give to the board of Trustees next Thursday to hear senators’ feedback. 
“The topic for the fall re­port is mostly dictated to us by the chair of the student af­fairs committee,” Joyce said. “This year, anne Thompson [the committee chair] asked us to focus on diversity and inclusion, as well as students who are marginalized on campus.” 
The report focuses on four main areas of diversity: racial and ethnic diversity, sexual orientation and gender is­sues, socioeconomic status 
Future 
conTinued From page 1 
student government and the investment office. 
“There’s a lot of guilt here. it’s not a republican or a democrat issue, it is an economic issue about your children’s and your future,” dunne said. “i believe we have a 10-year period of time, literally 10 years, to address this issue. and if we don’t, we’ll be devastated. it’ll be to you and your children.” 
druckenmiller said the government’s recent seques­ter to balance the budget has hurt the younger generation because it resulted in cuts to programs such as head start and Food stamp instead of programs such as medicare and social security. 
druckenmiller said the growing popularion of se­niors over age 65 is another problem plaguing the young­er generation. The u.s. popu­lation will add 11,000 seniors each day for the next 23 years, druckenmiller said. 
“seniors have been getting a larger and larger share of and undocumented status, Joyce said. 
at the center of the group’s suggestions surrounding so­cioeconomic status is the rector Fund, a little-known cache of funds raised through The shirt project that helps students purchase tickets for athletic events, hall dances and other “important facets of the notre dame experi­ence,” Joyce said. 
Joyce said student govern­ment wants to “make sure rec­tors are aware of [the rector Fund] and using it to its full potential and reaching stu­dents in the middle in terms of socioeconomic status. 
“are there students in the middle who are also constrained but who are not meeting financial aid requirements?” 
carroll hall senator Joe kelly said he was unaware of 
the economic pie for 30 or 40 years because of baby boom,” he said. 
druckenmiller also said despite the increase in gov­ernment expenditures and entitlements in the past 60 years, most benefits went only to seniors. For example, 
“People say young people don’t vote, don’t care. I’m hoping after tonight, you will care. There is a clear danger to you and your children.” 
Stanley Druckenmiller 
former president 
Duquesne Capital 
he said the poverty rate for se­niors has fallen from 30 per­cent to nine percent whereas the rate has remained largely unchanged for the young. 
what should really anger us is that an average 65-year­old will benefit $327,400 from the government whereas the rector Fund. 
“i had no idea this even ex­isted. i think a lot more stu­dents might take advantage of it if it were better publicized,” kelly said. 
in its section on racial di­versity, the report proposes a visible statement of inclusion be placed in residence halls and classrooms and a manda­tory in-service for all club ad­visors, coccia said. 
in the discussion that fol­lowed the report’s presen­tation, alumni hall senator Juan Jose daboub silhy said he was wary of how effective a statement of inclusion might be. 
“if students don’t feel wel­come, a piece of paper with a statement on it is not going to make them comfortable,” daboub silhy said. 
The report will also sug­gest ways to improve the 
people not yet born will lose $420,600, with a net differ­ence of almost $700,000, druckenmiller said. 
For the next $1 trillion in­crease in expenditure, $875 billion is projected to go to seniors while only $6 billion will be allocated to their chil­dren, he said. 
druckenmiller said stu­dents must act if they are to regain their piece of the pie. 
“my generation, we brought down the president in the 60’s because we didn’t want to go into the war against vietnam,” he said. “people say young people don’t vote, young people don’t care. i’m hoping after tonight, you will care. There is a clear danger to you and your children.” 
dunne said notre dame students can be especially powerful advocates for the rights of their generation.. 
“This is going to be incred­ibly bad for the people who can least afford it. it is going to be painful,” he said. “That is why we need some leader­ship from people like notre dame students to put politi­cians to test. all this is about university’s relationship with undocumented students as well as students of all sexual orientations — particularly with regard to transgender students in residence halls. on that note, the report sug­gests “active conversation” moving forward, coccia said. 
senate also continued dia­logue about student and of­ficial university response to sexual assault on campus. coccia and Joyce will be meeting with ndsp in the coming week to address con­cerns from senate and the student body about the issue. 
The group approved and welcomed junior John wetzel as the new president of The shirt project. student union treasurer andrew lall said wetzel joined The shirt project as a freshman, when “he played an integral role in its design and, as a sophomore, served the proj­ect as vice president.” 
wetzel said those in charge of The shirt project have not yet chosen a manufacturer for this year. last year, the group chose fair trade company alta gracia to produce The shirt.
 “we originally chose alta gracia because we wanted to combine their social mission with our own,” he said. “last year we wanted to continue their message and story. … in the end our cause as a charity is to serve our students.” 
wetzel  said  his  group  
will  keep  options  open  
for  this  year’s  The  shirt  
manufacturer.  

“every year companies come in and re-bid,” he said. “we only have a one-year contract.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
challenging the elected of­ficials at the both end of the aisle. make them earn your vote.” 
sean long, co-president of college democrats, said notre dame students should feel compelled to act on the panelists’ concerns. 
“as next generation of lead­ers, we can’t ignore the enor­mity of the challenges that face us,” long said. “we must realize our potentials as ac­tive participants.” 
mark gianfalla, president of college republicans, said students need to seize their future. 
“i invite you, challenge you and urge you to use the top­ic presented tonight to step from being a student to be­ing a patriot,” gianfalla said. 
“challenge things that don’t seem right. This is not an is­sue that is right or left. it’s an issue that is central to all of us. it takes students who are passionate, educated, in­formed and engaged to make the difference.” 
long said collective ac­tion is the key to reaching a solution. 
“we may believe our voice can’t be heard 600 miles away in washington,” long said. “but it’s the midnight talks in our dorms, the viewpoint articles [and] our dining hall debates, multiplied in over 7,000 college campuses in america, that have the power to change the conversations.” 
Contact Paul Kim at pkim6@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Nanovic 
conTinued From page 1 
John mcgreevy, dean of the college of arts and letters, said the gift would be a “breakthrough” for notre dame’s social sciences. 
“we’ve never had a build­ing for the social sciences at notre dame,” he said. “it’s go­ing to have great space in the building with classrooms and faculty offices and space for research, so we’re going to get the kind of student contact — where students come out of class and go right to a faculty office or right to a research lab — that we don’t always get at notre dame’s academic buildings. i think it could be 
—
 to use an overused word 

—
 really transformational for those departments.” 


robert nanovic is a 1954 graduate of notre dame who has served on the advi­sory council of the college of arts and letters since 1993, mcgreevy said. 
“[The nanovics] are longtime and extraordi­nary benefactors to the university. They’ve given money for scholarships, for programs, most notably thus far for the nanovic institute for european studies,” mcgreevy said. 
mcgreevy said the choice to combine economics, po­litical science and sociology was aimed at consolidating the three departments into one location from buildings across campus. 


These departments also share a strong connection with the nanovic institute for european studies, the kroc institute for international peace studies and the kellogg institute for international studies, he said. 
“They’re the three depart­ments that probably have the closest ties to our interna­tional institutes,” mcgreevy said. 
professor rory mcveigh, chair of the department of sociology, said he expects more interchange among the departments and the inter­national institutes. 
“i think that one of the main benefits will be bring­ing us closer together with colleagues in political sci­ence and in economics, but also bringing us closer together with the interna­tional institutes,” mcveigh said. “several of our faculty members and students are affiliated with international institutes such as kroc and kellogg, and we are currently 
paid adverTisemenT 

separated on opposite ends of the campus.” 
mcgreevy said the nanovic institute for european studies, which was funded by a gift from the nanovic fam­ily in 1992 and is currently housed in brownson hall, will move to nanovic hall when it opens. 
“it will be neat to have the nanovic institute and nanovic hall right together,” mcgreevy said. 
professor a. James mcadams, director of the nanovic institute, said he is very grateful that the insti­tute will have a new location. 
“we truly appreciate this extraordinary gift from the nanovic family,” mcadams said. “nanovic hall will bring the nanovic institute to the center of campus, making it more accessible for all of our students. ... Finally, we will have a permanent space to call our own.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 
panel discusses “lean in” 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
Four saint mary’s profes­sors participated in a panel discussion wednesday ana­lyzing sheryl sandberg’s book titled “lean in: women, work and the will to lead,” as part of gender and women’s study week. 
assistant professor of english ann marie alfonso-Forero said although she would recommend the book to young college women, her main critique was that sandberg’s book only focuses on heterosexual white work­ing mothers. 
“The book really in many ways fails to address the structural inequalities be­tween american women that make it much harder for women of color, working class women or single mothers,” alfonso-Forero said. 
laura williamson ambrose, assistant professor of human­istic studies, said she agreed that the book does not apply to other groups of women. 
“There’s tons of stuff she doesn’t deal with. she is an extremely wealthy white woman living in the corpo­rate world, and i wonder what happens to her argument and evidence when you consider non-white upper class wom­en,” ambrose said. 
The panel discussed a mo­ment in the book where sandberg describes a din­ner party she attended where the host, a powerful white man, did not listen to another woman who was a minority, and she later talks to a minor­ity man to see if he noticed the ignorance as well. 
“it’s so interesting that she mentions it and she says he told me he empathized be­cause he is hispanic and he has been treated like this so many times and then she stops. she just moves on,” alfonso-Forero said. “and it’s an interesting moment where she could have ruminated on this lightness of experience but she stops and holds her­self back. … she doesn’t stop to reflect on it.” 
Jamie wagman, assistant professor of gender and wom­en’s studies and history, said sandberg does explain in the book that she is writing it for “women fortunate enough to make ends meet and take care of their families.” 
“she says this in the very beginning explaining who her audience is,” wagman said. “although she does think her argument can be embraced by women in ev­ery workplace. i disagree here. advice about leaning in the boardroom and piping up about a working women’s needs to her employers do not apply to every single woman out there.” 
wagman said sandberg’s $300,000 annual salary jeop­ardizes her credibility. 
“and many say it does [question her credibility] be­cause it puts her out of touch with women who can’t neces­sarily afford childcare or day care services or camps. and she does have a staff of nine just working in her house­hold. some of those statistics do put her out of touch from the masses,” wagman said. 
The panelists did, however, like sandberg’s opinion that superwomen are the enemy. in other words, having it all is a false premise for women and men, ambrose said. 
“[This idea] resonates es­pecially powerfully for you as college students because as sandberg says, ‘each of us makes choices constantly be­tween work and family, exer­cising and relaxing, making time for others and taking time for ourselves.’ so in oth­er words something’s always got to give and women aren’t the only ones making sacri­fices and making choices,” ambrose said. 
assistant professor of women’s studies and politi­cal science sonalini sapra also brought up an issue with sandberg’s opinion that the workplace needs a change for women, especially with ma­ternity leave. 
“i think some of the issues where i had problems with some of her regards with the external barrier. she doesn’t really talk a lot about things that need to change for wom­en to have a better quality of work,” sapra said. “she could have talked more about paid maternity leave. The u.s. is one of the only countries in the developed world that does not offer paid maternity leave.” 
regardless of this is­sue, sapra said she did like sandberg’s book overall. 
“like i told many of my col­leges, i actually found a lot of what the book said really, really persuasive and inter­esting that this idea from someone with such a large platform is talking about men being equal partners,” sapra said. 
“also bringing up things like equity and bringing up the fact that women don’t negotiate as much as men do for salaries and that they are very fixated on being likable as opposed to not being seen as likeable. so i really admire that she is using her consider­able clout to help women.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

with the company. o’neill said. 
Report 
“we’ve worked with a num-“notre dame is not alone but 
conTinued From page 1 

ber of different universities is at the high end of the range as well as sources off cam-that have larger research pro-in terms of the extent to which pus such as visit south bend grams and higher total re-the university is bringing mishawaka. The university search spending than notre money and resources into the publishes a report every dame does but there aren’t south bend area from all over five years through a process many that have been as suc-the country and the extent to that takes more than seven cessful as notre dame has in which that money has been months, brookshire said. expanding its research activi-spent locally,” he said. “That 
“one thing that was really ties in the past 10 years,” he really enhances and strength-cool was to go back and look at said. ens the university’s contribu­the one from five years ago and sexton said the report in-tion to the local economy.” see what was in it,” brookshire corporated data from the visit south bend mishawaka said. “back then eddy street center for social concerns communications and pub-commons was an idea, basi-and engage nd to measure lic relations coordinator cally. an artist rendering was volunteer work and offered lindsey Talboom said the in-the picture. it was not in ex-another insight into the town creased economic activity of istence, neither was compton and gown dynamic. the university and its visitors Family ice arena.” “when it comes to the as well as collaborations be-
sexton said the university amount of service hours, we tween the university, south added 700 jobs, and con-put that at 511,000 hours that bend and mishawaka have struction costs averaged $95 was contributed by our stu-created an environment full-million per year for the last dents, by our faculty, by our time residents and visitors five years. money spent for staff,” he said. “i will not be alike can enjoy. research increased by 92 per-surprised to see those service “i can only see it growing re­cent since the previous report, hours continue to grow, be-ally,” she said. “There’s clearly 
participate, many of whom he said. cause that’s just who we are as an investment that’s bridging 

Walk 
will have tables out with food “being the fact that the a university. i have no doubt the divide.” 

conTinued From page 1 
and coupons for the male 

university has its five goals that that will occur.” sexton emphasized the participants. 
and one of those goals is a pre-brookshire said the report importance of maintain-violence, domestic violence male notre dame students 
eminent research institution, includes football weekend ing that connection from the is the leading cause of injury annually participate in “walk 
it will not surprise me to see statistics that reflect the high university perspective. to women, with more victims a mile in her shoes,” repre­
the research dollar continue amount of visitors to south “The university of notre than car accidents, mugging, sented by a team organized 
to climb and continue to grow bend and mishawaka and the dame and our relationship and rapes combined. by the student club men 
going forward in the next five economic boon those visitors with our local community is The ywca of north central against violence (mav). she 
years,” sexton said. “i think offer. paramount and i think that indiana is the largest ser-said the enthusiastic men ran 
that that construction compo-“it’s about $18 million per this report does a great job vice provider for sexual as-the course last year in their 
nent again will be extremely home game, and that’s very of showing how we are in­sault and domestic violence heels. 
significant.” significant to businesses lo-tertwined for the positive,” victims in the area, ceravolo “They have been repre­
appleseed president hugh cally and people that are he said. “The success of the said, and serves over 1,500 sented in all of our walks,” 
o’neill, who worked on the thinking about opening busi-university is directly correlat­women and children each she said. “we absolutely love 
economic impact report this ness here in town,” she said. ed to the success of the local year from st. Joseph and it. They contacted us the first 
year and in 2007, said the find-The economic impact of vis-community.” elkhart counties. year and wanted to get in­
ings about research set notre itors to campus in general was “The vast majority of peo-volved, and we said absolute-
dame apart from other uni-markedly different from that Contact Lesley Stevenson at ple staying here are fleeing ly, we want you there.” 
versities that have teamed up of most other universities, lsteven1@nd.edu from violence in their lives,” senior Jack Toscano, former 
paid adverTisemenT 

she said. president of mav, said par-
Funds raised by the walk ticipating in the event follows will specifically benefit do-the club’s mission of ending mestic violence and sexual sexual and domestic violence assault programs, including at notre dame and in the the “new hope” treatment greater community. program, which provides “‘walk a mile’ gave us a counseling for victims of chance to both branch out and rape, sexual assault, incest, help the south bend commu­and sexual abuse, gives im-nity,” Toscano said. “violence mediate shelter to victim, against women is extremely and fosters community out-relevant, especially in light of reach programs. another the recent reported sexual as-important program that ben-saults. There is no excuse for efits from the annual walk is that being a part of the notre “courtwatch,” which moni-dame community.” tors domestic violence cas-Toscano, who plans to par­es in county courts to help ticipate in the event for his victims. second time this saturday, 
ceravolo said other rape said the walk could be fun centers nationally partici-too. pate in similar “walk a mile” “The heels were very awk­events, now in their fourth ward at first,” he said. “you year. she said in the past, the gain an appreciation for how walks have raised significant much heels suck.” and needed funds, which The event will take place comes both from registration this saturday, oct. 12 at 10 fees and money collected by a.m, starting at the college the men around the route. Football hall of Fame 
“a lot of money comes in gridiron. ceravolon said the day of. in the past we’ve those interested in participat­raised between $15,000 and ing should preregister online $20,000 for every year we’ve at ywcda.org/wam to secure been [doing] it,” she said. their correct shoe size for the “we thought that it would be walk. event registration will a great and fun way to engage begin at 9 a.m. saturday, with men in the mission of the minimum donations of $50 or ywca.” $35 for students. notre dame 
ceravolo said this year, students can also reach out to the event was moved to mav to join their team. downtown south bend from coveleski stadium to en-Contact Abi Hoverman at courage local businesses to ahoverma@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

plan to not 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
i’m not a fan of planning. 

i appreciate the student planner notre dame distributes every year… because of the coupons inside. but if there’s a meeting i must get to or an as­signment to undertake, i have a differ­ent tool i use to remember: my brain. 
of course, there are two types of “planning.” The type i just described is passive: making note of something you must do and scheduling a time to complete it. The second is more ac­tive: actually organizing something in advance. 
and — surprise — i don’t like that one either. 
i went with eight friends to miami for the national championship in January. nothing was organized pre­trip except departure time and lodging (even for non-planners, there are cer­tain limits.) The rest was off-the-cuff, including where we’d go each day and what we’d do. The trip was nearly com­pletely improvised, and, besides the four hours inside sun life stadium, it was outstanding, especially because we went into it with open minds. 
if you plan too much in advance, you limit yourself. you don’t feel com­fortable to, or more likely can’t, break away from the script. That’s not a good thing. 
Frankly, i believe the amount of time it takes to plan could be used for something better — like actually doing the activity you are planning. and a perverse sense of pride emerges when something you decided to do an hour earlier turns out incredible. 
but a strange thing is happening to me in my senior year: i’ve started to think days and even — gasp — weeks in advance. and i now actually make use of the student planner for its pri­mary purpose, not just to order a large domino’s pizza for $6.99. 
The reason for the change? The amount on my plate. 
you might or might not be surprised to learn not planning leads to procras­tination. like everyone, i’ve always been swamped at nd, but even more as a senior, as i try to balance the time necessary to find a job, focus on school and make sure i spend enough quality time with great people i may not see more than once a year moving for­ward. i don’t have a choice but to pre­pare what i do in advance. perhaps this is a good thing as i ready myself for the real world and its deadlines. 
“do everything in moderation,” many notre dame students are told by family, teachers and even priests. have fun, but stay on top of your work. maintaining a balance is key. planning is no different. both too much and too little of it create stress and limitations. 
so will i continue my recent trend? i plan on it. 
Contact Sam at sgans@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

Just about a week ago, i stepped in for a religion teacher who needed a “pinch-hitter” for a class period one day at roncalli, the high school to which i am assigned in indianapolis. confused faces turned to joy as the students 1) realized that i was not their regular teacher and 2) gave themselves permission to continue huddling up with their friends and talking. i might as well have not been in the room. 
despite these circumstances, i was still excited to be there with them. i wanted to know how things were going and what the reli­gion curriculum at roncalli looked like. so i spoke up: “what have you been learning about in class?” continued chatter. it was as if no one heard me. ooh. bad approach, i thought to myself. maybe i should be louder? no, won’t work, i reasoned. maybe i should ask a question they can’t resist. i had to do something to get their at­tention or our time together would slowly slip out of my control. i decided to use another question instead: “i want you all to try to stump me. i want you to ask the most difficult theological question that you can think of.” 
you see, i have learned two things so far at the high school about getting students to listen to you: 1) offer candy and 2) Turn requests into competitions or challenges will always earn the rapt attention of competitive, sugar-hungry high schoolers. 
when i asked that last question, all eyes immediately turned to me, then to a girl who was sitting in the front of the room. (clearly she was the one who was supposed to ask the stumper.) after some hesitation, she mustered the courage to ask her question: “if our god is all-knowing, all-powerful and all-loving, how can he permit things like murders, rape and natural disasters that take the lives of innocent people?” 
and then, as if she had challenged me to a duel to the death in which i was sure to lose, the students gleefully waited for my demise. 
“Truth be told, your question is an excellent question,” i re­sponded. “and it is an excellent question precisely because you are right to ask it. There is so much about our world and the evil in it that we do not understand. but i don’t think it is correct to conclude that the god we believe in is any less powerful, loving or knowing because of it.” 
but before continuing on, i paused. i thought back to high school. i remembered asking the very same questions in a semes­ter long course entitled: “The Question of god.” over the course of that semester, we explored some of life’s most difficult issues and questions. we talked about 9/11, the problem of evil in the world and our response to suffering. and although i now forget the name of the documentary, i remember very clearly the rabbi in it who shared a piece of insight i have not stopped chewing on six years later: “my task is not to give people the answers, but to help them deal with the questions.” 
but on this day, in that classroom, i had a different spin on the rabbi’s quote. so i continued on: “perhaps the problem is not with god, but with us and the way we see the reality which he has given us. you see, i think god has given us an answer, that is, a definitive answer to evil. and that answer is Jesus christ. but in christ, god did not promise to take away the evils of our time. evil, after all, had entered into the world not because of god but because of our sin, that is, adam and eve’s original sin. 
and here was his greatest teaching: christ showed us that evil, death, suffering, pain, confusion and doubt were never to be the last words of our story. They were to be no match for christ’s law of love. Through his death and resurrection, christ showed us not that we would never suffer pain, but that, in the end, it was never to have any power over us.” 
and what i told those students is what we must let christ say to us now, in the midst of our own uncertainty, in the midst of the great evils and trials within our lives. For if we open ourselves to christ’s peace, his love will meet us and transform our fear, our doubts and our anxieties. yes, we will suffer, sometimes inexpli­cably. and our world, too, will continue to suffer incalculable evils that will not make sense. but if we choose to continue to see with eyes of love, we can work towards making christ’s love and his kingdom, not evil, the reality on earth. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

‘ring by spring’ is still a thing? 
Bianca Almada 
This is real life 

a recent collegemagazine.com article has ranked notre dame as among the top 10 universities for finding a husband. it says, “college is totally just about finding the perfect man, right?” granted, the online magazine hosts a mixture of “serious” and “funny” articles, so it is hard to tell whether or not the author was serious. as a sane, self-respecting woman, however, i still have to say that if this statement does not make you sick, then nothing will. 
notre dame does have an odd stereotype when it comes to marriage. people joke about “ring by spring,” the phenomenon of senior students getting engaged before their graduation. Though this does occur on occasion, it affects nowhere near the majority of notre dame students. Then there is also the idea of the “notre dame dream”: meeting and falling in love with someone on cam­pus, getting married in the basilica after graduation and birthing children who will one day attend the university. This seemed to be especially popular among current students’ parents’ generations. 
none of these things are bad things. love and marriage are wonderful, and people who find their mates so early in life are extremely lucky. what is completely out of line, however, is when people (or tasteless magazine articles) turn love and marriage into a contest or a race, or when the search for a mate becomes the most important aspect of a college students’ life. 
The truth of the matter is that college is simply not about finding a husband or a wife. college is, first and foremost, about finding yourself. it is about getting an education, determining a career path, gaining life experience and having some fun along the way. it is about defining yourself, not actively searching for someone else to define you. 
if someone happens to find the person that they want to marry during college, then congratulations to them. That is beyond excit­ing, and everyone should be happy for them. but this happiness should be extended because the couple is joyful and in love, not because they have met some imaginary deadline. Furthermore, people should not be made to feel like they are “behind” or inad­equate in some way for not having any marriage prospects coming out of college. 
Twenty-two years old is still very young. when you really think about it, it is the very beginning of independent, adult life. There is absolutely no need to have everything figured out by then; a start­ing idea is completely acceptable. Twenty-two-year-olds do not need to be working at their dream jobs just yet, they do not need to be living in their dream house just yet and they do not need to know who they will spend the rest of their lives just yet. There is plenty of time. 
Frankly, i do not even know how people manage to afford “ring by spring.” rings, weddings and marriages themselves are all very expensive. how can college students, who have never worked a legitimate full-time job for more than a few summers have all the necessary money for an engagement? sure, parents often chip in for many of these things, but to have a parent purchase an en­gagement ring or a first joint apartment? i am a firm believer that people should not be getting married before they can be more or less financially independent and stable, and this seems almost impossible for students fresh out of college. 
out of my high school graduating class, two girls have already gotten married. The thought of this is absolutely crazy to me, but to each his own, and i am genuinely happy for them. For me, and i imagine for most notre dame students, it is not the right path. most notre dame students will not be engaged before they gradu­ate, and that is more that okay. This university has prepared us to face the world independently and with confidence — and to be open to love at the right time. 
Bianca Almada is a sophomore in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


‘Don’t ask, don’t tell’ 
Katrina Linden 
Featured columnist 

notre dame prides itself in being a place of unity, family and acceptance. but in my year of being a student here i have never encountered individuals of such a great degree of ethnic ignorance, socio­economic privilege and self-absorbed blissfulness, which is saying a lot considering that i was raised in affectionately named “orange curtain” orange county, calif. despite the large possibility of of­fending the greater student population, i am going to address what we would all love to remain silent about: the minority of students who insist on exer­cising their freedom of speech to reveal great moral character. 
last week a boy yelled, “hey, f*****!” to a friend across north Quad, and all i could do was cringe in disgust and keep on walking. 
a boy in my islam class joked about the prophet muhammad in a manner that would offend anybody and looked to others for affirmation. when a girl called him out on his insensitivity he defended his ignorance by claiming his right to mock an entire religion for his own entertainment because of his knowledge of the subject. 
a girl in another class pointed out that the only people on financial aid at notre dame are probably dirt poor, a comment i took to heart considering that if it were not for notre dame’s generous financial aid package and their numerous donors it is a scary pos­sibility that i would not be here right now. 
i encountered a boy who claimed that having a “black house” off campus and not a “white house” for students to congregate at is basically reverse seg­regation, essentially making the same argument bit­ter individuals make about why there isn’t a “white history month” in existence. 
if you start your sentence with “i wasn’t trying to be racist” — or homophobic, or pretentious, or privi­leged — you should probably just close your mouth, because any statement that requires you to reaffirm your personal opinions with an overly defensive response to another’s criticism should be saved for dinner with your gop-supporting uncle. 
however, i cannot say that i blame any student in particular for making remarks like these. i real­ize that a great majority of students here have been sheltered for most of their lives to the point that they probably met their first ethnic friend in college. The idea of diversity for some is that one black kid in your english class in the fifth grade, or the nanny from guatemala who used to take care of you. you would like to say that you would love to have a gay best friend, but when the girl down the hall reveals that she is lesbian, you get fidgety and uncomfortable. 
and that’s the issue. it is not ethnic students that experience “culture shock,” it is sheltered individu­als who do not realize they are not at their 95 percent caucasian high school anymore and that some peo­ple are actually offended by racist jokes. we, ethnic and underprivileged students, are in the wrong for not understanding that racism is funny and that we should just learn to laugh along. 
For clarity, various ethnic houses do not exist because they like to segregate themselves from the greater notre dame community; they exist for the students that have been rejected by their peers for not fitting into the notre dame mold. where white and wealthy is a comfortable normality, sometimes it is nice to be around people who understand how you grew up and can help adjust to the expectations of students who would like you to hurry up and ad­just already. 
it is difficult at times attempting to relate to those who have never experienced a school lockdown or had a drug dealer sit next to them in pre-calculus. how do you explain that food stamps are an actual necessity for the great majority of individuals you grew up with while your dorm mate bashes fed­eral aid and is against welfare support of any kind? how do you defend your presence at notre dame based on merit when the only thing you hear is “af­firmative action” whenever these topics come up in conversation? 
The easy answer is that you don’t. don’t ask, don’t tell. don’t ask any ethnic or underprivileged student about his lives and he won’t tell you about his disabled father on social security or about his mother who is working three jobs to send him here. don’t ask him about younger siblings who will have to somehow finance their way through college and don’t ask about his older siblings working mini­mum wage and going to community college either. because that is foreign, uncomfortable and scary even to think about. we all have our own problems and should not be expected to care about those of anybody else. 
Katrina Linden is a sophomore English major and studio art minor living in Lewis Hall. She can be reached at klinden1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

blurred lines of catholic social Teaching 
didn’t think i could relate a robin Thicke song title to the catholic church? well, as a catholic student at notre dame, i have been bombarded by a whirlwind of contradictory fiction regarding a term that almost everyone on campus has heard: “catholic social Teaching.” it is often used as a blan­ket to cover whatever argument someone is trying to make, but is it really that vague? beginning with the decision to present president obama with an honorary degree (there is a fundamental difference between the degree and an invitation to speak,) notre dame has been under fire for becoming less catholic and more liberal. where is this coming from and does catholic social Teaching (csT) cover these increasingly liberal university actions? 
while attending the “god, country, notre dame” speaker series in morrissey, i asked Fr. Jenkins a question, “how does the university deal with retaining its catholic identity while hiring an increasingly liberal academy and administration?” The answer that i received was surprising. “many as­pects of liberal policy are actually quite in line with csT.” with all due respect to the president of the university, i disagree. 
inspired by bill o’reilly’s interview of notre dame theology professor candida moss, who claimed Jesus was a socialist this past week; i plan to clear up this issue of csT. professor moss’s point was the bible often states the kingdom of heaven belongs to the poor, but is the bible really demand­ing that all possessions and wealth be turned over to the government for redistribution? 
socialism turns the government into a false god, with the power to give and take. Those who partake in charitable giving are obviously following in Jesus’s footsteps, but the bible passages encouraging charity are not demand­ing redistribution of wealth. render unto caesar what is caesar’s, not what’s yours. The bible parables are there to encourage charity and selflessness. in it’s time, wealth represented greed because many became wealthy by unfair ways. Today, being rich does not strictly mean you are a cheating tax collector or a thief. many rich people are quite charitable. The bill and melinda gates Foundation even financially supported notre dame’s efforts to eradicate neglected tropical diseases in haiti. Jesus was in fact not a socialist after all! 
if you take away the liberal argument for abortion, which i don’t think any­one would argue is in line with catholic teaching, then what are you left with? The admissions policy recently instituted to accept illegal aliens is often thrown under this blanket of csT as well. Fr. Jenkins, a catholic priest, sup­ported the decision, and when i spoke out against it in an interview with cbs, i was contacted by a university spokesperson who informed me that it was in line with the united states conference of catholic bishop’s teaching. looks like csT strikes again, but in fact it does not condone illegal immigration. 
The seven themes of csT outlined by the usccb include “rights and re­sponsibilities,” and the statement directly referring to the issue of immigra­tion lays out two key duties. The first is to “welcome foreigners out of charity,” and the second is “to secure one’s border and enforce the law for the sake of the common good.” The church supports welcoming of legal immigrants and legal immigration reform, not turning a blind eye towards illegal acts. 
i was also informed by the university’s spokesperson that accepted stu­dents would have to have been granted a deferred action for childhood arrivals stay, but this is simply forgetting about the illegality of them being in the country to begin with in the first place. even if they were brought here as children, there comes a time when you have to be responsible for your own actions. 
The catholic church does not advocate ignorance towards or breaking of the law, plain and simple. csT is still the teaching of the catholic church, and not a blanket used to cover the increasing liberalization and secularization of many individual catholics. 
Mark Gianfalla 
junior 

president, morrissey hall and notre dame college republicans 
oct. 9 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene writer 

as this week progresses and quickly (too quickly, in my opinion) comes to a close, i realize have spent the last four days in a constant half-sprint, running from class to class, clutching onto my coffee cup so tightly it’s as if the cardboard starbucks cup is not only a source of caffeine, but also the one and only thing holding me in a stand­ing position for the time being. and i know i’m not alone: every friend i’ve run into on campus in the last few days has given off a ratio of panic and exhaustion only found at this time in the semester 
— midterms. 

unlike finals week, when classes are over, study days are handed to you like precious gems, you’ve already made impressions on your professors and you only have a grade hanging in the balance, midterms has none of these luxuries. instead, midterms time is a chaotic mess of papers, proj­ects, proposals and exams that test our minds and time management skills alike. 
so, in order to cope with the madness that is the pre-Fall break midterms, we lock ourselves in our favorite study spaces, throw our head­phones on, crank up our favorite study playlist and get to work. it wasn’t until recently, when clicking around spotify, that i realized how little consensus there is in what constitutes “study mu­sic.” as i shamelessly discovered my friends’ study playlists (i mean, they were public), i saw collec­tions of soothing folk and guitar songs, classical concertos, icelandic music medleys and every­thing else you can think of. whatever floats your boat also scores your study session, i guess. 
when it comes to my study playlists, i like to take the advice given to me in my introduction to psychology class freshman year and study to music without words. i’ve paired organic chem­istry with electronica and calculus with movie scores. but one day, for some reason the “pride and prejudice” soundtrack was no longer doing the trick. 
naturally, my reaction to this predicament wasn’t to turn to 8tracks or pandora and go back to my studies. no, that would be far too easy. instead i decided to spend as much time away from my schoolwork as possible and create an entirely new, entirely lyric-less and entirely genre-confused playlist of study music from which to pick and choose for all of our study needs. i hope these sug­gestions bring everyone as much focus as they’ve taken away from me. with that, i wish you all good luck on your midterms. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen  at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
STUDY PLAYLIST 


“A Walk” 
Tycho 
“Blue in Green” 
Miles Davis 
“So Far to Go” 
J Dilla 
“Intro” 
The xx 
“Blue Monk” 
Thelonious Monk 
“Avril 14th” 
Aphex Twin 
“Palmistry” 
Table Beat Science 
“Thursday” 
Takénou 
“Tick Tock” 
“The Man with the Iron Fists” Soundtrack 
“Montreal” 
Kaki King 
“Happiness” 
Riceboy Sleeps 
“Sparkplug Minuet” 
Mark Mothersbaugh 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

if you’re like me and are super-bummed about mumford and sons’ “indefinite break,” have no fear because The head and the heart is here to fill the m&s­sized hole in your heart. with their new album set to come out oct. 15, the so-called “recession rock” band is poised to expand upon the indie folk tones of their first album. 
The head and the heart first hit the mu­sic scene in 2009 after meeting each other at various open mic nights around their native seattle. The six band members cre­ated an album and self-released it before being signed by sub pop in 2010. 
The band’s acoustic folk sound will ap­peal to fans of mumford and sons while The head and the heart’s contemplative reflection on the world will ring true to countless other listeners. if their self-ti­tled first album seemed too idealistic in its view of the world, “let’s be still” rep­resents a step back from that view. still hopeful for the state of the future, the music now lends more credence to the necessary setbacks of life. 
“There are sacrifices, you know? we’re doing what we love, but we’re still gone all the time. you know, like having a girl­friend, you have to balance your relation­ship. something is lost and sacrificed for you to be able to do what you’re doing,” vocalist Josiah Johnson said in an inter­view with mother Jones’ maggie caldwell. 
The first single off the album, “another story,” represents this shift. according to matthew perpetua at buzzFeed, the song was vocalist and guitarist Jonathan russell’s reflection on the newtown shootings. “another story” laments a situ­ation where no comfort is possible, croon­ing, “can we go on as like it once was?” 
it seems the album presents a sort of wistfulness for the optimism of their first album. where “coeur d’alene” from the first album gives the heart-warming sentiment of “my mind’s made up/i’m doing this with you,” the second album’s “summertime” comes back with “i am wholly devoted to the woman i adore/but in the summertime she’ll be gone.” 
if the first represents a refusal to lose those you love, the second shows that sometimes it is inevitable. The state of balancing the optimism necessary to chase their dreams and the realism to deal with the necessary sacrifices defines the evolution of the band in the four years since their last album. 
The band has three main vocal­ists, Johnson, russell and charity rose Thielen. Johnson and russell both add guitar and percussion while Thielen plays the violin. They are joined by chris Zasche on bass, kenny hensley on piano and Tyler williams on drums. The trio of vocalists allow for three-part harmonies while the range of musicians creates a di­verse backdrop similar to The lumineers and mumford and sons. 
“let’s be still” has 13 tracks, two of which have been released. while “another story” may represent possible thematic shifts, “shake” highlights new musical techniques from the traditionally folk band. The tempo is a bit faster than any songs in the previous album and adds more of a dance beat to the mix. This new sound adds variety to a group that already had a solid musical foundation. 
The new album promises many new, exciting changes to the core sound of The head and the heart that made its debut so great. so if you’re longing for some new music in the vein of mumford and sons, i suggest trying The head and the heart. Their new album should bring them back into the spotlight that has wandered since their first release. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
“Let’s Be Still” 
The Head and the Heart 
Label: Sub Pop Tracks: “Summertime,” “Another Story” If you like: Mumford and Sons, Phillip 
Phillips 

SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: “Despicable Me 2” 
Where: DeBartolo 101 
When: 8 p.m. 
How Much: $3 

steve carell returns to voice super-villain turned sort-of-good-guy gru in this week’s sub movie, the sequel to the popular original 2010 film. gru, now a father to his three adopted and adorable daughters, is recruited by the anti-villain league to help save the world from a new villain. The film, which grossed nearly $900 million at the global box office, also features the voices of kristen wiig, russell brand, ken Jeong and steve coogan. 
FRIDAY 

What: “Machete Kills” Where: Local Movie Theatres When: All Day How Much: Worth It 
clear your schedule Friday, because the most anticipated movie since “The Jazz singer” opens nationwide. critics are calling “machete kills” confusing, clumsy, silly, juvenile, car­toonish, cheap and largely pointless. but everybody knows that if there’s one thing film critics hate, it’s fun, so expect this to be the most fun movie in the history of blowing up helicop­ters by throwing a machete at them. 
SATURDAY 

What: “Much Ado About Nothing” Where: DPAC When: 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. How Much: $4 
during a contractual vacation in 2011 from the post-production of the future billion-dollar blockbuster smash “The avengers,” director Joss whedon carved 12 days out of his schedule to shoot a modern day ad­aptation of shakespeare’s “much ado about nothing” in his house, and the film received generally positive reviews. 
SUNDAY 

What: “King: A Filmed Record … Montgomery to Memphis” 
Where: DPAC 
When: 3 p.m. 
How Much: Free 
This 1970 documentary of dr. martin luther king, Jr., features newsreel and primary materials cov­ers the legendary civil rights leader’s efforts from the 1955 montgomery bus boycott through his assassina­tion in 1968. The film, which nomi­nated for the academy award for best documentary, Features, was origi­nally show as a one-time-only event on march 24, 1970. 



Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

i’ve written and rewritten three opening sentences to this column so far. 
1.
 “The word ‘atrocious’ comes from the latin ‘atrox,’ meaning savage or cruel; the romans had clearly never heard paris hilton sing or we’d have been handed down a much more severe word.” 

2.
 “if a tree falls in the forest and no one’s around to hear it, is it still a more appealing series of noises than paris hilton’s new song?” 

3.
 “some people say the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn’t exist, but i know he exists because i’ve heard paris hilton’s new single, so what the hell is his greatest trick now?” 


i wasn’t satisfied with any of the three leads, but i decided to give up, and for once, it wasn’t because i was lazy and just picked one. 
no, as unsatisfying and halfheartedly humorous as those three attempts might be, i came to the conclusion spending more than 15 minutes trying to come up with an opening that truly captured the disastrous assault on the human race that is paris hilton’s new single, “good Time,” would hurt my brain too much and i wouldn’t be able to get through the rest of the column. 
i honestly didn’t even want to write about this; i knew that i would hate the song, and it’s (usually) no fun for me if i feel like i could probably write the column without actually listening to the song or seeing the mov­ie or whatever it is. 
after some prodding, i actually listened to the song, and i’ve got to say — in some sick, twisted way, i was impressed. 
i expected to hate it, but even with my bias and ex­pectations, it somehow, someway managed to be so, so much worse than i thought it would be. 
For comparison: in “die hard,” John mcclane isn’t super pumped to go to los angeles for christmas. he hates flying, he and his wife aren’t on the greatest of terms and he just isn’t that big of a fan of california. what he expects to be a rough trip, however, turns into him having to save a whole host of hostages and blow up a skyscraper. 
in other words, paris hilton’s new single is, “not look­ing forward to fighting with your wife but ending up having to kill hans gruber and blow up the nakatomi building” bad. 
The lyrics are mind-numbingly bad. The hook goes, “wo-oh, let’s party/yeah, let’s party, and have a good time/wo-oh, let’s party/yeah, let’s party, and have a good time.” 
paris — the black eyed peas called, and they want to sell you a thesaurus. 
her two verses, which consist of a total of nine lines, all sound like ke$ha lyrics, if ke$ha’s songs were all writ­ten by fourth graders writing ke$ha fan fiction who’d only ever heard music by ke$ha. For example, “good times are here, and you know they’re here to stay.” go home, fourth grade ke$ha fan-fiction songwriters. 
and now here’s the real kicker; the song features lil wayne. paris hilton featuring lil wayne would have been mildly surprising, though still humorous, eight years ago when she was almost famous and he was still pretty legitimate as a rapper. now, though, the pairing is crushingly, depressingly not shocking in any way. of course those two made a song together. i can’t believe it took this long. 
and, like i said before, whereas hilton is a bad singer and musician, and that’s why her profanity is so jarring, lil wayne is intentionally profane to the max. in an oth­erwise mostly tame party pop song, the rapper’s trade­mark nastiness is as out of place as ever. 
it’s like if you took one scene of “low winter sun” and dropped it into the third act of an episode of “Two and a half men.” yes, both are ridiculously bad, but the fact that they’re so bad in such different ways makes the combination unimaginably worse. 
This is a really, really bad song, but i’m guessing paris hilton doesn’t care. she’s worth over $100 million, and nothing i can say will change that. she can just keep pumping out this garbage for as long as she wants and nobody can stop her. 
hey, i think i might’ve found an answer for that whole “greatest trick the devil ever pulled” question. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SAM COUGHLIN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

will the nFl cross the pond? 

Brian Hartnett 
sports writer 
This sunday, the Jacksonville Jaguars will take the field as 27.5-point underdogs against ageless wonder peyton manning and his denver broncos squad. 
a few years from now, there’s a chance the Jaguars might once again be four touchdown underdogs, but there’s an even greater likelihood that they’ll do it in their new iteration, as the london [insert nickname here] (my personal votes: the Fogs, bridges or guards). 
yes, it’s no secret the nFl is looking to step out of its large american footprint and go global. The league, which has played one game in london every year since 2007, expand­ed its international series to include two games in england’s capital this season and three games there next season. 
From all accounts, the london series have been very successful, with tickets selling out in minutes and a largely british crowd filling up wembley stadium. it’s had this success in spite of the fact that participants in the game have included a 0-8 dolphins team, 0-7 buccaneers team and 3-5 rams squad. The centerpiece of the series for the foreseeable future is actually the middling Jaguars, who are scheduled to play a home game in london the next four seasons, including one against the san Francisco 49ers on oct. 27. 
as such, the Jaguars, the team most often faced with the threat of relocation, are com­monly rumored to be london’s future nFl franchise. and on the surface, this doesn’t seem like a bad idea — the Jaguars have had some of the lowest at­tendance figures in the league the last few seasons. They’re a team with few superstars that plays in one of the nFl’s small­est markets. 
but on the other hand, the re­location of a team in america’s most popular sports league to london would present logisti­cal challenges that would be nearly impossible to overcome. 
First, there’s the elephant in the room: travel schedules. currently, the furthest distance between two nFl franchises is the 2722 miles and approxi­mately six-hour flight that sep­arate seattle and miami. The closest franchise to london? The new england patriots, which play 3281 miles and ap­proximately seven hours away. 
This distance doesn’t seem insurmountable to a team that would only play in london every four years. but it would be an obstacle to a team that’s in the same division as the london franchise and would need to cross the pond at least once each season. 
sure, the visiting team could receive a bye the week after playing in london. but with bye weeks being a precious commodity in the action-packed nFl season, is it really fair to make a team use up its bye week in september or not get a week off until december? 
Then there’s the issue of at­tracting quality players. while london might be a more at­tractive place to live than nearly any american city, few established veterans would be willing to drop everything they have and move to a new city on another continent where football plays second fiddle to another form of football and endorsements are not as plentiful. several players have already criticized a potential relocation to london — rams defensive end chris long recently said he would “be absolutely livid” if his team relocated there and noted that moving a team there would be “like punishment.” 
and finally, there’s the is­sue of sustained support. This is not intended as a dig at the people of london, a city i will be calling my home just three months from now, but it’s easy for fans to come out and sup­port a one-time game. how many fans will pick the nFl over the epl every sunday? my guess is that we have as much chance knowing whether londoners would support a relocated nFl franchise as we do knowing whether fans in an american city would sup­port a mid-level epl team like Fulham. 
in comparison to all the is­sues that have occurred in roger goodell’s tenure as nFl commissioner, i find the issue of international games to be of low importance. however, i don’t like the expansion of the international series as a way to test the waters for an idea seemingly destined to fail, especially when it causes high-drawing teams like atlanta to lose a home game as it will next season. 
essentially, the idea of ex­pansion to london is about as bad an idea as awarding Jacksonville a franchise in the first place. and unlike some of the problems in Jacksonville, the problems in london won’t exactly be cured with a pre­scription of “Tebowmania.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Red Sox beat Rays 3-1 in Game 4 to reach ALCS 
Associated Press 

sT peTersburg Fla. —­From worst to first, and now back in the al championship series. 
shane victorino’s infield single snapped a seventh-inning tie and journeyman craig breslow gave boston a huge boost out of the bull­pen, sending the red sox into the alcs with a 3-1 victory over the Tampa bay rays on Tuesday night. 
koji uehara got the final four outs — one night after giving up a game-winning homer — and boston re­bounded to take the best-of­five playoff 3-1. 
a year after finishing in last place, the al east cham­pion red sox won 97 games to match st. louis for the best re­cord in baseball. now, they’re moving on to the alcs for the first time in five years. 
“it’s great, but we’ve still got one more to get where we want to be,” victorino said. “we’re going to get a few days off to rest and see what hap­pens in the other division se­ries, and we’ll go from there.” 
after the resilient rays were finally eliminated, boston will open at home saturday against the athletics or Tigers. oakland hosts detroit in a de­cisive game 5 on Thursday. 
both managers mixed and matched all night at Tropicana Field in a tense game that felt more like a chess match. desperately trying to force a fifth game, rays skipper Joe maddon used nine pitchers 
— a postseason record for a nine-inning game — and had ace david price warming up for a potential 10th inning. 
“The way it was working at the beginning there, i could see it was just not going to work and we had to do some­thing differently,” maddon said. “we became a little bit more extemporaneous at that point.” 
breslow relieved boston starter Jake peavy in the sixth and struck out his first four batters — all in the middle of Tampa bay’s lineup. The 33-year-old lefty from yale has pitched for six teams in eight big league seasons, in­cluding two stints with the red sox. 
“we had guys come to 

FOR RENT 

Great location. Loft apartment 4 rent 2 block E of campus. $450/mo + electric. For pics and 
spring training, everybody bought in,” breslow said, ex­plaining boston’s quick turn­around after going 69-93 last year. “There’s accountability and 25 guys who prioritize winning baseball games be­yond any kind of individual achievement or accolade.” 
The highest-scoring team in the majors this season, boston scratched out three runs on six singles in a game that featured only one extra-base hit. but that was enough to knock out the wild-card rays, who won four win-or­go-home games over the pre­vious nine days. 
“They didn’t make any mis­takes. you could see their grit,” maddon said. “They’ve got a bunch of gamers over there. ... on the other side, i think our guys were equally as tough. we have had a hard time hitting their pitching staff.” 
making their fourth play­off appearance in six years, the low-budget rays have not advanced past the division series since reaching the 2008 world series. 
Xander bogaerts scored the tying run on Joel peralta’s wild pitch in the seventh and victorino followed with an rbi infield single. dustin pedroia drove in bogaerts with a sacrifice fly in the ninth to make it 3-1, and uehara struck out evan longoria to end it. 
“it feels great,” outfielder Jacoby ellsbury said. “we played a great team over there. it was a hard-fought game. it’s more mentally tir­ing than anything. but it’s a fun group of guys.” 
david deJesus snapped a scoreless tie with an rbi sin­gle in the sixth for the rays, and boston squandered sev­eral opportunities before fi­nally breaking through in the seventh. 
bogaerts drew a pinch-hit walk with one out and raced to third on ellsbury’s two-out single off Jake mcgee. The rays brought in their sixth pitcher, peralta, and the game shifted suddenly on his first pitch, which skipped in the dirt past catcher Jose lobaton 
— allowing the tying run to score. 
ellsbury was stealing second on the pitch and continued to third when the ball rolled toward the back­stop. victorino beat out a slow chopper to shortstop, putting the red sox ahead 2-1. 
“victorino really adds a different dimension to that group, and you saw that again tonight. he just drips with in­tangibles,” maddon said. 
breslow pitched 1 2-3 score­less innings for the win. uehara earned a save, bounc­ing back from lobaton’s ninth-inning homer in game 3. 
Tampa bay won three win-or-go-home games last week just to reach the division se­ries. coming from behind in another elimination game monday gave them hope of taking the series back to Fenway park, where the rays were outscored 19-6 in the first two games. 
The trip to the alcs will be boston’s first since 2008, when the red sox lost in sev­en games to Tampa bay. 
when the red sox acquired peavy from the chicago white sox at the trade deadline, they had nights like this in mind. The 32-year-old right-hander made his third career post­season start 2,562 days — a span of seven years, five days 
— after starting game 1 of the nl division series for san diego in 2006. 
both he and rays starter Jeremy hellickson were work­ing with plenty of rest. 
although he pitched two innings in a simulated game last week while the red sox were waiting to learn who they would face, peavy hadn’t appeared in a major league game in 13 days. hellickson hadn’t pitched since sept. 27, and his selection as Tampa bay’s starter in an elimina­tion game was somewhat of a surprise. 
he didn’t last long. 
after a 1-2-3 first inning, hellickson walked david ortiz and mike napoli on eight straight pitches to be­gin the second. daniel nava singled to load the bases, and maddon had seen enough. 
Jamey wright, an 18-year veteran in his first postsea­son series, worked out of the jam by striking out Jarrod saltalamacchia and getting stephen drew to line into a double play. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
detailscom   sharonisback4ever@yahoo.  detailscom   sharonisback4ever@yahoo.  
USC-ND apt 4 rent. Sleeps 6. Fully furnished. 2 blocks E of campus. For p r i cin g / p i x /  USC - RV parking still available. 2 blks E of campus. Pricing/pix/details sharonisback4ever@yahoo.com  




SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s seeks fourth straight victory 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
Fresh off their third straight win, saint mary’s looks to ex­tend its longest winning streak of the season saturday in a home miaa matchup against kalamazoo. 
The belles (5-4-3, 3-2-3 miaa) come into the matchup off their second consecutive shutout, a 1-0 overtime thriller over Trine on sunday. senior mid­fielder mollie valencia scored the game-winning goal in the 103rd minute on a penalty kick, her first goal of the season. The defensive unit, led by juniors kerry green and mary kate hussey, held the Thunder to two shots, helping earn green miaa defensive player of the week honors. Junior goalkeep­er chanler rosenbaum notched her fourth shutout of the year, recording one save on the lone shot on goal she faced. 
in the belles and hornets (5­7-0, 4-5-0 miaa) first matchup sept. 12, kalamazoo defended their home turf with a 1-0 over­time win, despite being outshot 23-14 by the belles. however, hussey said there is a world of difference between those belles and the ones the hornets will play saturday. 
“Team chemistry has im­proved so much since then, and we are finally clicking not only off the field but more impor­tantly on the field,” hussey said. “and now that [belles coach mike] Joyce has started to get a better feel for newer players ev­eryone is comfortable with the players around them.” 
as hot as the belles have been 
— they haven’t lost since sept. 14 — the hornets come into the matchup almost equally as cold. despite coming off a 1-0 victory of their own over Trine, the hornets have lost five of their last six games and six of their last eight. in addi­tion to the differences in form, hussey said the belles hold an­other distinct advantage, albeit a subtle one. 
“a huge advantage for us playing on our grass field is kalamazoo plays on turf,” hussey said. “That might not seem like a big deal but it’s the type of thing that can tip the the other team,” hussey said. scales.” “other than that, our attitude 

hussey said the belles game-has to be to encourage each plan revolves around simple other to play to the best of our hard work and effort. ability. if we play to our po­
“our gameplan is really about tential that i know we can, es-just working hard, outworking pecially the way we’ve played lately, we won’t lose.” 

The belles and hornets take the field saturday at noon at saint mary’s. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 
NFL 

prosecutors in hernadez accuse judge of bias 
district attorney william Associated Press  her.  prosecutors allege  murder after the fact.  
mccauley wants Judge susan  Though mccauley won a  hernandez orchestrated  according to prosecutors,  
Fall river, mass. — garsh to remove herself from  conviction in that case, he was  lloyd’s killing because he was  ortiz told authorities he did  
prosecutors in the murder case the case, he said during a hear- quoted in the media as criti­ upset with him for talking to  not see who shot lloyd, but  
against former new england ing in Fall river superior court.  cizing garsh, saying she had  some people at a nightclub  that hernandez was alone with  
patriot aaron hernandez want mccauley did not detail his  unfairly limited or excluded ev­ with whom hernandez had  him before it happened. he  
the judge to recuse herself be-reasons in court, but a new fil­ idence and exhibited hostility.  problems.  initially told police a different  
cause, they said wednesday, ing cited a “well-known and  The filing said the friction  garsh declined to comment,  story, saying both hernandez  
she and the lead prosecutor publicly documented history of  would likely be exploited and  citing judicial ethics. she didn’t  and wallace got out of the car  
have a public history of antago­antagonism” between him and  sensationalized by the media in  address their history in the  at the industrial park in north  
nism and she has shown bias. garsh, stemming from a 2010  the high-profile case and could  hearing.  attleborough, mass., where  
bristol county assistant murder trial he argued before  impair the ability of mccauley  mccauley has previously  lloyd’s bullet-riddled body was  
and garsh to perform their  sought garsh’s recusal in a  found.  
paid adverTisemenT  sworn duties.  case. in a 2011 court filing, re­ wallace has pleaded not  
“This isn’t a matter the  submitted wednesday in sup- guilty. ortiz has not yet been  
commonwealth takes lightly,”  port of the new request, he  arraigned on the accessory  
mccauley told the judge.  wrote that she had “exhibited  charge but has pleaded not  
hernandez, 23, was indict- antagonism and bias toward  guilty to a gun charge.  
ed in august in the killing of  the prosecution throughout the  hernandez’s girlfriend,  
27-year-old odin lloyd, a semi­ (2010) case” and that he didn’t  shayanna Jenkins, has been in- 
professional football player  believe she could be free of bias.  dicted on a perjury charge but  
who was dating the sister of  during wednesday’s hour- not yet been arraigned.  
hernandez’s girlfriend. he  long hearing, hernandez brief­ hernandez’s cousin, Tanya  
pleaded not guilty to first-de­ ly took the witness stand to  singleton, has been indicted on  
gree murder and five weapons- answer a string of questions  charges including conspiracy  
related charges last month and  from the judge about a possible  to commit accessory after the  
is being held without bail at a  conflict of interest in the case  fact and criminal contempt.  
county jail.  by another of his attorneys,  prosecutors say she refused to  
hernandez attorney James  michael Fee. The wife of one  testify before the grand jury  
sultan said in court that the de­ of the prosecutors is a partner  hearing evidence in the case  
fense would strenuously object  at the firm where Fee is also a  even though she was offered  
to the recusal request when ar­ partner.  immunity. singleton has plead­ 
guments are heard oct. 21.  The questioning was to en- ed not guilty to both charges.  
outside court, another of his  sure hernandez knew of the po­ hernandez has also been  
attorneys, charles rankin, de­ tential conflict and still wished  linked to an investigation into  
clined to comment further. “we  to be represented by Fee. he  a double homicide in boston  
are very, very much looking for- said he did.  in 2012. while investigating  
ward to aaron’s day in court,”  Four others face charges in  lloyd’s death, police found a  
he said.  the case. ernest wallace and  sport utility vehicle rented in  
The defense has said previ­ carlos ortiz, who are said to  hernandez’s name at the home  
ously that prosecutors’ case  have been with hernandez and  of hernandez’s uncle in bristol,  
won’t hold up during a jury  lloyd in a car on the night lloyd  conn., that they had been  
trial and they are confident  was killed, have been charged  wanted in connection with  
hernandez will be exonerated.  with being an accessory to  those killings.  



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SMC GOLF 

Belles look to surpass Olivet in last tourney 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will wrap up its fall season this weekend at the michigan intercollegiate athletic association (miaa) end of season weekend Jamboree at bedford valley. 
olivet will host the event, and is currently leading the miaa with a season score of 1294. The belles trail in second place by 52 strokes. The comets have won all four prior miaa Jamborees behind seniors adrienne plourde and Theresa damico. plourde finished second overall at the fourth miaa Jamboree at Zolner golf course, and her performance led olivet to a first place finish with a score of 320. 
after seeing her team finish sec­ond to olivet four straight times, belles coach kim moore said she believes it will take a consistent effort from the entire team for a belles victory. 
“we’re right there, its just a matter of getting four consistent scores,” moore said. “it doesn’t matter if it’s the number one play­er or the number five player, your score helps the team no matter where you’re at.” 
after finishing at least 12 strokes back in the previous three miaa tournaments, the belles closed the gap a bit last weekend at Zolner, shooting a season-best 329. Two belles finished in the top-five. Freshman ali mahoney (76) fin­ished third place individually, and senior paige pollak (77) finished fourth. moore said that the sea-son-best performance would be a boon to her players heading into their final tournament of the fall. 
“i think it just gives them con­fidence that we can put a couple good scores in there,” moore said. “based on those results, we can be close to beating olivet.” 
mahoney’s performance in last weekend’s event was her career best, and broke a streak of high-scoring outings. after shooting an 81 in her first round of the season, mahoney shot 88 or higher in five straight rounds before last week­end’s 75. moore said she credited the freshman’s practice habits for her improvement, and to continue playing at a high level, mahoney must hone her putting game. 
“she had a good couple weeks of practice, and she really improved on her putting,” moore said. “[last weekend] was her best putting performance of the year. it really shows that when you’re making puts, your scores tend to drop. it was really a reflection on her preparation.” 
in addition to mahoney and pollak, who lead the belles with an average score of 80.6 on the season, moore said saint mary’s will need sophomore sammie averill, senior alexi brown, junior Janice heffernan and freshman courtney carlson to make an impact in their final two rounds. moore said the team’s focus isn’t just on a victory, but also on im­proving and building confidence as they did in their previous tournaments. 
“i really want us to go in there and take the confidence we have from the previous tournament,” moore said. “hopefully we can add to our performance and it would be nice to get another low score in there, which i think we can.” 
The belles will play their final two rounds of the season at the miaa end of season weekend Jamboree at bedford valley golf course, teeing off at 1 p.m. Friday and 11 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




SMC VOLLEYBALL | sainT mary’s 3, alma 1 
Hecklinksi leads Belles to victory over Alma 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The belles beat alma 3-1 in four tight sets wednesday at home and pushed themselves back to a win­ning conference record. 
saint mary’s (8-11, 6-5 miaa) had struggled of late, but the team seems to be coming together, belles coach Toni elyea said. 
“i think we’re playing great vol­leyball,” elyea said. “we’re con­tinuing to let teams in sometimes, and we’re letting them get key runs of three or four points. we need to run and execute plays which we’ve had a bit of trouble with but we pulled together tonight.” 
The belles defeated alma (9-11, 4-7) in four sets 25-23, 25-23, 16-25 and 25-22. elyea said that several players turned in great perfor­mances in the victory. 
“we had a great contribution from [sophomore outside hitter] katie hecklinski, 17 kills and 14 digs, which was another double-double for her this season,” elyea said. “defensively, [junior out­side hitter] kati schneider had 18 digs and [junior libero] meredith mersits had 23.” 
saint mary’s posted a .122 at­tacking percentage in the first set compared to the scots’ .194 per­centage but had the advantage in total kills with 15. 
The belles hitters committed nine attacking errors in the first set but improved in each game until they posted a .265 attacking percentage with just four errors in the fourth set. aggressive serving 


paid adverTisemenT 
helped saint mary’s create bet­ter attacking opportunities, elyea said. 
“we decided that we were go­ing to serve much more aggres­sively, which allowed a lot more free balls to come over from them, which we were able to capitalize on,” elyea said. 
hecklinski led saint mary’s with 17 kills. Junior middle hitter melanie kuczek smashed 10, and kati schneider added eight. 
The scots’ only win came in the third game when alma outhit saint mary’s 12 kills to nine and earned the largest victory margin of the night, 25-16. senior middle hitter lea klooster sparked alma’s offense with 16 kills and a .441 at­tacking percentage. 
The scots committed few at­tacking errors, but the belles kept alma’s offense off-balance with strong serving after the third set, elyea said. mersits (23), schneider 
(18) and hecklinski (14) secured the belles defense with digs. 
“we did not serve aggressively [in the third set],” elyea said. “They ran their middle extremely well. lea was on fire tonight, and she just did a tremendous job. we served much more aggressively in the fourth set.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

NHL 

Blues beat Blackhawks 

Associated Press 
sT. louis — alexander steen’s slap shot with 21.1 sec­onds remaining beat chicago goalie corey crawford and gave the st. louis blues a 3-2 win over the blackhawks on 

paid adverTisemenT 
wednesday night. their best start to a season, steen broke down the left also done in the 1969-70 and 
side as part of a 3-on-1 rush. 1993-94 campaigns. Jaroslav 
he kept the puck and let go halak made 26 saves in his 
a drive from just inside the third straight win. vladimir 
circle that trickled through Tarasenko and david backes 
crawford. also scored for st. louis. The blues (3-0) matched patrick kane scored for the third straight game for the blackhawks, and Jonathan Toews had the other chicago goal. crawford made 31 saves. Tarasenko gave the blues a 1-0 lead when he beat crawford with a wrist shot from the slot with 4:16 left in the first period. kane tied it with a power-play goal 1:17 later. patrick sharp’s shot from the right circle trickled through to kane at the left post, and he swatted the puck in. in the second period, backes put the blues back in front at 8:37 when he redi­rected alex pietrangelo’s shot from the right point into the net. but after Jaden schwartz went off for hooking, Toews tied it 39 seconds later when he shoved a rebound past halak. kane’s power-play goal was the first allowed by the blues in 12 chances this season. The goal also ended halak’s shutout streak at 111 min­utes, 52 seconds. 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S GOLF 

Platt leads team as senior, sets eyes on pros 

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 

Irish senior captain Niall Platt watches his drive after he teed off during the Irish Gridiron Classic on Oct. 9, 2012. Notre Dame finished eighth in the tournament with a total team score of 885 (300, 295, 290). Platt has started all four years and is a three-time monogram recipient. Currently, Platt leads the team with a stroke average of 70.83. 
team for lowest stroke aver-best place being at the gopher luckily that didn’t happen to few years,” platt said. “and if 
By MEREDITH KELLY 

sports writer ages — 73.4 his freshman year invitational on sept. 9 with a tie me,” platt said. “i love compet-it doesn’t work out then i will 
and 73.81 his sophomore year. for sixth. ing with these guys [the team do something else, but for now 
senior captain niall platt, he led the team in lowest stroke platt said his decision to and coaches], traveling to tour-professional golf is where i four-year starter and three-average his junior year with come to notre dame was the naments is my favorite thing want to go.” time monogram winner, found 73.41. right one, not just because of about being on the team.” platt and the team tee off his life-long sport of golf with This season platt continues the success he found with the platt, an applied and compu-again at the crooked stick the help of his father at the age to be an asset to the team, cur-team, but also because of the tational mathematics and sta-intercollegiate tournament in of three. rently leading the team with coaches and players he has had tistics major, said he hopes to carmel, ind. on oct. 14. 
“my dad got me into it, he a stroke average of 70.83. platt the privilege to golf with. play pro golf after college. loved the game,” platt said. “he has also had one top-10 finish “you don’t want to get stuck “right now, my plan is to turn Contact Meredith Kelly at doesn’t play much anymore, and two top-20 finishes — his with coaches you don’t like, and pro, and see how it goes for a mkelly29@nd.edu but we used to play together all 
paid adverTisemenT 
the time when i was a little kid.” 
a santa barbra, calif. native, platt said his father John at­tends many of his tournaments now and serves as an extra coach. 
“when he comes to my tour­naments, he will help me out with my swing and stuff,” platt said. “he is also usually my caddy over the summer.” 
Throughout his time at notre dame, platt has made a great impact on the team. he started 11 tournaments as a freshman and has kept his starting spot through all three seasons at notre dame. 
his freshman year, platt earned the big east Freshman of the year award, a spot on the all-big east Team, and a mono­gram award.   
“Freshman of the year was a great honor for me, i was re­ally happy with that,” platt said. “and obviously to win a mono­gram, especially freshman year, was a big deal for me.” 
platt consistently finished within the top three on the 




ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish compete in regional singles championships 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
in their second contest of the fall season, the irish head to the midwest regional championships today through sunday in ann arbor, mich. to test their individual strength. 
Junior molly o’koniewski, freshman Jane Fennelly and sophomore Julie vrabel will compete in qualifiers this afternoon for the champion­ships, battling for two spots in the main draw on Friday. seniors britney sanders and Jennifer kellner and freshmen monica robinson and mary closs will begin play in the main draw Friday. 
Though the draws don’t come out until this afternoon, sanders said she knows she’ll face some tough opponents during the tournament. 
“There are a lot of good teams that are playing,” sanders said. “michigan and northwesters are two top teams with great players and both will be there.” 
sanders is a veteran in this tournament, reaching the finals in both singles and doubles play during the 2012 season. 
“it was frustrating getting that far in the tournament and losing,” sanders said. “i always want to do better than the year before, so this year i want to win the tournament.” 
sophomore Quinn gleason, though unable to play in the tournament due to an injury, said the competition will be tough for her teammates this weekend, but they’ve put in the work to handle the addi­tional pressure. 
“everyone has been working especially hard since region­als is our biggest tournament of the fall season,” gleason said. “There will be some re­ally great players from 23 different schools, so it’s an opportunity for everyone to get some matches in and see how they stack up against the competition.” 
sanders said the competi­tion in ann arbor is primarily an individual event, but the irish are entering with a few team goals in mind. 
“our goals as a team are to become better tennis players during and after every match,” sanders said. “we all want to win the tournament, but be­coming better competitors is the most important thing.” 
To prepare, the irish have been doing most of their training indoors and have their sights set on sending as many players as possible to the finals in new york on nov. 17. The winners of the re­gional tournament this week­end will compete in the iTa national individual indoor championships. 
The midwest regional championships begin today with the qualifier and the main draw begins Friday in ann arbor, mich. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

armstrong’s consistency guides irish play 
golfer that would take the reins 
By GREG HADLEY 

sports writer and push her teammates to be 
better. 

From the moment she stepped “ashley has been a great leader on campus, ashley armstrong for our program ever since she’s was a leader. irish coach susan been here,” holt said. “she takes holt knew that she had found a everything very seriously and 
paid adverTisemenT 


has been a very solid player.” 
now a junior, armstrong is a team captain and has a list of accomplishments, both individually and as a team member, which highlight her leadership abilities. in her fresh­man year, the Flossmoor, ill. na­tive stunned the field at the big east conference championship to take the top spot. overall, she paced the irish to a second place finish. at the ncaa regional round, she once again led the irish, placing 26th. 
armstrong’s sophomore year proved to be even better than her freshman campaign. her season stroke average of 74.64 was the fourth best in program history. in addition, she won two consecutive tournaments, one of which, the briar’s creek invitational, was notre dame’s first team victory in almost two years. golfweek maga­zine named her the national women’s player of the week. 
at the big east championship, armstrong took the backseat to the two irish freshmen, Talia campbell and lindsey weaver, who took co-medalist honors, but she still finished in fifth place and was named to the all-big east team for the second year in a row. 
academically, the engineer­ing major was named to the capital one academic all-district v at-large first team. although armstrong did not have the finish she was hoping for last season, placing 96th at the ncaa regional, she hit the ground runningrthis season, finishing second in the mary Fossum invitational in east lansing with a score of four-over par. 
“she had a great finish at mary Fossum this year even though she was injured,” holt said. “That’s the kind of leader­ship we want for our program.” For holt, armstrong’s success has been a work-in-progress as she continues to reach her full potential. 
“all of our players, at any point in time, have something they need to work on,” holt said. “something ashley was able to do, is manage her game a lot bet­ter. That comes with her matu­rity as a player. she’s learned to be more patient and forgiving of herself on the golf course. she doesn’t get as down on herself as she used to when she was a freshman. she used to put a lot of pressure on herself to perform and i think she’s realized that less is more in that regard.” 

along the way, armstrons en­deared herself to her coach and teammates, leading to her selec­tion as team captain this year. 
“she’s such a dynamic indi­vidual,” holt said. “her self-dis­cipline is her greatest attribute and she strives to excel at ev­erything she does. but she’s also a laid-back personality off the course. she’s unique in that she likes to have fun. she likes to en­joy the college life but she’s very balanced in all aspects of her life, including academics.” 
armstrong and the irish play this weekend from Friday to sunday at the Tar heel invitational in chapel hill, n.c. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
quality of the players is much like ours. They’re good from top to bottom. There are no weak­nesses on their team. The reason they’re off to such a good start is that they’ve got a couple players that are really special. [cavaliers junior midfielder] morgan brian is the leader of that group. she’s a very special player. i’ve coached her before for the [under 23 national team], and she’s at a different level so we’ll have to be conscious of where she is on the field at all times. [cavaliers soph­omore forward] makenzy doniak is also fast and athletic and physi­cal. she scores a lot of goals for them, so those two are the ones that we’ve been keeping an eye on all week.” 
before the miami loss, the irish had only played twice away from alumni stadium but had won both games, knocking off then-no. 1 north carolina, 1-0, on their home turf and handily defeating north carolina state, 3-1. but the environment on Thursday will be as raucous as notre dame has played in all season. almost 4,000 fans are expected to come to klöckner stadium. 
“it’s just one of those things that we have to deal with when we play the competition we do,” waldrum said. “we’ve played in front of big crowds before. The thing we have to concern our­selves with is that the magnitude of the game doesn’t change the way we play. we have to be sin­gle minded in our approach and block everything else besides the game out.” 
The irish kickoff against the cavaliers on Thursday at 7 p.m. in charlottesville, va. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
Brey 
conTinued From page 20 
sophomore forward Zach auguste — provides a strong starting point in the quest to attain the same consistency in the acc. 
“it kind of gives you six men that have been through the battles, and we certain­ly have a lot to pick from as we’re trying to figure out who joins those six with our depth,” brey said. 
Packed perimeter 
after the starting group of atkins, grant and connaughton, brey said he has plenty of options from which to choose in the back-court and on the wings. 
“when you look at the pe­rimeter guys we’ve got, we’ve got a dogfight for minutes af­ter you talk about those three starters,” he said. “There’s a lot of potential there with some of the young guys.” 
maybe the most notable of the youngsters is freshman guard and mishawaka, ind., native demetrius Jackson. espn ranked the 6-foot-1, 195-pounder as the 24th-best player in the class of 2013 and the no. 6 point guard. Jackson has already drawn praise for his high energy and defensive relentless­ness. Fellow freshmen steve vasturia and v.J. beachem and sophomore forward cam biedscheid, who averaged 6.2 points per game a season ago, also factor into the logjam. 
brey said since practice be­gan sept. 27, the irish have focused on contesting more passing lanes and pressuring the ball more frequently as a team. 
“That’s where it’s going to start for us this year,” grant said. “we know we can score with the best of them, but de­fensively we’ve got to be able to get that stop when we need it. i felt like down the stretch last year that’s not something we did.” 
Replacing Cooley 
something notre dame did do last year was rebound. specifically, the 6-foot-9 workhorse cooley averaged 
10.1 boards per game and particularly dominated the offensive glass. brey said his biggest concern moving for­ward is “how we’re going to rebound the ball.” 
“we’re going to have to be a team rebounding group,” brey said. “certainly those bigs have got to be better in that department because we don’t have Jack cooley any­more, but our perimeter has got to help us.” 
atkins and grant aver­aged 2.6 and 2.9 rebounds per game, respectively, in 2012-13, while connaughton tallied 4.7 per contest. as for the post players, knight, sherman and auguste com­bined to average 9.6 rebounds per game last season. 
“right now we don’t have that beast on the glass like Jack was,” knight said. “Jack took it to heart that he was going to get every rebound. we don’t have guys who are used to doing that. so may­be as the season goes along, we’ll find that one person that will be that guy, but right now everyone is expected to do their job.” 
brey’s job, meanwhile, has been whittled down to a sole objective. 
“our goal — and we talk­ed about it this morning in practice — can we earn a bid in the first year in the acc?” brey asked. “can we right out of the gate get a bid?” 
The irish begin exhibi­tion play oct. 28 when they face off with indianapolis at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: angus T. Jones, 20; matt damon, 43; sigourney weaver, 64; chevy chase, 70. 
Happy Birthday: refrain from sharing too much personal information. emotional problems involving friends or partners will develop if you neglect your personal prom­ises, get mixed up in outside activities or take on unnecessary responsibilities. you will be inclined to overdo, overindulge and overspend. do your best to keep life simple, and you’ll minimize interference. avoid impulsive or risky behavior. honesty will help you avoid regret. your numbers are 7, 10, 12, 20, 28, 36, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): control personal spending. cut your overhead wherever possible. Focus on the changes you can make that will boost your income. a romantic relationship may be tempting, but don’t get involved in a secret affair. personal changes will lift your spirits.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take one step at a time. don’t let anyone rush you into a decision, especially if it has to do with medical or financial issues. expand your inter­ests at home by acquiring something that you can add to your entertainment.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): confusion due to unexpected changes at home or with a relationship will leave you feeling uncertain. ask questions and get to the bottom of what has transpired so that you can move forward with confidence. Take care of your health and well-being.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): explore new avenues, offer ideas and see if you receive any interest from potential collaborators. you’ll learn a lot from the discussions you have with someone from a different background. don’t feel the need to make a snap decision. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): expect to face opposition or demanding individuals. protect your home, family and finances from anyone trying to convince you to do something extravagant. a misunderstanding or perceived meddling will cause upset. Find out the truth before taking action. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a leadership position if you feel strongly about a con­cern that has arisen in your community. protect your physical and emotional wellness by taking precautions when it comes to situations that might lead to injury or illness.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you have more professional choices than you realize. stretch your talents and attributes, and you will find ways to utilize your skills masterfully. Take the initiative to broaden your knowledge and to step into a situation that has a learning curve.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk through any personal matters that have been bother­ing you. deception or holding back will lead to a situation that worsens with time. don’t jeopardize your chance to reach a deadline or finalize an important contract or position. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): difficulties with institutions or agencies will arise due to misinformation. The changes you initiate at home will end up being beneficial. Travel and physical challenges may pose a problem. love is highlighted. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): show your ambition and take over if it will help you get ahead. offer an innovative idea that will encourage a partnership. refrain from making an impulsive purchase or donation based solely on what someone else tells you. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): do your best, try your hardest, and follow your heart. don’t let negativity take over or stand between you and your chances for success. posi­tive change begins with taking meaningful action. be where the action is. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t keep secrets or hide information from someone you do business with or whom you are connected to emotionally. someone from your past will be able to offer you something that had been missing. honesty will determine your destiny. 

Birthday Baby: you are secretive, mysterious and magnetic. you are courageous, intense and energetic. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Moving forward 
The Irish take on No. 1 Virginia in Charlottesville, look to avenge first ACC loss 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
coming off its second loss of the season and first loss in the acc, no. 5 notre dame faces a daunting obstacle in getting back on track in the conference when the irish take on top-ranked virginia in charlottesville, va. on Thursday night. 
after a shocking 2-0 upset at hands of miami on sunday, the irish (9-2-1, 5-1-1 acc) fell to fourth in the acc. now, just four days later, they must try to re­group and take on the undefeated cavaliers (12-0-0, 6-0-0 acc). irish coach randy waldrum said he thought this quick turnaround might actually help his squad. 
“we watched video of [the game] on monday and then we put it to bed,” waldrum said. “we made it a point to not drag it out and talk about all week. we had to look forward because the turn­around is so quick to prepare for virginia. usually we play well against good competition, so hopefully that works out for us.” 
after being shutout by miami, waldrum said his main message to the team was to start the game with a high level of focus and maintain that intensity. 
“what we did in the video ses­sion on monday was show the kids what it looked like to have such a lack of intensity and a lack of focus,” waldrum said. “i wouldn’t expect us to come out that way again.” 
although this is only the sec­ond regular season meeting be­tween the irish and the cavaliers, the two teams faced off every pre­season from 2005 to 2012. during that time, the irish led the series 5-2-1 and gained a better knowl­edge of their acc foes, waldrum said. 
“The shape of their team is a little different than ours but the style is very similar,” waldrum said. “we’ve played them a lot over the years in the preseason so we know them quite well.” 
based off that knowledge, waldrum said he knows virginia will give the irish as good a battle as they have had all year. 
“They’ve got a really good team in general,” waldrum said. “The 
see w soccer PAGE 18 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish senior midfielder Mandy Laddish gains control of the ball during Notre Dame’s 3-0 victory over Pittsburgh on Sept. 29. The Irish will look to improve their ACC record tonight at Virginia. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Brey addresses starters, rebounding at media day 

By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
The jerseys were tucked in. The afternoon schedule was mapped out. The assistant coaches had nattily-knotted ties to go with their sharp suits. 
most everything at wednesday’s media day was crisp and predetermined for the irish. 
everything, that is, except the team’s acc identity and its rotation. 
“i’m always excited this time of year, but i’m even more fired up for two rea­sons,” irish coach mike brey said. “number one, the group we have returning — and i certainly have gotten to see a lot of them through summer practices and four or five pre­season practices — and the excitement of, the challenge of trying to figure out who we are in the atlantic coast conference starting Jan. 4.” 
notre dame, which is com­ing off a 25-10 season in which it was bounced from the ncaa Tournament in the second round by iowa state, moves to the acc this sea­son and leaves behind the big east. in brey’s 13 seasons in the big east, the irish won 136 regular-season confer­ence games and reached the semifinals of the league tour­nament in each of the final four seasons. 
“our whole thing has been, can we create a consistent presence in the acc like we have in the big east?” brey asked. “we’re very proud of how consistent we’ve been year to year in the big east. we’ve been as good as any­body at delivering during regular-season league play. been pretty good in the league tournament too.” 
notre dame returns nine of 11 players from last year’s squad but will have to re­place forwards Jack cooley and scott martin. brey said the top of his rotation — se­nior guards eric atkins and Jerian grant, junior guard/ forward pat connaughton, graduate student forward Tom knight, senior center garrick sherman and 
see brey PAGE 18 




