The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 79 | wednesday, january 30, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Candidates unveil visions for office 
Six student body president and vice president tickets seek to win positions for 2013-2014 
outward in setting goals for their interests of the students of notre 

By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor potential term as head of stu-dame to leaders in the commu­dent government. nity who can help make our vi-
official campaigning for the “The main aspect of our plat-sion a reality,” he said. election of student body presi-form is making notre dame dent and vice president began students better citizens of south alex Coccia and nancy Tuesday, marking the beginning bend, and at the same time mak-joyce of the week-long race between ing south bend into the college Juniors alex coccia and nancy six student tickets. town that students want to be a Joyce want to refresh the way 
These tickets will face off in a part of,” o’brien said. “i would student government engages debate monday, Feb. 4, making like to be able to find a way for with and serves its student con-their case to students, who will students to be able to be more stituents by refocusing the orga­cast their ballots wednesday, engaged in the community in nization on advocacy. Feb. 6. in the event of a runoff, order to develop our own unique “student government has the there will be a second debate student cultural scene.” potential to be a great advo-Thursday, Feb. 7, and a final o’brien, who hails from cacy organization for students,” election monday, Feb. 11. granger, ind., said he believes coccia said. “it requires being 
he has a home-field advantage able to engage directly with stu­austin O’Brien and nick when it comes to serving stu-dents and their passions, perse-Boggess dents and reaching this goal. vere through the challenges we 

Freshmen austin o’brien “i feel that being from the area and nick boggess are looking qualifies me to represent the see elecTion PaGe 5 JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 





Kelly addresses Te’o controversy 
Film festival focuses on non-violent resistance 

By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
irish coach brian kelly pub­licly defended former line­backer manti Te’o on Tuesday in the aftermath of the Jan. 16 report that revealed lennay kekua, Te’o’s purported girl­friend, to be a hoax. 
kelly said the timeline in­cluded in university president Fr. John Jenkins’ letter to university officials matched what he remembered. 
“when i looked at it, that was all in line with my recollection of getting a phone call from manti on [dec.] 26 [when Te’o suppos­edly told kelly and defen­sive coordinator bob diaco about the ordeal],” kelly said. “everything from there kind of followed the time line that had been set-up. 
“so everything that [Te’o] told me, every little thing that’s come out of the past couple of weeks is what he told me. so i can only go on the information that he gave 
see kelly PaGe 3 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
peace studies course material and film study will converge at the fifth annual screenpeace Film Festival, where attendees will share in the experiences of five nonviolent resistors from around the world. 
The festival, which begins Thursday and runs through saturday, is co-sponsored by the kroc institute for international peace studies and the debartolo performing arts center. 
hal culbertson, executive di­rector of the kroc institute, said this year’s festival theme of non­violent resistance developed in response to the arab spring, a series of civil resistance move­ments in the arab world that be­gan in late 2010. 
“we thought there would be significant interest in the arab spring and its impact around the world,” culbertson said. “we decided to make the theme of nonviolent resistance the centerpiece because we knew of several films that related to this.” 
The five films that will be 
see FesTival PaGe 5 


Students explore careers, internships at fair 
By ERIN AUCAR 
news writer 

notre dame students trudged through the dreary weather in their best business formal out­fits with freshly printed resumés and the determination to con­nect with and learn from repre­sentatives of potential employers at the annual winter career Fair on Tuesday. 
while many of the students attending the fair were upper­classmen hoping to land that dream internship or full-time position, a number of younger students were there looking to get their feet wet in the profes­sional world. 
Freshman william cheely was one such underclassmen attend­ing mostly for the experience. 
“i have absolutely no idea what to expect,” cheely said. “i just want to look around and get a better idea of how these events work.” 
with a slightly clearer goal in mind, sophomore gregory moyers viewed the fair as a broad but defined search for summer options. while the formal corpo­rate positions offer tempting 
see Fair PaGe 4 


coaching classes PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 7 scene PaGe 8 coach kelly PaGe 16 men’s baskeTball PaGe 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: courtney cox Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What have you learned today? 


Andrew Hyrcza 
senior 
morissey manor 

“i really need to invest in an umbrella.” 

Anna Morton 
sophomore 
howard hall 

“it’s important to have an umbrella even if it’s January.” 

Bianca Almada 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 

“rain boots are a necessity .” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Connor Reider 
junior 
dillon hall 

“south bend is a tropical paradise.” 

Imani Parker 
freshman 
lyons hall 

“it’s not what i have learned today...it’s what i haven’t.” 

Mike Gregory 
freshman 
keenan hall 

“how to draw a perfect circle.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
John cameron vicky Jacobsen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
christian myers kit loughran catherine owers brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jacqueline o’neill maria Fernandez 
Photo Viewpoint 

Pink Zone Dodgeball Christian Unity Men’s and Women’s Women’s Basketball Organ Recital Series 
sarah o’connor dan brombach 
Tournament Prayer Service Track & Field Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing Rolfs Sports Keenan-Stanford Hall Meyo Track 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. Arts Center Recreation Center Chapel 4 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Game v. Cincinnati 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 
Corrections 

3 p.m.-7 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Meyo Invitational. Annette Richards 
The observer regards itself as Raise money to fight Student reflections. performs. a professional publication and 
cancer. 

strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, 
Men’s Basketball Zen Meditation LHOP: Lewis Hall of Vigil Mass Men’s Tennis 
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center Coleman-Morse Pancakes Basilica of the Sacred Eck Tennis Pavillion 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m.-8 p.m. Center. Lewis Hall Heart 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Game v. Villanova 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 10 p.m.-1 a.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Game v. IUPUI 
we can correct our error. 

All faiths welcome. Benefits food bank. Catholic Mass. 


Students embrace new coaching program 
teaching coaches how to ‘flow’ in sports and how the 
By NICOLE MICHELS 

news writer coach … and getting them to best performances come realize that there is a lot more from athletes when they’re 
every notre dame athlete to coaching than just going feeling an equal amount of is encouraged to ‘play like out onto the field,” bender challenge and fun — we get a champion today,’ a motto said. more into the science of how that aspiring coaches among The social foundations our philosophy came about,” notre dame’s student body of coaching course teaches kearney said. “The end goal are learning to pass on to lo-the essentials of the “play of the course would be for our cal youth teams. like a champion Today” students — if they go on to be 
notre dame’s physical edu-educational series, an ini-coaches in communities — to cation department has de-tiative that instills positive know the reasons we get into vised a coaching certification coaching techniques in orga-coaching in the first place program in order to give stu-nizations around the united and to use these techniques dents the tools to coach youth states, associate program to raise not only good ath­sports teams effectively, said director damian kearney letes, but good people.” stephen bender, visiting as-said.  bender said he seeks to of­sociate specialist in the phys-“The research behind this fer a coaching practicum that ical education department. philosophy was conducted allows interested students to 
“This program allows notre by professor clark power, get hands on experience out-dame students to become who found that a high per-side of the classroom. certified coaches,” bender centage of children were “if students want to get said.  “This program offers a leaving sports, basically be-into the coaching practicum coaches and staff,” conrad techniques were actually pretty solid base to help our cause it wasn’t fun anymore,” — which is basically student said. “it was amazing how in translating to field success students get their feet in the kearney said. “The concept teaching for a semester by four months i was able to be-and where i needed to fo­door.” of youth sporting around the getting hands on coaching come so invested in the school cus my attention for practice 
notre dame’s coaching cer-country had become so fo-experience — i go out and and football program.  i still plans.” tification program, supported cused on winning and pro-find positions for those girls stay in touch with coaches bender said this practicum by both its physical education fessionalization that the end and guys to coach for a whole and players and plan on vol-helps students to discern if department and the institute had strayed from what ‘youth season at local high schools,” unteering again next year.” they would like to pursue fur-for educational initiatives, sports’ had been meant to bender said.  “i find coach-conrad said dealing with ther coaching opportunities. certifies students through the be initially. we want kids es to take them under their the interpersonal aspect of “The practicum solidifies american sport education to have fun, maintain good wings while they coach — it’s coaching proved to be the their passion. They might be a program, bender said. physical fitness and to make an awesome experience.” biggest obstacle. little skeptical going out into 
certification requires two friends.” Junior nick conrad said the “The most challenging ex-the real world and seeing what courses — “social Foundations The “play like a champion best part of his coaching ex-perience of coaching is un-coaching is all about, but ev­of coaching” and “principles Today” staff teaches clin-perience was becoming a part derstanding your players,” eryone that we’ve placed has of coaching” — as well as an ics throughout the country, of his team’s community. conrad said.  “understanding come back and said, ‘that was exam, bender said. kearney said.  he said the un-“For me, i was fortunate personalities and how to mo-the greatest thing i’ve done at 
“The social foundations dergraduate course is more enough to work at st. Joseph tivate is key.  since this was notre dame,’” bender said. class is more about ways to academic. high school in south bend, my first coaching job, it was motivate people, while the “we read social psycholo-where i was welcomed into also a challenge to recog-Contact Nicole Michels at principles class is about gists who have written on their family of players, nize what drills and practice nmichels@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
release the information. 

Kelly 
Te’o, who struggled in the 

conTinued From page 1 
42-14 loss, did not appear to me versus what we’re seeing be affected by the situation out there.” leading up to the game, kelly 
kelly said his initial con-said. he said he did not sense cern was to figure out what his captain played poorly be-had happened rather than cause of the ordeal, but he worrying about when to re-added that only Te’o could lease the information. he answer that question. said he immediately forward-“manti’s a young man that ed the information to admin-continues to lead, and you istrative officials. don’t really see him — be­
“That was my first cause, obviously, he went thought,” kelly said. “let’s through a tough time during find out what the heck is go-the year, and we didn’t re­ing on here. because you get ally see anything there that a phone call in the middle of would have set off an alarm the night, and the first thing that he was under so much is this young lady is not, in pressure concerning the situ-fact, dead. you don’t know ation,” the third-year coach what to think. so try to get said. “i just didn’t see it as we dialogue and make sure that practiced and leading into we begin to find out what the game.” happened here. kelly said he thinks Te’o 
“as we went on in the pro-will be remembered as a cess, our athletic director, “great leader on our football Jack swarbrick was, as you team on an undefeated team know, a center in it. and he at notre dame” and consid­was putting together all the ers Te’o to be one of the best pieces over a period of time. teammates he has witnessed i don’t know that any of us in his 22 years of coaching. were motivated by — we don’t “he was just special to want this to be a news story. coach, and he did all the great we wanted to find out what things that i think great play-the facts were.” ers have to do on a day-to-day 
kelly added that he was basis,” kelly said. “and we’re focused on coaching the going to continue to hold him irish in the bcs national in that type of esteem.” championship game against alabama and was not involved Contact Andrew Owens at in the decision on when to aowens2@nd.edu 



The observer | wednesday, january 30, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC campus fire deemed minor 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
The investigation into the cause of sunday night’s fire in o’laughlin auditorium is on­going and a report is expected in a few weeks, gwen o’brien, director of media relations at saint mary’s, said Tuesday. 
o’brien said there is no imminent danger stemming from the fire. saint mary’s security and the notre dame Fire department were alert­ed of the fire at 10:59 p.m. sunday and responded im­mediately to put the blaze under control. 
The college notified stu­dents of the fire around 7 a.m. monday via text, email and phone call with an automated voice recording. 
“saint mary’s uses an alert system that is programmed by the college [determining] when to send out messages and what the messages say,” o’brien said. “The messages sent through text, call and email were not an emergency alert but rather a community notice. since there was no imminent danger, we did not feel the need to send out an emergency alert.” 
since no one had been in the auditorium at the time of the fire, college adminis­trators made the decision to send out a community notice several hours after the fire had been extinguished and not an immediate emergency alert, o’brien said. 
karen Johnson, vice presi­dent for student affairs, sent the community notice monday morning to alert stu­dents of the fire. her message also informed students that classes were to be called for the day in moreau hall, which reopened Tuesday. 
“saint mary’s college is dedicated to providing a safe environment for all our com­munity members,” Johnson said. “in cases of imminent danger to any member of the community, we use our emergency alert system to contact those persons im­pacted by the situation. 
“in the case of the fire in o’laughlin auditorium, the auditorium was empty. no student, faculty or staff mem­ber was in imminent dan­ger so we did not contact the community.” 
o’brien said there was no reason to assume a connection between this fire and another fire that oc­curred in moreau hall in the fall. 
“we do not believe that this fire was connected with the first fire that was in moreau this past november,” o’brien said. “The cause of the last fire was undetermined but deemed not suspicious. all indications showed that the fire had not been caused with a purpose.” 
when the fire alarm that went off inside the auditori­um, o’brien said saint mary’s security was notified at the same time as the notre dame Fire department. 
“since the saint mary’s security is located on cam­pus, they were the first to arrive at the auditorium when the alarm went off,” o’brien said. “notre dame Fire department followed shortly after, arriving within about three minutes. saint mary’s security was trying to get the fire and smoke under control when the notre dame Fire department arrived on campus.” 
o’brien said all safety pro­cedures functioned smoothly sunday evening. 
“saint mary’s security might not have been aware of how the college wanted to handle classes the next morning because decisions were being made through­out the night,” o’brien said. “we made the information available on a need-to-know basis.” 
a third-party specialist, First response, has visited the building to expel the smoke that had seeped into moreau hall and caused classes to be cancelled, o’brien said. 
while moreau hall has reopened for classes, o’laughlin auditorium will be closed for an undeter­mined amount of time. The next event scheduled for o’laughlin is dance arts 2013: dance speaks on Feb. 
14. it’s unclear at this time whether the venue will need to be changed, o’brien said. 
“There is water damage to the stage area and offices below the stage. once the in­vestigation is complete, First response restoration special­ists will clean and refurbish damaged spaces,” she said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

speaker shares experience with stalking 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 

To enhance the educational impact of national stalking awareness month, saint mary’s belles against violence office hosted speaker debbie riddle, whose sister’s tragic experience with a stalker made the all-too-common issue personal. 
The Tuesday lecture focused on the story of riddle’s sister peggy, who met her stalker patrick kennedy through a study group while attending school in albuquerque, n.m. 
in January 2003, kennedy at­tacked klinke, later killing her and himself at a neighboring home she fled to. 
riddle said she remembers the last time she saw her sister. “she looked like a walking cadaver,” she said. riddle said the stalking af­fected her whole family.
 “[peggy] was terrified to be with her family, [worried] that patrick would kill one of us.” 
riddle said the nature of the pair’s relationship drove a “wedge” within the family once they began dating. 
“peggy was not to pay atten­tion to … her family,” riddle said, “[kennedy] kept inserting himself between [the family] and my sister.” 
riddle said that she saw physical and behavioral changes in her sister as a result of the relationship. 
“her hair started to thin, she lost interest in things,” she said. 
once klinke ended the re­lationship in 2002, kennedy began stalking her, requiring klinke to keep vigilant about his presence in her life. 
“she comes out [of work] and his truck is still there,” riddle said. “she [couldn’t] live her life without looking over her shoulder.” 
once klinke began another relationship the stalking es­calated, riddle said. she be­lieves kennedy was set off by klinke’s rejection of a marriage proposal. 
“he [waited] for her at work and [handed] her a dozen roses and a ring,” riddle said. “That possession he had control of for three years [didn’t] need him anymore.” 
when klinke reported kennedy after he put up fliers with her picture, false state­ments and phone number, riddle said the police dis­missed the incident. 
“[The officer said] it’s really just a piece of paper,” she said. “There is really nothing you can do.” 
kennedy had also vandalized klinke’s mother’s home in ohio while the family was at a wed­ding in Florida, riddle said. he then went back to new mexico where he also vandalized klinke’s boyfriend’s home. 
For riddle, the murder highlighted the need to raise awareness on the issue of stalking. she teamed up with the stalking resource center of the national center for victims of crime, legal activ­ist erin brockovich and new mexico state rep. heather wilson to spread the word. 
she helped record a “roll call Tape,” a video for police officers to use as a training tool and raise awareness of stalk­ing so they pay attention to the stalking victims, riddle said. riddle shared the video with students, including the 911 call klinke made before her death, where kennedy can be heard saying, “hang up the phone.” 
riddle encouraged students before the question-and-an­swer session to pay attention to the signs of stalking. 
“i would advise if you ever hear anything like you heard tonight … get help,” she said, “There are many, many ser­vices available, but i’m telling you, trust your instincts.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 


Fair 
conTinued From page 1 

credential boosts, he said he is exploring nontraditional options as well. 
“right now i’m exploring some options. i’m interested in ac­counting but i’m thinking about a leadership camp this year,” he said. “That way i can work up to more opportunities in the future.” 
sophomore melissa o’brien said she had narrowed her search to a few industries but was largely attending the fair for early exposure to the networking experience. 
“i went so i could talk to some finance and consulting firms that i was interested in, so that i could learn more about them and their internship offerings,” she said. “overall, it was a good experience getting to talk to po­tential employers as a sopho­more so i can know what they’re looking for next year.” 
while often seen as catering to those interested in traditional business or corporate work, the career Fair had something for everyone, with over 100 compa­nies and organizations present.
 “i was pleasantly surprised to see that there were a lot of oppor­tunities for my political science major,” junior Tom mcguire said. “i was mostly surprised to see that a lot of companies are looking for skills such as good writing abilities – skills that stu­dents in arts and letters [majors] have.” 
Felicia byrd, a junior, said she was interested to see how her recent change in major from ac­counting to management con­sulting affected her response from recruiters. 
“i was actually more excited about the career Fair because i’ve changed my major, and i’m more confident in my ability to perform now,” byrd said. “i feel more comfortable approaching the [recruiters].” 
already well into the recruit­ing process, junior katie knapp intended to follow up with re­cruiters from organizations she had already applied to. 
“i think it’s helpful to meet the recruiters in person to get a bet­ter feel for each company,” she said. “i’m glad that i went, be­cause i learned a lot more about each position than i could have from simply scanning the job descriptions on [job listing site] goirish.” 
Contact Erin Aucar at eaucar@nd.edu 




Festival 
conTinued From page 1 
shown over the course of the festival portray the stories of a varied cast of people: a palestinian farmer, a chinese artist and activist, a scholar of nonviolent resistance, an inter­racial american couple and an aspiring algerian filmmaker. 
alison rice, associate profes­sor of French and Francophone literatures, will introduce the last film of the weekend, “normal!,” about a young algerian filmmaker living and working when the arab spring protests begin in his country in the last days of 2010. 
“with these protests taking place, it’s like a documentary, but it’s not labeled a documen­tary,” rice said. “it’s like a film within a film.” 
The film follows the struggles of the filmmaker as he tries to discern how to act appropriate­ly in the midst of the protests, rice said. 
“[it is] really about the dilem­ma of how to act when you’re in a societal system in a country where you do not agree with the way things are going,” she said. “how do you react, how do you respond effectively?” 
The film sends a message of solidarity, rice said, and the feeling of “everyone participat­ing in something together.” 
rice was chosen to introduce “normal!” for the screenpeace Festival because of her close connections with algerian culture as a professor of French and Francophone literature, she said. 

“i also love the work the kroc institute does, and i am firmly behind the idea of peace stud­ies, and i love film as well,” rice said. “it was a perfect opportu­nity for me to respond to.” 
culbertson said the kroc institute chooses films for the festival that will relate to the material the peace studies de­partment is teaching in the classroom. 
“we designate films with our chief educational goals in mind and we try to complement our class discussions of peace with films that are particularly situ­ated where conflict and peace issues are prominent,” he said. “it can address issues on a more local level and more in con­text than we often can in the classroom.” 
The festival also provides food for thought for others who may not know a great deal about peace issues around the world. 
“The real goal is to stimulate thought and reflection of peace issues around the world,” he said. “i think film as a medium is a wonderful way for people to learn about other cultures and contexts. it’s a different way of seeing peace issues played out.” 
The festival is free to attend, but tickets are required. For a full schedule of films and to obtain tickets, visit performin­garts.nd.edu. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
election 
conTinued From page 1 
face by approaching obstacles with new ideas and creativ­ity and promote the voices of all students in the conversations that affect us.” 
coccia said it is important to embrace the range of differing passions, while highlighting the commonality between students. 
“we want to be in the best position possible to most effec­tively advocate for a wide range of student interests,” he said. “at the end of the day, what we all have in common by virtue of our attendance at this school is a passion for the university of notre dame.” 
The coccia-Joyce platform is based on enhanced commu­nication through social media and other online resources as well as campus publications; innovation, including the cre­ation of a new position focus­ing on national outreach; and collaboration, especially with the leprechaun legion and the student activities office; inclu­sion, focused especially on gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning (glbTQ) and minority students. 
Kevin salat and Paul Mascarenhas 
Freshmen kevin salat and paul mascarenhas hope to avoid some of the vague rhetoric they believe can sometimes impair student government groups. 
“paul and i are trying to get to the real interests of the stu­dents,” salat said. “we’re not try­ing to win over the student body with vague idioms about hard work and ambiguous reform promises.” 
while refusing to offer details at this time, salat said his ticket hopes to make structural im­provements at the university and improve intercollegiate relations. 
“we have worked … to develop plans for football stadium reno­vations,” he said. “we will be go­ing to great lengths to improve our relationship with the fine ladies of saint mary’s college as well.” 

dominic romeo and Philip Hootsmans 
Juniors dominic romeo and philip hootsmans have a three-pronged approach to a potential term in office. 
romeo said his administration would emphasize interaction and integration between groups on campus to improve program­ming and safety on campus. 
“by working with students, community leaders and faculty, we will improve safety, increase relations between dorms and hold more programs, conferenc­es and meetings so all of us can listen and learn from what each other has to say,” he said. 
he said he would oversee the development of an online space for organizing and informing students about extracurricular opportunities. 
“phil and i envision an online space where students can come together to find out more about campus activities,” he said. “This mentoring platform will enable all of us to reach our full poten­tial at notre dame.” 
The ticket’s third focus will be on improving the day-to-day life of members of the notre dame community. 
.”we will work together to encourage more night football games, more and better con­certs, cheaper printing and huddle prices, more reasonable meal plan rules, more trips and finally a café in [debartolo],” he said. 
Billy Christy and Patrick roemer 
sophomores billy christy and patrick roemer want to use the offices of student body presi­dent and vice president to en­hance local outreach, student government accountability, 

paid adverTisemenT 
equality across the student body and encouragement of student initiatives. 
christy said there could be more funding directed towards local social concerns. 
“we want to be able to use [center for undergraduate scholarly engagement] funding to reach out to the south bend community,” he said. “we have a unique opportunity to reward those who want to better south bend.” 
roemer said the institution of regular video recordings of stu­dent government meetings and updates on progress will allow students to better assess their leaders’ results. 
“we see a problem with stu­dent government to be that most students don’t know ex­actly what it does,” roemer said. “This is something we want to fix through meetings with hall presidents [and] youTube videos at the end of every month so that we can be held accountable.” 
christy said his administra­tion would look to carry forward momentum with the push for equal standing across a diverse student body. 
“we want to be able to con­tinue fighting for equal rights for all, regardless of gender, race, age or sexual orientation,” he said. 
christy also pledged to in­crease support of students’ startup projects on campus. 
“it can’t hurt to have an ally in the present and [vice president] when the university adminis­tration looks over their proposal for funding or to approve a club,” he said. 
Michael Masi and Timothy scanlan 
Junior michael masi and sophomore Timothy scanlan are focused on making the notre dame community more unified, communicative and connected with the off-campus community. 
“The masi-scanlan campaign is focusing on uniting the notre dame community together as one,” masi said. “This compre­hensive platform aims to foster a community that is welcoming and inclusive, meet the day-to­day needs of the student body and encourage students to reach beyond the university to affect change beyond the boundaries of our campus.” 
some of the tickets’ specific initiatives include a review of campus information technology and an intercollegiate “social Justice Forum.” 
before such a forum can be effective, masi said his admin­istration would need to increase student body unity and improve the relationship between cam­pus and student government. 
“before we can successfully reach beyond the walls of our university, we must first unite our student body,” he said. “we believe we can accomplish this by increasing the visibil­ity and accessibility of student government.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


InsIde COluMn 

respect for our season 

Kirby McKenna 
photographer 

i am generally a pretty easygoing person. i wait patiently in the sandwich line of south dining hall while the stu­dent in front of me can’t pick up a slice of ham. i nod politely when the barista at starbucks writes the name “curry” on my coffee cup. i even chatted with the occasional alabama fan loitering around sun life stadium in miami. however, one of the few things i cannot stand is the “hate on notre dame” train that seems to be gaining steam this semester. 
being from columbus, ohio, i have had a fair share of irish discrimination from my buckeye peers. i’ll even admit i have probably contributed to the target on my back from all of the notre dame-related statuses i have been spewing as of late. what i don’t understand is for the need of perfect strangers to insist i am aware of their distaste for my university. 
now, i am all about school spirit. i will forever believe we have the privilege of going to the best school in the world. i also understand everyone else partici­pating in collegiate academia believe the same about their respective estab­lishments. whatever happened to coex­isting peacefully? 
instead of being recognized for the incredible season we have had this year, the legacy of this football season has now become a public whipping by the sec, a case of cold feet and an overblown piece of gossip. rather than commendation from my ohio state friends on also being undefeated, i have the pleasure of hearing what they imag­ine what would happened if they faced alabama. real talk, it would not have been any prettier. 
i do not feel like i am asking for a lot. it is not necessary for others to cheer for old notre dame with the same gusto we do. what i request is a little respect. regardless of who you are, if you start the season unranked and end up going to the national championship, kudos is well earned. if you dislike notre dame, you are more than entitled to your own opinion. what i do not need is for you to expel your hatred all over my Facebook wall/phone. pointing out another school’s flaws does not make your insti­tution look better. if anything, it results in returned scrutiny. 
notre dame is not perfect. no uni­versity is. we have had a lot of negative attention these past few weeks, heck, the past couple of decades. what students from other universities fail to under­stand is how far we have come. as the wise Thumper once said, if you do not have anything nice to say, do not say anything at all. 
Contact Kirby McKenna at kmckenn5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Believe in God, believe in yourself 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

although it’s sometimes hard to admit, i get nervous easily. This was especially problematic in high school. my nerves made big deci­sions difficult. i always put off ask­ing girls to dances until the last minute and told notre dame of my decision to attend on the day of the application deadline. 
i’ve always felt more comfortable away from the spotlight. i’ve never liked organizing and have always been more content helping as a part of a team rather than leading one. so, college was great for me. There were always activities and people that needed help. i could be some­thing to everyone and could stay away from big decisions. 
everything changed once i start­ed this year in campus ministry. suddenly, my opinion mattered more. i was given responsibilities. i was no longer just part of the team, but instead was responsible for leading it and organizing meetings, committees and programming. 
i was especially shocked — and scared — when i discovered i would be co-leading notre dame’s senior retreat. i helped with the senior retreat as a senior, so i figured i would not have any trouble this time around. This was not entirely the case, as i soon discovered. my co-leader, katie, and i were tasked with overhauling the entire retreat. we changed everything from the previous year and gave it a different focus and structure. we took on a lot of responsibility and tried to or­ganize the retreat so that little help was needed from others during the course of the two days. 
i grew a lot during the prepara­tions for the retreat, learning to manage the stress and responsibil­ity that came from juggling many different details and people. but perhaps my greatest insight came not at the end but near the begin­ning of the preparations in a con­versation with Fr. Jim king, director of campus ministry. and i’m just now starting to live into its truth. 
Fr. Jim and i were talking about my future and i mentioned to him i was, as usual, having difficulties making decisions. To shake things up, i asked him a question point blank: “having known me for a couple of months, what is one thing that i could work on?” he replied to me almost without hesitation: “look, you’ve got a lot of gifts scott. i’d hire you tomorrow to work in campus ministry.” Then he paused. “but i can’t hire you.” “why’s that?” i asked. “because,” he replied, “you’re not confident in what you do.” 
it would be no exaggeration to say these words have changed the way i look at myself. The more i thought about it, the more i realized Fr. Jim was right. i couldn’t make big deci­sions because i didn’t believe i had the capability to make them. in oth­er words, i didn’t believe in myself. i realized i had been handicapped by my desire to make everybody happy. and this desire had hindered my ability and confidence in mak­ing decisions, decisions that may have been right but also difficult for people to hear or accept. 
during the retreat, i learned very quickly that you can’t make every­one happy. i guess i could have if i had remained guarded and revealed only a part of myself into the pro­cess of planning and execution. but that’s not what i wanted. i wanted to pour all of myself into that retreat. 
Jesus too did not make everyone happy. although he led his disciples with truth and love, he made some people so mad they crucified him on a cross. c.s. lewis writes in this capacity: “To love at all is to be vul­nerable. love anything and your heart will certainly be wrung and possibly broken. if you want to make sure of keeping it intact, you must give your heart to no one, not even to an animal.” 
so i’ve realized leadership, if done well, does not invite us into an ivory tower, but into vulnerability. henri nouwen comments, “i wonder if not all creativity [and leadership] asks for a certain encounter with our loneliness. and it is fear of this encounter which severely limits our possible self-expression.” 
i realized i had been fearful of leading because i had been inca­pable of being vulnerable and open­ing myself to some of the hardest realities of life: criticism, failure and the loneliness that comes with these experiences. but, despite all my fears, Fr. Jim believed in me. and i still ran the retreat. 
i think Fr. Jim reminded me of a deeper reality too: god always believes in us. There is nothing we cannot accomplish in him. if we take a leap, he will not abandon us. he will support us as we discover ourselves and, most importantly, will give us the wings to fly. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edITOrIal CarTOOn 


Freezing for a cause 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

some come to notre dame for the academics, some come for the sports and some for the community. Farther down the list of attributes, nestled somewhere between pa­rietals and “the diversity,” is the weather. with second semester comes January and its array of arctic temperatures. while initially enter­taining, it soon becomes old as the memory of the snowball fight fades and you’re faced with yet another day of sobbing quietly on your trek to debartolo hall, praying your tears don’t freeze before your arrival. as the single-digit degree temperature days continue, some will stay tucked warmly in their dorms while others will brave the epic journey to their classrooms. inevitably, the dorm idiot will leave in a t-shirt and re­turn with pneumonia. These are the grave challenges the irish bear as they courageously venture outdoors in pursuit of an education and/or night at Fever. 
For many, however, there is no respite from the cold. There is no heated dorm or warm coat. indeed, there is no place to call home. For tens of thousands of people, each night is a challenge in its own right. homelessness affects people from coast-to-coast, from south beach to south bend. For those afflicted in the north, the harsh climate of winter poses specific and perilous challenges. in times of extreme cold, these trials become lethal. 
in the heart of the wealthiest na­tion on earth, there will be some who go without shelter during the dead of indiana’s frosty winter. in a given year, over 1.5 million americans will find themselves homeless for some length of time. Ten percent of these will be veter­ans; over one-fifth will be children. often the cause is a death, an un­stable family situation, a sudden financial turn or an unforeseeable emergency. it takes a relatively small amount of assistance to help them back on their feet. For others who experience chronic homelessness, the path to self-sufficiency can be a more arduous process. of the chron­ic homeless population, approxi­mately 30 percent suffer from mental health conditions, while even more find themselves battling issues of substance abuse. by any statistic, homelessness is both a tragic occur­rence and a daunting challenge. 
challenges, however, can be met. locally, the south bend center for the homeless spearheads the effort to fight this societal disease. since its inception in dec.1988, the center has worked to combat homelessness in south bend and throughout st. Joseph county. by seeking to reach beyond the topical effects and into the issue’s fundamental causes, the center looks to fight homelessness in a comprehensive manner. Through an array of initiatives and communi­ty support, the center works to both meet the immediate needs of its cli­ents while working to put them on a path to self-sufficiency and break the cycle of homelessness. 
beginning in Feb. 2007, siegfried hall has worked to help make the center’s mission a reality. Through its annual day of man, the men of siegfried raise funds to help south bend’s homeless. one February day a year, the resident ‘ramblers’ of siegfried don nothing more than a t-shirt, shorts and sandals in a display of solidarity with those who face the cold on a daily basis. The event in­evitably draws a few comments criti­cizing its perception of masculinity and helping the homeless as “dis­criminatory” (2011) or “exalt[ing] restrictive, gender essentialist ideas” (2012). To junior Johnny dang, one of the event’s commissioners, these critiques miss the point. “we want to raise awareness. it’s not about gen­der stereotypes,” dang said. while some may argue with the testoster­one-laced format of the fundrais­ing, few can quarrel with its results. since 2007, siegfried has managed to raise tens of thousands of dollars to aid those most in need. 
next wednesday, siegfried will once again take to the sidewalks, buildings and classrooms of notre dame for the seventh annual day of man. we invite you to join the pink-outfitted men of siegfried in sup­porting the south bend center for the homeless. whether a few cents or a few dollars, your donations will make a marked impact on the lives of those in our very own commu­nity. homelessness will not vanish today, tomorrow or perhaps ever. its reduction, however, must start somewhere. 
Matt Miklavic is a sophomore studying political science and business from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Football and failed family 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

For christmas, i received a framed sports illustrated cover. The top reads, “The notre dame miracle.” The story discusses the “modern irish,” and Tim layden opens his piece by writing, “The echoes have been awoken, the thunder shaken down, and the new notre dame is marching onward to the national championship game— and downward from the moral high ground it has claimed for a century.” 
The article chronicles recent chang­es to notre dame’s football program. it suggests that moral standards for notre dame athletes have dramatical­ly decreased and that our athletes are becoming less a part of notre dame’s student body. yet, comments by one “weis-era employee” illustrate some irony. he told layden, “[i] think the campus environment softens a kid. Then you’ve got to get him back over to the facility and unsoften him.’” so at the behest of coach brian kelly, our players got facilities with their own training table, pool, ping-pong tables, an Xbox 360 and other video games. Football players now have more perks and fewer reasons to stay in the “softening” campus environment. 
This employee seems to criticize the seriousness of this environment. being a world-class athlete requires a certain commitment to excellence, and he suggests the campus environ­ment is not conducive for this excel­lence. after living in the dorms, i have found these criticisms are not entirely unfounded. when freshman dorm parties down the hall result in alcohol poisoning three weekends in a row, one must wonder what kind of envi­ronment these communities are seek­ing to create. 
in a certain respect, our athletes are worthy of great admiration. i have met few notre dame students whose com­mitment to their studies matches our athletes’ commitment to their teams. athletes are called upon to work their hardest every day in practice and in competition, but few students do the same in their primary commitments as members of the university. it is easy to imagine a student who is lazy in his or her classes. it is difficult to imagine a football player who is lazy on the field. 
This, however, is not the entire story. layden writes, “The current genera­tion of notre dame football will be forever connected ... to the lives of declan sullivan and lizzy seeberg, both of whom died during brian kelly’s first season.” my notre dame experience will also be forever con­nected to these deaths, particularly the death of lizzy, who accused one notre dame football player of assault­ing her and, after little happened but threats from the player’s friend, ten days later committed suicide. 
in a washington post article, notre dame alumna melinda henneberger notes that this player was actively recruited and publicly praised by our current coach both before and after the incident. she questions why he was recruited at all, considering “he was suspended during his senior year in high school for throwing a desk at a teacher who’d taken away his cell phone.” 
in a different article, henneberger notes another incident last year: “a resident assistant in a notre dame dorm drove a freshman to the hospital for a rape exam ... ‘she [the freshman] said she’d been raped by a member of the football team at a party off campus,’ the r.a. [said]… The r.a.’s parents, who met the young woman that same night, when their daughter brought her to their home after leav­ing the hospital ... said they saw — and reported to athletic officials — a hailstorm of texts from other players, warning the young woman not to re­port what had happened: ‘They were trying to silence this girl,’ the r.a.’s father [said].” They succeeded. she never filed a complaint. 
at the end of his career, charlie weis named residence life “the biggest problem on notre dame’s campus.” now, with recent restructuring and turned heads, it seems our football program has won against reslife, and others, including at least two young women and their families, have lost. while, according to our university president, “we did our best to get to the truth” of a girl who never existed, the events leading up to the death of lizzy seeberg still remain unclear. lizzy’s family, which includes 13 notre dame and st. mary’s alumni, now feels betrayed by the school they had always loved. perhaps the “notre dame family” only goes so far as the football team. 
Christopher Damian is a senior studying philosophy. He can be contacted at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | wednesday, january 30, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

their favorite character, but after being stranded at the altar defy the odds and not 
By SAM STRYKER 

assistantmanagingeditor earlier this season by sir anthony, who was much older and even the separation crippled, it’s hard not to feel sympathetic towards her. of prison time for the 
The british invasion has extended to our television sets, as but it’s just that she makes it so easy to make fun of her. possibly wrongly-con­in the last year or so “downton abbey” has joined the ranks lady edith is the most socially awkward of the crawley sis-victed bates can deny of “mad men” and “homeland” as one of the most popular ters and she drives the rest of her family crazy. she began to their love. 
— and critically-acclaimed — shows on Tv. now in its third 
write a newspaper col-if you are an anna season, americans just can’t seem to get enough of it. 
umn this season, so it’s and bates fan, you and while the subject material of “downton abbey” is dis-
looking like she may believe in love at first tinctly british (for those out of the loop, the show takes place 
be gaining some inde-sight and that romance at a fictional estate and deals with the lives of the resident no­
pendence. if you can is real. you probably bility and servants) the ensemble cast of characters is entirely 
sympathize with lady watch a lot of romantic relatable and diverse. 
edith, you’re probably comedies and aside from “downton abbey,” your favorite if you remove all the puffy costumes, tea and biscuits from 
studying something show on television is “The bachelor.” maybe you live in pw “downton,” you are left with an array of characters who dis­
“cultured” like english and your boyfriend lives in carroll, or you live in knott and play depth and range that rival that of any american Tv show. 
and are perennially your girlfriend in mcglinn. no matter, because distance everyone has a “downton” character they are most invested 
jealous of your friends doesn’t matter — only true love does. in. The real question is, what does your favorite character in mendoza who have from the show say about you? actual jobs following graduation. Thomas and O’Brien picture a dia­
lady Mary Crawley lady sybil Crawley 
bolically evil she’s beautiful and wealthy, but she’s also the resident dra-where mary and edith went wrong, sybil went right. The 
anderson cooper, ma queen/brat of downton and always has to have her way. youngest crawley sister is beautiful, down-to-earth and 
and you’ve got she desperately wants a husband, but won’t settle if he isn’t hardworking. most of all, she marches to the beat of her own 
Thomas. imagine wealthy or good 
drum. she volunteers as a nurse and participates in protests, 
if voldemort was looking enough. 
much to the chagrin of her father. but the most defiant thing 
female and had if you’re a fan 
she does is marry the family’s irish driver branson, who in ad-
bangs and side-of lady mary you 
dition to being quite handsome is a revolutionary (hey, no one 
burns, and that’s probably ma-
is perfect.) 
o’brien. if any jor in something 
if sybil is your favorite, you’re probably a free spirit who characters on “sophisticated” 
cares a lot about the 
“downton abbey” like art history 
world around you. 
were to be considered villains, it is these two. it’s amazing the and live in a new 
you’ve participated 
plotting and scheming Thomas and o’brien are able to do fancy dorm like 
in an sslp, studied 
considering they’re supposed to be working full-time as ser­ryan or duncan, 
abroad and prob­
vants. in previous seasons the two were always plotting some the closest thing ably are majoring 
mischief together, but now, they’re at each other’s throats. to downton abbey in something that 
if Thomas and o’brien are your favorite characters, you’re on campus. you’re looking for the ring by spring, but any old interests you like 
an opportunist who will stop at nothing to get ahead in life. domer won’t do. you don’t understand the meaning of the medieval studies 
you’re driven and cutthroat and probably plan on working at phrase “beggars can’t be choosers.” also, you wouldn’t dream or Film, Television 
somewhere like goldman sachs following graduation. you of leaving your dorm room without your longchamp bag, and Theater rather 
would backstab even your best friend to get what you want. northface jacket and Tory burch flats. most of all, you’re a than following the Things that matter to you: #winning, being evil and roll­daddy’s girl (even if you’re a dude). mendoza path. but ing your eyes really well. Things that don’t matter: bad hair, 
you also know how to let your hair down and have a good friendships and use of your left hand. Thedowager Countess time — the stage at Finny’s and the cage at Fever are like your 
sassy is your middle name. what you lack for in nobility you second homes. Mrs. Patmore and daisy make up with witty banter and a fabulous wardrobe. violet, The resident kitchen all-stars of downton abbey also pro-as she is otherwise known, is played by the beloved dame Carson and Mrs. Hughes vide some much-needed humor on the program. if you like maggie smith (mcgonagall, hey!) and she is a fan-favorite. The head butler and housekeeper of downton, carson and mrs. patmore and daisy, you spend most of your time in the always equipped with a one-liner, the dowager countess mrs. hughes can be somewhat stern and crusty, but they are kitchen cooking elaborate recipes. you have trouble relating doesn’t put up with riff-raff. loyal employees with good intentions. to your friends sometimes, like the time they weren’t as ex-
if she’s your favorite, you don’t like people wasting your if you take a liking to either of these characters, you prob-cited as you about getting a kitchen torch to make flan. time or getting in your way. you’re probably a second-semes­
ably really enjoy daisy is also known for marrying william, another ser­ter senior who has seen and done it all at notre dame, and 
keeping your vant, on his deathbed, despite the fact she didn’t love him. you are so over 
room clean. a This bothered her dealing with all 
fun Friday night for a while before she the peasants 
for you involves came to accept she (read: freshmen) 
stacking your text-did the right thing. on campus. 
books in a neat in a similar manner, That being said, 
pile and dusting you’ve probably been you’re a softy at 
every corner of to your fair share of heart and are your living space. syr’s with boys or always willing extravagant pur-girls you didn’t fancy, to help someone chases for you are a nice vacuum or a 12-pack of paper towels. but let’s be honest, if in need, even you have impeccable attention to detail. it weren’t for you they if he or she is a would being going stranger. you are anna and Bates solo (and not the cup 
resistant to techno-anna and bates’ love story has to be the most depressing type). you’re willing to logical change and think Twitter is just something birds do. — not sad, depressing — on television. anna, the beauti-sacrifice a bit of yourself to help others not necessarily because ful young maid, falls in love with bates, who is older, already it is the right thing, but because you were guilted into doing it. ladyedith Crawley married, crippled and possibly a murderer. Talk about com-Just kidding, no one would ever admit to lady edith being ing with a lot of baggage. but in inspirational fashion, the two Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 








JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 

The observer | wednesday, january 30, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

infatuated with them? would be able to handle a real zombie apocalypse. 
By GABRIELA LESKUR 

scene writer The rebirth of the zombie fad arrived around 2005, after the perhaps, though, a more selfish desire leads us to zombies. bird flu outbreak—for good reason. with a debilitating illness in the post-apocalyptic world of “The walking dead,” we see 
There’s a new media darling in town. but you won’t see her racking the globe, television and film played on our fear by people throw away the monotonous days of living paycheck to on the red carpet. you won’t see her donning the latest cou-planting zombies back into the mainstream. paycheck or the silly stress of acing that gen chem final. hey, ture. you won’t see her in the tabloids. you won’t even know epidemics scare people, sure. but at least those end. Zombies you might have failed orgo, but you sure can hit a zombie with her name. she’s extra #15, dressed in rags, caked in elaborate present a horrifying alternative. a bat. suddenly, you’re a big deal. The attractiveness of a zom­make-up, and, oh yeah, she’s a zombie. Zombisim very often is presented as a disease, passed bie apocalypse, in this case, is the possibility to start again, a 
From the upcoming movie “warm bodies” to the new york through an infectious bite or even through the air. however, second chance to make something of oneself. success is rede-Times bestseller “Zombie survival guide,” zombies are infect-zombisim does not merely kill or maim an individual. fined and failure is nothing more than death. ing the minds of unsuspecting americans. whether we’re Zombisim realizes a greater fear within us—having the For me, i really don’t know what keeps me coming back shooting them on our Xboxes or watching them on hulu, zom-ones we love not only suffer and die, but having them reincar-week after week to sit, terrified, starting at the Tv screen. but i bies are an essential part of our consciousness. nated as monsters dead set on eating us. know i’ll keep watching. 
however, zombies aren’t simply present in pop culture. if zombies awaken our greatest fears, then why do we chose They are dominating, roaming their way into the heart of pop to watch it realized? science offers interesting hypotheses. Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 
culture and onto our Tv screens. when we experience our worst nightmare unearthed on move over humans, primetime is for the dead. screen, a curious process happens: our brain reacts as if we are 
“The Walking Dead” 
“The walking dead,” an amc drama that chronicles the experiencing the zombie slaying ourselves. 
Creator: Frank Darabont 
lives of survivors in a post-apocalyptic zombie rampant world, when will smith’s character in the zombie-ravaged world of held the most viewers of any television show when it aired its “i am legend” fearlessly fights against the zombie masses, our 
Starring: Andrew Lincoln, Jon Bernthal 
and Sarah Wayne Callies 
midseason finale in december. “The walking dead” beat out neurons fire instinctively with every move will smith makes. all other Tv dramas — including “modern Family” and “The one hypothesis then is that the positive reinforcement for big bang Theory” — in the 18-to-49 age group. watching zombie flicks comes from our subconscious belief 

so what is it with the undead that makes the living so that since we walk out of the movie theater unscathed, we 

maybe what he needs to do is instill strength in her so that the natural environment of the “bathtub” and the bright lights 
By COURTNEY COX 

sceneeditor she can take care of herself one day. in a lot of ways, he does his and sterile environment of the clinic is jarring and upsetting in 
best to prepare her for the troubles of the real world. many ways. 
each year one indie darling film storms into the national one of the most touching moments of the whole film is one cannot discuss the movie as a whole, however, with-conversation following the announcement of the academy when wink and hushpuppy are floating down the river on out acknowledging the stunning performance of newcomer award nominees. sometimes it’s well deserved, other times it’s a raft and wink teaches her how to catch a catfish with her Quvenzhane wallis as hushpuppy. her expressive face is so a bit of a stretch. This year’s choice low-budget beauty is “beasts bare hands. it’s a small thing that indicates that he truly does beautiful and painful to watch as she endures a complete of the southern wild.” love her and while he may make her do some uncomfortable shakeup in everything she’s ever known. 
narrated through the voice of hushpuppy, a five-year-old things it’s all in her best interest. The narration she gives guides the film in the most beauti­girl being raised by her single father, “beasts of the southern The critical moment of the film comes when a hurricane fully quiet way and it’s a remarkable accomplishment for such wild” tells the story of a secluded, loosely organized commu-hits the coast of louisiana. it completely floods the “bathtub” a young actress. she deserves all the praise she has been re­nity just beyond the levees of the louisiana bayou called the but the levees have protected the rest of the state from being ceiving since her nomination for best actress at the academy “bathtub.” affected. awards. 
hushpuppy is independent out of necessity. her father lives The salt eats away at the earth beneath the massive flood all in all, the film was a great testament to this small imagi­in one trailer-style home while she lives on another a few yards and kills all of the wildlife that sustained this ragtag bunch of nary community just beyond the boundary of society. away. “bathtub” residents for years. it devastated their community 
he calls her for dinner every night but isn’t necessarily the but they band together and commit to powering through. Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
most nurturing of parents. one night he isn’t there to feed her, despite all their loss, everyone in the “bathtub” has the same so she finds a way to feed herself but starts a major fire that mentality that they are never to cry over their misfortune. They 
“Beasts of the 
burns down her entire trailer. it forces the two of them to live celebrate the life they have and drink heavily, eat seafood and 
Southern Wild” 
together under the same roof and yet they don’t necessarily strengthen the bond that keeps them living in such a unique 
Director: Benh Zeitlin 
grow closer together. environment. perhaps one of the most puzzling parts of the film is whether living in abject poverty has never looked so good. They gen-
Starring: Quvenzhane Wallis and 
hushpuppy’s father, wink, is a good father or a cruel man. he uinely seem like a happy group of people despite living outside 
Dwight Henry 
yells a lot. he doesn’t baby hushpuppy in a way that most peo-conventional norms of social acceptability. ple would treat a five-year-old girl. at the same time maybe that at one point they are taken away from their homes by social truly isn’t necessary. workers and brought into a clinic. The stark contrast between 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL  | The Observer 


sPOrTs auTHOrITy 

The greatness of march madness 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the third in a 10-part series discussing the best event in sports. In this installment, Jack Hefferon argues for March Madness. 
The series is about finding the greatest event in all of sports. and, so far, writers have argued for some of the biggest games around. but why settle for just one? 
i have an event of a big­ger variety in mind. it takes over the country for three weeks every year, bringing us dream matchups and un­known underdogs. almost everyone watches, and even more people have a betting interest in it. 
i guess the real question is this: why have one great game, when you can have 67? 
march madness is the king of sports festivals. it begins on selection sunday, which falls on both the last day of spring break and st. patrick’s day this year, forming some kind of mega-holiday. on that date, the field is set, matchups are analyzed and everyone you know becomes an expert on bracketology (plus, how many other events have pseudo-sciences named af­ter them?). 
Then, the tournament be­gins officially with the First Four, an idea that added three play-in games that i initially despised. more is good but pushing much past 64 teams borders on over­kill. still, these games are a good way to ease into the tournament, and allow fans to watch small-time teams play on national Tv for the right to be a sacrificial 16­seed. it’s the calm before the storm. 
Then, the greatest four-day weekend in sports happens. The opening-round games are stacked to put the tour­nament favorites against heavy underdogs, but every year several davids upend goliaths to move on. every game of the tournament is now nationally televised and streamed on the web, which is especially critical on the opening weekend. it has been estimated that billions of dollars of productivity are lost every year by the dis­traction these games cause and, if one of my professors has read this far, it’s the rea­son i won’t be in your class on Thursday the 21st. (sorry, but that’s your fault for hav­ing class that day in the first place.) 
and as the field of 64 winds down to 16 and 8, we go from fun upset bids to powerhouse matchups, with one-seeds meeting two-seeds to determine who will survive and advance. 
The Final Four concludes the tournament and is an event on par with any other in its own right. it has gotten so big the court has had to be placed in the center of an enormous football stadium to accommodate the crowds, and it always seems to fea­ture games for the ages. 
and when the tourna­ment is over? well, winning six games in a row in three stress-packed weekends against the nation’s best competition is basically im­possible, but one team finds a way to do it every year. and, when they finally do, they get their one shining moment, and the title of undisputed national cham­pions (something college football is still working on. a four-team bracket? step your game up.) 
basketball is not like other sports. whereas football puts all its emphasis on the regular season, every bas­ketball team worth its salt will make the big dance. and, while the merits of one single tournament deter­mining a champion can be debated, there’s no question about one thing: 
That one tournament is the greatest. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


PGa 

woods aims for comeback 
Associated Press 

san diego— Tiger woods hates the question, even though the answer should be simple enough. 
is he back? 

woods was asked that when he ended his 749-day drought by winning his world challenge at the end of 2011. The question came up in various forms last year after each of his wins at bay hill, memorial and the aT&T national at congressional. and it was inevitable after win­ning for a record eighth time at Torrey pines. 
woods will be “back” when no else is in front of him. 
The answer he gave monday after a four-shot win in the Farmers insurance open was that he “never left.” but that’s not entirely accurate, because woods was the undisputed no. 1 player in golf for the better part of five years and now he’s not. everything he did last year, rory mcilroy did better. 
you can believe woods when he says he is excited about the year. 
Torrey pines was his fourth win in his last 16 starts on the pga Tour. perhaps a better in­dication of his game is consis­tency. he has finished in the top 10 in six of his last seven tourna­ments around the world, which doesn’t sound like that big of a deal except that he hasn’t had a stretch like that since he “left” at the end of 2009. 
so where is he now? it’s too early to say. 
golf is off to a quirky start this year. Four weeks into the sea­son, one tournament finished on Tuesday because of wind and another tournament finished on monday because of fog. it becomes even more stilted with the schedule of the two biggest stars. 
The pebble beach national pro-am tournament director told the san Francisco chronicle that woods will not be playing next week. woods’ caddie told the los angeles daily news that he tried to talk him into playing riviera but to no avail. so woods has 23 days off until playing the match play championship. That’s not a surprise. mcilroy, meanwhile, is in the middle of 

FOR SALE 

Move in ready townhome near ND. $75K. 574-532-5961 

a four-week break and he won’t show up until match play, either. 
so right when woods gener­ates a buzz by winning Torrey pines, golf will have to do with­out him until the end of next month. 
it’s tempting to make bold declarations about the rest of the year based on how woods played last week, though the fin­ish left just as many questions. and remember, it was only a week ago that woods missed the cut in abu dhabi. give it time. 
still, there was something in­evitable about this win, beyond the location. woods took over the tournament during a four-hole stretch in the second round when he rolled in a 25-foot bird­ie putt, hit 5-iron to 5 feet for eagle, had a two-putt birdie and then one-hopped his wedge off the flag for another birdie. 
his lead went from two shots after 36 holes, to four shots af­ter 54 holes, to six shots at the close of business sunday with 11 holes left. 
“after last week, i think he was irritated and i think he was a little upset at how he played,” hunter mahan said monday morning. “i think he wanted to make a statement, and there’s not many guys in golf who can go to a tournament and make a statement, but he is. i think he’s making one this week, and i think he’s going to do ev­erything he can to make this a double-digit win for himself and just kind of reclaim his domi­nance on the tour.” 
it looked as if that would be the case when woods two-putt­ed the 13th hole for an eight-shot lead monday. what happened the rest of the way was awk­ward. woods hit two tee shots that barely traveled more than 200 yards — one that was pulled into the trees and caromed into a patch of ice plant (double bo­gey), another that was a chunk pop-up and left him a 4-iron to the green and 50 yards behind two guys he had been blasting by all day. 
“This one is going to irk him,” nick Faldo said, adding that woods still had demons with his driving. maybe so. The bet­ter measure of his driving is when the shots actually mean something. woods looked more interested in getting off the golf course than winning by double digits. 
winning was never in doubt, however, and that’s what should be remembered. 
The real measure, of course, is the majors. 
woods winning at Torrey pines, with a red shirt under a black sweater vest, was a re­minder of how long it had been since his last major title. it was five years ago that he won on a monday afternoon at Torrey pines to capture the u.s. open in a playoff, his 14th major. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
“No one else can feel it for you/ Only you can let it in/ No one else, no one else/ Can speak the words on your lips/ Drench yourself in words unspoken/ Live your life with arms wideopen/ Today is where your book begins/ The rest is still unwritten” 
-Unwritten by Natasha Bedingfield 



nHl 

caps lose 2-0 lead to ottawa 

Associated Press 
new york — The new york rangers already had depth problems at forward before captain ryan callahan left the ice with his left arm dangling. 
The injury didn’t hurt the rangers in the short term as new york held on for a 2-1 vic­tory over the philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night, but it could become troublesome if callahan is sidelined for any length of time in this already shortened nhl season. 
callahan scored the eventual game-winning goal during a second-period power play and then got hurt in the third dur­ing a post-whistle scrum with philadelphia’s max Talbot, who dragged callahan to the ice by his arm. 
There was no immediate medical update regarding callahan after the game. 
The rangers managed to kill two late philadelphia power plays despite callahan’s ab­sence. new york turned aside five of six Flyers advantages, including a 5-on-3 edge in the second period. 
“cally does everything so well — the little plays, especial­ly blocking shots,” said defen­seman michael del Zotto, who had a goal and an assist. “The guys did a good job of gather­ing ourselves after he went off with that injury.” 
The rangers have large­ly relied on their top line of rick nash, brad richards, and marian gaborik to pro­vide most of the offense. They sought outside help, and thought veteran Jason arnott would join the mix, but a failed physical wrecked those plans. 
where secondary scoring will come from now remains to be seen. 
Two goals were enough this time, largely because henrik lundqvist was sharp in mak­ing 26 saves. new york (3-3) has won two in a row for the first time. 
philadelphia (2-5) has dropped two in a row. 

kimmo Timonen ended lundqvist’s shutout bid 7:09 into the third with a power-play goal after the rangers were caught with too many men on the ice. philadelphia’s power play failed twice in the second half of the period when the Flyers pressed for the tying goal. 
“we have to be more hun­gry,” said Flyers forward danny briere, who tied a career high with 10 shots. “The 5-on-3 got us. it’s something we’ll have to look at. 
“Their goalie is so good. you need a great shot to beat him.” 
ilya bryzgalov, back in the net after his first game off, was solid in making 26 saves for philadelphia. 
new york got back at the Flyers after losing 2-1 last week in philadelphia. last season, the rangers won all six games over the Flyers. 
The rangers, who have won three of four overall, have one game left on a three-game homestand that ends Thursday against pittsburgh. new york rallied to beat Toronto 5-2 on saturday with four goals in the third period. 
“we’re trying to keep our game consistent,” del Zotto said. “i thought last game we did a great job trying to gain our identity back. we followed up with, maybe it wasn’t the prettiest at times, but we found a way to win.” 
it wasn’t easy. with the rangers short-handed follow­ing a penalty for too many men on the ice, Timonen brought the Flyers within 2-1. he was left alone in the high slot when new york had all four players involved in a scrum in the right corner. 
The power play for both sides told the story in the second pe­riod. philadelphia was turned away by the rangers during a 5-on-3 advantage that lasted for 1:17, and then allowed a power-play goal to new york 
3:32 after the teams got back to full strength. 
philadelphia had a chance to at least get even after richards was called for holding, and derek stepan took a delay-of­game penalty 43 seconds later. 
Flyers coach peter laviolette used his lone timeout, but his club got very few pucks to the net despite controlling play throughout. philadelphia had an added benefit when Jeff halpern lost his stick in front, but still couldn’t create anything. 
“we certainly had our chanc­es,” Flyers forward mike knuble said. “it’s the little things. we started to wear them down but couldn’t cash in. 
“They are great shot-block­ing team. we were passing up some good opportunities. The 5-on-3 was a turning point.” 
The madison square garden crowd let out a roar when stepan left the penalty box, and then had more reason to cheer when callahan doubled new york’s lead. 
The rangers had scored only twice in 22 power-play chances over their first five games, and failed again on their lone op­portunity in the first period. but del Zotto got involved again to help new york net its second goal. 
nash took a shot from the high slot that del Zotto tipped in front of bryzgalov. callahan got the rebound, calmly settled the puck down as he shifted to his right, and then slid a shot into the open right side at 11:31 for his second goal of the sea­son and 200th nhl point. 
The rangers struck quickly after their top line couldn’t get the puck out of its zone during the game’s first shift. 
new york worked the puck around in the philadelphia end, and del Zotto let go a shot from the left point that slid across the ice through a maze of legs and skates and found its way past bryzgalov, who ap­peared not to see the puck as brian boyle and benn Ferriero screened him. 
Associated Press 
oTTawa — sergei gonchar scored on the power play with 2:30 left in regulation as the ottawa senators battled back from a sluggish start to defeat the washington capitals 3-2 on Tuesday. 
Jim o’brien and milan michalek also scored for the senators (4-1-1), who got 31 saves from craig anderson. 
Troy brouwer and matt 
hendricks  scored  for  the  
capitals  (1-4-1).  michal  
neuvirth  stopped  24  

shots in taking the loss for washington, which blew a 2-0 lead. 
gonchar’s winner came after erik karlsson wove through the capitals’ de­fense on a man advantage before finding his partner, who fired a one-timer that deflected of hendricks in front and past neuvirth with ottawa’s chris neil screen­ing on the play. 
Then with time winding down and washington press­ing for the tie, anderson made a great save on alex ovechkin before robbing mike ribeiro from in tight. 
Trailing 2-0 late in the second period and looking for a spark, senators coach paul maclean chose to dou­ble-shift the one line that showed any jump. 
The gamble paid off as o’brien, who celebrated his 24th birthday, cut the lead in half with 1:23 remaining in the period on a setup from erik conda and ahl call-up mika Zibanejad. 
The senators then quickly tied the game at 2:20 of the third. kyle Turris won a fa­ceoff in the offensive zone and pushed the puck ahead to michalek, who scooped it passed a surprised neuvirth. 

playing without Jason spezza because of an undis­closed upper body injury, the senators struggled and the capitals owned much of the momentum in the first period and jumped out to a 2-0 lead. 
a turnover by guillaume latendresse midway through the period at the senators’ blue-line allowed wojtek wolski to jump on the puck and feed brouwer, who caught anderson mov­ing the wrong way. 
washington then made it 2-0 as hendricks tipped Jay beagle’s shot home. 
The senators continued to struggle in the second and seemed incapable of break­ing through the capitals’ forecheck as washington pinned the home side in its own end for nearly two minutes, leading to a chorus of boos from the 19,267 on hand at scotiabank place. 
notes: lw kaspars daugavins and d andre benoit were healthy scratch­es for the senators. apart from spezza, d Jared cowen (hip, out for season), d mike lundin (finger, two weeks) also missed out. ... c brooks laich (strained groin, out indefinitely), d Jack hillen (upper body, out indefinite­ly) sat for washington with injuries, while c marcus Johansson, d Tom poti and d roman hamrlik were healthy scratches. 
paid adverTisemenT 

nHl 

Rangers win second straight 

The observer | wednesday, january 30, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

wildcats 
conTinued From page 16 
program.” 
The wildcats will feature a senior frontcourt player of their own in forward/center mouphtaou yarou, who record­ed 14 points and 16 rebounds against the orange on saturday. 
sophomore forward Jayvaughn pinkston leads the wildcats in scoring with 13 points per game off the bench. Freshman guard ryan arcidiacono and sophomore guard darrun hilliard average 
11.7 and 10.8 points per game, respectively. hilliard scored a game-high 25 points against syracuse and arcidiacono poured in 15 points against louisville. 
notre dame will look for scoring of its own against the wildcats. The irish have aver­aged 75.2 points per game in their four big east victories but are averaging just 56 points in their three league losses. 
against the bulls on saturday, junior guard Jerian grant had a team-high 18 points to go along with eight assists. The irish made 9-of-19 threes against south Florida after making just nine total in their previous three games. 
“we really tried to emphasize this week be better screeners off the ball because we have an­other big body [in knight] that can set screens,” brey said after saturday’s victory. “i thought we did a good job of that.” 
The offensive plan worked, as the irish scored more points saturday than in any of their last five games. notre dame shot 54 percent from the field against the bulls. The irish are 10-0 this season when they shoot 50 percent or greater on their field goals. 
notre dame tips off against villanova on wednesday at 6 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


nd wOMen’s swIMMInG sMC BasKeTBall 
holden savors final season 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
a senior capping off a sto­ried career. an athlete crush­ing the competition since freshmen year. winning ac­colades every step of the way, and now looking to carry the team to a championship. For kim holden, these storylines sound all too familiar.. 
holden, a native of mount kisco, n.y., has made a name for herself since stepping on campus back in 2009. as a freshmen, she burst onto the scene with four big east titles and six all-big east honors, and followed that up with a trip to the ncaa national championships her sophomore year. despite a shoulder injury that forced her to miss all but two meets her junior year, holden set personal bests in all four of her events at last year’s big east championship, plac­ing third and setting a notre dame record in the 100-yard backstroke while also finish­ing third in the 100-yard fly. 
holden’s senior cam­paign has gotten off to a fast start, as the swimmer set a rolfs aquatic center record in last week’s shamrock invitational. 
“it has been a really good season,” holden said. “weird season last year with my injury, it kept me out till February, so i had a very short season, but i trained through the summer to get healthy and stronger. i’ve been very happy with my season so far, and i’m look­ing forward to the rest of it.” 
part of holden’s sum­mer training included a trip to omaha, neb., where she and three of her team­mates swam for a spot on the u.s. national Team at the olympic Trials. 
“it was just an awesome experience,” holden said. “it’s definitely one of those memories that will not eas­ily be forgotten. The venue was amazing; it was the most people i’ve ever seen at a swim meet.  it was awe­some just swimming next to olympians and some of the fastest swimmers in the world.” 
while holden did not qualify for london, she still believes the experience had a positive impact on her as a swimmer and has helped her this season. 
“From the training per­spective, trials was a major motivator to stay in shape all summer,” holden said. “also, being in a big pressure situa­tion like that, with everyone watching, definitely teaches you to control your emotions and focus, which obviously prepares you well for other meets.” 
with the regular season winding down, one of the meets holden knows she is well prepared for is the big east championship. 
“i’ve had that date circled on my calendar for awhile now,” holden said. “at prac­tice we’re counting down the days. everyday our coach gives us a list of our workout for the day and in the corner is the number of days till the big east championship.” 
individually, holden has done quite well at this meet in the past, winning seven big east titles and finishing third twice. despite her in­dividual victories, she cred­its her success to the team. 
“The team atmosphere is really what brings out my best performance,” holden said. “That’s the meet where our whole team is rested and ready to swim the best races of our lives. it’s really excit­ing to be in that atmosphere, and its fun to see friends and family and be there with the team.” 

since she is a senior, holden knows her notre dame career is winding 
down  and  expects  to  be  
emotional.  
“To  be  honest, it  hasn’t  

quite hit me yet,” holden said.“it probably will at iupui [the site of big east championships] and at ncaas, but right now it’s just the status quo since were all working pretty hard. 
“but at the meets it’s go­ing to be emotional knowing it could be the last time i’m swimming that event, when i have been swimming for the past 12 years.” 
with a stellar career be­hind her, holden said she has pondered her legacy. 
“it’s definitely something you think about,” holden said. “at the [shamrock invitational], i broke a pool record, so it’s nice to know you have made an impact, and hopefully i will continue to do that at the conference meet and the ncaas.” 
To prepare for her life be­yond swimming, holden has applied to several gradu­ate schools to pursue a doc­tor of audiology program, as she plans to help people with hearing and balance disorders. 
if holden’s past is any in­dication, her future accom­plishments look to be just as noteworthy, even as they oc­cur outside the pool. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
Belles hope to rebound at Trine 
By COLE SCHIETINGER 
sports writer 
coming off a 63-59 home loss to kalamazoo, saint mary’s will visit Trine to­day in search of its sixth win of the season. 
The belles (5-15, 3-8 miaa) are looking to snap a four-game losing streak, their second-longest of the year, with another victory over the Thunder (10-9, 4-6). in those four losses, fouls and free-throw shooting have been major issues for saint mary’s, who shot only 52.2 percent from the line in its last game. 
The belles defeated Trine 59-43 in the first 
meeting  between  the  
teams Jan. 9.  
“Trine  has  some  very  

good outside shooters, and they do a great job of reading the defense in their motion,” belles coach Jennifer henley said. 
The victory over Trine marked one of the belles’ best all-around efforts this season. The team finished the game with a season-high in rebounds and near season-highs in free-throw shooting and steals. 
sophomore forward ariana paul turned in a great performance against the Thunder, recording a double-double with 18 points and 20 rebounds. however, paul is studying abroad this semester and will be unavailable for the rest of the season. in her place, freshman forward eleni shea has begun to make an impact, scor­ing 12 and 16 points, re­spectively, in her last two games. 

henley said she has been impressed with the overall talent in this year’s seven-player freshman class. 
“we have a very young team this season, and, over time, every single player has improved from 
“We have a very young team this season, and, over time, every single player has improved from where we started back in October.” 
Jennifer Henley 
Belles coach 
where we started back in october,” she said. 
coming off a 50-47 win over olivet, Trine will come out fighting for its first home win since dec. 
21. since that date, Trine has won only three of its eight games. Trine has struggled against saint mary’s in the recent past, losing two of the last three meetings with the belles. 
The belles will head to angola, ind., to face Trine tonight at 6 p.m. 
Contact Cole Schietinger at cschieti@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 

nugent 
conTinued From page 16 
nugent’s first career tally came after 64 games of wait­ing, and on a night his father and former irish standout, kevin sr., was in the building to watch and celebrate. 
but the timing was even more fortuitous for notre dame (16-10-0-0, 12-6-0-0 ccha), as it proved to be a spark for the team when it needed it most. nugent’s goal broke a 2-2 tie in the second and proved to be the game-winner, as the irish won 5-2 to snap a five-game losing streak. 
“That had a lot to do with the rest of the game and how we finished,” Tynan said. “he stepped up, and we all saw that and responded.” 
and, while nugent was in­strumental in breaking the team out of its losing skid, he was also a key factor in keep­ing them going during it. irish coach Jeff Jackson noted that his team didn’t get down or divisive among themselves after losing six of seven games and credited nugent’s locker room presence as part of what kept the team together during a rough patch. 
“you can’t be too serious all the time,” nugent said. “you’ve got to keep it light. when you’re losing, the only way you’re going to get out of it is to stay positive … we’ve had the attitude of having fun first, and that has led to suc­cess on the ice.” 
even with the win, the irish have still lost six of their last eight games and have a tough series ahead of them at ohio state this weekend. but, in­stead of trying to reverse their fortunes, they will enter into Friday’s game riding a one-game winning streak, a bit of momentum nugent hopes can keep them rolling. 
“you hope that this is some­thing we can build on,” he said. “we’ve been sticking with our gameplan, we’ve just needed a couple bounces. and once you start getting bounc­es, they all start coming.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



The observer | wednesday, january 30, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

extension 
conTinued From page 16 
program. so we’re, again, i think the best way i could say is that Jack and i are in lock­step in how we want to con­tinue to build this program. so i feel really good about that.” 
Former notre dame coach charlie weis signed a 10-year contract extension in his first year with the irish. swarbrick recently extended both wom­en’s basketball coach muffet mcgraw and men’s basketball coach mike brey’s contracts. 
surgeries force jackson, Fox out 
senior cornerback bennett Jackson and fifth-year candi­date dan Fox both underwent postseason shoulder surger­ies that will keep them out of spring practice. Jackson’s procedure repaired a torn la­brum, and kelly said Fox had a similar surgery. 
Jackson started all 13 games for the irish and racked up 65 tackles and four intercep­tions. Fox is expected back in the fall for a fifth season after totaling 63 tackles and a sack. 
kelly said he expects senior safety austin collinsworth, who missed the entire 2012 season after sustaining a shoulder injury, to return to action in the spring. Junior center matt hegarty and se­nior cornerback lo wood have also progressed in their recoveries, kelly said. 
senior offensive tackle Tate nichols may not recover and may not play again, kelly said. nichols was sidelined with a leg injury and may be eli­gible for a medical hardship. Junior offensive lineman brad carrico and senior running back cameron roberson were given medical hardships last semester. 
a numbers game 
kelly said the possible fifth-and sixth-year players have not been decided. 
“once we finish up our numbers in recruiting, then we start to talk about our fifth year guys,” he said. “They’re all, as we’ve had in the past, they’ll continue to train be­cause they’re in school any­way. Then we’ll let them know what our decision is as we talk to the university relative to granting that additional year.” 
potential fifth-year play­ers include left tackle Zack martin, left guard chris watt and linebackers carlo calabrese and Fox. 
graduate student safety Jamoris slaughter missed most of last season after he tore his achilles’ tendon and has applied for a sixth year of eligibility. 



“we’re still in the process of an appeal for an additional season of competition.  we’re hopeful we’ll hear something before the conclusion of re­cruiting,” kelly said. “it’s one of those things that every­body wants to know. i know i want to know.  The media wants to know. certainly Jamoris wants to know.  but we just don’t have an answer 
paid adverTisemenT 

at this point.” 
replacing Te’o, Cave 
The irish will have to fill glaring holes next season after the departures of all­
american  linebacker  manti  
Te’o  and  center  braxston  
cave.  

kelly said calabrese, Fox and sophomore Jarrett grace are in the discussion to re­place Te’o. senior kendall moore is also in the mix, kelly said. The irish have received a commitment from michael deeb, a three-star middle linebacker from plantation, Fla. 
kelly said hegarty, junior nick martin and sophomore mark harrell will all get looks for the center position. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



CrOsswOrd | will shorTZ 


HIGHly PunlIKely | chrisTopher brucker 
sudOKu | The mepham group 

lOwer yOur exPeCTaTIOns | lenny rago & paTrick cross 

The Observer apologizes for the absence of 
Lower Your Expectations 
HOrOsCOPe | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: sara gilbert, 38; heather graham, 43; oprah winfrey, 59; Tom selleck, 68. 
Happy Birthday: look at your partnerships and consider what you can do to im­prove connections with peers, relatives and your lover. decipher what it is you want and make a concerted effort to reach your goals in all aspects of life. change will help you expand your dreams, hopes and wishes for the future. don’t limit what you can accomplish. your numbers are 7, 11, 18, 25, 32, 34, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay alert. someone may try to manipulate you if you aren’t careful. know your boundaries and stick to a practical plan. assisting people or causes is fine, but not if it’s going to stand in the way of personal or professional progress. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you can waste time or make things happen. arguing or trying to get help when it’s clear you should be working on your own will be your downfall. preparation will be your best friend. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): share your thoughts and follow through with your plans. letting emotional matters stand in your way will turn out to be costly. it’s important to develop your own style or way of doing things.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll have a good look at the possibility that is just ahead of you, and there will be no time to waste if you want to take advantage of what’s to come. don’t hem and haw when you should be decisive and confident. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): an opportunity to make a professional move or to raise your standard of living or reputation is apparent. Jump at any chance you get to travel or to get involved in something quite different from what you’ve done in the past. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can stabilize your position within relationships that are important to you. don’t exaggerate when honesty will be your ticket to a better future. love is in the stars and socializing will bring you closer to someone you think is special. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you’ll know exactly what to say in order to get what you want. networking will prove to be beneficial as you meet people who have con­nections you can use to get ahead. include someone you hold dear to your heart in your plans. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): avoid complications involving your domestic situa­tion. you cannot win if you are stubborn and refuse to compromise. don’t inten­tionally lead someone in the wrong direction. love and romance are in the stars. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): avoid complications involving your domestic situation. you cannot win if you are stubborn and refuse to compromise. you can share your thoughts, but don’t intentionally lead someone in the wrong direction. love and romance are in the stars. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): make a financial move that will help you accumu­late more money. an investment that is solid but unique will allow you to make a professional move. love is highlighted, and spending time with someone special will make your day. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):keep your thoughts a secret if you feel it will cause a problem with someone you love and respect. you are best to put more time and effort into your surroundings. comfort coupled with convenience and functionality should be your goal. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): not everything will be plain and simple. you’ll have to dig deep to find out what is actually going on with peers and colleagues. you are best to secure your financial position any way you can. excess will be the enemy. stick close to home. 

Birthday Baby: you are particular, thoughtful and intelligent. you are creative and patient. 
juMBle | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | wednesday, january 30, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBall 

kelly discusses eagles interview, 2013 personnel 

Men’s BasKeTBall 

Irish to face red-hot Villanova 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
at a time during which the irish are attempting to get hot again, they’ll have to do so against a team that is currently sizzling. 
notre dame (16-4, 4-3 big east) will square off with red-hot villanova on wednesday night at purcell pavilion. The wildcats (13-7, 4-3) are coming off home wins against then-no. 3 syracuse and then-no. 5 louisville in their past two games. 
villanova started the season 11-4 before losing three con­secutive games to syracuse, pittsburgh and providence. but the wildcats recovered emphatically by downing louisville 73-64 on Jan. 22 and then besting the orange 75-71 in overtime saturday. 
The irish, meanwhile, busted out of the gates to a 14-1 start this season. yet notre dame, which has since fallen from the top-25 rankings, lost three of its next four games, including a pair of tilts at purcell pavilion. 

The irish rebounded saturday to defeat south Florida 73-65 despite the ab­sence of graduate student guard scott martin, who is out indefinitely with a knee in­jury. in martin’s stead, senior forward Tom knight made his first start of the season and propelled notre dame with a career-high 17 points and sev­en rebounds. 
irish coach mike brey said after the game that notre dame was confident in knight despite his inexperience in a starting role. 
“we injected him into the lineup off the bench playing key minutes last year and he was really good for us down the stretch,” said brey of the dixfield, maine, native. “he was really good for us in the first-round game of the ncaa tournament against Xavier. we were down and he made some plays to get us back in it. and the other four guys are very confident in him because he’s a senior and he’s been in our 
see wildcaTs PaGe 12 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
The philadelphia eagles came calling, and brian kelly answered — but that’s all it was. 
For the first time since notre dame’s 42-14 loss to alabama in the bcs national championship game, the irish coach addressed the me­dia regarding his interest in the nFl. 
“i will tell you that the dis­cussion was more about in­trigue on my part,” kelly said. “i had obviously always been in the college game, really did not have a good grasp of the nFl set up. so for me, my head said let’s be more informed as it relates to the nFl, but my heart is in college football and with notre dame.” 
kelly said he wanted to learn more about the nFl but ultimately found the college game more attractive. 
“because we’re going to win again next year, and there are probably going to be teams that have an interest in coach­ing in the nFl, and i want to be able to tell them definitive­ly that i want to coach in col­lege,” kelly said. 

kelly said the eagles’ open­ing was not a distraction in the lead-up to the champion­ship game. 
“i wasn’t even certain i was going to interview,” he said. “it wasn’t even on my radar. so there was never any con­sideration. it wasn’t an op­tion. i think i even said that it wasn’t an option for me be­cause i wasn’t even thinking about it, and hadn’t decided that that was the direction i was going to go.” 
kelly said the eagles reached out via director of athletics Jack swarbrick ei­ther the day of or the day after former coach andy reid’s fir­ing. kelly’s agent then set up a meeting with the eagles in nashville — where kelly ac­cepted the aFca coach of the year award — the day after the national title game. 
“if there was anything that i would have done differently, it would have been to close that timeline relative to my inter­view and coming out with a statement,” kelly said. “i was on vacation with my wife, we were away, we weren’t watch­ing Tv, but i should have been more sensitive to the fact that there was a time period going on and released a statement much sooner.” 
as the recruiting cycle winds down and kelly closes in on a top-five class, the pos­sible coaching change could have been a problem, but kelly downplayed the issue. 
“so i think the recruits, i tell them up front that i’m committed to notre dame, flattered that the nFl would want me to be one of their coaches, but it’s just not what i want to do,” he said. “i want to be a college football coach.” 
Kelly talks extension 
in light of notre dame’s first 12-win season in nearly 25 years, swarbrick and kelly have been discussing a con­tract extension since dec. 6. 
“we both want the same thing,” kelly said. “That is the long term consistency of the 
see eXTension PaGe 14 
HOCKey 

nugent breaks through 

By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 

senior winger kevin nugent is known in the irish locker room as a grinder, a penalty killer and a consummate team player — a guy who hustles on the ice and keeps things light off of it. but, after three years of hard work, he’ll now be known in another role: goal scorer. 
in the second period of saturday’s game against Ferris state, nugent came down the boards at the end of a shift, made a quick move inside to his forehand and threw a puck in at goal. The shot zoomed just inside the top right corner of the net, and the next thing nugent saw was six-foot-four junior defenseman stephen Johns jumping on top of him. Junior center T.J. Tynan picked up the puck for nugent almost before it landed, and soon all four of the other skaters were celebrating on top of the senior. 
“i was just going to take a shot and get off the ice, and it happened to go in,” nugent said. “it was a pretty awe­some feeling to see my team­mates being happy for me … i’m glad it wasn’t a garbage goal.” 
see nugenT PaGe 13 




