

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

RECRUITING 

Tranquill visits, Irish extend offers 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 

Fort Wayne, Ind., native drue Tranquill took an official visit to notre dame for the michigan state game, and the Irish made a good impression on the 6-foot-3, 207-pounder, according to notre dame recruiting expert mike Frank. 
Tranquill, who committed to Purdue on July 23rd and re­ceived an offer from notre dame soon thereafter, had reportedly expressed concern over his po­sition — either linebacker or safety — with the Irish. Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily, said he thinks notre dame alleviated Tranquill’s concerns. 
“notre dame reiterated their stance on where they see him defensively,” Frank said. “They’ve basically said, ‘You’re being recruited as a defensive player and wherever you work out the best is where you’re go­ing to play. If you look good at safety and that’s where you want to start out, well then that’s what we’ll take a look at and see if that works. If it does, you’ll stay there. If not, we’ll look at other options.’ 
“I think it was important for him to hear he’d get a chance to play other positions and he in the nation, according to esPn, and hall checks in at no. 

191. hilliard, who cracks the top 150 at no. 145, hails from cincinnati. Frank said he thinks hilliard’s decision will come down to ohio state and notre dame and that the linebacker’s comfort level with each team’s players could play a huge factor in the choice. 
recently, the Irish have ex­tended more offers to members of the class of 2015, driving the number of offered prospects up to 26, per Irish sports daily. of those 26 players, Frank said some of the most interesting prospects are hilliard, corner­back John reid, defensive end/ linebacker Jashon cornell, de­fensive tackle rasheem Green, offensive lineman Tristen hoge and quarterback Torrance Gibson. 
“[Gibson] kind of fits exactly what they’re looking for right now,” Frank said. “There’s a bunch of other guys they’re looking at [for] quarterback right now, but he’s kind of the mobile guy that fits and looks like what they’re looking for.” 
esPn ranks Gibson as 25th­best player in the nation. 

only one player in the class of 2015 — offensive lineman Jerry Tillery, has committed to notre 

“ It would not surprise me if [safety/ linebacker Drue Tranquill] flipped from Purdue to Notre Dame and fairly soon.” 
Mike Frank Notre Dame recruiting expert 
wasn’t going to get pigeonholed into one specific position. so I think that that really helped their chances. I would say it would not surprise me if he flipped from Purdue to notre dame and fairly soon.” 
Tranquill had the chance to spend time with the two other visiting members of the class of 2014, linebacker Jonathan bonner and receiver Justin brent, both of whom are already committed to notre dame. 
“I think notre dame kind of put their best foot forward,” Frank said. “[Tranquill] got to hang out with Jonathan bonner and Justin brent and I think he really felt like he fit in with those guys.” 
As for bonner and brent, meanwhile, Frank said he be­lieves they had a “wonderful” time on their visits and solidified their opinions on notre dame. Frank said he would be shocked if either player reneged on his commitment. 
The Irish also hosted three players from the class of 2015: Quarterback Jack beneventi, linebacker Justin hilliard and running back darrin hall. beneventi is the no. 273 player dame thus far. Tillery, the 6-foot­7, 312-pounder from shreveport, La., will make a visit to south bend this weekend. 

“obviously Tillery is a very important recruit and he’s a guy that they’ve loved and think is just a tremendous prospect,” Frank said. “so it’s important to get Jerry Tillery up on campus as much as they can and around the offensive linemen so he feels comfortable up here. It’s a long way from south bend to [Louisiana]. sometimes these guys can feel a little disconnect­ed after awhile so it is important to get these guys on campus and around each other and just feeling more comfortable and at home. so I think that’s im­portant for him to come up and have a good visit and just solidify in his head the reasons he chose nd.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
COMMENTARY 



ND can change in one game 


Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
Think back to late october of 2012. 

notre dame was roughly a 10-point underdog to oklahoma leading up to their top-10 clash in norman, okla., on oct. 27. 
manti Te’o was still crafting his heisman candidacy. 
everett Golson was still de­veloping as the first-year signal-caller for brian Kelly. 

The defense had bent but not broke, surrendering yards but not points. 
The Irish were 7-0, but people still weren’t convinced that notre dame was excellent, or even relevant. 
but one game can change everything. Golson connected on a 50-yard bomb with chris brown and plunged in for a 1-yard go-ahead touchdown later in the drive. Te’o sealed the victory with a late interception. The defense limited Landry Jones and the sooners to 13 points. Just like that, Golson was finding himself as the quarterback, Te’o was placed squarely in the heisman conver­sation, the defense was legitimate and the Irish were for real. 
Fast-forward to oklahoma week 2013, and a similar uncer­tainty swirls around this notre dame squad. Kelly has talked about his team finding its identity, and he continues to insist the Irish are not a finished product. And if the matchup with oklahoma in 2012 taught us anything, it’s that a lot can change with one game. 
Last season, it was more of a perception change. “ok,” we said, “notre dame defeated the sooners convincingly. It was 30­
13. It was in norman. It was in primetime. This team is for real now.” but it was, by and large, the same Irish team that had been playing the same Irish football the whole season. People just began to truly believe after the statement win over the sooners. 
This season, it will need to be more than just a perception change to return to a 2012-level of prominence. notre dame has legitimate problems and unan­swered questions. 
most notably and importantly, the defense has been bad at worst and inconsistent at best. The mid­dle linebacker and safety rotations are still in flux. 
offensively, the Irish have strug­gled to run the ball. A definitive pecking order in the backfield has yet to crystalize, and the passing game has yet to prove it can carry the load when teams unflinch­ingly stack the box. 
but as we learned last year, nothing is steadfast; performance and perception are subject to change. And, really, that’s the way football always is. Uncertainty and fluidity are the underpin­nings of the sport. michigan looked like a bcs-caliber team 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
in dropping 41 points on the Irish three weeks back. now the Wolverines look like a low-end top-25 squad after barely squeak­ing by Akron and connecticut in consecutive weeks. It’s why more and more coaches and media members alike bash the perceived importance of preseason — or even early-season — polls. 
It’s too early to write the final chapter on notre dame. The Irish have played one-third of their regular season. The story on notre dame can drastically change, for better or worse, by 7 p.m. on saturday. 
The Irish are again seeking answers to some of the same question marks that popped up heading into oklahoma week 2012. 
Will an inside linebacker emerge to lead the defense, or at least the linebacking corps, like Te’o led last season? If so, who will it be? 
Will Tommy rees increase effi­ciency, limit turnovers and silence critics, like Golson did? 
Will the defense be as stout as it was against michigan state and take a huge leap in consistency? 
Uncertainty surrounds the Irish, certainly. but uncertainty should not be confused with finality. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu
     The views in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2013 | The observer 



has become more and more comfortable with his play. 
“I feel like I’ve played a lot more confidently this year,” Jackson said. “I kind of know there’s no receiver that’s going to run past me or what not if I’m on my game. I feel like I’ve played similarly. Just last year, I had a little more of a faster start with just being in the right place with the interceptions.” 
Former notre dame corner­back shane Walton, the last Irish All-American at the posi­tion, said cornerbacks need to have a unique mindset to play the position successfully. 
“You’re playing a position where you’re supposed to get beaten every once in a while,” Walton said. “To have a men­tality that I’m not going to get beaten and still get beaten, and then I’m not going to get beaten again, you definitely have to have a different mentality. 
“It’s almost like being a dis­tance runner. … I think that these guys mentally are so strong and so strong-willed, it’s almost what a corner has to be. Their minds have to be so pow­erful and so strong-willed, the mindset has to be that it’s not going to happen again.” 
Jackson knows all about track athletes. 
Switching sports is old 
As a sophomore, Jackson (along with George and Josh Atkinson) began to run track. The hazlet, n.J., native com­peted in four indoor meets for the Irish, running the 60-meter hurdles. 
The speedster ran a person-al-best 8.12 in the event before focusing exclusively on foot­ball. Jackson said he simply did not have time for track but still sees some similarities between sprinting and cornerback. 
“I guess in a way, just being an individual,” Jackson said. “As a corner, a lot of times, you’re on that island and you kind of just react. 
“I was just running track be­cause I just loved having that individual aspect of my life, re­lying on myself. I think it defi­nitely helps me at corner. When I’m at corner, I’m on my own basically, the majority of the time.” 
In high school, Jackson also played point guard on the bas­ketball team and had previous­ly played soccer and baseball. Two sports is not as hard when you have already played five. 
now, everything is old for Jackson. 
he’s been a leader long before a letter told him he was. he’s in his third season on defense and second as a starter. he’s not thinking about track anymore. 
he’s used to it. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
strong point in the defense. I just try to be as vocal as I can, as energetic as I can, as com­municative as I can and just keep things rolling.” 
Last season was Jackson’s first as a starter with the Irish and he helped anchor a sec­ondary that included three first-time starters. This sea­son, though, he’s the man on the back end of the defense, he’s the lockdown corner, he’s the voice. 
Irish coach brian Kelly said Jackson has been hard on himself since being a captain. 
“It has a tendency to put a lit­tle bit more pressure on you,” he said. “You don’t want to let anybody down. You want to live up to the incredible his­tory and tradition of being a captain here at notre dame.” 
Jackson has transformed himself from first-time starter into a statistical hybrid in just one season. he is only behind the inside linebackers in tack­les and behind only defensive linemen in sacks. 
but racking up stats is noth­ing compared to switching positions. 
Switching positions is old 
Jackson used to be a run­ning back — when he was six-years old. 
he scored his first-ever touchdown at the position, dashing in from 60 yards out and adding a heel-click and a skip as he crossed the goal line. 
Then, Jackson was a re­ceiver. he was an All-state wideout in high school and came to notre dame as the second-best receiver from new Jersey. 
Jackson was buried on the depth chart, however, and saw playing time primarily on special teams as a fresh­man, returning kickoffs with his current secondary-mate Austin collinsworth. he av­eraged 22 yards per return and said he still occasionally thinks about returning kicks again. 
“of course sometimes I’m like ‘damn, I wish I would have gotten that kick return,’” he said. “At the end of the day, I’m so focused on what I’m try­ing to get done and what I need to do that I don’t really pay too much attention.” 
Jackson is now trying to stop opposing offenses doing what he did to defenses as both a mighty mite and a high-school star. before his sophomore season, Jackson switched sides over to defense as a corner­back and has not looked back. 
“I love playing corner,” he said. “Just comparing it from a corner to a receiver, I just feel like it’s a lot harder of a job. I just enjoy it really. I’m glad you get a chance to hit people. I didn’t necessarily like running across the middle as a receiver and getting blasted.” 
The film, television and the­ater major said trusting the coaches was key in making the change. 
“You’re open to just going, open to coaching and just lov­ing coach push you around and show you different places you fit,” he said. “I really just trusted them and worked as hard as I could to get better at that position, which was frus­trating a little at first but now down the road, it definitely is an advantage.” 
Jackson is now in his third year since the transition and 







HEAD TO
3:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

Observer File Photo 
SOONERS PASSING 
Last year, notre dame allowed its first rushing touchdown of the season to the “belldozer” in one of his four carries on the night. he was 1-for-1 passing for eight yards. This year, the Irish will have to deal with sooners quarterback blake bell a lot more. bell is coming off a winning effort against Tulsa in which he threw for 413 yards and four touchdowns on 27-of­37 passing in his first career start. Irish coach brian Kelly was clear in his weekly press conference that the Irish view bell as a passing threat, not just the rushing threat he was last year. 
The 6-foot-6, 252-pounder under center is just one part of oklahoma’s explosive offense. The sooners are averaging 490.3 yards-per-game this season. sophomore receiver sterling shepard leads the team with 11 receptions and 146 yards on the season and reined in 15 passes for 181 yards last year against notre dame. however, the Irish got the win by keeping everything in front of them. bell does not have the resume of former sooner Landry Jones, but the Irish will have to account for his ability to extend plays with his legs or take off with his legs. 
It seems as though notre dame has got­ten things together just in time in the sec­ondary, as last week’s solid performance bodes well for how the Irish will handle bell and the sooners. If notre dame can get pressure on the quarterback, the back line is likely to find an interception from the inexperienced bell. 
EDGE: EVEN 


SOONERS RUSHING
  The sooners are second in the big 12 with 271.1 rushing yards-per-game, largely on the effort of senior running back brennan clay. clay has accumu­lated 284 yards on 45 carries, good for 
5.8 yard-per-attempt. oklahoma also has three other rushers with at least 110 yards this season and bell has added 55 yards on the ground himself. 
notre dame’s defense matches up well with oklahoma’s running attack, though. The Irish have limited their op­ponents to 114.2 yards-per-game this season. oklahoma is likely to gain more than the 15 yards it managed last season against the Irish, but notre dame’s stout defense can limit the sooners’ effective­ness on the ground. bell’s size and mo­bility could be an issue though, based on notre dame’s early-season struggles against mobile quarterbacks connor reilly of Temple and devin Gardner of michigan. 
EDGE: EVEN 
SOONERS OFFENSIVE COACHING
  As sooners coach bob stoops ap­proaches the all-time victory record at oklahoma (currently held by barry switzer), it is hard to pick against his of­fensive coaching staff. stoops has racked up 17 coach of the year mentions, includ­ing eight on the national level. stoops has coached heisman winners along the way and trotted out a fearsome offense almost without fail. Irish defensive coordinator bob diaco is stiff competition, but given that the Irish are still trying to find the right 11 to put on the field, notre dame is playing from behind in this category. EDGE: OKLAHOMA 
SOONERS SPECIAL TEAMS 
redshirt junior kicker michael hunnicutt has hit eight of his nine field-goal attempts this year, although his long is 44 yards. Junior kicker nick hodgson has sent 15 of his 22 kickoffs for touch-backs, which could take George Atkinson and the Irish return game out of the equation. Junior punter Jed barnett is av­eraging 44.1 yards per punt this season, while senior receiver Jalen saunders has a return average of 13.5 yards in eight 
punt returns this season.  
EDGE: OKLAHOMA  
SOONERS SCHEDULE (3-0)  
Aug. 31  Louisiana-Monroe  W      34-0  
sept. 7    West Virginia  W  16-7  
sept. 14 Tulsa  W  51-20                  
sept 28  @ Notre Dame  
oct. 5  TCU  
oct. 12  vs. Texas  
oct. 19  @ Kansas  
oct. 26  Texas Tech  
nov. 7  @ Baylor  
nov. 16  Iowa State  
nov. 23  @ Kansas State  
dec. 7  @ Oklahoma State  


Observer File Photo 

(Sr.) Lacolton Bester

WR
 (Fr.) dannon cavil 6 
(R-Jr.) Tyrus Thompson

LT 
 (r-so.) derek Farniok 72 
(R-Jr.) Adam Shead

LG 
 (Jr.) dionte savage 77 
(R-Jr.) Blake Bell 

QB (R-Sr.) Gabe Ikard (r-Fr.) Trevor Knight 9

C
 (so.) Ty darlington 56 

(Sr.) Bronson Irwin (Sr.) Brennan Clay 

RG
RB
(sr.) damien Williams 26 (r-so.) nila Kasitati 54 
(R-Jr.) Darly Williams

RT
 (r-so.) derek Farniok 72 
(Sr.) Brannon Green 

TE
(r-Fr.) connor Knight 89 
(So.) Sterling Shepard



WR
 (r-Fr.) derrick Woods 12 
(Sr.) Jalen Saunders

WR
 (so.) Trey metoyer 17 

(Sr.) Aaron Colvin 

CB
(Fr.) stanvon Taylor 6 
(R-Jr.) Julian Wilson 

NIC 
(sr.) Kass everett 23 
(Jr.) Quentin Hayes 

SS (So.) Charles Tapper 
(Fr.) Ahmad Thomas 13 

DE
(Fr.) matt dimon 90 

(R-So.) Jordan Phillips (R-So.) Frank Shannon 

NT
(Jr.) Quincy russell 95
MLB 
(so.) eric striker 19 
(R-Jr.) Geneo Grissom 

DE 

(r-sr.) chaz nelson 99 
(R-Sr.) Gabe Lynn
(r-Jr.) Trey Franks 32 
FS 
(So.) Eric Striker 
19 OLB (Sr.) Corey Nelson


OLB 
(r-Jr.) Aarn Franklin 25 
(R-Fr.) Zack Sanchez 

CB
(r-so.) cortez Johnson 22 

(R-Jr.) Michael Hunnicutt  PK  (Jr.) Nick Hodgson  KO  
(Jr.) Jed Barnett  P  (Sr.) Brennan Clay(sr.) roy Finch  22  KR  
(Sr.) Jalen Saunders (so.) sterling shepard  3  PR  (Sr.) Austin Woods (r-Fr.) connor Knight  89  LS  






Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 
This is one where the Irish will be ready. 

I honestly thought they would be surprised by michigan state last week, turns out I still don’t know who won since there was zero offense and zero fun sir. 
This is where they will be truly tested, and everyone will be watching. 
This matchup will force the Irish to focus on every play call, down and second. 
Unlike michigan, they will actually be facing a team with more talent than themselves. Add that to the venge­ful glare of bob stoops and company and the lingering feeling of a bcs-denying loss at home last season. 
The Irish will find a way to succeed in their first oppor­tunity as true underdogs, just as they did all year last year. 



Matthew DeFranks 
Assistant managing editor 

     I think oklahoma is overrated. I don’t know if they have a run game.
     And I don’t know how blake bell will fare against one of the best defensive lines in the country. 
but I just have a weird feeling about this game. call it a gut feeling. 
notre dame has not showed much to the nation this sea­son with a seemingly underachieving defense and a vanilla offense.
     And there’s just something about bob stoops that has me thinking the sooners will be ready (but only because it’s not a bowl game).
     I think notre dame’s 10-game home winning streak comes crashing down courtesy of the belldozer. 


Mike Monaco 
sports editor 
Looking past each team’s rankings, I see two squads in similar situations. notre dame is still an unknown entity for the most part. oklahoma, meanwhile, may be ranked no. 14 in the AP poll, but who have the sooners really played? 
still, I think the sooners are quite strong, maybe even de­serving of that top-15 ranking. blake bell is the right man for the quarterback job, and the skill-position players are tal­ented and plentiful. 
say what you want about notre dame’s offensive strug­gles, but I think its defense will be the key. can the Irish stop that skilled sooner offense and play as they did against michigan state, or will bell pick apart the defense with a devin Gardner-like ease? 
I’m thinking closer to the latter. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 33, oklahoma 27 FINAL SCORE: oklahoma 27, notre dame 21 FINAL SCORE: oklahoma 30, notre dame 24 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2013 | The observer 




O HEAD 

ON NBC NO. 22 NOTRE DAME 

WEI LIN | The Observer ALLISON D’AMBROSIA | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING in the backfield but none competent enough senior quarterback Tommy rees and the to secure the job, oklahoma holds the edge 


KeiVarae Russell (So.) 
Irish passing attack put on a miserable per-here. 
CB 23 Lo Wood (sr.) 
formance last week against michigan state, EDGE: OKLAHOMA although multiple spartan pass-interference penalties may have played a part in preventing IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 

Jaylon Smith (Fr.) 

OLB 
notre dame from connecting on its passes. brian Kelly executed his game plan last 
30 ben councell (Jr.) 
Austin Collinsworth (Sr.) 



41 matthias Farley (Jr.) The good news for the Irish is that rees prob-week en route to a win against the spartans. 
S
Sheldon Day (So.) 

ably will be better. In his prior three games the With nine defenders stacking the box on many 

DE 
90 Isaac rochell (Fr.) 
Jarrett Grace (Jr.) senior quarterback had averaged 326 yards plays, Kelly instructed the Irish to throw it over 


ILB 
48 dan Fox (Gr.) 

Louis Nix (Sr.) through the air. the heads of the michigan state players and 
NG 
Kona schwenke (sr.) 

Carlo Calabrese (Gr.) If Irish freshman receiver corey robinson challenge the corners in man-to-man cover­



96 ILB 
Kendall moore (sr.) 

Stephon Tuitt (Jr.) 8 can carry over his breakout performance age. The offensive production was extremely 
DE 94 Jarron Jones (so.) 
Elijah Shumate (So.) while TJ Jones and davaris daniels get back muted for the Irish, but notre dame did draw 
10 max redfield (Fr.) 

S 
to their productive ways, notre dame could flags from many of its attempts to connect 
Prince Shembo (Sr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (Jr.) use its passing attack to pull off the upset. It down the field. sooners defensive coordinator won’t be easy, though. oklahoma is first in the mike stoops has had notable success with his big 12 in pass defense efficiency and second units in the past, most notably when he was 
CB 
36 Bennett Jackson (Sr.) in total scoring defense, having allowed only with the sooners originally from 1999-2003. 
cole Luke (Fr.) 
nine points-per-game through three contests. having returned to oklahoma last season sooners redshirt senior safety Gabe Lynn leads after serving as the head coach at Arizona, the team with two interceptions and also has stoops coached his defense to a disappoint-a fumble recovery on the year. Granted, notre ing season in which the sooners allowed 398.3 
TJ Jones (Sr.) 


88 
dame brings more to the table than University yards-per-game. 
WR 
corey robinson (Fr.) 
of Louisiana-monroe, West virginia and Tulsa, EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
DaVaris Daniels (Jr.) 


87 daniel smith (sr.) who rank 77th, 72nd and 74th in the nation in passing offense. notre dame ranks 28th, but IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS will have to avoid turnovers. oklahoma has senior punter Kyle brindza won the game 
RT 

Ronnie Stanley (So.) brought down an interception in 73.5-percent ball for his fourth-quarter punts against the 
WR 
79 steve elmer (Fr.) 
of its games under stoops. spartans, but he averaged only 42.8 yards on 
George Atkinson (Jr.) 
Christian Lombard (Sr.) 


65 
3 Amir carlisle (Jr.) EDGE: NOTRE DAME four punts. brindza missed his second field-
RBRG 
conor hanratty (Jr.) 
goal attempt of the season against michigan 
Tommy Rees (Sr.) 
Nick Martin (Jr.) 

C 
77 matt hegarty(Jr.) QB 
12 Andrew hendrix (sr.) IRISH RUSHING state, but remains a reasonably reliable op-Irish coach brian Kelly has listed five run-tion.  TJ Jones showed signs of discomfort 
Chris Watt (Gr.) 
75 mark harrell (so.) 

LG 
ning backs atop notre dame’s depth chart at punt return last week, dropping one punt 
LT 

Zack Martin (Gr.) heading into the matchup against oklahoma, and running into another, although the Irish 
57 hunter bivin (Fr.) 


so freshmen Tarean Folston and Greg bryant recovered both. oklahoma has surrendered 
TE 
Troy Niklas (Jr.) will presumably join juniors cam mcdaniel, only 114 return yards on six kick returns, but 
18 ben Koyack (Jr.) 
Amir carlisle and George Atkinson in the run-Atkinson always has an outside shot of mak­ning back rotation against the sooners. The ing a big play on special teams. 

WR 

Chris Brown (So.) depth-chart magic by Kelly is a recognition of EDGE: EVEN 
17 James onwualu (Fr.) 
the fact that no Irish back has gotten it done this year. Atkinson leads the team with his av-IRISH SCHEDULE (3-1) erage of five yards-per-carry, but he only has Aug. 31 Temple W 28-6 24 rushes. mcdaniel leads the team in rushing sept. 7 @ Michigan L 41-30 attempts and rushing yards with 45 and 169, sept. 14 @ Purdue W 31-24 respectively. sept. 21 Michigan State W 17-13 

Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 

40 nick Tausch (Gr.) oklahoma, meanwhile, leads its conference sept. 28 Oklahoma in total defense (291.3 yards-per-game), third-oct. 5 vs. Arizona State 

KO 
PK 
George Atkinson (Jr.) 
Kyle Brindza (Jr.) 

33 cam mcdaniel (Jr.) 98 Alex Wulfeck (Gr.) 
KR 
P 
down defense (27.3-percent) and rush defense oct. 19 USC 
PR 
LS 

TJ Jones (Sr.) (100.7 yards-per-game). senior linebacker oct. 26 @ Air Force 
Scott Daly (So.) 

3 Amir carlisle (Jr.) 
corey nelson leads the sooners with 20 tack-nov. 2 Navy les on the year and has three tackles-for-loss. nov. 9 @ Pittsburgh Given oklahoma’s hot start in run defense, nov. 23 BYU 

Notre Dame vs. Temple 
and the fact that notre dame has five options nov. 30 @ Stanford 



Joseph Monardo 
Associate sports editor 

during last year’s matchup with oklahoma, I couldn’t believe what I was seeing. even as the Irish went up 17 in the fourth quarter, it was hard to be­lieve they would hold on for a statement win on the road. not only did they do that, but what they did after made the win just another entry in a miracle season. 
The Irish could use a win over oklahoma to an­swer some questions this year too. A victory  saturday would put the Irish on track for a bcs bowl and al­most assuredly propel them near the top 15. Too good to be true for a team that still hasn’t put it all to­gether through four weeks, right? right. notre dame will hang around, but the sooners pull it out. 
FINAL SCORE: oklahoma 24, notre dame 17 



Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
oklahoma hasn’t had much opportunity to show what it’s made of this year, while the Irish have had their opportunities but haven’t done much with them. 
blake bell was the only thing that could break through notre dame’s front seven early last year, and now the Irish will have to deal with a full dose of the belldozer on saturday. meanwhile, the Irish offense is a huge ques­tion mark, as brian Kelly listed five co-starters at run­ning back, and there’s never any telling which Tommy rees will put on the no. 11 jersey come game time. 
still, the Irish defense showed just enough last week to inspire confidence. oklahoma was notre dame’s coming-out party last year, don’t be surprised to see a repeat saturday afternoon. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, oklahoma 23 


Who is the biggest diva? Biggest prankster? Funniest teammate? Bennett Jackson tells all in our new “Lightning Round” video series at 

youtube.com/ NDSMCObserver 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 





Three-man rotation at inside LB yields success 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports Writer 
Grace. Fox. calabrese. 
That’s the decision Irish coach brian Kelly and his staff have faced in trying to deter­mine who will play at their two inside linebacker spots this season. 
but it’s also a listing, in or­der, of notre dame’s top three tacklers this season, meaning the Irish have found an ideal recipe for playing time in the middle of their defense. 
“You’ve got a three-person rotation that’s working out pretty good for us,” Kelly said. “All three of those guys are working well together.” 
With the departure of manti Te’o, the Irish linebacking corps was not expected by many to be the same strength heading into this season that it was in 2012. but struggles in the secondary and double teams on the line have forced junior Jarrett Grace and grad­uate students dan Fox and carlo calabrese into the spot­light. Grace leads all notre dame defenders with 28 tack­les, and Fox and calabrese fol­low close behind with 27 and 26, respectively. 
Grace has been one of the team’s most surprising revela­tions. The cincinnati native sat behind Te’o for his first two seasons before coming on strong this spring and working his way into the rotation. Kelly said while Grace may have risen back up the depth chart, the junior has always been a key player for the Irish. 
“even though he was behind our best leader in our pro­gram, and that has a tendency, obviously, to overshadow you, he led in community service,” Kelly said. “he led in fellow­ship. now he’s starting to become more vocal as a foot­ball player as well, and he’ll 
continue  to  develop  in that  
manner.”  
Fox  and  calabrese  were  

mainstays in the Irish lineup with Te’o, and the two boast over 40 career starts between them. Grace said having two fifth-year players in the same unit has done nothing but help his development and all three have grown together as a unit. 
“something I’ve learned from dan and carlo is they’re always taking care of their bodies, addressing every little nick and bump,” Grace said. “We’re watching film together for hours, extra, every day, and we’re getting great vision and clarity when we step on the field. That’s something we’ve really embraced together.” 
That group improvement has allowed the Irish to run a three-man rotation through their two inside linebacker spots, which has allowed the trio to stay fresh, show differ­ent looks and thrive as a group. 
“We always err towards the senior first and foremost, and dan has played a lot of foot­ball for us,” Kelly said of the rotation. “That’s how great of a team player [Fox] is, that he moves over … as we con­tinue to get Jarrett some other work.” 
such competition for play­ing time might cause tension or pit a unit against one anoth­er. but Grace said he and the two seasoned veterans value the team success too much to succumb to those pressures, and they know the best thing each can do is push the other two on every snap. 
“I have just as much invest­ed in this team as these guys do, and we all want to win,” he said. “If I can do something that’s going to help the team win, I better do it.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2013 | The observer 




“Belldozer” takes over helm of Sooner offense 
on the ground. he was used last year more in the 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 

Associate sports editor “You know, the quarterback goal line offense. he’s much more 
position now seems to be solved than a goal line offense quarter-

on first-and-goal, blake bell in their minds, and a challenge back. he’s a skilled passer of the began moving to his right im-there, as well, with bell,” Irish football, and I think he maybe mediately following the shotgun coach brian Kelly said in his got a reputation that is not really snap, evaded two Irish defenders, weekly press conference Tuesday. fitting of who he is. I think he was lowered his shoulder into fresh-“he’s a guy that obviously can give a five star quarterback, and he man cornerback Keivarae russell them the dual threat that you’re can throw the football. There’s no and stretched for the endzone. In looking at at the quarterback posi-question about that.” notre dame’s seventh game of tion today in college football.” The sooners are still adjust-the year, oklahoma’s short-yard-The sooners (3-0) surround ing to life without Landry Jones, age quarterback used all of his bell with a dynamic receiv-who finished his career with 6-foot-6, 252-pound frame to run ing corps, led by sophomore oklahoma last year as the team’s through the stalwart Irish defense sterling shepard, redshirt senior all-time leading passer. The for the first time in 2012. Jaz reynolds and senior Jalen current Pittsburgh steeler fin­
“You don’t get the nickname saunders. In bell’s first week as ished with 12,218 yards and 92 belldozer for no reason,” Irish ju-the starting quarterback, shepard touchdowns while completing nior linebacker Jarrett Grace said. hauled in eight passes for 123 62.69-percent of his passes. In last 
despite only recording four yards and found the endzone year’s 30-13 loss to notre dame, carries and throwing a single twice against Tulsa. reynolds Jones compiled 356 yards, but pass, the belldozer made his mark caught four balls for 109 yards threw one interception against no on last year’s contest in norman, while saunders came down with touchdowns. okla. This year, the redshirt junior three completions for 47 yards now with a dual-threat quar­quarterback will be at the helm of and a score. terback under center for the rushing. game day against bell and the a productive sooner offense as the bell’s performance in his debut sooners, notre dame will rely on “Again, I think from a scheme prestigious oklahoma program, team travels to notre dame (3-1). week at the helm of the sooner its experiences defending mobile standpoint, they put you in a posi-Grace said. 
having begun the season as offense showed his ability to do quarterbacks already this year. tion where you have to cover a lot “oklahoma’s a whole new set of the backup to redshirt freshman more than just run it between the After Temple quarterback connor of different scenarios,” Kelly said. challenges,” he said. “They have Trevor Knight, bell made his first tackles, Kelly said. reilly accumulated 293 total “We’ve had that for the last cou-that dual-threat ability … so we career start against Tulsa on sept. “he threw it to really fast re-yards against the Irish in the sea-ple of weeks. our staff and [defen-just have to be very assignment 
14. After Knight had compiled ceivers,” he said. “he’s got an son opener and michigan quar-sive coordinator bob] diaco has correct, because they’ve got a lot only 205 passing yards total on a outstanding receiving corps. You terback devin Gardner finished done a great job of formulating of dangerous weapons. 43.8-percent completion rate in know, he’s got a nice touch on with 376 yards in the big house, the plan, and we’re going to have “We are going to expect their oklahoma’s opening two con-the ball, a good presence about notre dame limited dual-threat to have another great one this very best on saturday.” tests, bell connected on 27-of-him. he looked like a thrower, quarterback connor cook of weekend.” 37 passes for 413 yards and four not a runner. I know he’s a big, michigan state to only 135 yards still, the Irish realize they will Contact Joseph Monardo at touchdowns. he added 24 yards physical strong kid, and I think through the air and four yards have show up ready to play on jmonardo@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT PAId AdverTIsemenT 






