The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 15 | FRIDAY, SEPTEMEBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University implements Sakai changes 
Updates include new color scheme, drop-down menus and reduction in default tools 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
sakai, the online learn­ing platform utilized by the university, received a variety of updates over the summer, including a new color scheme and drop-down menus, laura gekeler, learning management system (lms) administrator and concurrent instructor, said. 
“we made changes to ad­dress both student and fac­ulty needs, although i have to say that we heard more from the general student body than faculty at large this time,” she said. 
gekeler said her office worked with an advisory board that included faculty and stu­dent representation to gather feedback. The changes, which took effect June 8, included bringing the design elements in line with notre dame colors and adding course site drop-down menus directly from the site ribbon, which aids in mo­bile navigation. 
“based on student feedback, we reduced the number of de­fault tools in each course to the two most frequently used ones 
see saKai PAGE 5 




smc honors victims of 9/11 
such tragedies, and it is easy 

By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer to feel hopeless and fearful for our fellow brothers and The saint mary’s college sisters in christ,” millar said. 



Professor receives $4.3 million award from NSF 
at the large hadron collider and how they combine to make 
By KAYLA  MULLEN 
news writer (lhc) at the laboratory, the up the things that we see,” press release said. michael hildreth, also a profes­professor of physics mitchell 
sor of physics and member of 


community  gathered  “however, this reading calls  wayne, a member of the high  
Thursday night for a candle- us to put our trust in god, for  energy physics group, received  
light ceremony to remember  when we trust in god we are  a $4.3 million award from the  
those who lost their lives on  able to have hope.”  national  science Foundation  
sept. 11, 2001.  september 11 is a date no  to fund work at the european  

after an opening prayer and one will forget, and for many it 

organization for nuclear 
the high energy physics group, 
said. “cms is a specific project 
at cern running at the large 
hadron collider. cms is a large 
particle detector that observes 
proton-proton collisions at the 
lhc.” 
senior Kristen millar is still painful to think about, 

research (cern) laboratory 
song, 
read a verse from the book of millar said. lamentations, and then deliv-“god’s favor, love and mer­ered a sermon. cy are being poured out here 
“being in the states it is hard to wrap our heads around see ceremony PAGE 5 near geneva, switzerland, ac-

The lhc is a circular accel­cording to a press release. “The basic theme of our re-erator with a 16-mile circum-
The funding will support the search is to try to understand ference that collides beams of phase i upgrade of the compact what the fundamental build-muon solenoid (cms) detector ing blocks of the universe are, see granT PAGE 5 


Morris Inn earns AAA Four Diamond rating 
By BIANCA  ALMADA 
news writer 
The morris inn recently earned the aaa Four diamond rating for the second year in a row since its 2013 renovation. The award ap­plies for the 2015 calendar year. 
“we were thrilled to get this award during our first year [since the renovation]. it was really a testament to our design and the passion of our opening team,” morris inn director of sales and marketing megan akatu, notre dame class of 2004, said. “we are even more excited to receive the award a second time.” 
The morris inn is currently one of only 10 hotels in indiana to hold a Four diamond status, and it is the only one north of indianapolis. “Four diamond properties contain the top five percent of hotels in the u.s.,” morris inn general manager Joe Kurth said. “you just can’t have anything at notre dame that’s not in the top 95th percentile.” 
in order to become aaa ap­proved, “properties must pass an unannounced, on-site 
see raTing PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Megan Akatu 
The Morris Inn received the AAA Four Diamond Rating for the second consecutive year. The Inn is one of only 10 hotels in Indiana with Four Diamond Status. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 IRISH INSIDER 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do your parents want you to be? 

Becca Self 
junior welsh Family hall 
“happy!” 

Hailey Andes 
sophomore ryan hall 
“a Fox news anchor.” 

Jameson Ondrof 
senior sorin college 
“The best i can be.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


John Clark 
junior 
st. edward’s hall 
“a boeing engineer.” 

Kiely Wilcox 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“an engineer.” 


Sherryen Mutoka 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 

“my dad wants me to be a geologist. my mom wants me to be a teacher.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jack rooney greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

catherine owers Zach Klonsinski madison Jaros alex carson 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
susan Zhu miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Volleyball Film: “The Congress” Mass at the Basilica Crafting a Strong Classic Film: The 
wei lin mary Kate luft 
Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred Grant Proposal Arsenal (1929) 
4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Arts Center Heart Brownson Hall DeBartolo Performing Part of the Shamrock 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 11:45 a.m. - 12:45 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Arts Center 
Corrections 

Invitational Also showing at 7 p.m. Music by the Notre Write a strong 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Dame Folk Choir. research proposal. Admission is free. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass Reception for Fall Lecture: “Taking a Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Alumni Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Exhibits Scientific Approach Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Heart Snite Museum of Art to Education” Cavanuagh Hall Chapel 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Notre Dame vs. Baylor 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. DPAC 8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Music by the Women’s Free public reception. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Worship through song 
we can correct our error. 

Liturgical Choir. Featuring Carl Wieman and group discussion. 


professor analyzes theater of irish revolution 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
news writer 
Fearghal mcgarry, a profes­sor of irish history at Queen’s university in belfast, northern ireland, delivered a lecture Thursday titled “lost republic: The abbey Theatre’s 1916 rebels,” which focused on the role of seven leading members 
of w.b.  yeats’s famous abbey  
Theatre  during  the  easter  
rising.  

mcgarry also highlighted ireland’s cultural revolution and its connection to the growth of revolutionary political move­ments, and how the goals of the easter rising differed from its legacy as the centennial anni­versary of the event approaches. 
mcgarry challenged the con­cept that yeats and the abbey’s political productions inspired the irish people to support a republican sentiment. instead, he said the actions of many of­ten-overlooked organizations that shared members with the abbey, operated in both the po­litical and cultural spheres, and were more notable causes for the violent uprising than yeats’s relatively conservative theatre. 
“contrary to the myth of the abbey as a breeding ground for irish republicanism, the the­atre was often critical of the movement, and while some plays caused the abbey to come into conflict with dublin castle, 
paid adverTisemenT 


there were similar clashes with irish republicanism,” mcgarry said. 
mcgarry said rather than the commonly-held view that a cultural revolution fueled a po­litical movement and violent up­rising there were in fact “many overlapping circles or culture and activism, and it is out of this that revolution began.” 
mcgarry said many other groups played a more impor­tant part in the rising than the abbey Theatre, including inghinidhe na hÉireann, or the “daughters of ireland.” The daughters of ireland, like al­most all republican organiza­tions of the time, contained its own theatre company, mcgarry said. 
“it is culture, rather than class, that allowed for the inclusion of those who would typically be excluded from these political movements, such as women and the working classes,” he said. 
“The nature of drama ap­peals to the political because it requires actors to take part in the play, an audience to observe it and a space for the play to be performed in.” 
mcgarry also said these or­ganizations were crucial to the irish revolutionary movement because of their values and the importance of these values to the rising. These values were gradually lost over time by what mcgarry called the “catholic­nationalist narrative” of events. specifically, mcgarry said the feminist and socialist aspects of the rising, which the abbey’s revolutionary members sup­ported, appeared to be forgotten in its legacy. 
“in economic, political, cul­tural and gender terms, the revo­lution disappointed its members from the abbey Theatre,” he said. “revolutions usually end in failure, and for the abbey seven, there was the failure to transform society rather than just change the state.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Earth Institute director compares university  curricula 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 

as part of her visit to notre dame, senior director of the earth institute at columbia university sara sievers gave another lecture on Thursday night in conjunc­tion with the Kellogg institute for international studies. The lecture, titled “what contributions can universities make to the practice of international development?” fo­cused largely on her experience de­signing university curriculum. 
sievers specifically spoke about notre dame’s planned Keough school of global affairs, which will contribute to advancement in the developing world. The Keough school — the first new school at the university in 97 years — is set to open in 2017. 
“it’s really a pleasure and quite literally an inspiration to be here,” sievers said. “i think it’s tremen­dously exciting. it’s not every day of the week that a university starts a new school. 
sievers served as founding execu­tive director of harvard university’s center for global development, and has worked extensively in the developing world as a Foreign service officer during her tenure at the gates Foundation. For the last 10 years, she has worked at columbia university’s earth institute. 
initially, sievers’ talk focused on curriculum used at both harvard and columbia. 
“we’ve tried to build a tripartite model of learning, integrating aca­demic degree programs and teach­ing, research programs and field work,” she said. 
sievers said the goal of interna­tional development is to empower people in developing countries with the tools and skills to manage on their own. 
“Technical skills have been very helpful for our students, in fact we’ve probably focused too much on the quantitative,” she said. “when you’re actually out practic­ing development, there need to be tools and skills that you have that are more qualitative. 

“right now, there is more de­mand for space in these programs than we are able to supply. The country and the world need more programs like this,” sievers said. “and there are jobs for these stu­dents, and our students are getting jobs.” 
sievers said that in many univer­sities she has worked with, “we have to cajole the university president into doing this weird thing as op­posed to what we should be doing, which is research. my understand­ing is that would not be the case [at notre dame]. 
“The catholic church is basically unparalleled in terms of service to the poor. i was astounded by how many people on the ground in these countries were catholics, not nec­essarily peers but nuns and priests and missionaries. it’s my opinion that because of that, you will be able to be more effective more quickly.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at  mhynds@nd.edu 
sparK grad launches business 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 

gail hickey launched her new small business, The bend executive shuttle, on aug. 19 after successful­ly completing the sparK program at saint mary’s college, an 11­week program sponsored by saint mary’s women’s entrepreneurship initiative (wei) that helps south bend women gain business skills to succeed. 
hickey has been an independent contractor in the south bend area for the past six years. she devel­oped a relationship between saint mary’s and notre dame and as a result obtained a large clientele, which gave her the idea to create her own shuttle company, hickey said. 
“because i was already an inde­pendent contractor, it was a very easy transition,” hickey said. “but i needed things that i wasn’t privy to as far as business plan writing and things of that sort, which is why i ended up coming [to saint mary’s] to the sparK program.” 
hickey said her service is not just another cab company. 
“it is going to be a little more than [people] normally expect,” she said. “we do a lot more for our clients than other cab companies do and even more so than limos do. people have even called my service a ‘rolling concierge.’” 
in order to get the company off the ground, hickey needed to learn how to write a business plan, de­velop social media and develop a capital for herself, she said. 
“There is a lot to put together and they give you all the tools,” hickey said. “it’s not just the paper that they give you, but the camaraderie and the friendships you develop. 
it’s people that have the same vi­sion as you do for wanting to be a woman in business, and you feed off that energy and it’s fabulous. … i would recommend it highly to anybody, and i have.” 
sparK has three phases starting with an orientation session for any­one with a viable business idea and willingness to launch that busi­ness and they get selected, martha smith, wei project director said. 
after orientation the 11-week course begins, meeting twice a week, smith said. community members with business expertise such as cpas, lawyers, business owners, psychologists and social workers teach the classes. 
“we prefer that people with ex­pertise in that particular area teach the class,” smith said. “They give you their business card … they re­ally, really want to help. 
graduation follows the 11-week course, smith said. 
“it’s a big high for everyone and then reality sets in — this is a lot of work and it’s not going to happen overnight,” smith said. “at the end of the 11 weeks, there’s two features they end up with: a business plan and increased self-confidence.” 
rekindle the Flame is the third component to sparK, smith said. participants meet once a month at the college and have an education­al component for one hour and one hour of networking. They discuss success stories and lessons they have learned. 
“This exchange is give and take, and once a year we have a retreat,” smith said. “everyone comes in together and again we celebrate successes and we learn from each other. ‘what could have been done better?’ or ‘how do we go forward?’ or ‘how do we tweak the idea so that you can too become a success story?’” 

eighty-one women have gone through the sparK and sparKart program since 2011, smith said. hickey’s class was the most suc­cessful class thus far. 
“The neatest thing is that i’m a business owner,” hickey said. “it brings tears to my eyes because i own my own business. That is so hard to do nowadays and i just thank god every day that i am a business owner. To be able to go into a company and tell them what i do and hand them my business card and have it say owner, that’s huge.” 
saint mary’s provides a con­nection to the score program post-graduation. score is a program sponsored by the u.s. small business administration to provide advice to small business owners. 
“They end the program and they end up with a business plan to do it and then score takes over,” smith said. “it’s a service that they don’t charge for and very few people take advantage of it. There’s a retired professor from saint mary’s, who is a score advisor, and he connect­ed us with score. 
“it’s all saint mary’s connections that we offer to them. saint mary’s offers the connections and the net­work so they can be successful.” 
“The main feature [of sparK] is that it is for women only,” smith said. “it’s women helping women, that is our distinction. we take a woman whose business idea is viable and wishes to launch that business, regardless of where they come from.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Ceremony 
conTinued From page 1 
among us who remain hope­ful, faithful and united in trust with one another, in communion,” millar said. “Thus, we alone will not have peace until we are unit­ed with one another.” 
bellacappella, a saint mary’s a cappella group, provided a song for the cer­emony and the community offered prayers for peace around the world. 
“There is an opening prayer calling on god to be with us in this time and to pray for a banishment of violence in the world,” Judy Fean, director of campus ministry, said. “it’s not just this event, but it’s calling all of us to peace and remem­bering all those impacted, especially all those coun­tries that are suffering at the hands of violence right now.” 
The holy cross family was impacted personally on 9/11 when a saint mary’s alumna and holy cross priest were killed. The student presider encouraged those partici­pating to say the name of the person they remember out loud. 
“we will light candles be­ing a sign of hope, being a sign of light in the darkness for people and reminding we are a community,” Fean said. “we lost one of our al­ums in 9/11, her name was suzanne Kondratenko, and actually a holy cross priest was killed. so for the holy cross family, this is an im­portant day to remember. Fr. Francis grogan and a niece of Fr. peter Jared was a flight attendant on the plane that crashed in pennsylvania.” 
Fean said she remembers driving to work and hearing about the first crash, and she and other faculty members saw the second tower fall on Tv. 

“we were meeting because we knew we had to respond and bring the community together,” Fean said. “This was something we’d nev­er experienced and hoped we’d never experience. we planned a service that we all were to come at noon in regina chapel. classes were cancelled at that time so we could all be there.” 
saint mary’s college president emeritus marilou eldred led a service in regina that day. 
“we were very concerned about anyone who was try­ing to connect with their 
own  family,  people  who  
lived in  new  york, people  
who  worked  in  the  tow­ 

ers, people who were in pennsylvania, people who were in the pentagon,” Fean said. “at that point we were not calling it a terrorist at­tack, but we knew there had been many deaths.” 
Fean said the readings and songs of the ceremony in­vited the community to have hope and experience the light of christ. it is to remind the community that we as humans are not alone. 
“it calls us to a greater re­sponsibility to peace and it’s important to remember in order to not see some­thing like this ever hap­pen again,” Fean said. “it’s a call to each of us to work towards [peace], it isn’t just one person or one group, i think that’s what it reminds me of. That this is about my responding to bring peace to the world, bringing aware­ness to that.” 
“This day will never be the same,” Fean said. “This day will always bring a different memory, even if you weren’t old enough to remember it.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awinegar01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Grant 
conTinued From page 1 

protons at extremely high ener­gies, wayne said. The cms de­tector is an apparatus, made up of several sub-detectors, that precisely measures the particles a high-energy proton collision creates. 
“our goal in particle physics is to study the structure of matter and the basic forces that govern how matter behaves, at the most fundamental level,” he said. “one of the ways we do this is by mea­suring the products of the colli­sions of particles, like protons, at very high energies.  The higher the energy, the deeper we can probe into the nature of matter. higher energy also gives us more ability to create and discovery new particles that can only be created in our experiments.” 
The high energy physics group works with graduate stu­dents and other scientists from around the world to analyze and manage data collected at cern, wayne said. with the grant, they will now become involved with 
Sakai 
conTinued From page 1 

— ‘gradebook’ and ‘resources.’ she said. “Faculty can still use the other tools, but they need to intentionally add them to their courses when they want to use them. students told us they often found courses with tools which contained no con­tent, and they were frustrated at having to click through them to discover that.” 
gekeler said the lms team routinely reviews poten­tial updates to the learning management system based on advice from the learning management guidance council, a team with cross-campus faculty representation. 
“The council has already approved one change,” she said. “our team is currently working to implement a way to make [student] sakai grade data available in the mobile nd app. we intend to make it upgrading the cms detector at cern. 
“a significant part of the $4.3 million will be used to pur­chase new photo-detectors, called silicon photomultipliers (sipm) for part of the cms de­tector known as the hadronic calorimeter, or hcal,” wayne said. “These are a new technolo­gy that will perform much better than the photo-detectors cur­rently in place at cms. 
“The testing and installation of these devices, about 16,000 in to­tal, will take place at cern. here at notre dame we will be fabri­cating several hundred optical decoder units, or odus.  These use fiber optics to bring signals of light created in the hcal to the new photo-detectors.” 
many american universi­ties and laboratories are work­ing together on the upgrade, wayne said, but only eight u.s. universities received their fund­ing from the national science Foundation, after writing a “co­operative agreement” proposal. The eight schools received a total of $11.5 million, but notre dame received the largest part of it, at $4.3 million, wayne said. 

“[The award] enables notre dame to play a leading role in the upgrade project, which is great for the visibility of notre dame as a leading research university,” he said. “The work we are doing is really key for a successful up­grade of the cms experiment, so our efforts are recognized by collaborators from around the world.” 
The award will also be used to support the salaries of the high energy physics group’s engineers and technicians, wayne said. 
“The past few years have been a difficult time for research funding in the u.s. … so it is es­pecially gratifying to get this sig­nificant award for our research,” he said. “we are very apprecia­tive of the support from the nsF and we are also thankful for all the help provided by notre dame’s office of research and the college of science in getting this award.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
Rating 
conTinued From page 1 

evaluation,” according to the aaa website. hotels must provide ac­ceptable comfort and hospitality, and restaurants must meet re­quirements for cleanliness, food preparation and service. hotels that earn a Four diamond sta­tus are defined as “upscale in all areas and progressively more re­fined and stylish, with physical attributes that reflect enhanced quality throughout,” according to the aaa website. 
Kurth said the evaluation con­sists of a three-hour inspection of the property, assessing ev­erything from room decor and dining options to towel size and thread count of the sheets. 
“i agree completely with the status,” junior rachael biscocho said. “i stayed at the morris inn easily to the university’s confer­ence center. 
“The concourse has just been redesigned to include seasonal portraits of campus and high­lights from various academic departments,” Kurth said. “it’s great for professional visitors who may not have a chance to see the whole campus during their visit. having that, along with the new award, is a tremendous asset.” 
Kurth said all of the morris inn’s renovations were, to a cer­tain extent, geared towards help­ing it achieve the higher ranking and prestige. 
“we’re just trying to stay com­petitive and support everything else on campus, and the new ranking has been a big draw,” he said. 
Contact Bianca Almada at balmada@nd.edu 
with some of the cheerleading team during the polar vortex in January. … after the renovations, the staff is still fantastic and now the rooms are brand new and gorgeous. and rohr’s, one of the restaurants inside, has delicious food.” 
Junior dominic bush said he also had an enjoyable experience at the morris inn. 
“i was really impressed,” he said. “The room was big, the shower and bed were great, the room service was fast and the food was good.” 
Kurth said one of the hotel’s most appealing aspects that many students might not know about is the concourse linking the morris inn to mcKenna hall. The underground tunnel al­lows campus visitors, especially those present for academic con­ferences, to travel quickly and 
available sometime this fall.” 
gekeler said 38 percent of faculty who have teaching as­signments use sakai. 
“surprisingly, this means that 80 percent of our un­dergraduate population has at least one class which uses sakai,” she said. 
notre dame is among sev­eral universities that also use sakai’s services, gekeler said. 
“our sakai practices and methods follow in the footsteps of those who’ve used sakai far longer than notre dame,” she said. “we’re involved in a rich community of practice from whom we’re still learning.” 
gekeler said some instruc­tors only use sakai to share grades and files. 
“sakai is an easy way to dis­seminate digital course con­tent, including grades,” she said. “Then there are faculty who intentionally extend their face-to-face classroom engage­ment beyond the classroom through the structure of their syllabus, their course meth­ods and their use of tools in sakai. other universities, such as rutgers, duke, unc and loyola are involved in this trend as well.” 

conducting classes com­pletely online using sakai as the main delivery platform is also possible, gekeler said. 
“we have some of those types of notre dame courses sup­ported by sakai as well. many institutions have complete online programs conducted entirely in sakai,” she said. “This is not to be confused with the popular buzz word “mooc” (massively-open on-line course) which requires special infrastructure to scale for masses. our current sakai environment is not set up this way, nor is it an established or recommended practice to scale sakai for masses of con­current users.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

be insecure 

Greg Hadley 
sports editor 

my insecurities are my oldest feature. 
The bangs and long hair left when i start­ed high school. The glasses followed soon after. i was blonde for one brief fantastic fall in my freshman year — vermin go gold! — but i don’t plan on doing that again. i was pretty tall in middle school, but now i fall on the shorter end of the spectrum, to say the least. 
but i can’t remember any time that i was not deeply insecure about almost everything. 
even now, writing this, i’m a little para­noid because i want you to like it. even though i probably don’t know you, will never meet you and your dislike could not possibly hurt me, i need you to like this. 
of course, i am well aware that in being so pathetically honest, i’m risking your scorn as well. That’s just another insecu­rity to add to the pile. i have tried over and over to tell myself that i just don’t care what other people think, but i do. i can’t stop caring. 
i also can’t stop thinking. The problem is i tend to think about myself. i’m very good at spinning endless stories in my mind about what other people might be think­ing, but i’m very bad at guessing how they actually feel. i’m stuck in my own head. 
even now, almost every sentence i have written so far includes the word ‘i.’ i’m also assuming that you, whomever you may be, have the time and the patience to listen to me ramble. 
i don’t have any right to your attention. it would be presumptuous of me to think that. while reading this article, you might be at lunch, killing time until a friend stops by. or you might be procrastinating in your dorm room because you really really don’t want to start that paper, so you instead de­cided to read this. or maybe you’re stuck in a really boring lecture and you’re just doing the best you can to stay awake. or a thou­sand other possibilities, i don’t know. 
and when your friend comes or its time to start the homework or you do end up falling asleep (we’ve all been there), you’ll stop reading. in my mind, you already have. 
but that’s oK, because in my mind, you had a good reason to. your roommate needed help with something or you got caught up in a good conversation or the game just came on and you really need to pay attention. you won the lottery, for all i know. 
in my overactive imagination, these are all possibilities. There are bad ones too. you think i’m being melodramatic or crazy, or you just think this story sucks. 
i think i’ll focus on the good reasons though. The things that are important to you. writing this was as much for me as it was for you, and if i’ve learned anything over these 500 or so words, it’s that you have much more to say than i do. i plan to listen. 
Contact Greg Hadley  at ghadley@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

This week, the new york Times ranked saint mary’s college as one of the top-10 most economically diverse colleges in the nation. The criteria for the ranking came from combined data on enrollment and tuition costs, which, according to the Times article, ultimately mea­sured “how hard each college is trying to attract and graduate poor and middle-class students.” 
yet this ranking came as no surprise to the belle com­munity, who see it as the embodiment of the college’s mission. 
according to the rankings, the education gap between students who graduate college versus those who do not is causing larger earning discrepancies than ever before, and it is negatively affecting the american economy. These negative consequences include the low likelihood that talented, low-income children will attend a top col­lege. upward mobility, it seems, is out of reach for such students. 
still, some institutions of higher education, like saint mary’s, have made the conscious effort to meet their students’ financial needs, regardless of background. and when such an effort is effective, the positive impact on the community is unparalleled. we can all learn some­thing from  the belles’ diverse student body, and what it means to the college’s identity. 
For one, the college’s mission seeks to offer the same quality of education to all qualified students, despite their respective socioeconomic backgrounds. at saint mary’s, students are encouraged to ask, “who is not at the table?” belles understand the importance of repre­sentation, whether that be at a socioeconomic, racial or ethnic level. 
Filled with a wide range of students from diverse back­grounds, the classroom environment fosters a dynamic that inspires discussion and varying perspectives. 
Furthermore, the faculty and staff of the college have all participated in “diversity workshops,” where profes­sors learn to raise awareness of social issues in their classrooms, leading to fruitful conversations about such matters. so while the students come together to learn, the faculty also knows how best to handle a diversified environment. 
if you ask a belle, the campus is overflowing with evi­dence of the Times ranking in all areas of student life 
— including in student involvement groups and campus outreach programs. 
To name a few, the college academy of Tutoring (caT) program ventures to Title i-area schools to mold young students into involved learners; all nursing majors par­ticipate in one half-semester of community health, visit­ing impoverished facilities in south bend and getting to know the aggregate population within society; and the international buddy system pairs up well-acclimated stu­dents with incoming foreign students so both can foster a deeper appreciation for the multifaceted saint mary’s identity. 
it’s about more than just building up the belles’ com­munity on campus. The mission also is to give back. a saint mary’s student cannot go a week, perhaps not even a day, without engaging with people of diverse socio­economic backgrounds. This is something imperative to students developing into leaders who will be on the path to change the world, one small community at a time. 
perhaps the most important takeaway from this national ranking is how it has underscored the core catholic mission of saint mary’s: to reach out to those in need, as Jesus did and wishes for all of us to do. as shown by the belles community, a little kindness, service and gratitude goes a long way — all the way to no. 9 on an exceptionally inspirational Times ranking. 
The synergy of the community is something that must start at the core, regardless of race, ethnicity or finan­cial status, and the success of the saint mary’s mission is proof that a diverse community is something a college should aspire to have. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Sin is not the end of our story’ 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

in one of his first interviews upon being elect­ed as head of the catholic church, pope Francis received the following question from his inter­viewer: “who is Jorge mario bergoglio?” after a pause, he replied simply: “i am a sinner.” 
The eyes of the world have turned frequently to Francis during his time as pontiff. he has opened minds and captured imaginations because, al­though his papal office could have threatened to remove him from the world, he has continually expressed his sincere desire to be in it. 
“i am a sinner.” in a world caught in stumbles and sin, pope Francis has shown us a different way. in a world so content to throw damaging verbal and accusatory “stones” at the church, pope Francis has been the first to lay down his own “stones.” where some expected closed doors, the pope instead has opened them. 
he has opened the doors to his own heart, vul­nerabilities, stumbles and sensitivities. he has shown himself to be a man of the people, a man who, although endowed with priestly graces and powers, is still comfortable showing that he is no different than the rest of us. he has so consis­tently shared in the struggles and desires of the people he is tasked with leading. 
but perhaps what is so striking about pope Francis is that he reminds us that being pope doesn’t free or exempt him from the human con­dition. in a world filled with people so desper­ately seeking authenticity and companionship, Francis has shown us that popes need those things too. he’s acknowledged that stature or position does not change one’s consistent need for the grace of god. 
yes, Francis has witnessed that he is no differ­ent from us, but perhaps only to get us to think about a deeper question: “are we really that dif­ferent from one another?” 
no. and perhaps he’s given us the answer why: we are all sinners. no matter how much we may try to hide it, we all stumble and fall. 
i’ve become well acquainted with these re­alities recently. new responsibilities as the interim service coordinator at my school have left my plate overflowing. i’ve learned quickly that maintaining the service hours at school is a sisyphean task. Just when i finish entering hours, checking hours, following-up on hours, e­mailing about hours, handling complaints about hours and then following up on those complaints about hours, the day is over and it’s time for bed. by the time the next day rolls around, it’s time to face the same reality. 
The amount of office work and administration required to perform this task has not only filled my part-time calendar, but left me empty in oth­er ways. it has removed me from my normal and familiar tasks, especially leaving me less time to be with the students, to hear their stories, their joys and struggles. 
away from the “life-source” that is my stu­dents, i have had less ability to maintain a joy­ful spirit, a spirit that would normally combat fatigue and exhaustion. i’ve found continual frustration trying to draw life and joy from my “account,” an account that’s currently sitting at zero. 
consequently, i have lost my compass and strayed too far from the patient, loving and car­ing self that i aspire to be. recently, i have not been a good friend, community member or hu­man being. 
yet i have taken comfort in words from J.r.r. Tolkien: “not all who wander are lost.” although i can’t see what the next week or month might look like with these responsibilities, i have hope that my “wandering” can look different if i work hard to see and invite god’s transformational love into my life. 
reading further in his interview, it becomes clear that Francis has hope too. he doesn’t end with the phrase “i am a sinner.” rather, he con­tinues, “i am a sinner whom the lord has looked upon.” 
sin may distort our perception of god’s love for us, but it does not change the reality that his love is still there. i have been wandering recently, and perhaps you have too. but, if we take small steps to be led by and through his love, the rest will take care of itself. we will never have to be lost. 
perhaps it’s time to abandon the hope that the struggles and sins of our past can be any differ­ent. if we made the decision to witness to the fact that sin is not the end of our story, we could perhaps more freely accept god’s desire that we have new future. 
The light of god’s loving gaze invites us into this truth, a truth that says things can be differ­ent. god always believes in us. The question is — do we believe in ourselves? 
Scott Boyle graduated in 2012 with a degree in theology and a minor in medieval studies. He currently lives and works as a campus and youth minister in the Archdiocese of Indianapolis as a member of Notre Dame’s Echo Program. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
From doing to dreaming 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 

For my column this week, let’s start off with a little experiment inspired by a recent guest speaker in my management class. grab a pen or pencil from your backpack (or whatever some­one left behind at your table at the dh today) and draw an l-shaped coordinate plane. with your pen, draw one dot at the origin — the meeting of the lines in the “corner” of the l. draw another dot somewhere in the area of the plane. 
we’ll say that the first dot represents where you are now — notre dame, saint mary’s or visiting campus and picking up a copy of The observer. it represents the context within which you live, your personality, your jobs, extracur­ricular activities, your major, your favorite sports — you name it. This small little dot rep­resents what makes you, you. Think of this dot as your “doing dot” — what you’re up to in the here and now. 
The second dot represents where you want to be in five years. whether it’s the job market, medical school, volunteering, parenthood or anything of the like, this dot represents what you aspire to accomplish through all the hard work you’re putting in right now in the doing dot. Think of this new dot as the “dreaming dot” 
— all of the things right now that you wish you could do, become or achieve. 
how would you get from the doing dot to the dreaming dot? most of us (myself included) would take the most obvious route — a straight line from the first point to the second. This makes sense on most levels — it’s efficient, it saves time and it’s the tried-and-true method of getting from point a to point b. we are told at a very young age that any five-year or longer plan, no matter how ambitious, can be achieved with careful planning and dedication, with hard work being the pen that draws the line for you. 
next, take the pen and draw a dotted line, but this time going above and below the first line while you go from the doing dot to the dreaming dot. The result will be a squiggly line that fol­lows the basic direction of the first line, albeit in a different way. This line represents one of life’s key challenges — unpredictability. 
it’s predictably common for go-getters that populate universities such as notre dame to take a step back every once in a while and assess where they are in terms of their goals and aspi­rations. most of the time things are going great and everyone around us is doing what they need to do to succeed (or at least that’s what we are led to believe). internships, research positions, good grades, interviews, job offers — these are all ultimately tools that we as students pursue in order to achieve our aspirations in life. when we hit those high points, it’s easy to see the path to success and reaching our goals. 
in life, however, things seldom go exactly as planned. curveballs come out of nowhere, and we find ourselves in a drastically different place than we previously were, wondering what the next step will be or if, god forbid, anything could get worse. Just as sitting at the bottom of hill makes that hill seem way more steep than at the top, it is often hard to imagine how you got there in the first place! 
one of the most difficult to master yet impor­tant skills to help us along the journey of life is the sense of perspective that allows us to, in spite of the ups and downs, stay true to our core beliefs, values and dreams. it’s this sense of perspective that enables the perseverance and determination necessary to achieve our goals, even when the going gets rough. history teaches us that some of the most successful people from all walks of life — like steve Jobs (who got fired from his own company), bill gates (whose first business failed) and benjamin Franklin (who dropped out of school at age ten) — were people who encountered their fair share of obstacles yet had the ability to see past their current situ­ation toward what they knew they were called to do. 
you don’t have to be a multi-billionaire or Founding Father to have this type of foresight, however. it all starts with reflecting on where you are and where that current location is in re­lation to where you want to be. it continues with a conscious understanding that while things may be going to plan in the current moment, ev­erything is subject to change. it concludes with the realization that sticking to who you truly are and remaining determined in the most trying of times will help you get from the doing dot to the dreaming dot no matter which line you follow. 
Michael is a junior science-business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 
Family. whether it is in refer­ence to the people you grew up with, friends that you’ve met or the community of people affili­ated with notre dame, family is a concept that most people are well acquainted with. Family is some­thing that the owners of rein Juicery know very well, and upon stepping into their first store located at 2036 s. south bend avenue, individuals will imme­diately feel like they fit right into the family. 
Founded by three brothers scott, Todd and nick anglemeyer, rein offers quality juices to a south bend community with few options for juice and smoothies. “we’ve always gotten along re­ally well, and [working together] has been really great,” explains Todd and nick as they go back and forth about each other’s id­iosyncrasies. “we all wanted to open something together, so we sat down and decided that south bend needed a juice bar. They need something that’s a healthy alternative, something that they can use, they can go to and help create a better lifestyle.” 
The commitment to better­ing the community is an impor­tant part of rein’s mission, and the founders believe that their juice can help kick-start health­ier lifestyles in the community. additionally, the company prides 
MARC DRAKE | The Observer 
itself on the fact that much of the fruit and vegetables used at rein come from local farms. “we re­ally wanted to do something that could benefit the community as well as local farmers,” explains nick. “we have a lot of local pur­veyors … we have been trying to work something out with unity gardens so that we could donate some of our profits when we kind of get going a little more.” unity gardens is a non-profit organiza­tion that allows people to go and pick as much produce as they want for free. 
apart from the community emphasis, the actual juice itself is created using a unique method: cold pressing. according to their website, “cold-pressed is a juic­ing technique where zero heat is applied to the fruits and vegeta­bles in the juice. compared to the juice you make at home or buy at a traditional juice bar, our juices yield a 30-40 percent higher nu­trient content.” The additional nutrient content of the juice is what rein Juicery believes sepa­rates their product from similar existing juices. “we’ve had a lot of east- and west-coasters come in and they’ve given us really posi­tive feedback on our juice,” Todd proudly adds. “They’ve said that it is comparable if not better than a lot of the major juice bars in their areas.” 
as a self-proclaimed juice ex­pert, i decided to put the juice to the test with two different smoothies, and neither the “san Jamar” nor the “berry smojito” disappointed. made in front of me, i resisted the urge to quickly drink the delicious concoction and tried to savor each smoothie. including unusual pairings such as carrot and coconut oil or mint and pineapple, each smoothie features unique flavors that har­moniously blend together, creat­ing a novel experience beyond the strawberry-banana smooth­ies that many other smoothie companies sell. 

Though the brothers have been enjoying success with their inau­gural location, the brothers de­scribe the process of creating the store as somewhat of an uphill battle. originally conceived as a truck that would travel around the country visiting various mu­sic festivals, the idea shifted to­wards a concrete location when logistical and fiscal consider­ations were made. “The process was really intense,” Todd says over the whir of blenders in the background. “we worked with our michigan juice guy, who does welch’s grape Juice, meijer’s Juice division, and he basically told us ‘look, juice is one of the hardest things to get passed through leg­islation, outside of seafood.’ so it was about four months of just trying to sit down with the right people, explain our process, and we went through like eight differ­ent people in total, and it finally came together in our favor.” 

despite the initial difficul­ties, the trio of brothers has been pleasantly surprised with the community’s reaction. “we didn’t know how south bend would really take to the idea, because in chicago or new york or la or somewhere, you’ll find cold-press organic juice for $14. and it’s every block … south bend’s been really supportive to us, and it’s just educating the community on what they are re­ally getting.” with plans to open more retail fronts and move into wholesale, these busy brothers show no signs of slowing down. and luckily for them, the quality juice that they make gives them all the energy they need going forward. 

Contact Marc Drake at mdrake@nd.edu 
The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMEBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

From the onset of discovering the british indie rock group alt-J, i was in­trigued. For one thing, the band’s proper name is “.”, while “alt-J” is merely the di­rections for inputting the delta sign on a mac. i know, cool right? alt-J’s folky-pop style was a cornerstone in my music rota­tion this past year. with lead singer Joe newman’s waspy, swinging voice cou­pled with sharp poetic lyrics, alt-J’s music packs an emotional punch. however it is alt-J’s ability to weave disparate melodies into one organic tune that allows them to be fresh and innovative song after song. Though tranquil, alt-J won’t put you to sleep; their soaring sound is more com­forting than it is boring. 
alt-J’s debut album, “an awesome wave” produced some waves (no pun in­tended) in the indie-sphere and even went on to win the british barclaycard mercury 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

“i’ve lived long enough to be afraid to die.” 
no, this nugget of wisdom isn’t from ernest hemingway’s novel “The missing part of the iceberg” or pink Floyd’s record “pretentious warriors at the gates of pitchfork.” This inversion of “yolo” actually crops up in a fleet­ing moment of calm on rabbit Junk’s new ep, “pop That pretty Thirty.” however, the line is more than a sim­ple recognition of mortality; frontman Jp anderson follows it up very shortly with, “i yield to the moment like the flesh does the knife.” This pair of state­ments form a paradox that ultimate­ly sums up “pop the pretty Thirty.” rabbit Junk are here to party as if they’re 18-year-olds at a major music festival, but they’re also dedicated to demonstrate their experience and ex­pertise in their field. grippingly dense arrangements, relentlessly heavy prize, a big honor for groups across the pond. smart, poignant and meticulously crafted, “an awesome wave” was defi­nitely a winner.  however, as alt-J’s new al­bum “This is all yours” approaches, some pretty glaring questions are beginning to arise. For one thing, the “silent leader” of the group, gwil sainsbury, peacefully threw in the towel after deciding the con­stant touring schedule wasn’t for him. while i can’t really say i blame him, many of the dynamics within the band are ex­pected to shift, which could potentially alter the group’s unique sound. yet, a slight change in the right direction could be exactly what alt-J needs to break into the next level. 
Taking over the leadership within the group is drummer Thom green, ushering in much more reliance on synth-based technology in alt-J’s music, which is al­ready evident in the three singles already released from “This is all yours.” a more upbeat and happy tone resonates from all 
production and an armada of god-tier hooks make “pop That pretty Thirty” one of the most exciting pump-up re­cords released this year. 
Forming the core of “pop That pretty Thirty” is an amalgam of every mu­sical party ingredient imaginable. Thundering drum machines, chanting female and male vocals, earth-shat­tering guitars, glitchy breakdowns and massive bass are ever-present. The heavy-metal/electronica fusions that sleigh bells and linkin park brought to life have essentially been crafted into a single beast here. excellent produc­tion keeps every sound razor-sharp and every crescendo/decrescendo at max impact. in essence, rabbit Junk has distilled decades of stadium themes and compacted them into a single sleek product. 
it’s a shame that many bands with massive sounds that cater to hyped-up, party-like atmospheres suffer lyri­cally. rabbit Junk doesn’t have this problem. Their hooks are simple and three new singles. much of the alt-J sig­nature melodramatics is replaced with a more straightforward sound. because of this, many seasoned fans have begun to chirp up, accusing alt-J of “selling out,” by producing more commercially viable music. and while there is certainly some basis in the accusation, commercial vi­ability is not always a bad thing. alt-J is honing their musical abilities and their music is evolving, pushing the boundar­ies of what can be considered indie rock. The epitome of this boundary push comes in the single “hunger of The pine,” with an appearance, albeit very minor, from the twerk-queen herself, miley cyrus. cyrus can be heard in typical-miley fash­ion echoing, “i’m a female rebel” in the midst of “hunger of The pine.” all of the changes may seem a bit discouraging, es­pecially considering how impressive the first album was. however, i encourage the change. after all, diversification drives the music industry, so take that, stubborn 

memorable, but hardly dumbed-down. at the heart of their standout track “idonTgivea****” is a perfectly uni­versal rallying cry reminiscent of the clash: “i wanT To go ouT dancing They will noT leT me go!” Then there’s female vocalist nadia g.’s amazing bridge: “no gods or masters / i’m my own disaster/neither former nor latter/Just climbing Jacob’s lad­der.” Ten out of ten would chant again. and that’s just one song. 
paired with these mega-huge lyr­ics are mega-huge musical moments. “crutch” crafts a huge build up that stomps its way alongside “so i will not give a, so i will not give a” chant until it explodes into a hardcore-style scream. The riff that opens “precipice” is the sort of fret-shredding barrage that makes your guitar hero-playing younger brother yell, “Just imagine this on expert!” and then there’s the Tell ‘em-style intro to the title track that actually seems to endanger your speakers’ health. in other words, your hipsters! 
The most radically different single of the group, “left hand Free,” has already garnered some success. downright grit­ty, marked with an unforgivingly-catchy chorus and accented with funky organ solo, “left hand Free” is in notable con­trast from much of “an awesome wave.” it could potentially be the single to trans­port alt-J to new ipods not necessarily at­tuned to the indie music scene. 
For those of you like me who fell in love with “an awesome wave,” don’t fret. The other two new singles released, “hunger of The pine” and “every other Freckle” secure that alt-J has certainly not forgot­ten what lifted them from the throes of the british indie rock scene. 
check out “This is all yours,” due to drop sept. 22, and while you’re at it, check out “an awesome wave.” 
Contact Adam Ramos at                                        aramos6@nd.edu 
speakers haven’t lived until they’ve played rabbit Junk. 
at a mere five songs long, “pop That pretty Thirty” is the perfect blast of untamed sonic hype for your work­out, warm-up or whatever else you can imagine. it’s also a free download off rabbit Junk’s bandcamp sight. so what are you waiting for? go snag this awesome ep and let it remind you just how awesome it is to live. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Pop That Pretty Thirty” 
Rabbit Junk 
Label: Glitch Mode Recordings 
Tracks: “Precipice,” “IDONTGIVEA****” If you like: Sleigh Bells, Linkin Park 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Who could hate Derek Jeter? 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
i have a confession: i don’t like derek Jeter. 
This one simple sentence is tantamount to blasphemy in what can only be called the year of Jeter in base­ball. every time the yankees visit a stadium, the retiring shortstop is showered with praise and gifts by the op­posing organization. new york will play the last three weeks of the season wearing commemorative patches cel­ebrating his career. 
so i know what i’m getting myself into. let me start by saying that yes, Jeter ranks very high in many statisti­cal categories. The man has 3,450 hits and counting and a career batting average of .310. so, there’s no disputing that he is talented hitter. 
i would argue that his play defensively is vastly over­rated, something that sa­bermetrics confirms. he has won five gold gloves, but his defensive wins above re­placement (war) average is slightly below zero, meaning that his defense is compa­rable or even worse than that of a Triple-a player. 
but of course, the main reason i don’t like derek Jeter has more to do with me and less to do with him. you see, i’ve been an orioles fan since birth, and one of the earliest things i learned about as a fan was the infamous game one of the 1996 american league championship series, when some kid named Jeffrey maier reached over the rail­ing in the outfield of yankee stadium and caught a derek Jeter fly ball. what should have been just another out instead became a game-tying home run. 
The orioles would go on to lose the game and the series. after one more divi­sional title in 1997, baltimore would embark on a streak of 15 straight losing seasons. it wasn’t Jeter’s fault that maier caught his fly ball, and the orioles had to lose two more games before they were elim­inated, but for any baltimore fan, that moment is a semi­nal one in team history. 
so as i grew up and watched as Jeter and the yankees competed for world series rings, while my be­loved o’s languished in fourth place or worse year after year, i came to associ­ate Jeter with all my baseball misery. 
which brings us to the present day. now that Jeter is retiring, people have asked me if i really don’t like him, or at the very least, respect him. 
i don’t like Jeter or respect him all that much either. at the same time, i can recog­nize it is strange that i can say that about a person i’ve never actually met and know very little about. 
That’s both the best and worst part of being a sports fan. people you have no personal connection to can become good friends just because you both happen to wear your team’s jersey on the same day. you can also have an irrational dis­like of a professional athlete because, darn it, he ruined your chance for a title. i wasn’t even two years old when Jeffery maier broke baltimore’s heart, but derek Jeter, for me, is less a person and more a symbol for all the frustration that builds up when we’re invested in sports. 
This attitude was perfectly summed up when a reporter asked baltimore manager buck showalter what he thought the orioles should give Jeter during his final series at camden yards. showalter joked that he would give him a photograph of the home run, signed by all the orioles. 
i don’t doubt that buck recognizes Jeter’s place in baseball history, but at the same time, i love that he gets it. he understands that in baltimore, even 18 years lat­er, we still haven’t forgotten. 
The irony of all this is that the year Jeter retires is also the year the orioles have their best chance since 1997 to win a division title. in a way, it would be fitting for the o’s to finally overcome their past disappointments the same year Jeter steps off the field. it would be fitting for this year’s team to make new memories to wash away the old ones. 
18 years from now, i don’t hope that orioles fans still dislike derek Jeter. i hope we’ve had enough good times to move past the bad. 18 years from now, Jeter will be in the hall of Fame, and i won’t think about him that much. when i do, i hope enough time will have passed that i won’t think of 1996 and what could have been. 
until then, i think buck has the right idea. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | indians 8, Twins 2; indians 2, Twins 0 
House, Indians sweep doubleheader from Twins 
Associated Press 

cleveland — rookie T.J. house pitched seven sharp innings, carlos santana hom­ered and drove in both runs and the cleveland indians completed a doubleheader sweep with a 2-0 win over the minnesota Twins on Thursday. 
santana also homered in the first game, backing an­other strong performance by corey Kluber in an 8-2 victory. 
cleveland moved closer in the races for both the al central title and the wild card. The indians trail detroit by 3 1-2 games for the second wild-card spot, and visit the Tigers for a three-game series starting Friday night. 
house (3-3) held minnesota to four hits, struck out eight and didn’t walk a batter. 
brian shaw pitched the eighth and cody allen worked the ninth for his 20th save to cap a strong day for cleveland’s pitchers. 
allen walked pinch-hitter Joe mauer, the only free pass issued by the indians in the doubleheader, but Trevor plouffe flied out and Kennys vargas bounced into a double play. 
santana has 27 home runs, matching his career high. his leadoff homer on a 1-2 pitch in the fourth was the only mistake ricky nolasco (5-11) made in seven innings. 
santana added an rbi sin­gle in the eighth. 
Kluber (15-9) allowed two runs and struck out seven in 8 1-3 innings in becoming the indians’ first 15-game winner since cliff lee went 22-3 in 2008. 
house was aided by chris parmelee’s poor baserun­ning in the third. left fielder michael brantley tracked down brian dozier’s drive to the wall and threw to short­stop Jose ramirez, whose re­lay doubled off parmelee at first. 
yan gomes drove in three runs with a solo homer in the second and a two-run double in the third. santana hit a two-run homer in the first and cleveland broke the game open with a four-run third. 
Kyle gibson (11-11) lasted only three innings, allowing seven runs and seven hits, in­cluding two homers. 
Kluber didn’t walk a batter for the second straight out­ing. he broke his three-game losing streak with a five-hitter in a complete game win over the white sox on saturday. 
vargas’ two-out rbi single put minnesota ahead in the first. Kluber retired the next 10 hitters, a stretch that was broken when oswaldo arcia led off the fifth with a single. 
Kluber regained control by getting Kurt suzuki to bounce into a double play that began a stretch when he retired eight in a row. 
NFL 

indy doctors say injury will end mathis’ season 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — robert mathis’ season is over before it even began. 
less than two weeks af­ter leaving the colts to start serving a four-game suspen­sion for violating the league’s performance-enhancing sub­stance policy, coach chuck pagano said team doctors confirmed their worst fears: The 2013 nFl sacks cham­pion tore his achilles tendon during a private workout in atlanta. pagano said he be­lieved mathis was scheduled to have surgery Thursday. 
The more muddled ques­tion is about mathis’ return. 
yes, mathis defied the odds last year when, at age 32 and without his longtime friend and teammate dwight Freeney on the opposite side, produced a franchise record 19 1/2 sacks and became the inaugural winner of the 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSING TWNHM For Rent 2015-16 yr from ND Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr 
deacon Jones award. 

but the long road back could be a tough one. 
“i would say that achilles injuries are one of the tough­est injuries to deal with because they are less pre­dictable then say an acl,” said dr. mark drakos, who specializes in foot and ankle disorders at the hospital for special surgery in new york and is a former harvard foot­ball player. “not a lot of stud­ies have been done on this, but one of them shows about 31 to 32 percent of guys who get this injury never play in the nFl again. part of that is a selection bias, but the point is it’s tough to come back from.” 
drakos is not treating the 6-foot-2, 245-pound pro bowl linebacker. 
when mathis came out of alabama a&m in 2003, most teams thought he was too small to survive in the nFl. when the fifth-round draft pick then emerged as one of the league’s best pass rushers, many thought it was because Freeney was helping from the other side. when he moved to linebacker, at age 31, some questioned his coverage skills. along the way, though, mathis persevered, making it to six pro bowls and breaking 
Freeney’s  franchise  record  
with 120 career sacks.  
Kobe  bryant  and  Terrell  

suggs are examples of play­ers who have come back from achilles surgery. 
however drakos believes it could be a bigger signifi­cant challenge for a 34-year­old pass rusher who relies so much on speed. 
“he had a phenomenal year last year, and usually you think an older athlete will have a slow decline,” drakos said. “but we expect (a torn achilles’) to happen more in older players, and it can af­fect their explosiveness.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
lease. Text or call John 281-635-2019 

“Back home again in Indiana and it seems that I can see the gleaming candlelight, still shining bright, through the sycamores for me. The new-mown hay sends all its fragrance from the fields I used to roam. When I dream about the moonlight on the Wabash, then I long for my Indiana home.” 


MEN’S BASKETBALL | u.s. 96, liThuania 68 
U.S. beats Lithuania to reach world final 
Associated Press 
barcelona, spain — madrid awaits. spain doesn’t. 
The gold-medal matchup seemingly everyone wanted in the basketball world cup 
— maybe even some u.s. players — won’t be happen­ing. The spanish were upset in the quarterfinals, ending the predicted no. 1 vs. no. 2 game sunday on spain’s home court. 
“i think that’s one of the rea­sons why we came over here, was to play them,” u.s. guard derrick rose said. “Too bad we’re not playing them and hopefully we go out there in our next game and play hard and just know that we’re there for a reason.” 
The americans held up their end, moving within a victory of repeating as world cham­pions for the first time with a 96-68 victory over lithuania on Thursday night. 
James harden scored all of his 16 points in the lopsided third quarter of a near carbon copy of the americans’ quar­terfinal victory over slovenia, when he awoke from a score­less first half to help turn a close game into a blowout. 
The americans will face France or serbia, believing either could provide the test that was expected from spain. 
“obviously they’re playing there for a reason,” harden said. “we’re not going to take anyone lightly, which we haven’t thus far.” 
They will arrive as even heavier favorites after spain’s stunning loss to France on wednesday. with their vet­eran experience and near misses against the u.s. in the last two olympic gold-medal games, the spanish were con­sidered the team with the best chance — perhaps the only one — to beat the americans. 
harden was told that for­ward Kenneth Faried said he’d wanted to play spain. 
“Kenneth’s crazy,” harden said. 
some u.s. players watched the game wednesday, while others learned the result af­terward. Talk of a u.s.-spain final had lasted as long as the tournament, and though the americans tried to ignore it, guard stephen curry acknowl­edged that was impossible. 
“i don’t think we’re disap­pointed, or wished we played a certain team,” curry said. “we’re happy to take care of our business.” 
Their opponent will have to show it can hang with the 
americans  for  more  than  
a  half,  which  nobody  in  
barcelona did.  

This one was an eight-point game at the break before the 
u.s. made 14 of 19 shots in the third quarter and outscored lithuania 33-14. 
Kyrie irving had 18 points and Klay Thompson added 16 for the americans in a rematch of the 2010 world basketball championship semifinals, also played on sept. 11, the date of the terrorist attacks on the u.s. in 2001. Kevin durant scored a u.s.-record 38 points in that one, an 89-74 victory. 
MLB | reds 1, cardinals 0 

reds beat cardinals, 1-0 
Associated Press 
cincinnaTi — Johnny cueto pitched eight scoreless innings to beat lance lynn and send the st. louis cardinals to their third consecutive loss 1-0 Thursday. 
aroldis chapman pitched the ninth for his 33rd save and third in the last three games. 
cueto (18-8) allowed just three hits and hit a batter to help the reds win their sec­ond series in the last 13 against central division-leading st. louis. The cardinals have lost three straight for the first time since a four-game losing streak aug. 26-30 and finished their eight-game road trip 4-4 after winning three out of four in milwaukee. 
lynn (15-9) retired 15 straight before brandon phillips led off the eighth in­ning with the reds’ first walk of the game. he went to third on Jay bruce’s single to cen­ter field and scored on ramon santiago’s sinking liner to short center that John Jay got a glove on but couldn’t hold. bruce had to hold up to see if the ball was caught and was forced at second. 

The reds have won three straight games for the first time since august 5-7 against cleveland. They finished their home stand 4-3 after losing two out of three against the mets. 
lynn went into the game 3-0 with a 4.00 era in three starts against the reds this season. cueto was 0-2 with a 3.75 era in two starts against st. louis. 
cueto retired the last 14 bat­ters he faced after adams led off the fourth inning with a single and was eliminated in a double play. he finished with seven strikeouts. 
lynn allowed three hits and a walk with six strikeouts in eight innings. 
bruce kept the game score­less with a leaping catch at the right-field fence to rob adams of a home run leading off the seventh inning. adams ap­peared to doff his batting hel­met to salute bruce’s play. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMEBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




SMC GOLF 

smc set to host invitational 


Observer Staff Report 
after finishing third at the olivet labor day Tee-off two weeks ago, saint mary’s aims to carry that momen­tum into its next competition as the belles host the o’brien national invitational at warren golf course over the weekend. 
Janice heffernan, the lone belles senior, led the way for saint mary’s at the olivet labor day tournament, shoot­ing a two-day score of 159, which put her in fifth place individually. she earned all-tournament honors and later was named the miaa golfer of the week for the first time in her collegiate career. 
in addition to heffernan’s headlining performance, sophomores ali mahoney and courtney carlson shot 167 and 179 to earn 11th and 22nd place, respectively. Freshmen lydia lorenc and Kelsey conkright, who scored 193 and 199, respectively, fin­ished 29th and 31st for the belles. saint mary’s finished behind only miaa rival and defending conference cham­pion olivet and last year’s na­tional no. 1 team, washington university in st. louis. 
heading into this year’s conference play, the belles will be competing once again with olivet. The comets have won three straight conference titles, while saint mary’s has finished second two straight years. at last season’s o’brien invitational, olivet finished second while the belles fin­ished fifth. in the spring’s miaa ncaa championship qualifier, olivet stood be­tween saint mary’s and a spot in the division iii national championship tournament and won the qualifier. 
last fall, olivet ran the table and won every miaa jam­boree, leaving saint mary’s in second place at each tournament. 
The belles have made strides since then, improving under second-year coach Kimberly moore. This spring, saint mary’s competed against several teams ranked in the ncaa division iii or naia top-25 polls at the washington university in st. louis spring invitational, where the belles finished 11th. 
This weekend, the belles will have a chance to show they’re ready to win their conference as they compete against teams like university of wisconsin-stout, centre college, wittenburg university, wilmington college and powerhouse washington university in st. louis. The belles tee off saturday at 11 a.m. and at 9 
a.m. sunday. 

SMC SOCCER | KalamaZoo 2, smc 1 
Belles fall to Kalamazoo, prepare for Alma 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 

in a tightly-contested open­ing game of their conference schedule, the belles fought their way out of an early hole but ul­timately lost to Kalamazoo, 2-1. 
The hornets (4-1, 1-1 miaa) got off to a fast start, scor­ing in just the second minute when sophomore midfielder madeleine chilcote received a pass on the right flank and hit a shot from the top of the box, sending it into the back of the net on the far post. 
The belles (2-3, 0-1), however, were able to draw even in the 33rd minute when senior de­fender mary Kate hussey head­ed a corner kick by sophomore defender emily rompola out of the air for her team-leading second goal of the year. 
“The early goal [by Kalamazoo] was rough,” belles coach michael Joyce said, “but we responded well and were able to get back into the game.” 
as the game progressed, the hornets had the edge offen­sively with 12 shots and nine shots on goal, compared to nine shots with four on goal by saint mary’s. 
They were able to capitalize on the added chances in the 59th minute, on a sequence that started when Kalamazoo sophomore defender suzanne miller took a shot that was saved by belles senior goal­keeper chanler rosenbaum. rosenbaum deflected the ball off the crossbar, but the ball bounced right to the feet of hornets freshman de­fender christina dandar, who finished a one-time shot from the six-yard box to put Kalamazoo up, 2-1. 
saint mary’s tried to fight its way back and tallied three shots in the waning minutes of the game, but the team was not able to create enough chances to break through for a goal and the game ended in a 2-1 loss. 
“down the stretch we just didn’t play well enough,” Joyce said. “[we made] a few too many mistakes when we had the ball and didn’t create enough good opportunities.” 
with 15 more games on its conference schedule, saint mary’s has plenty of time to re­cover from the loss in its confer­ence opener, but Joyce said they will have to make a few adjust­ments moving forward. 
“we’re going to need to be a little more aggressive in the midfield attacking and take a few more chances dribbling and running at players,” he said. 
The belles will have their 

paid adverTisemenT 
second conference game this weekend against alma, who finished second in the miaa last season with a 13-3 confer­ence record. 
The scots (3-2, 1-1) have a potent offense, with 99 shots in just five games so far, including nine goals. Junior forward Kelly wilson and freshman forward whitnee Foote lead the team with two goals apiece. 
after beating calvin in their conference opener, the scots lost 2-1 to albion on Thursday, and Joyce is confident in the belles’ ability to overcome alma as well. 
“i feel good about saturday,” he said. “we’ve always played alma well at home and think this is the year to finally get on top of them.” 
The belles take on the scots at noon saturday at saint mary’s soccer field. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
the irish offense with three goals, while sopho­more midfielder morgan andrews, who led the team in goals last season, has only scored once this year. she has chipped in three assists to lead the squad. 
notre dame’s fresh­man class has contin­ued to make an impact on the veteran squad. Four of the rookies, for­wards Kaitlin Klawunder and Karin muya and mid­fielders Taylor Klawunder and sabrina Flores, have each contributed a point and combined to make 13 starts. 
baylor (5-1-0) and Toledo (2-2-1), though unranked, should present good com­petition for the team, romagnolo said. 
“baylor is a very good team,” romagnolo said. “They have a great record this year and some danger­ous players. They’re very physical and direct so we’re going to have to bring ener­gy and intensity. Toledo is another team that has been solid, and we have to show up and bring them a qual­ity game.” 
romagnolo said it will be important for the irish to step up on their home turf in order to keep the mo­mentum from their wins last weekend. 
“[getting a home win] is huge,” romagnolo said. “anytime we’re at home we want to use it to our ad­vantage, because obviously we’re most comfortable in front of a home crowd.” 
notre dame will face the bears at 7 p.m. on Friday, followed by the rockets at 1 p.m. on sunday. both games will be played at alumni stadium. 
Contact Renee Griffin at                 rgriffi6@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish prepare for first tournament 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
Just a little under a month into the new school year, the irish kick off their sea­son at the mary Fossum invitational this weekend at Forest akers west golf course in east lansing, michigan. 
The tournament, hosted by michigan state, is the first of four in which notre dame will compete this fall. 
The invitational will be played out over three rounds 
— 36 holes saturday and 18 holes sunday — and irish coach susan holt said she anticipates her team will compete over the course of all 54 holes, even in its first tournament. 
“The expectation for all of our tournaments is to per­form to the best of our abil­ity and execute,” she said. “if we can do that, we will be in a position to win every time we compete.” 
notre dame has played at the mary Fossum invitational in six of the last seven seasons, finish­ing third out of 15 teams in 2013, led by senior ashley armstrong’s tie for second place. The irish also won the tournament in 2010. 
“everyone on the team has played this golf course multiple times and should feel comfortable and know what to expect,” holt said. “i think a solid performance is very much in the cards. i know the team is excited to get the season started.” 
while this is the first tour­nament of the year for the irish, several members of the squad played in events over the summer. sophomore Jordan Ferreia took 21st place at the washington state women’s amateur in June by four shots, and freshman Kari bellville won the indiana state Junior golf championship by seven shots in the same month. 

The entire team also took an eight-day tour of ireland in august in which it golfed on several of the country’s top courses. 
“There should be no major difficulties this weekend,” holt said. “it is important to be ready to go from the first hole on saturday and get off to a solid start to settle the nerves of it being the first event of the season. all of our players are seasoned competitors, so i see them being ready to go.” 
This will be the first col­legiate competition for two freshmen — bellville and alison snakard. holt said the two newcomers and their teammates have spent the last two weeks getting ready to head to east lansing to get the season started. 
“we have been doing short-game drills at each practice and playing on the course a lot,” she said. “i think do­ing both to the extent that we have should have us pre­pared to play.” 
while the competition for the invitational is typically composed of both larger and smaller schools, holt said notre dame is taking its sea­son opener as seriously as the more competitive acc tournaments in the spring. 
“all of our tournaments are important, and no one is emphasized more than an­other as they have an impact our ranking,” she said. “it would be a great boost to the confidence to play well this week and pick up a win. our schedule gets incrementally more challenging as the sea­son rolls on.” 
after a third-place fin­ish last year, the irish start their fall season at the mary Fossum invitational on saturday and sunday at the Forest akers west golf course in east lansing, michigan. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMEBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
overwhelm  them.  Then,  
suddenly,  the  wildcats  
scored.  

“soccer is a strange game,” clark said. “you possibly play your best game of the year so far and you end up losing 1-0. you don’t play particu­larly well in the saturday game [against dartmouth] and you win 4-1. i’m still try­ing to seek answers for this, and i’ve been doing it for long time. 
“it was a pity because i thought the team played very well.” 
it was the second time in three games notre dame out-shot its opponent but could not find the back of the net. The irish outshot then-no. 9 georgetown 23-9 on aug. 31, but battled to a scoreless draw with the hoyas. This pattern is part of what makes saturday’s matchup with no. 20 syracuse so intriguing for notre dame. 
The orange (4-0-0) have yet to allow a goal in the regu­lar season behind the play of junior goalkeeper alex bono, who was selected to the college soccer news Team of the week for his two shutouts against rutgers and st. John’s last week. clark said he knows the team is going to have to somehow to put one past him if they want a victory. 
“you’ve got to find a way,” clark said. “you put four in against dartmouth, and dartmouth is a pretty good team. … you obviously want to score goals, and it makes it really nice, but the big thing is you want to score one more than them. 
“i wrote ‘patience’ on the board at halftime [against Kentucky] because i think we were getting a little frustrated with ourselves. … we just had to keep our confidence and i actually thought we did that.” 
The game this weekend will be the first conference game for the irish this year as they look to defend last year’s acc championship title. clark said there really are not any easy games remaining on the schedule for notre dame, es­pecially in a conference that features six teams ranked in the top 25; no. 3 north carolina, no. 5 louisville, no. 12 maryland, and no. 15 virginia join the irish and orange. 
“i think if you can get off to a good start, it’s great, but regardless of what the start is we’ve got to play,” clark said. “we’ve got to start playing. it’s going to be a league where i don’t think anyone is go­ing to go through this league without losing games. we had an amazing year last year. 
“can we do that again? well we better start winning some games if we’re going to equal it. our key is to get into the tournament and you’ve got to win enough games to get in 

Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
notre dame recorded just a .138 hitting percentage and recorded only 34 kills. 
“There are two things we re­ally need to work on as a team af­ter last week,” brown said. “The first is kill percentage, where we really lagged last week. The second is our transition offense, which was really a weak point last week.” 
The shamrock invitational will mark the last time the irish will play at home during the month of october. Following this weekend, they hit the road to west lafayette, indiana, fol­lowed by two conference match-ups in Florida. 


“it is always easier to play at home. That way we can stick to our schedule and routine, mak­ing preparation easier,” brown said. 
The irish host the shamrock invitational this weekend, their home second tournament in as many weekends. Their first game will be against Tcu on Friday, followed by a doubleheader saturday against northeastern and northern iowa. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 

… got to start winning some games, so we might as well start with a road game. This will be a good test.” 
The irish and orange are familiar foes, having played against each other in the big east for years before coming over to the acc. 
“it’s tough because this is the third time in three years we’ve had to go to syracuse,” clark said with a smile. “i don’t know how the schedul­ing has worked out, but it’s not been a lot of fun.” 
The irish will have to re­bound from the heartbreak of last weekend’s tournament to get a tough win in new york, but clark said he is confident his team will be ready. 
“it’s how do you react, re­spond,” clark said. “This team hasn’t been used to los­ing games, so i think they’ll respond. … They are looking forward just to getting on the field again. when you’ve had a disappointment you want to go out and play.” 
notre dame will get that opportunity saturday when they take on the orange at su soccer stadium in syracuse, new york, at 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at         zklonsin@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you may know what you want, but don’t try to bulldoze others into agreeing with you. Focus more on the changes you can make that will help you personally and let the ones you love make their own choices. assistance will come from acquaintances or people you have worked with in the past, not those you live or play with daily. your numbers are 7, 15, 21, 30, 32, 39, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Jump into action. Turn your energy level to high. make a point to fill your day with interesting activities and events that are conducive to making new connections and improving your opportunities to reach your personal or professional goals. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): listen, but don’t disagree. you have nothing to gain and everything to lose if you take a position of opposition. put more energy into self-improvement, love, romance and educational pursuits. Travel plans aren’t likely to run smoothly. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll be in the spotlight. someone will single you out at a function. make a point to be articulate. if you don’t know something, admit to it and move on. honest communication will be the key to your success. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): problems will develop if you offer help. you are best to go about your business, stick close to home and refuse to get into a highly charged debate. Fix up your home and take care of your responsibilities. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): introduce a pleasant change to what you do for a living or how you live your life. believe in yourself and you can achieve whatever you set your mind to. don’t let anyone stand between you and your dreams. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): do whatever it takes to reassess your personal financial situation. putting things in order yourself will ensure that no one takes advantage of you or tampers with your assets. moderation and discipline will help you make wise choices. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): share your thoughts with people you come in contact with through organizational or industry events. greater opportunities are apparent, but taking precautions to avoid someone offering the impossible will be necessary. go with the most practical offer. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make personal changes to your home surroundings and important relationships. bend a little and delve into situations and activities that are unusual and promise to improve your environment. a minor health issue or problem with a pet should be resolved quickly. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stay away from quick-fix suggestions. place your bet on whatever you are most knowledgeable about and be prepared to follow through. don’t let a personal problem lead to a deception that will be difficult to reverse. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): expect to be questioned by a friend or relative regarding something you say or share. get your facts straight so you don’t have to backtrack. an unusual investment will work in your favor, but joint ventures are not in your best interest. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): use past experiences to make wise choices regarding money matters. you’ll be right on the money with regard to an innovative idea that can turn into a profitable venture. don’t let uncertainty hold you back, but do stick to a set budget. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will face opposition regarding contracts, medical and financial issues. do as much of the groundwork yourself to avoid a conflict or unnecessary delay. love is on the rise and romance a promise. Future plans will improve your personal life. 


Birthday Baby: you are generous, engaging and limitless. you are sophisticated and fair. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMEBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

irish return to defend home turf 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 19 notre dame will take on baylor and Toledo this weekend at alumni stadium in an effort to get its first home wins since the opening weekend. 
last time the irish (3-2-1) were at home, they fell to no. 7 Texas Tech and no. 14 usc. however, the team is com­ing off strong performances at no. 24 santa clara and no. 4 stanford, as they defeated the broncos and tied the cardinal, 0-0. 
“not only did we have good results, but we played well,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “playing well is where you get the confidence, and that should be good for us going into the weekend.” 
romagnolo said she no­ticed a marked improvement in the team’s beginning­to-end performance last weekend, in contrast to the losses to the red raiders and Trojans when the irish surrendered two goals twice in the second half, costing them the victories. 
“we played two complete games,” romagnolo said. “They defended well and they were aggressive on at­tack which is something we’ve been emphasizing.” 
romagnolo said she ex­pects the improvements to continue to show this week­end, as notre dame has been focused in practice, espe­cially on attack. 
“i think if we can work on our offensive side of the game and just get a little more chemistry going, then it would really make a differ­ence and help us score more goals,” romagnolo said. “we’re constantly a work in progress and we’re trying to get better every day. one thing i love about this group is that they’re always push­ing each other. They’re nev­er satisfied and want to keep working toward our team goals.” 
senior forward lauren bohaboy currently leads 
see w soccer PAGE 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 

After tough loss, Notre Dame starts ACC play in New York 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
The team in white stood in silence, watching the team in blue erupt in jubila­tion. such was the scene on monday night after Kentucky scored a goal with only 25 seconds remaining in regu­lation to upset no. 4 notre dame, 1-0. a stunned quiet engulfed alumni stadium as the squad made its way into the locker room and the fans filed out. 
“They just put a pin in us,” irish coach bobby clark said. “i don’t think it actu­ally even sunk in. it was kind of a ‘how did this happen?’” 
The irish (2-1-1) dominat­ed most of the game, out-shooting their opponents 18-5 for the match and 10-1 in the second half. Kentucky (2-2-0) at times had 10 and sometimes even all 11 play­ers inside its own penalty box, trying to clog up wave after wave of notre dame 
MICHAEL YU | The Observer attacks that threatened to 
Irish senior defender Luke Mishu dribbles during Notre Dame’s 5-1 victory against Wisconsin on Aug. 25 at Alumni Stadium. see m soccer PAGE 14 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

ND hosts three teams at Shamrock Invitational 

By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
notre dame continues to seek their first win on the 2014 campaign as the irish welcome three teams to purcell pavilion this weekend for the shamrock invitational. The irish (0-5) host Tcu on Friday, northeastern on saturday morning and northern iowa on saturday night 
after three losses in last week’s golden dome invitational, the irish took to the court for practice this week with a re­newed emphasis after falling to washington st., iupui and northern iowa while only win­ning one set against all three teams combined. 
“we are working at getting better every day,” irish coach debbie brown said. “i have been very impressed with this team 
— they have done everything we have asked them to do and have brought good intensity, open­ness and a positive attitude.” 
The biggest setback of last weekend was the loss of gradu­ate student nicole smith to an ankle injury against washington st. notre dame had already been reeling from the loss of senior all-american honorable men­tion Toni alugbue to a season-ending acl injury. 

“This team has had a lot to overcome this season and this team should be proud of their re­sponses to all of it,” brown said. 
injuries have forced three freshman — sam Fry, sydney Kuhn and natalie Johnson — into starting roles. Fry, in par­ticular, has logged several stellar starts for the irish and is the team leader in points, total blocks and block assists. The freshman is also ranked second in the acc in blocks per set. 
This weekend’s shamrock invitational will feature two teams that are not perennial op­ponents for the irish. The team has never played Tcu (5-2) and has only faced northeastern (4­
3) once. northern iowa (2-6), however, has matched up four times with notre dame in pro­gram history. 
Following last week’s perfor­mance, the irish have targeted areas of their play that could prove critical in ending their slow start this season, brown said. against iupui, for instance, the 
see volleyball PAGE 14 




