The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 36 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Irish overcome turnovers, move to 6-0 
Notre Dame beats North Carolina in highest-scoring game ever at Notre Dame Stadium 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
after a suspenseful game that kept irish fans at the edge of their seats, notre dame defeated the north carolina Tar heels, 50-43. This win ad­vanced the irish further into their undefeated season, 6-0, but wasn't the easy win some students expected to watch. 
freshman Julia szromba said she was surprised by the fight unc put up, which became obvious immedi­ately after the two touch­downs they scored in the first quarter. 
“everyone was saying it was going to be a blowout,” she said. “even though there were some scary moments, the fact that it was close for a while made it really excit­ing. obviously, we were hap­py that the team turned it around.” 
The reactions from the roller-coaster football game were obvious in the student section. 
“The atmosphere in the student section changed so much," szromba said. "from dead silence after that first unc touchdown to the final 50 push-ups, it was unreal." 
freshman J.p. bruno said the silence in the student sec­tion following a touchdown by unc was not a sense of hopelessness from irish fans but rather just surprise. 
see game PAGE 5 




Police report shooting 
Observer Staff Report 
after a shooting on the 600 block of notre dame ave. early sunday morning, a holy cross student and a juvenile were hospitalized and are being treated for non-life-threaten­ing injuries, according to an online south bend police re­port and a report in the south bend Tribune. 

The shooting occurred around 3 a.m. outside a house near the corner of n. notre dame ave. and e. sorin st., about a half mile south of cam­pus, according to the police report. one of the victims is a 23-year-old male holy cross student who suffered gun shot wounds to the foot and head, according to the south bend Tribune report. The other vic­tim, a minor whose age was not available, sustained a gun-shot wound to the leg and was being questioned as a possible sus­pect in the incident, according the Tribune report. The south bend police report classified the incident as an aggravated assault with a firearm. 

Saint Mary’s TOMS club celebrates World Sight Day 
By KATE KULWICKI 
news writer 
The Toms saint mary’s cam­pus club celebrated world sight day Thursday, encouraging students to wear sunglasses all day in order to raise awareness for blindness and other visual impairments around the world. 
nora clougherty, president of the Toms club, said she felt it was important for people to know that Toms gives back in more ways than just their "one for one" shoe campaign. 
see Toms PAGE 5 



Memorial fund sponsors field trip 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
The declan sullivan memorial fund sponsored the third annual horizons for youth game-day field trip saturday for 35 chicago­area students and their “big sib” adult mentors to attend the notre dame vs. north carolina football game. The chicago-based nonprofit organized a group tailgate, a meeting with former run­ning back reggie brooks and a walk onto the football field, as well as tickets to the game itself. 
horizons communications coordinator Tim coffey said this was the first game and first visit to a college cam­pus for many students. The primary goal of horizons, which provides mentoring, tutoring and scholarships to low-income chicago youth in kindergarten through high school, is to encourage stu­dents to attend college, he said. 
“we want to show them what [college is] like, get it figured out from the very start, so that they’re always thinking about it, and it works,” he said. “ninety per­cent of our students graduate high school, and 80 percent go on to college.” 

notre dame graduates pro­vide essential support for this mission, coffey said. The organization, which was founded in 1990 by notre dame graduates patrick collins, Kathy murdock and mike murdock, also includes several board members and student mentors who are af­filiated with the university, he said. 
one of the organization’s biggest benefactors is the sullivan family. of horizons’ 210 students, coffey said 65 are members of “declan’s class,” a group sponsored by the declan drumm sullivan memorial fund. 
declan sullivan, a 20-year­old notre dame junior and videographer for the football team, was killed in 2010 when the scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell in high winds. 
see declan PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is your favorite song from the 1990s or early 2000s? 

Aaron Tarnasky 
junior 
morrissey manor 
“‘i want it That way’ by the backstreet boys” 
Anna Bourbonnais 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“‘buy me a rose’ by Kenny rogers” 
EJ Smith 
sophomore 
Knott hall 

“‘good riddance’ by green day” 


Jimmy Borin 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“‘stacey’s mom’” 
Lacey Silvestri 
freshman 
welsh family hall 
“‘iris’ by the goo goo dolls” 
Tommy Emmet 
freshman 
siegfried hall 
“‘hey ya!’ by outkast” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra brad padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen alex carson Katie mccarty greg hadley 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Keri o’mara allie Tollasksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Translation, Criticism Snite Salon Series Science Friday Taping Valerie Mejer Reading Volleyball 
michael yu rex shannon 

and Interpretation” Snite Museum of Art DeBartolo Performing Hammes Notre Dame Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Hall 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Arts Center Bookstore 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Discuss art with fellow 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Notre Dame vs. 
Corrections 

Three-part seminar students and faculty. Taping of the Science Reading and reflection Clemson. 
The observer regards itself as series. Friday radio show. on poems. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Founder’s Day Mass Men’s Soccer Grotto Trip ISI Fellowship Hockey 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Basilica of the Sacred Alumni Stadium Bond Hall Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
Heart 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Center Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. The Irish take on All are welcome. 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Open to all. Northwestern. Faith and fellowship for Notre Dame vs. Lake 
we can correct our error. 

all Christian faiths. Superior State. 


ND, SMC students discuss women’s issues 
during the event, many 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 

news writer common campus clichés 
were discussed, including 

female students from ring by spring and the mrs notre dame and saint mary’s degree. in addition to cam-gathered in the stapleton pus stereotypes, the discus-lounge of le mans hall on sion broadened to the topic of friday to lead a discussion women in film, particularly about ending the 42-year di-those in telenovelas. vision among women of the notre dame junior Kristal two schools. Quispe said she enjoys when 
la fuerza, the latino women are the main actors in student alliance (lsa) and telenovelas. the gender relations center “we like us [women] to be (grc) hosted the event, seen as powerful and having named universiTea. leading roles,” she said. 
la fuerza president maria saint mary's junior ruby hernandez said universiTea velasco said film "is seen as a helped connect the schools ‘girls show’ if it has more than and promoted a discussion one female protagonist.” 
“There is a need for sub degrees of 
feminism. It it not clearly a gender issues; 
it’s gender, race and background.” 
Ruby Velasco 
junior 
Saint Mary’s 

for students "to work togeth-during the discussion, stu­er as women and as a com-dents concluded there is no munity to make the lives of time for petty stereotypes all people on the campuses and hostility toward girls more successful.” across the street from each other when feminism is a global issue. 


“There is a need for sub de­grees of feminism," velasco said. "it is not clearly a gen­der issue; it’s gender, race and background.” 
notre dame junior daniela nuñez introduced the topic of women embodying char­acteristics of men to better fit into the work force. 
“[women are] not trying to take away the power of men 
paid adverTisemenT 
[but are] just trying to earn some,” she said. 
“we will have to act as a community and a society to create change,” velasco said. 
notre dame junior annika fling said she enjoyed get­ting to know the saint mary’s girls. 
“i think the unity of women is so much more important than our silly dividers be­tween campuses,” she said. 
nuñez said she really enjoyed this opportunity to converse about “the issues we face here locally and as women on a macro side.” 

“it is important to recog­nize the negative actions and stereotypes that occur here and take action to discon­tinue them so that we can re­ally foster a community,” she said. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 


‘To Write Love on Her Arms’ founder speaks 
By ELENA GACEK 
news writer 
notre dame's chapter of the national alliance on mental illness (nami) closed irish state of mind week friday af­ternoon with guest speaker Jamie Tworkowski, founder of the nonprofit organiza­tion To write love on her arms (Twloha), and singer steven mcmorran, lead singer of the alternative rock band satellite. 
nami-nd president maggie skoch said Twloha has gained national prominence through social media and cov­erage on nbc nightly news, cbs sunday morning, mTv and rolling stone magazine. 
“founded by Jamie Tworkowski in 2006, To write love on her arms is a non­profit movement dedicated to presenting hope and finding help for people struggling with depression, addiction, self-injury and suicide,” she said. “Twloha has given over $1 million directly to treatment and recovery.” 
Tworkowski, who invited mcmorran to open the event with music, said the group almost always begins with music. 
“we believe that… [music] has the unique ability to re­mind us, all of us, that we’re alive, it’s okay to feel things, it’s okay to ask questions,” Tworkowski said. 
mcmorran played gui­tar and sang several songs from satellite’s 2013 album "calling birds," prefacing each with a brief statement of its connection to personal obstacles. after about 30 min­utes, Tworkowski took the stage. 
“normally i feel like it’s implied, when someday stands in the front of the room, or on the stage, and they have a microphone, it’s implied that he or she, this person, has some answers,” Tworkowski said. “but i think … in a way, these events are more about the questions than answers. 

“i think what a lot of us need … [isn’t answers, but] just some other person, or maybe a small group of peo­ple who might meet us in our questions and tell us, remind us, show us that we are not alone in those places, espe­cially those places that hurt … where i think we buy into some lies that suggest that we’re alone, especially if it’s something we haven’t talked about." 
Tworkowski shared his per­sonal experiences with men­tal health issues, the founding and growth of Twloha and statistics on mental illness in america. 
“Two out of three people who struggle with depression, they never get help for it," he said. "The majority of people who live in this place, they live alone.” 
whether or not an individual pursues professional counsel­ing, community is paramount to moving through the tough times, Tworkowski said. 
“people need other people," he said. "you and i, we find ourselves on this planet in a way where we are wired to know people and love people, to be known and to be loved. 
"when it comes to our pain and the stuff we’re not sure about, the stuff we’re not proud of, the tendency is to isolate, to hide out. … you just don’t want to tawlk to anyone, you don’t want to be seen, but we’ve come to believe that it doesn’t matter how busy you are, introvert, extrovert, what your major is, how you’re wired -- that community, that support system, that group of friends is something we all need and deserve.” 

Junior michael dinh said he felt the event was the perfect conclusion to the week. 
“hearing Twloha founder Jamie Tworkowski share his experiences in helping peo­ple fighting against depres­sion, substance abuse and thoughts of suicide was an enlightening and inspiring opportunity,” he said. “many of our fellow students at notre dame face these challenges during their time here, and we all have the chance to be their light in dark times.” 
Contact Elena Gacek at egacek@nd.edu 
Lecturer confronts ethical reform in finance 
By JEREMY CAPPELLO LEE 
news writer 
chairman of citigroup, inc. michael o'neill gave a lecture friday morning on ethical reform in the finan­cial industry. The lecture marked the third install­ment of the “boardroom insights” lecture series host­ed by the mendoza college of business. 
o’neill said in the wake of the 2008 financial cri­sis, there was a perceived absence of ethics in the in­dustry. he cited allegations made by critics of big banks, most notably the president of the new york federal reserve bank william dudley, who in 2013 said “there is evidence of deep-seated cultural and ethical failures at many large finan­cial institutions.” 
in response to these al­legations, o’neill said citigroup’s board of directors developed several reforms to promote ethical behavior in the workplace, including defining shared company values, ensur­ing fair compensation and training employees in mak­ing sound decisions and equipping them with the tools to identify issues in the workplace. 
o’neill said citigroup fo­cused on implementing clear punitive measures to breaches in the code of conduct. 
“The last and terribly im­portant reform is to demon­strate unambiguously the consequences of contraven­ing the [rules],” he said. 
part of citigroup’s ethical reform is the emphasis that crimes of omission will be treated similarly as crimes of commission, o’neill said. 
“if someone sees some­thing untoward, and doesn’t report it, he or she will be deemed as guilty as the par­ty who committed the in­fraction,” he said. 
o’neill said citigroup is also addressing the question of fair compensation, which he described as a “complex” task, given the fierce market for top talent. 
“i can assure you that any firm that unilaterally de­cides to [lower compensa­tion] will be quick to suffer from brain drain,” he said. 
Though executive com­pensation in the financial industry is disproportionally high, o’neill said citigroup implemented policies to deter mismanagement. amidst high-profile scan­

“for our senior manage-dals and growing popular ment, 60 percent of com-distrust, o’neill said it was pensation is now delivered crucial for the financial in-in deferred stock ... invest-dustry to deliver on their 
“If someone sees something untoward, and doesn’t report it, he or she will be deemed as guilty as the part who committed the infraction” 
Michael O’Neill 
chairman 
Citigroup, Inc. 

ed over time,” he said. “we promise to reform workplace also added stringent and ethics. broad clawbacks that allow “standing on the soap-us to take back previously box preaching about ethics awarded compensation if we and codes of conduct with-later find evidence of poor out unambiguously demon-conduct.” strating the consequences of misbehavior is probably more harmful than helpful," he said. “in fact it may pro­vide a perverse incentive to try to circumvent the rules, as those who have often done so go unpunished.” 
despite the challenges of instituting widespread corporate reform, o’neill said citigroup continues its efforts to curb ethics violations and hopes other companies will follow suit. 
“perhaps more than any­thing else these days, we all recognize that this is a long journey, but we’re deter­mined to reach the destina­tion,” he said. 
Contact Jeremy Capello Lee at jcapell@nd.edu 



Lecture compares theology and anthropology 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
notre dame professor of theology celia deane­drummond discussed the interconnections between theology and anthropology in her presentation “evolution, humans and other animals: 

Theology and anthropology in dialogue,” an install­ment of the snite museum’s saturday scholars series. 
drummond discussed the attempts of anthropol­ogy and theology to explore the role of human agency and human interaction with the environment. she said the main concern with both fields is how they intersect in light of new discoveries in evolutionary biology. 
according to drummond, 
TOMS 
conTinued from page 1 
“This day goes along with their Toms sunglasses [cam­paign], for when you purchase a pair of their sunglasses, ei­ther prescription glasses or eye surgery is given to people in need,” she said. “in turn you are helping to give sight, one for one, just as all of their other [Toms] products do." 
The Toms club reached the smc community with a table in the student center where they distributed tattoos and stickers to both students and non-students. 
To spread the message fur­ther, clougherty said the club offered photo props and sun­glasses to people to pose with in order to share pictures on their social media. 
“Throughout the whole day we asked participants to use #givesight when posting pictures,” she said.  “it could have been pictures of them in their sunglasses spread­ing the movement or of a view that they were grateful to see everyday.” 

clougherty said she thought the club was very successful in helping people learn more about Toms and spreading awareness of world sight day. 
“This is an issue that many people don’t know about or even know that it can be eas­ily cured,” she said. “we had countless people coming up to the table asking why we were wearing our sunglasses.” 
The Toms smc club also has several other events planned for the rest of the year, clougherty said. 
“we want to have a 'style your sole' party where you purchase a pair of classic Toms [shoes], and we all come together to paint them,” she said. “our biggest event is in the spring for 'one day without shoes.'” 
clougherty said the purpose of "one day without shoes" is to encourage people to go barefoot for an entire day so that someone else does not have to. 

“one of the main goals of the Toms smc campus club is to simply spread the mes­sage of 'one for one' and what Toms does and how you can participate or help in the cause,” she said. 
Contact Kate Kulwicki at kkulwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Declan 
conTinued from page 1 
declan’s father barry sullivan attended the tailgate with his wife, alison drumm, daughter wyn sullivan, a notre dame graduate student, and son mac sullivan, a soph­omore. barry sullivan said after declan died, donations began to pour in, and shortly after, the family established the declan drumm sullivan memorial fund and began looking for an organization to support. 
“we tried to think of some­thing we could do that would both anthropology and the­ology need to create stronger dialogue in order to provide greater perspective regard­ing human nature and hu­man agency. 
“i believe there are ten­sions here that need to be faced, and if we refuse to face them, we end up merging the two areas [theology and an­thropology] in a way that is not necessarily intellectually responsible,” she said. 
drummond said anthro­pology’s focus on human and human interaction with the environment compliments theology’s focus on humani­ty’s relationship and identity to god. 
in exploring the different dimensions of human biol­ogy and human evolution, drummond explained their relation to our actions to­ward our environment and our role in history. she dis­cussed how studies centered on human-animal interac­tion shape both human and animal communities, and she said these studies com­pel theologians to expand their worldview of the human 
have a positive effect, to honor his legacy positively instead of negatively,” wyn sullivan said. 
barry sullivan said horizons for youth appealed to the fam­ily because it was a local or­ganization and was near old st. patrick’s church, where all of the sullivan children were baptized. 
“The more we found out about it, the more we liked it,” he said. 
over the next two years, coffey said the memorial fund provided hundreds of thousands of dollars to spon­sor horizons’ students, who are chosen based on finan­cial need and their families’ relationship to god. 

“although anthropologists can describe what’s going on in these [human] commu­nities and give us a sense of our entanglement with oth­er creatures, how are we to 
“I believe there are tensions here that need to be faced, and if we refuse to face them, we end up merging the two areas [theology and anthropology] in a way that is not necessarily intellectually responsible.” 
Celia Deane-Drummond 
professor of theology 

think about our own human responsibility that might be in the context of such entan­glement?" she said. "what is the goal of the human from a theological point of view?” 
drummond  introduced 
willingness to commit to the program. as a result of dona­tions, he said the memorial fund became an integral part of the organization’s ability to take on students. 
“we’ve grown exponential­ly for the last couple of years because of declan’s family,” coffey said. “we have a gala every year in his memory, and [we’ve raised] a little over 2 million dollars in the three years we’ve done it so we’ve gotten to add students.” 
horizons board member bob dunklau, whose compa­ny omi industries in chicago funded the trip, said work­ing with a horizons student the concept of “theo-dra­ma,” a concept developed by catholic swiss theolo­gian hans urs von balthasar, which establishes god as a central actor in human in­teraction and views history in light of the “future hope.” drummond defined theo­dramatics as the “performa­tive understanding of who we are as humans.” 
Theo-dramatics is analo­gous to niche construction, the way in which humans shape and interact with their environment, drummond said. The theo-dramatic view of humanity and human his­tory provide a unique in­tegration of theology and anthropology, she said. 
“[Theo-dramatics] replac­es the kind of stale defensive­ness between evolution and creationism that has been the mantra of so much pub­lic discourse,” she said. “it's doing something different; it’s doing something creative by actually drawing on the science and using it in a way that is helpful.” 
drummond said both an­thropology and theology 
through its mentoring pro­gram was like having “a win­ning lottery ticket.” 
“We’ve grown exponentially for the last couple of years because of Declan’s family.” 
Tim Coffey 
communications coordinator 
Horizons 
“it’s so much more than the educational,” he said. “obviously there’s the have created frameworks that allow people to under­stand their identity toward both their environment and 

“[Theo-dramatics] replaces the kind of stale defensiveness between evolution and creationism that has been the mantra of so much public discourse.” 
Celia Deane-Drummond 
professor of theology 

god. 
“There are family resem­blances between the way theologians construct their work and the way that scien­tists can think about our own human identity,” she said. “if we’re in touch with how the biological world works, it will actually illuminate our the­ology in new ways.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
educational part, but that mentoring relationship, when you spend some time with these kids, it doesn’t take you long to see how that relation­ship is. who’s that guy out there? it’s your parent, your older sibling, your friend all combined in one, and it’s re­ally a lifetime relationship.” 
coffey said the program would not be where it is to­day without the support of the sullivan family. 
“They’ve changed the pro­gram,” he said. “we would not be here without them, for sure.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Game 
conTinued from page 1 
“i never once felt the hope leave the student section,” he said. “yeah, it was rough being down early on, but it seemed like everyone knew we were just looking for a rhythm.” 
some moments stood out for students, such as officer Tim mccarthy's weekly pun instructing the crowd "not to shortchange yourself by using good sense." 
“my favorite part is always the safety pun at the end of the third quarter,” freshman andrew pott said. “also, the weather was just a little bit better than last week’s game.” 

bruno said one memorable moment during the game es­pecially caused the student section to erupt into chaos. 
“my favorite part was definitely the blocked ex­tra point,” he said. “i know it seems like such a small play, but it was such a turn­ing point. The students went wild, and you could just tell we had another advantage for the rest of the game.” 
a grand total of 50 points scored by notre dame also meant a sea of students hoist­ed up into the air. 
“i was doing push-ups at the 43 mark,” szromba said. “being up there surrounded by students all feeling the same thing with the same spirit and energy was defi­nitely the best part of the game for me.” 

The focus now shifts to the highly anticipated game against the florida state seminoles that takes place in Tallahassee this saturday. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Keep talking 
yes means yes 
Alex Carson 
sports writer 
no means no. 

it’s a phrase we’ve all surely heard some­where — be it in the confines of a discus­sion about sexual assault, when listening to a punk rock band (though in all caps and without the spaces) or simply making a joke to a friend who is off to hook up with a girl at a party. 
but what does it actually mean? it has long been the mantra of sexual assault awareness in this country — the idea that if a receiving party says “no” to a sexual advance, then that means to not go after it. i said “receiving party” because male-on­male and female-on-male sexual assault does occur — one in 10 sexual assault vic­tims in america are males. 
The issue with “no means no?” Twofold. 
first, if we adopt a “no means no” stance, then what are we do to with a receiving party that, well, does not say anything? “no means no” allows us to adopt a doctrine where a lack of consent actually in turn indicates consent — it’s the whole “well, she didn’t say no” situation, which really should not mean anything at all. 
a google image search of the phrase “she didn’t say no” will yield, among other things, an advertisement from the pennsylvania liquor control board that advertises “she didn’t want to do it, but she couldn’t say no.” This shows the link be­tween “sexual interaction that is okay” and “she didn’t say no.” 
if i ask you if i can punch you in the face and you don’t say no, i’d still like to think we’d all agree that your lack of response doesn’t make it okay for me to punch you in the face. why is it any different with sexual assault? 
second and perhaps more important than the gray area, an anti-sexual assault campaign centered around “no means no” is inherently negative in nature — it places the burden on the receiving party to decline sexual advances rather than to accept them. 
This presents a situation where the expectation is that the receiving party desires the sexual encounter in question. That’s an issue. sexual encounters should never be the expectation, especially when you’re dealing with a standard “hook up” situation. 
it’s why california’s recently-passed law “yes means yes” law on sexual assault on college campuses is a huge step in the right direction. no longer can that gray area be considered okay. no longer is it expected that the receiving party desires the sexual interaction. 
The law requires “an affirmative, unam­biguous and conscious decision” from each party to engage in sexual action. sexual assault policy seems to be difficult in our society. it doesn’t have to be. make it clear. 
yes means yes. 
Contact Alex Carson at      acarson@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Laura LeBrun 
guest columnist 

a little more than two months ago, the world was shocked when the seemingly always-happy robin williams took his own life. it was one of the first times in my memory that a beloved actor’s death sparked intimate discussions of mental illness and suicide. awareness heightened, stigmas lowered, and it seemed the world was finally progressing into understanding. 
i chose to keep my story quiet. despite the stigma lowering with robin williams’ death, i, along with many others who live with some sort of mental illness, lived in fear of judgment, missed opportunities and hurt as a result of my choice to open up about my depression. but now, months after robin williams’ death, two months after the conversations that robin williams brought to the world have quieted down, i realize i must share my story. for if there is one thing my depression has taught me, it is to keep talking. 
i keep talking because i found out about world suicide prevention day after it happened, and that is not okay for the mil­lions of people who struggle and the millions of people who see others struggle. i keep talking so people remember they are not alone. i keep talking because when i do, i discover that there are many other people who struggle with similar depression issues. i keep talking because it connects me to the world, reminding me that no one is perfect and it’s okay. 
The summer after my freshman year, i began taking a new medication. having never had adverse reactions to medications before, i chose not to read potential side effects. as the summer went on, however, i stopped acting like myself and grew increas­ingly frustrated. i attributed my restless sleep as a fluke, my loneliness as missing school and friends and my lack of energy as stress from work and summer school. although, rationally, i knew people loved me, i began to dream every day of crashing my car as i drove to and from work so finally someone would care about me. i stuck it out, keeping quiet about my emotional issues and taking melatonin as a sleep aid, hoping that things would change as i went back to school. i vowed to give no one a clue about the miseries of my summer, so that i could maintain my reputation as a “happy-go-lucky” individual. 
The fall was, unfortunately, no easier than the summer; if anything, it was more difficult, due to the added stress of school. i began to have panic attacks, preventing me from attending football games. sleep was a battle: i found myself waking up from my sleep constantly, despite it taking hours to fall asleep. often, i wished for death to take me away from my misery. not a day went by without tears or stress. i felt lost, i felt worthless, i felt alone. 
i went to the university counseling center after much pres­sure. i didn’t want to admit that i had a problem, even though my world was crashing down around me. after they helped me realize medication was part of the problem, i thought everything would be better, so i stopped going. little did i know, that was just the beginning. The mounting stress of school and recovery had taken a toll on my personal relationships, some of which began to fall apart. with no time to truly recover, i could not handle emotional difficulties, like a breakup, that give even men­tally healthy people strife. i thought once the next semester rolled around, everything would improve after a period of relaxation away from my struggles. 
alas, with breakups, things change, and i was not prepared for the changes in my friendships. frustrated, i strove to meet more people — but when you still haven’t recovered, meeting people is more difficult. i ended most of my nights in tears, insecure and continually feeling worthless. my suicidal thoughts now con­sumed me; i began thinking of what things i could do. 
come spring break, i realized i needed help, so i returned to the ucc. The ucc accommodated me in every way i needed, even scheduling me for an appointment with a psychiatrist to talk about antidepressants. after my fears from the original medication, i did not want to go on something new, but the ucc assured me they would be there every step of the way. yet, the wait for the antidepressants was long and difficult for me. i still dreamed of ridding myself of such pain. one day during the win­ter, after a particularly difficult conversation, i sat by the lakes, debating whether i should jump in. another day, i swallowed a few pills in hopes to escape. it wasn’t that i actually wanted to die, but i wanted to be hospitalized, just so i could escape the stress. were it not for the few friends who stuck with me through that time, the outcome could have been much worse. 
had these people not been there to listen to conversations despite numerous tears, fears and regrets, i may still be suffering. had these people not helped me with homework, decision-mak­ing and life in general, just to protect my well being, i may still be suffering. had my rector not imposed some tough love on me, i may still be suffering. They kept talking, and they kept me talk­ing. They realized how important talking and showing love are to people who have mental illnesses, whether it be their first or their seventh time suffering. 
luckily, i am down the path of recovery and appreciate every day as it comes. however, i know that it is my time to pay it for­ward and keep talking. i try to bring up my struggles so people know that i understand. but for those who have not suffered, all i can say is that you need to stay open and love. make a pact with yourself to have one valuable conversation every day, so people know you are there for them. and if they tell you they have a problem, support them through every breakdown, appointment and conversation. 
mental health awareness should be more than a week. it should be more than brief discussion after a beloved actor’s sui­cide. it should be everyday. because mental illness affects one in four people. whether you know it or not, there is almost a guar­antee that someone you know suffers from mental illness. and the best thing you can do, whether you are aware of someone who suffers or not, is keep loving, keep helping, and keep talking. 
Laura LeBrun is a junior studying economics and statistics. She resides in Cavanaugh Hall. She can be reached at 
llebrun@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Embrace the gender equality movement 
This is a response to matthew d’emic’s oct. 10 letter, “embrace the men’s rights movement.” d’emic argues that feminism “is concerned with the elevation of wom­en at the expense of men,” which he supports with some gender-based statistics. however, based on the defini­tion that the feminist movement advocates economic, social and political gender equality, d’emic’s evidence is insufficient for discrediting feminism. 
d’emic, speaking on behalf of college men, states, “every night we go out we must be exceptionally care­ful of our actions. we can do our best to try and attain consent, but from a legal standpoint, any level of in­toxication is enough to void any consent we thought we had received.” whenever i, a female college student, go out, i must be exceptionally careful of not only my own, but everyone else’s actions as well.  statistically, one in every four college-aged women has been a victim of sexual violence (oneinfourusa.org). unless a woman clearly and clear-mindedly gives consent, then she has not given consent. if someone questions whether or not he has a woman’s consent, legally or otherwise, then he should assume that she hasn’t given consent. This means that if a woman cannot actively give consent due to intoxication, then that’s it — there is no consent 
— end of story. if you know that a woman is intoxicated and you know that, by law, she cannot give consent due to her mental state, then why would you even “try and attain consent?” 
moving on, d’emic continues to list the consequences of such an action “when convicted,” including expulsion and jail time. by definition, when one is convicted, they have been declared “guilty of a criminal offense by the verdict of a jury or the decision of a judge in a court of law” (new oxford american dictionary). Thus, convic­tion necessitates legal guilt. additionally, universities tell their students upon admission that conviction of a crime can warrant expulsion. These consequences are public information. if one wishes to avoid them, he or she should avoid committing the crime in the first place. 
d’emic expresses concerns about false allegations of rape. he references a study by eugene Kanin that “dem­onstrated that 50 percent of rape allegations could be false and have estimated that 56 percent of those false allegations are filed as some sort of alibi.” according to the study, it was conducted in a “small metropolitan community” in which 49 out of 109 rape allegations were false — which is 41 percent, not 50. when the yearly average of sexual assault victims falls at 237,868 (rainn.org), a sample size of 109 cases over nine years is hardly representative of a large number of sexual assault cases. 
nevertheless, even if the accusation is false, accused offenders in sexual assault cases are rarely convicted. in fact, 60 percent of sexual assault cases are not reported to the police. of the 40 percent of cases that are report­ed, only a quarter lead to an arrest and less than a tenth lead to conviction and time in jail. overall, 97 percent of rapists will never spend a day in jail (www.rainn.org). 
other “male issues” include the slower learning rates of men and the decreasing male population in col­lege, statistics that d’emic claims to have found on collegestats.org. i visited this site and read an article titled, “why men are falling behind in higher ed.” one explanation given in the article is “men make up only 44 percent of college applicants. colleges can’t accept stu­dents who don’t apply.” moreover, “[o]f those who do en­roll, only two-thirds of men do so right after high school, and less than half chose a four-year school… [r]esearch also suggests that men simply put less value on college than women do.” at no point in the article did i read that men did not have the opportunity to receive a higher education. again, feminism does not insist that women take opportunities away from men for themselves, but that men and women both have equal opportunities. men have to make their own decisions to attend college, just as women do. 
d’emic also mentions that “50 percent of restraining orders are given without any allegation of physical abuse and that 70 percent of all restraining orders are false.” a restraining order, by definition, is “a temporary court order issued to prohibit an individual from carrying out a particular action, esp. approaching or contacting a specified person” (new oxford american dictionary). This does not require physical abuse, nor should it. if anyone, be it a man or a woman, feels so uncomfortable that they need legal protection from another person, then he or she should be able to receive it, regardless of gender. on another note, i am not sure how a legal document could be “false.” 
The source of d’emic’s primary concern is found in the heforshe commitment, which states, “gender equality is not only a women’s issue, it is a human rights issue that requires my participation. i commit to take action against all forms of violence and discrimination faced by women and girls.” yet, d’emic lists that “boys are five times more likely [than girls] to end up in juve­nile detention,” as another “male issue.” if more males were to take action against violence faced by women, as asked for in the heforshe committment, this statistic would certainly decrease. furthermore, those boys are not put in juvenile detention just because they are boys, but because they have been convicted of a crime; there is a difference. 
finally, d’emic points out alarming rates of suicide and homelessness among the male population. These are human rights issues in themselves that need to be dealt with by both men and women for both men and women. it is a human rights violation for people to live with no shelter and no sense of safety. however, it is impossible for the homeless to overcome poverty or the depressed to overcome suicidal tendencies alone, just as gender equality is not possible without the participation of both genders. 
some of d’emic’s evidence does show that there is a need for societal change, but it does not support the idea that feminism is not concerned with male problems or that feminism doesn’t need men to take action. if we want to live in a world where women do not have to fear rape, where men do not have to fear false accusations of sexual assault, where men’s education is valued just as much as women’s education, where boys are not ex­pected to be aggressive and women are not expected to be submissive, then we have to work together. 
problems that affect men affect society, and society, in turn, affects both men and women. until people begin to see that, we cannot make progress towards gender equality 
Jenna Wilson
              junior 
saint mary’s college 
oct. 9 

patriarchy – a men’s privilege movement 
men’s rights activists of the world, prepare your­selves for the next couple of words, because you’re never going to hear them from me again: you’re right. feminism is not about men’s problems. 
women are the direct targets and primary vic­tims of a patriarchal society in which misogyny and male domination wins the day. The ways in which this system harms men are incidental and self-inflicted by men as a class. men could be much more free if they were willing to reject their attach­ment to masculinity. but i won’t lie to you: as long as patriarchy runs our society and masculinity continues to be worshiped, men who reject these norms, or even those who accept them yet aren’t able to perfectly perform them, will continue to face insult and exclusion. so, congratulations. if and when that happens, you’ll have the slightest peek into what women’s lives are like every day. how does it feel? 
i have no sympathy for mr. d’emic’s claims that men are victimized somehow by “doing [their] best to try and obtain consent.” with such a claim, he reveals a near-transparent sense of entitlement to women’s bodies. citing a poorly conducted study from 20 years ago, mr. d’emic claims that 50 percent of rape accusations are possibly false. contrary to mr. d’emic’s claims that men are de­fenseless in the face of an accusation of sexual violence, overwhelming evidence shows that the majority of the time, rapists do not face conse­quences for their crimes. in fact, according to rainn, only about 3 percent of rapists ever spend time in prison, and an average of 60 percent of assaults in the last five years were not reported. only 10 percent of rapists are arrested, 8 per­cent are prosecuted, and 4 percent are convicted with a felony (rainn’s sources include but are not limited to the u.s. department of Justice, the 
u.s. bureau of Justice statistics, the world health organization and the centers for disease control and prevention). in one survey of college-aged men, more than one in three of the male college students surveyed said they would commit rape if they believed that they could get away with it. add to this the fact that 98 percent of rapists are men, and to me, that sounds like a whole lot of evidence that men who rape do pretty well by the current system. 
which “rights” is mr. d’emic concerned that feminism is taking away from men – perhaps the right to rape and exploit women with virtual impu­nity? men’s rights are covered under human rights. but patriarchy is a men’s privilege movement, not a rights movement – social privileges are built on the domination of other groups. The so-called men’s rights movement recapitulates these privileges. effective feminism does, in fact, require that wom­en be raised out of their lowered circumstances at the expense of privileges enjoyed by men – privi­leges that are gained by unjustly disenfranchising women of basic human rights.
  Angela Bird
                               junior 
saint mary’s college 
oct. 9 


The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

special agent dale cooper once said, “every day, once a day, give yourself a present.” 
if you haven’t heard of dale cooper, now is the per­fect time to give yourself the present of watching “Twin peaks.” last week, director and co-creator david lynch announced the return of the cult-favorite television show, which will air showtime in 2016, 25 years after the show’s premiere. 
“Twin peaks” follows the investigation of the murder of laura palmer, a homecoming queen in the small, fictional town of Twin peaks, washington. lead by fbi agent dale cooper, an outsider in “Twin peaks,” the investigation sheds light on the strange and seedy lives of the town’s residents. 
combining frost’s supernatural style and lynch’s affinity for surrealism, the show’s two-season run was a bizarre trip combining horror, mystery and soap opera-style melodrama. now, 14 years later, both seasons are available on netflix for instant streaming, and with a third season on its way, it is the perfect time to check out the campy cult hit. 
but be warned, the act of taking in two seasons of “Twin peaks” is no walk in the park. it’s much more tur­bulent journey — a long process with several junctures and as many emotional twists and turns for the viewer as the bizarre plot itself. luckily for you, i did it first and mapped out the stages of watching “Twin peaks” all at once. consider yourself warned. 
Stage 1: DiSbelief 

The “Twin peaks” pilot is debatably its best and boldest episode. clocking in at an hour and a half, the lengthy pilot is nothing short of an ambitious undertak­ing. but the episode isn’t just impressively ambitious in its length; it is almost unbelievably intrepid the moment it begins. its opening credits are five minutes of wonder­fully weird soap-operatic theme music and bright green text over a montage of saws (yes, saws) cutting through wood. 
i sat in complete and utter disbelief over how some­thing like this could have run on abc, imagining early­90s families sitting in front of their early-90s, dvr-less televisions for the series premiere and exchanging awk­ward glances as the opening credits push their limits and set the stage for the weirdness to follow. 
Stage 2: Horror 

another thing that took me by surprise in the pilot was the goriness of “Twin peaks” from its very begin­ning. while so many murder mystery or crime shows euphemistically allude to gruesome crimes or turn their eye on the darkest and most uncomfortable acts that drive the plot, lynch and frost keep an unwavering gaze on the violence of the show. neither the dialogue nor the camera shy away from the terror of laura’s murder and its repercussions, which is impressive, but also grue­some and difficult at times. 
Stage 3: amuSement 

Though the first episode is movie-length, it still func­tions as any other pilot, laying he groundwork for the mystery surrounding laura’s murder. but “Twin peaks” isn’t just a crime show — it’s a twisted take on the over­done soap opera drama and, in classic lynch fashion, a grisly unveiling of small town secrets. but what’s weird­est about “Twin peaks,” perhaps, is that it’s funny. 
“Twin peaks” accomplishes this by taking its inspira­tions and genres and takes them to an absurd extreme: while most mystery series start out with a few suspects, a secret romance or two and a subplot to run parallel the murder investigation, “Twin peaks” turns the dial up on all of these elements. The ridiculousness of the amount of drama is made even better by the cast of characters itself. There’s the woman who carries around and talks to a log, another woman inexplicably obsessed with making silent drape runners and a lot (i mean a lot) of characters who dance alone in empty rooms. 
Stage 4: bemuSement 

as mentioned above, the pilot introduces an enor­mous cast, and splintered subplots and seemingly un­related affairs abound. you quickly learn that virtually everyone in the town is leading a double life, and these stories only get more tangled and confusing as the sea­son progresses. many times throughout the show’s first season, i found myself wanting to reach for a pen a paper to draw some sort of diagram, a way to keep track of the tangled web of characters. you will be confused. maybe even the whole time. 
Stage 5: fear 

here’s something no one warned me about when i began the series, but i’ll tell you right away because i’m a nice person: “Twin peaks” is scary. Though i knew of lynch and frost’s work coming into the series and am not one to get jumpy or anxious watching thrillers, i had a few moments of unadulterated terror during my “Twin peaks” binge. Things get weird. people pop out from be­hind chairs. There’s a lot of screaming and breakdowns and people sneaking up on each other. it’s scary, okay? Just trust me here. 
Stage 6: aDoration 

as the double-lives of laura palmer and the Twin peaks residents are revealed, so is another doubling: “Twin peaks” is simultaneously a humorous parody of serial dramas and yet a captivating, beautifully shot and directed serial drama in itself. from the start, you’re entertained in part by its absurdity but also intrigued enough to subject yourself to subsequent episodes that give far more questions than answers. To resonate on these two levels and enrapture an audience is nothing short of amazing. 
Stage 7: impatience 
after giving yourself time to sit back in awe at the show’s accomplishments, you’ll find the more-ques­tions-than-answers thing can get a little old. season one’s eight cerebral episodes are fantastically bizarre but appear to never want to answer the show’s own tag­line, “who killed laura palmer?” 
you aren’t alone in this feeling of frustration and stagnancy. in fact, it became a point of conflict between frost, lynch and abc as viewership declined steadily. according to a 1990 interview in “entertainment weekly,” it was decided — against lynch’s wishes — that the killer be revealed in the show’s second season. 
Stage 8: regret 
Though stage 7 may feel agonizing, impatience turns to regret as the second season goes from chaotic and thrilling (finally, things are happening!) to forced and troubled when the killer is finally revealed. it turns out the only thing worse than not knowing “who killed laura palmer” is seeing the show come to a reluctant end. whether the big reveal or the second season as a whole are unsatisfying is up for some seriously intense debate, but regardless of your position on the cracking of the case, ending “Twin peaks” at only two seasons feels like a crime itself. 
Stage 9: reverence 
regardless of your feelings about the story’s end, you can’t really help look back at “Twin peaks” with at least a hint of awe and wonder. yes, that just happened. 
Stage 10: Hope 
The beauty of finishing both seasons of “Twin peaks” now is the promise of a third season just a few years away. There is still debate about how the new episodes will be structured (let’s just hope lynch and frost stay away from the “arrested development” model), but reports from The guardian say the creators will bring back the show for a present-day look at the surreal small town, 25 years later. until then, treat yourself to “Twin peaks” over a cup of good coffee. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Notre Dame 50, NortH CaroLINa 43 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014 | NDsmCobserver.Com 
On their Heels 
No. 6 Irish go down early, outpace UNC, 50-43, in highest-scoring game at Notre Dame Stadium 
Everett Golson’s ability is key difference in 2014 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
every time you thought the Irish had shown up against North Carolina, they disappeared again for a while. 
Notre Dame periodically took breaks, during which I can only as­sume they were hanging out with Ferris bueller in Chicago. 
Notre Dame’s season had the wind knocked out of it in the early minutes against North Carolina. the tar Heels defensive line plowed through and around the Irish offensive line to pressure Golson. 
one fumble and one intercep­tion later, North Carolina had the 14-0 upper hand. 
Not ideal. 
but it looked like Notre Dame would turn it around. 
after senior quarterback everett Golson threw a pick straight at tar Heels junior linebacker Jeff schoettmer, who, it turns out, is not ben Koyack, Golson settled down. 
He connected with sophomore running back tarean Folston for an electric 37-yard catch-and-run. Folston wouldn’t quit, and he brought Notre Dame’s offense and the crowd back into it. 
two tackles by sophomore de­fensive lineman Isaac rochell shut down North Carolina’s ensuing drive, and suddenly the Irish de­fense was back in it too. 
Notre Dame proceeded to score 21 unanswered points. 
but (this game was filled with “buts”) the Irish then proceeded to fling consistency out of the stadium into the Joyce Center parking lot (If you find it between a crushed solo cup and empty beer can, send it back to brian Kelly, express mail). 
sometimes, the Irish looked bril­liant, such as when junior defen­sive lineman Jarron Jones blocked a tar Heels point-after attempt or when graduate student cornerback Cody riggs broke up a long pass in the end zone or when sophomore safety max redfield launched himself on top of tar Heels junior quarterback marquise Williams in a last-ditch effort to stop what was turning into a touchdown run. 
In addition, the Irish running 
see vULNerabLe PAGE 3 


By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports Writer 
the Irish remained unde­feated with a 50-43 win over North Carolina on saturday at Notre Dame stadium. 
senior quarterback everett Golson threw for 300 yards and three touchdown passes to help No. 6 Notre Dame (6­
0) reach its 12th home victory over North Carolina (2-4). the tar Heels put up a fight on the road, forcing three turnovers in the highest-scoring game played in the 84-year history of Notre Dame stadium. 

“sometimes it’s not perfect, but they know how to win,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “so the one thing that’s con­stant in that locker room is these guys know how to win football games. We would like it to be a little bit cleaner, cer­tainly, but, again, when you’re dealing with an offense like 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
TAREAN FOLSTON 
IRISH SOPHOMORE RUNNING BACK 

Folston racked up a career-high 169 yards of total offense and three touchdowns — two on the ground and one through the air. the first of Folston’s two fourth-quarter touchdowns put the Irish ahead, and the second put Notre Dame up by two scores. Folston earned 15 of his 18 carries in the second half. 
North Carolina’s, which we knew was going to be prob­lematic for us.” 
the game did not open well for the Irish. Golson fumbled and tar Heels junior safety sam smiley recovered the ball at the 28-yard line. tar Heels freshman running back elijah Hood, who had originally committed to Notre Dame, rumbled six yards for a touch­down, putting North Carolina up 7-0 less than two minutes into the first quarter. 
North Carolina junior line­backer Jeff schoettmer then intercepted a Golson pass intended for senior tight end ben Koyack and ran it back for a touchdown. a fumble and interception in the first sev­en minutes tested the Notre Dame offense’s composure, which Golson said was key that they maintained. 
“Just having that faith, and not believing that we were 
see vICtorY PAGE 2 
Golson commits three turnovers in winning effort 

By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports Writer 
It always comes down to the quarterbacks. 
No. 6 Notre Dame’s inconsisten­cy in saturday’s 50-43 win against North Carolina paralleled senior quarterback everett Golson’s off­and-on performance throughout the game. 
Golson’s 300-yard passing, 71­yard rushing, three-touchdown performance allowed the Irish (6-0) to escape with a victory, but his turnovers were also part of the reason the tar Heels (2-4) threat­ened Notre Dame’s spotless re­cord in the first place. 
the fumble Golson lost on Notre Dame’s opening drive led to the tar Heels’ first seven points, and a pick-six thrown by Golson a few minutes later suddenly left the Irish in a 14-0 hole. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly said that while Golson’s ball se­curity was a major concern, the quarterback also showed poise over the span of the game. 
“I got in his face a little bit about the first interception. He’s above that interception,” Kelly said. “He bounced back and obviously put the ball on the ground again, which we weren’t too thrilled about. but he bounced back, threw the ball with authority and he was decisive, made some good decisions. but he’s learning.” 
much of Golson’s yardage came from check-down passes to backs and receivers, who then were able to make tar Heel defenders miss after the catch. sophomore run­ning back tarean Folston had a 37-yard catch-and-run on a screen pass on Notre Dame’s first scoring drive. sophomore wide receiver Will Fuller turned a 10-yard pass into a 35-yard touchdown in the third quarter. 
Kelly said the shorter passes ac­tually indicated improvement on the part of Golson. 
“I think some of the things that [Golson] did out there that helps me feel better about the day itself for him was the check down to the back. that was his fourth read,” Kelly said. “that whole game we saw a progression and process, and that’s a good thing. … He took the adversity and got better as the game went on.” 
see tUrNovers PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 






QUARTERBACKS 

on a beautiful day with far better conditions than those during last week’s stanford game, Golson didn’t fare much better throwing the ball, completing 21 of 38 passes. While the signal-caller did tally 300 passing yards, 71 rushing yards and three touchdowns, his three turnovers were costly. 
RUNNING BACKS 

sophomore tarean Folston turned in undoubtedly the best performance by an Irish running back this season. Folston rushed 18 times for 98 yards and two touchdowns, and he added another five receptions for 71 yards and a score. Cam mcDaniel and Greg bryant found little success, but it didn’t matter. 
RECEIVERS 

sure, Will Fuller impressed with seven receptions for 133 yards and two touchdowns, but the sophomore also showed his age with a brutal drop over the middle. still, Fuller headlined the group, which otherwise received mi­nor contributions from only Chris brown, Corey robinson and amir Carlisle. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

brian Kelly said sunday the offensive line continues to improve, and the head coach wondered why the group keeps receiving so much attention. the Irish were solid for a third week. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

the defensive line didn’t reach UNC quarterback marquise Williams for a sack, but the group was still solid for the most part. tar Heels running backs couldn’t muster much. 
LINEBACKERS 

Williams repeatedly found running room against the Irish, often right up the middle. Notre Dame missed too many tackles, and the quarterback gashed the Irish for 132 rush­ing yards. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

missed tackles again proved costly in the Irish secondary, as max redfield struggled at times against Williams. North Carolina picked on Irish cornerback Devin butler with a receiver pass after the sophomore was forced into action while Cody riggs was out briefly. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Jarron Jones blocked another kick — the fourth of his career — and the junior highlighted an otherwise un­inspiring day of special teams play. the kick-return unit looked uncertain, as amir Carlisle averaged just 15 yards per return. Kyle brindza did a solid job punting and wasn’t asked to kick a field goal. 
COACHING 

Notre Dame struggled in all three phases with communi­cation — kick-return mishaps, false starts, illegal proce­dures and late defensive substitutions — and the turnover situation with Golson has not improved. the Irish defense allowed 43 points and 510 yards of total offense, though Kelly didn’t sound too concerned after matching up with what he deemed a tough matchup in the tar Heel offense. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.37 (C+) 

the only time Notre Dame fans were completely comfortable was when the Irish recovered North Carolina’s onside kick in the final seconds. the tar Heels shredded the Irish defense, which wasn’t helped by everett Golson’s three turnovers deep in Notre Dame territory. the Irish will need to play much crisper against Florida state on saturday. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
ROUGHING-THE-SNAPPER PENALTY ON NORTH CAROLINA 
Notre Dame trailed 36-35 in the waning seconds of the third quarter, and the Irish were waiting to punt — finally — after committing two false starts. but tar Heels senior Norkeithus otis was whistled for a roughing-the-snapper penalty. Notre Dame went on to score and never trailed. 
Victory 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 

going to lose this game, that we were going to find a way to pull it out somehow,” Golson said. 
With that faith, the Irish be­gan to move the ball on their third drive. Golson completed a pass to sophomore running back tarean Folston for 37 yards. Golson ran for a first down and a gain of 15 yards and followed that with a pass to sophomore wide receiver Will Fuller for a gain of 23. 
Golson then found Fuller in the end zone for an Irish touchdown. the 13-yard com­pletion marked Fuller’s sixth touchdown of the season. 
the Golson-Fuller combo propelled Notre Dame’s next drive once again. Golson com­pleted a pass to Fuller for 11 yards and a first down as the first quarter came to a close. 
senior running back Cam mcDaniel then scored on a one-yard carry during the first few seconds of the sec­ond quarter. the Irish shut down North Carolina’s offense and completed another scor­ing drive of their own with a seven-yard rushing score by sophomore running back Greg bryant to go up 21-14. at that point, after the tar Heels’ two early touchdowns, Notre Dame scored 21 unanswered points and gained 283 yards compared to North Carolina’s 15. 
With roughly four minutes to play in the first half, Notre Dame pressured the tar Heels offense and held it at the one-yard line, but tar Heels quar­terback marquise Williams eventually scrambled into the end zone with four minutes to go. Junior defensive line Jarron Jones blocked the extra point to hold the tar Heels to 20 points. 
With three minutes left in the half, running back elijah Hood fumbled and Irish ju­nior safety elijah shumate recovered the loose ball. sophomore running back tarean Folston followed with a six-yard rushing touchdown. North Carolina responded with a strong drive of 75 yards that ended in a 20-yard touch­down from Williams to junior wide receiver Quinshad Davis. Notre Dame stopped North Carolina’s two-point extra point attempt to hold the score 28-26. 

the Irish started the second half in a much different fash­ion than the first and capital­ized on their running game. Folston ran for a total of 19 yards on two rushes, while ju­nior wide receiver C.J. Prosise had a 12-yard gain in his sec­ond rushing attempt of the season. Golson then found Fuller for a short pass, and Fuller ran the ball for a 35-yard touchdown play. 
North Carolina’s next pos­session resulted in a 15-yard field goal after sophomore safety max redfield had the tackle on third-and-four. Notre Dame regained possession, but on the first play of the drive, Golson scrambled and tar Heels sophomore cornerback brian Walker forced a fumble. North Carolina capitalized on the Irish mishap and scored on a 23-yard touchdown pass to jump in front 36-35 after the extra point. 
Notre Dame was forced to punt on its next drive follow­ing Golson’s incomplete pass on third down. after two sub­sequent false starts, a personal foul — roughing the snapper 
— by the tar Heels gave the Irish an automatic first down. 
Continuing the drive, Golson opened the fourth quarter with a long pass to Fuller on which the tar Heels were called for pass interference. an illegal shift and holding pen­alty pushed the Irish back 18 yards. Golson found Folston once again for a nine-yard touchdown pass. Golson then found senior tight end ben Koyack for the two-point con­version to take the lead, 43-36. 
Irish sophomore corner­back Cole Luke intercepted Williams’s pass intended for sophomore wide receiver bug Howard. the Irish finished the drive with Folston’s six-yard touchdown run. Folston finished with 98 yards rush­ing on 18 carries and two touchdowns. 
“We got into a really good rhythm with [Folston] in there, tough yardage, break­ing tackles, running through tackles, and that’s what we’ve been asking the backs to do, is to run through tacklers,” Kelly said. “they’re physical, strong backs, and once we saw he was going to run in that kind of manner and demeanor, he was going to get more car­ries and he got the game ball today.” 
the tar Heels responded with a touchdown of their own. Williams completed an 18-yard pass to sophomore wide receiver mack Hollins in the end zone with 47 sec­onds on the clock. the tar Heels couldn’t recover an on­side kick attempt, so the 50-43 score held. the Irish now look toward saturday’s matchup against No. 1 Florida state. 
“they will be ready to play their very best against Florida state,” Kelly said. “but the nice part about it is we got great film and great teaching off of another win, that’s the best thing about it.” 
the Irish take on No. 2 Florida state on saturday in tallahassee, Florida, at 8 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 




JODI LO | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson scampers downfield during Notre Dame’s 50-43 win over North 
Carolina on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Turnovers 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
Golson said staying calm de­spite the early bad plays was — and will continue to be — crucial. 
“[regaining composure is about] just having that faith and not believing that we were going to lose this game, that we were going to find a way to pull it out somehow,” Golson said. “I have to get out of my own way. … I have to stop turning the ball over, things like that. once I do [commit a turnover], I got to forget about it because the game still goes on.” 
on the other side, North 
Vulnerable 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
game came alive with running backs sophomore Greg bryant, sophomore tarean Folston and senior Cam mcDaniel each scor­ing touchdowns in the first half. Golson and sophomore receiver Will Fuller had a great connection going for most of the game, and Fuller finished with 133 yards and 2 touchdowns. 
but then there were moments like Golson’s fumble with 3:20 left in the third quarter. and the fact that Notre Dame gave up 43 points. 
remember before this game started, when Notre Dame was tied for third in Fbs by allowing only 12 points per game? 
the defense looked unpolished, but it wasn’t entirely that unit’s fault. 

Carolina junior quarterback marquise Williams amassed 303 passing yards, 132 rushing yards, two passing touchdowns, a rush­ing touchdown, and a receiving touchdown. overall, he account­ed for 458 of the tar Heels’ 510 to­tal offensive yards. 
“If there was one guy in the game that probably took it over at times, it was [Williams],” Kelly said. “He’s difficult to defend. Great runner, threw the ball ef­fectively, we couldn’t tackle him. We had him two or three times where we couldn’t get him down, missed tackles. Good player.” 
However, like Golson, Williams had some costly turnovers that 
Golson scored a lot of points for the Irish, but he also repeatedly forced his defense back onto the field and helped the tar Heels score with turnovers. 
somehow, however, the Irish managed to do just enough to keep their season alive (we’re talking the minimum number of pages required by the professor after adjusting the margins). 
With an agonizing seven min-utes-plus drive (search the park­ing lot for signs of Notre Dame’s efficiency too), the Irish trudged back into the game in the fourth quarter. Golson found Folston for a 9-yard touchdown and then Koyack for the two-point conver­sion to put Notre Dame up 43-36. 
by this point, the Irish mood swings were getting hard to track, and it was a challenge to remem­ber if Notre Dame was winning because it didn’t feel like the Irish should be. It didn’t feel like prevented the tar Heels from pulling off an upset over the Irish. a late interception by Irish soph­omore cornerback Cole Luke ended a fourth quarter North Carolina drive that could have tied the score at 43. 
the Williams-led tar Heels gave Golson’s Irish a taste of what an offense with a strong quarter­back presence looks like, which will continue next week when Notre Dame visits No. 2 Florida state and its quarterback, reign­ing Heisman trophy winner red-shirt sophomore Jameis Winston. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
anybody should be. 
but Notre Dame was, and then it escaped with the win. 
maybe the Irish needed a poke to wake up from the lingering dream that was the 17-14 win over stanford. 
With the much-anticipated matchup against Florida state looming and the mounting pres­sure of an increasingly perfect re­cord, the Irish needed something to make them hungry. 
Looking vulnerable but finding a way to recover can do just that. 
Whatever else saturday’s game was, it was a win. Now, Notre Dame has to decide how to re­spond to it in tallahassee. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ND, UNC tally 93 points 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports Writer 
the 93 points scored were the most ever in a game played at Notre Dame stadium. the two teams combined for the most yards of total offense (1,029) in a Notre Dame game since 2011. 
Notre Dame scored 21 points in the second quarter, the first time this season the Irish have managed three touchdowns in a single quarter. 
Until saturday, Notre Dame had never won when allow­ing 43 points or more. the Irish defense had also not allowed more than 500 yards of total of­fense since the bCs National Championship Game loss to alabama in 2013. 
Touchdowns for everybody 
senior quarterback everett Golson threw three touchdowns in a game for the fourth time in his career. 
With his second multiple-touchdown performance, soph­omore receiver Will Fuller now has five touchdowns catches of at least 20 yards this season. 
meanwhile, sophomore running back tarean Folston snagged his first career receiving touchdown and his first career multi-touchdown game. 
Defensive landmarks 

senior linebacker Joe schmidt made a career-high 11 tackles against the tar Heels, and soph­omore cornerback Cole Luke snagged his third interception in the last two games. 
a blocked point-after attempt by junior Jarron Jones was the fourth time in his career the defensive lineman had success­fully blocked a kick. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
14  12  10  7  43  
7  21  7  15  50  

NORTH CAROLINA 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
elijah Hood six-yard run (Weiler kick) 
13:28 remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 37 yards, 0:43 elapsed 
NORTH CAROLINA 14, NOTRE DAME 0 
schoettmer 29-yard interception return (Weiler kick) 
8:48 remaining 

NORTH CAROLINA 14, NOTRE DAME 7 
Will Fuller 13-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
7:09 remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 88 yards, 1:39 elapsed 
NORTH CAROLINA 14, NOTRE DAME 14 
Cam mcDaniel 1-yard run (brindza kick) 
14:57remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 58 yards, 4:13 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, NORTH CAROLINA 14 
Greg bryant seven-yard run (brindza kick) 
9:56remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 77 yards, 3:12 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, NORTH CAROLINA 20 
marquise Williams three-yard run (Weiler kick blocked) 
4:16remaining 

Drive: 16 plays, 75 yards, 5:40 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, NORTH CAROLINA 20 
tarean Folston six-yard run (brindza kick) 
2:25remaining 

Drive: One play, six yards, 0:03 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, NORTH CAROLINA 26 
Quinshad Davis 20-yard pass from Williams (Weiler kick) 
1:20remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 75 yards, 1:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 35, NORTH CAROLINA 26 
Will Fuller 35-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
11:52 remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 62 yards, 1:46 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 35, NORTH CAROLINA 29 
Nick Weiler 19-yard field goal 
3:37remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 78 yards, 2:34 elapsed 
NORTH CAROLINA 36, NOTRE DAME 35 
marquise Williams 23-yard pass from Davis (Weiler kick) 
3:11remaining 

Drive: One plays, 23 yards, 0:09 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 43, NORTH CAROLINA 36 
tarean Folston nine-yard pass from Golson (Koyack two-point conversion) 
10:39remaining 

Drive: 15 plays, 81 yards, 7:32 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 50, NORTH CAROLINA 36 
tarean Folston six-yard run (brindza kick) 
2:19remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 81 yards, 4:45 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 50, NORTH CAROLINA 43 
mack Hollins 18-yard pass from Williams (Weiler kick) 
0:47remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 1:32 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
TOTAL OFFENSE 
510 519 



tHe observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014 | NDsmCobserver.Com 


ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

Irish sophomore running back Tarean Folston tries to squirt free from a pack of North Carolina defenders during Notre Dame’s 50-43 victory over the Tar Heels on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. Folston did the heavy lifting for the Irish in the second half and notched two fourth-quarter scores. 
Despite spotting North Carolina an early 14 points off two Everett 
Golson turnovers, Notre Dame was able to overcome the Tar Heels, 50-43, on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. Golson committed 
SCRAPING BY 
three turnovers but also threw three touchdown passes. Tarean Folston racked up 169 yards of total offense and three scores. The 
UNC 
6-0 Irish face No. 2 Florida State this upcoming Saturday. 




The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

commenting on “a streetcar named desire,” niles crane from television’s bygone gem “frasier” claims it takes a true psychiatrist to fully understand the mean­ing of Tennessee williams’s theatrical masterpiece. i’m no psychiatrist (just a dreamer), nor are the majority of the play’s audience members, but niles gets at a point bent on how “streetcar” ought to be read, performed and dissected. patrons of the arts and psychiatrists like niles see the invisible line of analysis where interpreting “streetcar” as a script and critiquing its multiple stage adaptations make up two halves of a whole williams en­visioned in 1947. for me, both represent why this piece continues to haunt with subtle humor hidden under a gossamer shadow of tension and confined hysteria. 
Through national Theatre live, the godsend for theatre lovers who wish to see the best of british thespians per­form from the comfort of a theater not over the atlantic, debartolo performing arts center hosted its first set of screenings of the newest stage adaptation of “streetcar.” currently an intriguing attraction at london’s young vic theater and in screenings across the u.K. and u.s., this variation casts its time and place decades after its original setting between post-war aftermath and pre-economic boom. everything onstage is white — the furniture, the people — but what’s probably most interesting is the shape of the space in which the action occurs. 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

“Twin peaks” is returning — both for a third season and for a moment in fashion. 
with 90s grunge styles headlining the fashion world this year, the classic fashion in the 1990-1991 serial dra­ma is peaking once again. 
set in the fictional washington town of Twin peaks, the climate and small-town genteel environment inspired perennial styles: full skirts, bright coats and saddle shoes, while also playing up eclectic choices: oversized frames, printed sweaters and scrunchies. 
audrey horne, one of my fashion icons, stuck to a schoolgirl-inspired uniform with seductive twists. she sported plenty of midi-length full skirts: wool, pleated and plaid versions adding variation to the style. This sea­son’s print is plaid and midi-skirts are carrying on their reign from the summer. 
audrey paired her skirts with button-ups less than buttoned-up or tight, tucked-in knits. she always com­plemented these combos with classic white and black 
imagine a silver, steel skeleton of bars creating a rect­angle, almost an escapable cage, with the capacity for a kitchenette, bedroom, bath and balcony. This is where the play’s three main characters interact while the es­capable cage rotates. The idea is to interpret the individ­ual psyches of the three occupants within the cramped home at alternating perspectives throughout the story. at one moment, we might see the whole ensemble in three different rooms living in completely distant worlds. 
i admire and appreciate this effect for the sake of en­livening the audience’s experience in understanding how each character unknowingly steps on another’s toes, cre­scendoing to the play’s climax. my only complaint of this rotating cage is its distraction from specific moments i would have preferred to watch without a staircase turn­ing in front of it. 
The obvious distinction of film from live theatre is the physical viewpoint from which you witness the plot. a camera has the luxury of shooting from infinite angles, allowing choice context for the director and cinematog­rapher. but as a play, director benedict andrews has only a stage and set seating from which his actors can be seen. despite how andrews and his team wish to (literally) spin “streetcar,” williams’s work here doesn’t translate on stage. 
The lovely gillian anderson, vibrantly fulfilling a life­long dream portraying blanche dubois, speaks with a genteel drawl as slow as honey and as smooth as melted butter. blanche possess one of the most sibylline names 
saddle shoes — unless she decided to swap them out at her locker for a pair of red pumps — and a simple leather, menswear inspired watch. 
audrey’s beauty amplified her timeless fashion sense. her classic brunette bob and perfectly arched brows combined with her minimalistic approach to eye make­up and sultry pout darkened with red or maroon lipstick. her signature beauty mark by her left eye serves to trade­mark her unique, genuine allure. 
donna hayward’s signature look was the oversized sweater. however, her oversized sweaters were unac­companied by a venti frappuccino, leggings and uggs and rather chicly paired with skirts to create an un­shaped silhouette to achieve a sense of intrigue, similar to the way her life was layered, with secrets hidden un­derneath her calm, good-girl façade. 
Josie packard carried the timeless looks out of the high school realm. her elegant black pixie cut was usu­ally swept back, framing her face, and her perpetually impeccable matte red lip would inspire envy in alexa chung and Taylor swift today. she dressed almost ex­clusively in black, white and red, with solid red sweaters in twentieth century american literature, translating from french as “white woods.” only new orleans could serve as the proper setting to accompany such ostenta­tious symbolism. 
The challenge in making blanche believable and not simply a one-dimensional damsel in distress comes in how her complexity is approached by the actress. her presence is undoubtedly the most captivating and ab­stract, an element outlined in anderson’s portrayal against her brother-in-law, stanley Kowalski, played both savagely and humanely by ben foster. blanche’s sis­ter, stella (vanessa Kirby), is the reluctant human com­bat zone backdropped between blanche and stanley’s growls and hisses. 
what unfolds from the window of this “streetcar” is not just another chance to watch blanche dissolve from stability to shattered certitude or stanley scream out for stella in the night’s smog of jazz and heat. as always with this tragedy, there is the question of whose responsibility weighs on another’s loss the most. what is the loss real­ly? has anything been gained? These and other laments echo from the bars of the escapable cage which transi­tions to a mental institution. would any psychiatrist aid blanche dubois, he would surely need to understand her descent into madness, a fall she took long before she ever came to face stanley and his rotating infirmary of unwel­come and unforgiving solitude. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
and dresses emphasizing her flawless lip. in picturing Josie’s style, the regal fur coat she wore as she stepped out of her house in the opening scene to look out at laura palmer’s wrapped corpse reigns preeminent. 
playing on the quirkier side of Twin peaks, lucy, sheriff Truman’s stuck-in-the-80s secretary, could al­ways be counted on to brighten the sometimes dismal mood with an eccentric printed sweater that would be thrift store gold today. she also was a scrunchie fiend — a trend seen on today’s risk-taking “it” girls. 
“log lady” was another character that brought crazy knits (and just plain crazy) to screen. combining cozy cardigans with flannel shirts, a bob, oversized spectacles and her signature log, she serves as inspiration for the librarian–hipster–lumberjack in all of us. go ahead, try out her eclectic look — after all, “the log does not judge.” 
no matter your fashion schema, “Twin peaks” pro­vides the fashion inspiration. ignoring the excellence of the onscreen looks would be the a crime worse than murder. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The unbeatable 109-yard return 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the first in a 10-part series in which our writers debate what is the most unbreak­able record in sports. Follow along with the conversation on Twitter using the hashtag #UnbreakableRecord 
as the oldest student writer on The observer staff, i have been given the great honor of kicking off our first sports authority debate of the year. i’m sure the bigwigs up top expected a compelling and persuasive piece from a vet­eran, a piece that in some shape or form reflects what completing an undergradu­ate degree at the university of notre dame stands for. sorry to let you guys down. 
with age comes wisdom, and i would like to share the solitary kernel of wisdom i have actually garnered over the years. don’t enter a fight you can’t win. pick your bat­tles and only pick those with guaranteed victory. it leads to a phenomenal winning percentage. 
most of my fellow writers will choose a record that re­flects a truly impressive indi­vidual performance. maybe it was a record set in an era with characteristics unat­tainable in this day and age. maybe my peers will choose a record that reflects longev­ity, one that was a career in the making. no doubt their “unbreakable records” will be impressive performances, by impressive players, re­cords that have shaped the landscape of their respective sport. 
me? i’m just choosing one that is physically unbreak­able. again, pick your battles and only pick those with guaranteed victory. 
currently, there is a tie for the longest play in nfl history. in 2007, then-char­gers cornerback antonio cromartie returned a missed field goal for 109 yards. last season, vikings wide re­ceiver cordarrelle patterson returned a kickoff for 109 yards. unless the size of an nfl field is changed, those records will stand unbroken throughout nfl history. 
no play from scrimmage can be longer than 99 yards, as you cannot snap the ball from within your own end zone. any form of return can go more than 100 yards, where the player can take the ball from their end zone and down the length of the field. hence, the two 109 yard returns. 
yet, a player cannot return the ball for 110 yards. To do so, he or she would have to take the ball at the back end-line. in doing so, that player would be out of bounds and the play would result in a touchback. as the nfl doesn’t allow for partial yard­age in their stat keeping, it is physically impossible to re­turn a kick for more than 109 yards under the current field dimensions. 
That leaves only one way for this record to be broken. if the nfl decided to make fields longer, there could be longer plays. 
first, that’s not going to happen. can you imagine the renovations that would have to be done to football fields of all levels nationwide? i can’t ever picture a scenario that would make a longer field worth the cost of those changes. 
furthermore, i can’t even picture a scenario in which someone would argue for longer football fields. what would the game gain? we currently have a 100-yard football field with two 10­yard end zones. humans love round numbers. simple as that. 
even if the nfl did decide to change the size of a stan­dard football field, the league would probably have to list official records for the shorter field dimensions, especially when the records in question involve yardage covered in one play. so, regardless, those two records will stand. 
in summary, no one will return the ball more than 109 yards because the dimen­sions of the football field will not allow it. Therefore, any plays that go for 109 yards will always be the longest plays in nfl history. sure, future players can tie this re­cord, but no one can break it. in other words, cromartie set a literally unbreakable record in 2007, one that patterson tied. 
so, what is the most un­breakable record in sports? i’m going to go with the one that cannot be broken, one that is not dependent on the ever-improving ability of ath­letes. i’ll choose the record that can’t be broken because of league rules, official lines and field structure. 
was my argument flashy? no. will i be right? yes. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL 
vigil staged in town rocked by hazing scandal 
Associated Press 

isayreville, n.J. — hundreds of people came out sunday evening for an anti-bul­lying rally in a central new Jersey town that’s been rocked by alle­gations of sex-related hazing in­volving its high school football team, which prompted the can­cellation of the rest of the season. 
The rally was staged in a park across the street from the school, sayreville war memorial high. organizers said the event was held to promote unity and heal­ing within the community and to show support for the victims of bullying. 
participants were given bal­loons, ribbons, stickers and candles. They were asked to walk around the lake at Kennedy park and release the balloons or show other forms of support. 
alex simon, 24, a sayreville native who recently moved to connecticut to attend law school, said he came home for the event to show support for his community. simon attended schools in the town and served for a time as a substitute teacher in the school district. 
“This will be a long recovery process for our community, but this is a good first step,” simon said of the rally. “i’ve talked with lots of people (about the haz­ing claims) and they were upset about it, but i think this event is a good way to start getting things better. i’ve always loved this town and will always support it.” 
seven students face sex-crime charges stemming from the alleged hazing. Three were charged with aggravated sexual assault, criminal restraint, haz­ing and other crimes stemming from an act of sexual penetra­tion upon one of the children. The other four students were charged with aggravated crimi­nal sexual contact and other crimes. 
district officials said sunday 
that  all  seven  have  been  
suspended.  
no  coaches  have  been  

charged, and it isn’t clear if any knew about the alleged incidents. 

NFL | cowboys  30, seahawKs  23 
murray leads dallas past seattle, 30-23 
Associated Press 

seaTTle — Those ques­tioning whether the dallas cowboys’ start to the season was legit got a resounding answer on sunday. 
showing no intimidation toward seattle’s hard-hitting defense or the noisy 12th man, the cowboys leaned on the 115 yards rushing from demarco murray and a clutch third-down pass from Tony romo for a 30-23 win over the seahawks. 
after murray scored on a 15-yard run with 3:16 left to give dallas the lead, the cowboys defense, which made seattle quarterback russell wilson miserable all afternoon, held twice in the final 3 minutes. 
The cowboys forced seattle to turn the ball over on downs. after dan bailey’s third field goal pushed the lead to seven, rolando mcclain intercepted wilson near midfield with less than a minute remaining to seal one of the more impressive dallas wins in recent memory. 
The cowboys are 5-1 for the first time since 2007 and beating the defending cham­pions in seattle gives validity to the surprising start. 
murray became the second 

FOR SALE 

move in ready- south side South bend very safe neighborhood with 
running back in nfl his­tory to start a season with six straight 100-yard rush­ing games, matching Jim brown. and he did it against the league’s best run defense, which had not allowed a run­ning back more than 38 yards in a game this season. 
dallas’ improved offensive line opened enough space for murray to run and for the most part kept romo protect­ed. romo was sacked only once, and bounced up off the turf from the one hard hit he took from bobby wagner on the cowboys first drive. 
and when romo got pressured on dallas’ win­ning touchdown, Terrance williams made a stunning toe-dragging catch along the sideline for 23 yards to con­vert a third-and-20. romo moved away from pressure by bruce irvin and found williams along the side­line in front of the cowboys bench for 23 yards. 
murray then broke free for 25 yards and a 6-yard run to the seattle 15. he then capped his record day by cut­ting back and rolling through earl Thomas at the goal line. 
romo finished 21 of 32 for 250 yards and two touch­downs. The second Td throw went to Jason witten, who became the second tight end in nfl history with 900 ca­reer receptions. 
wilson ran for a 9-yard touchdown and mike morgan returned a blocked punt 25 yards for a score for seattle. but after being lauded for his monday night performance, wilson was part of a miser­able day for seattle’s offense. 
he finished 14 of 28 for 126 yards, 53 of those coming on one completion to Jermaine Kearse in the first quarter. seattle was outgained 401­206 and had just nine first downs. marshawn lynch was used sparingly, finish­ing with only 10 carries for 61 yards and most of percy harvin’s plays went back­ward. harvin’s three recep­tions equaled minus-1 yard. 
The only reason seattle was in the game was 14 points on special teams. doug baldwin blocked chris Jones’ punt and morgan returned it 25 yards for a touchdown and a 10-0 lead in the first quarter. dwayne harris muffed a fair catch deep in his own terri­tory in the third quarter and Kevin pierre-lewis emerged from the pile with the ball. Two plays later, wilson kept on a zone-read and sprinted 9 yards to pull seattle even at 17. 

the observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. all classifieds must be prepaid. the charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. the observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
great schools. 3 bedroom, 2 bath, big call 574-261-5021 to see. fenced in yard with a storage shed. all appliances plus a generator. 1281 2007 toyota rav 4, 44,000 miles sq. ft. all exterior updated plus newer verY clean asking $12,000 call windows. low taxes, asking $79,500. 574-261-5021 


SMC GOLF | miaa conference TournamenT 
belles finish third, advance to ncaa qualifier 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
saint mary’s finished third overall in the miaa standings, concluding the six-round, three-weekend event with rounds on friday and saturday at the miaa end of season weekend Jamboree at bedford valley golf course in battle creek, michigan. 
with their third-place finish, the belles clinched a spot in this spring’s four-team ncaa qualifier, a three-round event featuring the miaa’s top four teams. 
belles coach Kim moore said she is excited for the opportu­nity to compete in the ncaa qualifier, one of the team’s aims each fall. 
“we always go into the fall wanting to make sure that we’re part of those top four, so that we have the opportunity to compete and possibly rep­resent our conference in the ncaa championship,” moore said. 
saint mary’s posted a 349 in friday’s round and a 346 on saturday. The team’s six-round aggregate score was 2059, 27 strokes behind second-placed olivet and 119 strokes behind miaa champion hope. 

belles senior Janice heffernan shot an 84 friday and then posted a 79 for saturday’s round, the second-best individual score for that round. moore said heffernan’s play is something she knows she can count on before each round. 
“i knew going into this sea­son that she’d be one of our best players, and her consis­tent shooting is always some­thing that we rely on,” moore said. 
heffernan posted the fourth-best individual score overall, scoring a 487 through six rounds, just eight strokes behind the conference cham­pion, hope freshman megan Klintworth. 
The belles senior, a two-time miaa player of the week this year, finished the season with 
first-team all  miaa  confer­ 
ence honors.  
“she  has  continuously  

shown herself to be one of the top players in our conference,” moore said. “Janice definitely deserves being in that top cat­egory of our conference.” 
belles sophomore ali mahoney finished 10th indi­vidually, averaging a score of 
85.7 over the six rounds. although moore was 
paid adverTisemenT 
impressed with her team’s performance in several differ­ent areas this fall, particularly the play of her freshmen and sophomores, she said there are things the team can improve upon during the winter. 
“i would hope that we could improve upon our course management, but that’s defi­nitely something that comes as players gain more experi­ence,” moore said. “also, we obviously want to always be working to improve our chip­ping and putting.” 
The belles will compete in the four-team ncaa qualifier this upcoming april. Trine, the fourth-place finishers in the miaa tournament, will com­pete against the saint mary’s, hope and olivet for an ncaa championship bid. 
moore said it is difficult to have to wait all winter to com­pete again, but the break will allow the team the opportu­nity to improve. 
“we just have keep working on those things that we can during the winter and then look forward to getting right back into it in a few months,” moore said. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY | benedicTine eagle inviTaTional 
Led by Beeler, SMC takes fourth 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
saint mary’s finished fourth place out of 15 teams in the benedictine eagle invitational in warrenville, illinois, on friday. 
The fourth-place finish marks the best race for the belles since aug. 30 at the wabash hokum Karem, in which they finished second. belles coach Jackie bauters said the race was a “huge improvement” from her team’s earlier performances. 
The belles, who ended with a score of 111, were led by sopho­more brittany beeler, who fin­ished sixth overall with a personal best time of 22:44:49. bauters said 
she was impressed by  beeler’s  
performance.  
“[beeler]  ran  solid,”  bauters  

said. “she ran a smart race start to finish. it’s great to see all the hard work materialize. ... we’re just re­ally proud of her. i’m hoping it’s the breakthrough that she needs to continue on that path.” 
in addition to beeler, four other runners for saint mary’s finished with personal best times — soph­omores Kaitlyn alessi, Kathryn marshall and colleen ogren and junior Katelyn dunn. bauters said the number of personal best times was encouraging. 
“Those girls have worked really hard in practice — the whole team has,” bauters said. “The course runs fast ... so that helps them. i think the way we structure the weeks helps get them prepared. even though not everyone had a personal best [time], everyone ran their best time of the season for the most part.” 

no. 23 north central won the meet and was the fifth nationally-ranked team the belles have raced against this season. aurora and beloit rounded out the top three teams at the meet. 
bauters said it is beneficial for the team to race against quality programs like north central. 
“i love competing against some of the best in the nation,” bauters said. “i think it really helps prepare the girls to race better, to have bet­ter race strategy and also to push themselves in races. i think going against the best helps you pre­pare for your best. i think having nationally-ranked teams in our conference is a benefit to us.” 
bauters also said she was look­ing forward to the oberlin inter­regional rumble next saturday as a chance to build off this week’s improvements. 
“i’m excited,” bauters said. “we haven’t done back-to-back week­end racing basically all season, so i’m interested to see if that plays any factor for the girls in their indi­vidual preparations. i think they’ll be able to perform well.” 
saint mary’s will travel to oberlin, ohio, on saturday for the rumble. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING | dennis sTarK relays 
Irish win relays 
Observer Staff Report 
The irish opened their sea­son in convincing fashion against olivet nazarene on friday. notre dame did not lose a single event, and fin­ished in first place at the 50th annual dennis stark relay at rolfs aquatic center. 
The 240-140 win marks the first victory for irish coach matt Tallman, who took over for Tim welsh when the for­mer irish head coach retired at the conclusion of last season. 
The irish started off the night strong in the 200­yard freestyle relay. seniors Zachary stevens and patrick olson combined with fresh­men gabe ostler and Joseph Krause to finish in first. Krause was the anchor of the four-man relay, touching the wall with a 20.99 split. 
Krause enters the irish pro­gram with a strong pedigree, having won the michigan state championship in the 50­yard freestyle with his high school, brother rice. 
The irish dominated the diving portion of the program, sweeping the top three spots in the 3-meter synchronized dive. in first place was the irish team of senior Ted wagner and freshman peter myers, who scored 314.05 points. sophomores Joe cuomos and John lichtenstein placed sec­ond with a score of 283.80, followed by the senior duo of nick nemetz and michael Kreft. 

The irish also excelled in the 400-yard medley relay. The all-senior team of bogac ayhan, cameron miller, Jonathan williamson and Kevin hughes combined for a time of 3:22.93. ayhan was in­volved in the 300-yard stroke relays as well, finishing first in the butterfly heat along with willamson and sopho­more Kevin bradley with a combined time of 2:32.35. 
The whole team dives back into the pool nov. 1 when they notre dame hosts purdue. The irish divers will travel to atlanta on oct. 17 for a dual diving meet against georgia Tech and auburn. 



WOMEN’S SWIMMING | dennis sTarK relays ND VOLLEYBALL | piTTsburgh 3, nd 0; louisville 3, nd 0 
irish grab second at stark relays 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
no. 24 notre dame took sec­ond place in the dennis stark relays, scoring 184 points to defeat illinois state (138 points) and olivet nazarene (92 points) but finishing be­hind no. 16 ohio state (194 points) in friday’s competi­tion at rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish (1-0) captured three victories, taking a top spot in the 300-yard butter­fly relay, 1-meter diving relay and the 3-meter synchro­nized diving. Junior divers lindsey streepey and emma gaboury won the 1-meter diving relay before claiming first place in the 3-meter syn­chronized diving event. 
american record holder and senior emma reaney paired with seniors courtney whyte and bridget casey to create the highlight event of the day, taking the top prize in the 300 fly relay with a time of 2:48.49. reaney pushed through and dominated the second lap of the relay, giving notre dame the lead. casey out-touched ohio state in the final leg to win the event for the irish. 
“we all loved the finish of the 300 fly relay,” irish inter­im coach Tim welsh said. “it took all three team members to do it, too. bridget’s finish was absolutely wonderful. she is a true team player and a very hard worker as well. anchoring that relay for a win was wonderful for the team and for her, too.” 
Junior genevieve bradford and sophomore Katie miller ended the relays with four runner-up titles apiece. casey added an additional two run-ner-ups to her first-place fin­ish in the 300 fly relay. 

“i am so proud of the team spirit on this squad,” welsh said. “Though you compete in many cases on an indi­vidual level, relays are still team events. it was very posi­tive to see and hear the team camaraderie, encouragement and cheering throughout the relays.” 
with two successful meets so far this season, welsh said he hopes the team can only keep progressing as it heads into future competitions. 
“i think we have a bet­ter sense of our identity as a team now that we have had two meets,” welsh said. “all of the swimmers were able to race on friday, which was great for the girls in terms of experience and competition. our divers even dove very well.” 
The irish head south this weekend, competing against georgia Tech and south carolina on friday in atlanta and facing auburn and vanderbilt on saturday in auburn, alabama. 
“i think that we will be tested in both swimming and diving when we go on the road this week,” welsh said. “Though it will be a chal­lenge, i have faith that our swimmers and divers will perform exceptionally well.” 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 

Notre Dame drops straight sets to Panthers, Cardinals 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 

Taking to the road this week­end in hopes of regaining some ground in conference play, notre dame continued to struggle and came up short, los­ing to pittsburgh and louisville in straight sets. 
The irish (4-13, 1-5 acc) be­gan their weekend with a game against pitt at the fitzgerald fieldhouse in pittsburgh. despite taking a 20-15 lead in the first set, they ultimately fal­tered and dropped the set 25­23, following a pittsburgh rally. 
from that point on, the panthers (15-2, 3-1) took con­trol of the match and never trailed again, winning the sec­ond and third sets, 25-18 and 25-13, respectively. 
“we really struggled with our serve receives this weekend,” irish coach debbie brown said. “against pittsburgh, they aced us 12 times, which is a lot. even times when we weren’t aced we passed poorly, which took us out of our game.” 
from there, notre dame traveled to louisville to face the cardinals (11-7, 3-3) in louisville on sunday. 
falling behind early in each set for the day, the irish held just a single lead against louisville and were swept in three sets. 
in the first set, the cardinals jumped out to a 11-1 lead from which the irish were unable do recover, losing the set 25-14. 
“we tried to make some ad­justments in the louisville game to generate more kills, but they didn’t seem to work,” brown said. 
notre dame battled back in the second set, jumping out to a 1-0 lead – its only lead of the day – and remaining close in the early going. The irish trailed just 12-11 in the middle of the set before falling, 25-19. 
The irish were kept winless for the weekend with a loss in the third set, in which they had more errors – eight – than kills – seven – and lost, 25-13. 
Junior setter hanna muzzonigro had her third consecutive double-double with 22 assists and 10 digs. 
on the attack side, fresh­man middle blocker sam fry led the irish with nine kills, ending the match with a .438 attack percentage. despite her performance, the team had an overall attack percentage of just .038, tallying 22 errors and 26 kills on 105 attempts. 
“our attack performance was really weak,” brown said. “That’s something we’ll need to work on this week and mov­ing forward.” 
by contrast, the cardinals had the same number of attempts, but were able to gen­erate 46 kills and only 12 errors for a .324 attack percentage. sophomore outside hitter and middle blocker Janelle Jenkins, who is second on the team at 3.06 kills per set, led louisville with 12 kills on the day. fellow sophomore outside hitter maya mcclendon leads the team in kills per set, added 11 kills. 


up next, the irish will take on clemson on friday at 7 p.m., and boston college on sunday at 1 p.m. both games will be played at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 



Football 
conTinued from page 16 
Tribune, citing a source with knowledge of the situa­tion, reported Thursday the five players are “unlikely to play the rest of the season.” 
asked at his Thursday press conference if he ex­pects to have any of the players back with the foot­ball team at any point this season, Kelly said he is “not certain on all of them.” 
“i couldn’t comment on all five,” Kelly said. “and i don’t have anything specif­ic to tell you one way or the other.” 
Kelly said Tuesday that he was told monday “a decision or decisions were immi­nent.” Kelly said Thursday it’s possible the appeals process is one reason for the lack of shared information. 
“i don’t have any concrete finality on any of the five,” Kelly said. 
notre dame released a statement sunday say­ing the university will not publicly disclose decisions from the hearings and investigation. 
“i don’t believe it’s my role to come before you and tell you where they are in the process,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said Thursday he expects there to be a range of outcomes among the five players. 
notre dame announced its investigation aug. 15. 
paid adverTisemenT 


Hockey 
conTinued from page 16 
with the teams skating four­on-four, gross buried a rebound off of a shot from senior defend­er robbie russo to tie the game at 2-2 just 3:41 into the final period. however, the irish lead did not last long as miller beat Katunar at the 4:32 mark to re­take the lead for the engineers 
— a margin that would hold for the remaining 15 minutes to hand the irish their first loss of the season. 
in sunday’s third-place game, minnesota duluth (1-1-0) made use of an early irish penalty to take a lead they would not surrender. 
after russo went off for hook­ing at the 6:29 mark of the first, junior center Tony camaranesi put the bulldogs ahead after notre dame was unable to clear the zone. in his first collegiate start, irish freshman goaltender cal petersen made two saves on the power play but was unable to reach the third attempt, as the bulldogs went ahead, 1-0. petersen made 11 saves on 12 shots in the first period and fin­ished the game with 26 saves. 
“i thought both goaltenders played well,” Jackson said. “i thought some our young defen­semen — a little inconsistent at times — they played well in most circumstances.” 
a third of the way through the second period, the bulldogs capitalized on another power play opportunity to go up 2-0 when sophomore winger alex iafallo beat petersen with a backhanded shot. 
“we shot ourselves in the foot,” Jackson said. “we started getting a little momentum, and we gave up a goal or we start getting a little momentum and we give up a penalty. we kill ourselves. we took one offen­sive zone penalty, we took two power play penalties. you’re not going to win doing that.” 

it appeared as if notre dame would get to the second inter­mission just two goals down. however, the bulldogs pounced with just 35 seconds left in the stanza when sophomore cen­ter dominic Toninato struck. counting notre dame’s exhi­bition against waterloo last sunday, it marked three straight second periods where the irish gave up two goals while failing to score. 
“you never want to give up a goal in the last minute but when you score one, you carry that momentum through into the third,” Toninato said. 
despite registering 23 shots on the day, the irish were un­able to beat duluth junior goaltender matt mcneely, as a scoreless third period pushed notre dame to 0-2 for the first time since the 2005-06 season, Jackson’s first year at notre dame. 
“any time you lose two games at home, it’s not good,” Jackson said. “i’m going to be patient. i have to be. i have no alterna­tive. we have some good young players but they’re young. ... but the veterans have to lead the way.” 
no. 1 minnesota won the tournament after defeating duluth, 4-2, on friday and rensselaer, 3-0, on sunday. 
notre dame is back in action next weekend when it hosts lake superior state for a pair of games. puck drop for the first game is set for friday at 7:35 p.m., while the second game will be played saturday at 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 


The university said “evi­dence that students had submitted papers and homework that had been written for them by oth­ers” was initially detected at the end of the summer session and referred to the compliance office in ath­letics July 29. notre dame said the office of general counsel then initiated “an immediate investigation.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



shutouts on the season, good for second in the acc. 
with the win, the irish improve to 4-4 at home. it was their first victory at alumni stadium in al­most a month, when they defeat­ed Toledo on sept. 14, 2-1. 
notre dame also moves to 4-2 in acc play, good for fourth place in the conference with four regu­lar season matches left to play. 
“i love the acc because you get tested almost every game,” romagnolo said. “it gives you an opportunity to learn about yourself early on and prepare for games that you’re going to see later on in the season. The acc is fantastic preparation.” 
The first of those remaining matches comes saturday, when the irish travel to syracuse, new york, to take on the orange. syracuse (5-7-3, 2-4-0) currently sits in 11th place in the conference and has not scored in two match­es, both losses. notre dame, on the other hand, is undefeated on the road this season at 5-0-1. 
The orange and the irish square off saturday at su soccer stadium in syracuse, new york. Kickoff is scheduled for 5 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 

traded chances for the next 45 minutes until the cardinals were able to break through and equalize in the 67th minute. 
on a corner kick, it appeared that louisville was going to play the ball short, drawing out a pair of irish defenders. however, junior midfielder ben strong played the ball to freshman defender Tim Kubel who was hanging five yards from the corner of the box. after taking a touch, Kubel struck the ball and left no chance for wall, scoring an up­per-90 rocket from 22 yards out to level the score. 
“you know what, you con­cede goals,” clark said. “[Kubel’s goal] was a fantastic shot.” 
in the 72nd minute, notre dame claimed louisville had committed a handball but was dismissed by the referee. The irish followed this up with an 18-yard effort from hodan saved in the 80th minute by cardinal freshman goalkeeper nick Jeffs before finally retak­ing the lead from a free kick in the 81st minute. 
Junior midfielder connor Klekota — who had been cred­ited an assist earlier on the cicciarelli goal — played in the free kick from the left wing. The ball first got the head of sophomore defender brandon aubrey and bounced around a few more times in the box be­fore graduate student defender patrick o’malley headed it home from the goal line to put the irish back ahead, 2-1. 
“we’ve got some big targets there,” clark said. “we’ve got o’malley and [freshman for­ward Jeffrey] farina who would be in there and other guys and these are all people you can look for. a free kick out in the wide area, putting it into the box is a dangerous situation.” 
notre dame, however, failed to kill off the last seven min­utes, sending the contest to overtime. 
with fewer than two min­utes remaining in regulation, senior midfielder will vitalis got to the byline and played a cross into the heart of the box. strong got his head to it on a quasi-diving header to beat wall and tie it up, 2-2. The goal marked the second consecu­tive game notre dame has sur­rendered two goals. 
“i don’t think we defended that particularly well but that’s just my instinct,” clark said. “but [louisville’s] a very good team.” 
notre dame had one last chance to end it in regulation when the ball bounced around the box in the final minute. however, no irish player was able to get a head or foot to it and overtime beckoned. 
Jeffs thwarted notre dame’s first real chance of the extra pe­riod in the 97th minute when he saved a Klekota chance, before the irish won the game just a minute later. 
mishu got the ball on the right and played it through for graduate student forward leon brown. brown, in turn, played a through ball for freshman 

W Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
of the season after senior forward lauren bohaboy tried to split two defenders in the penalty area and drew a foul in the 60th minute. andrews beat lillard on the pen­alty kick and gave the irish a 2-0 lead. 
miami struggled all day with penalties, committing 17 fouls and collecting two yellow cards in the space of three minutes. as the game wore on and the hurricane offense failed to generate op­portunities, play became more physical on both sides as the ag­gressiveness of miami increased and the notre dame back-line dug in. 
as the game wound down, the irish stayed on the offensive as romagnolo deployed her bench. freshman defender monica flores, junior forward anna maria gilbertson and senior midfielder Taylor schneider, all substitutes, accounted for two assists and one goal in the final nine minutes of play. 
“every week, we reevaluate and see who’s sharp coming into the weekend and who can come off the bench and contrib­ute,” romagnolo said. “when we did make the change, we don’t let down. we have more energy coming off the bench. we have so much talent you almost don’t see a drop off. we’re a talented team.” 
flores combined with senior forward lauren bohaboy for her first career point in the 82nd min­ute. in her first collegiate game, flores sent a cross from the left side of the field into the box, and bohaboy connected on a bicycle kick for her second goal in as many games. 
schneider and gilbertson put the final touches on the win in the 89th minute, with schneider finding gilbertson with a through pass. gilbertson then split two defenders and beat lillard to the lower right corner of the net. 
“it’s kind of scoring by commit­tee this year,” romagnolo said. “we have a lot of people who can put the ball in the back of the net, which is exciting.” 
over the past two games, the irish have outscored their oppo­nents 7-0 and outshot them 63-11. They also hold a 28-6 advantage in shots on goal. sophomore goal­keeper Kaela little now has eight Jon gallagher who, after ini­tially failing to settle the ball on the first touch, found hodan hanging in the corner of the box. The left-footed mid­fielder struck the ball with his right foot and tucked it inside the far post from 16 yards out to beat Jeffs. 
“Jon played a great pass back,” hodan said. 
“[hodan’s] just a good fin­isher,” clark said. “his tech­nique is good and he’s got a really good temperament, and i think that’s important. he doesn’t panic when he’s pre­sented with an opportunity in the box. he’s got that calmness that good finishers have.” 
The irish do not have long to rest, however, as another top­25 opponent comes to alumni stadium on Tuesday. no. 24 northwestern is 6-1-4 0n the year and 1-1-2 in the big Ten. 
“we just have to learn from our mistakes that we made to­day and be confident going for­ward,” hodan said. “we’ve just got to take it one at a time.” 
northwestern and notre dame face off the Tuesday at alumni stadium at 6 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


DOME  NUTS | alexandria  wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let obstacles slow you down. a fast-paced, energetic approach to how you reach your goals will pay off. put your ideas on display. This is not the year to sit back or to let confusion and uncertainty stand between you and your goals. make whatever changes are required to follow your heart and to achieve your dreams. your numbers are 7, 15, 21, 28, 33, 41, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): listen attentively to the options someone special offers. making a decision to travel or change your location should be considered. love and romance can bring about favorable change that will raise your standard of living and bring you great happiness. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): attending a reunion or getting together with people from your past will cause you to question where you are headed. stick close to home and avoid minor mishaps and delays while traveling. check out the job market and send out your resume. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): use your intelligence and your flirtatious ways to manipulate a situation that intrigues you. a passionate encounter will help you to make an important life-altering decision. expand your interests, awareness and your future prospects. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): someone will have a hidden agenda. Keep your ideas a secret. Take on a project that will help you develop some of your creative skills. an unexpected change will lead to many questions, concerns and confusion. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will regain your self-esteem if you get involved in organizational functions or humanitarian events. your skills and generosity will be acknowledged, resulting in meeting new people and making good connections. Travel, romance and intrigue are highlighted. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): deal with matters that concern your personal finances, legal settlements or medical issues. if you get your papers in order, you will be ready to present a wealth of information that can help you resolve matters that will eventually enhance your bank account. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): check out destinations that look inviting. whether you travel a short or long distance, you will learn something valuable. helping a friend, relative or doing what you can to improve your community will put you in a good position that leads to greater prosperity. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): secretive action will be in your best interest. The less anyone knows about your financial, medical or emotional situation, the better. moderation will be necessary in all aspects of life. a professional opportunity must not be ignored. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):engage in playful action with friends, peers or your lover and you will attract attention and affection. short day trips will lead to answers regarding your background or a cultural interest. a move will bring positive results.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t venture too far from home. refuse to deal with unpredictable individuals trying to take advantage of your insight, influence or your generosity. self-improvement plans or projects you can do alone are your best bet. don’t let a personal relationship get you down. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can make a difference if you get involved in a cause or concern you feel strongly about. a contract, investment or means to bring in more cash looks promising. children and home improvement projects will highlight your life. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t let an emotional setback stop you from pursuing your goals. good fortune will be yours if you follow through with your plans. don’t let changes that others make cause resentment or regrets. focus on you, not others, and you will do fine. 


Birthday Baby: you are progressive and changeable. you are flippant, charismatic and creative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

russell out for 2014, plans 2015 return 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
irish cornerback Keivarae russell will not play this sea­son and will most likely miss the spring semester before returning in June 2015, the junior said in an instagram post friday evening. 
“Though disappointed in the decision the school has just recently made after [two] long months of wait­ing for a decision to come, i accept it and will make sure i spend my time away effi­ciently,” russell wrote. 
russell’s announcement follows an nbcsports.com report that said russell will not play in 2014. 
a source told The observer russell addressed his team­mates at Thursday’s practice inside notre dame stadium. 
russell spoke to his team­mates and hugged players and coaches, the source said. 
after addressing the team, russell watched the rest of practice from the side­line with irish director of athletics Jack swarbrick, the source said. 
russell, senior receiver davaris daniels, senior de­fensive end ishaq williams, graduate student linebacker Kendall moore and senior safety eilar hardy have been held out of practice and competition during the probe into “suspected aca­demic dishonesty.” 
notre dame confirmed friday the five players are still enrolled in the university. 
irish illustrated, citing two unnamed sources, re­ported wednesday evening the five players “are all un­likely to play for notre dame this season.” The chicago 
see fooTball PAGE 13 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, louisville 2 (oT) 
Irish top Cards in overtime 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 

an overtime goal from junior midfielder patrick hodan gave no. 6 notre dame a 3-2 over­time conference win over no. 18 louisville on friday night at alumni stadium. 
The win snapped a two-game losing streak for the irish (6-3-2, 3-1-1 acc) and kept the hosts tied at the top in the con­ference’s coastal division with virginia. 
notre dame went ahead within 15 minutes when se­nior forward vince cicciarelli headed home a shot from 10 yards out. senior defender luke mishu ventured down the right flank and crossed for cicciarelli who had an un­marked header to put the irish 1-0 up. 
“both fullbacks were very good today at getting forward and it was a good cross [from mishu],” irish coach bobby clark said. “mishu and [senior defender] max lachowechi were both very good going forward and that’s part of how we play. They play almost like wingers.” 

The cardinals (5-5-1, 3-2-0) had their best chance of the first half midway through, when ju­nior forward ricardo velazco got a one-on-one with irish graduate student goalkeeper patrick wall. velazco, however, fired straight at wall for the easy save. The irish goalkeeper made four saves on the night, three of them coming in the first half. 
louisville and notre dame 
see m soccer PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | rensselaer 3, nd 2; minnesoTa duluTh 3, nd 0 
ND drops two over weekend 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
no. 13 notre dame fin­ished last at the icebreaker Tournament this weekend at the compton family ice arena, losing 3-2 to rensselaer on friday night and 3-0 to minnesota-duluth on sunday afternoon, marking the first 0-2 start for the irish in nine years. 
Trailing rensselaer (1-1-0) by a goal early in the third period friday night, notre dame tied the game up when freshman defender Jordan gross buried a rebound past engineer ju­nior goaltender Jason Kasdorf to make it 2-2. 
however, just 51 seconds lat­er, with 4:32 to play, rensselaer junior center mark miller re­turned the favor, putting a re­bound past irish sophomore goaltender chad Katunar to tally the game-winning goal in a 3-2 win for the visitors. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said he thought the irish were un­able to deal with rensselaer’s 1-3-1 forecheck. 
“The difference in the game was between the blue lines,” Jackson said. “They contested us well. They play a 1-3-1 in the neutral zone, and that’s a tough neutral zone forecheck to play against. it makes it challenging to get through.” 

after 17 minutes of scoreless play to open the game, notre dame went ahead when ju­nior winger sam herr’s shot ricocheted off of junior wing­er mario lucia’s skate and into the engineer net for the game’s first goal. lucia is notre dame’s leading returning goal-scorer from last season. 
despite going into the first intermission up a goal, the irish lead did not last in the second period. Just 42 seconds into the stanza, rensselaer freshman center viktor liljegren scored a rebound goal on a power play to tie the game. The engineers beat Katunar again five minutes later when senior center Jacob laliberte fired a shot over Katunar’s left shoulder to put his team 2-1 up. Katunar fin­ished with 26 saves, a career high, in his fourth career start. 

“i thought we came out strong and had a good first pe­riod and we weren’t as good in the second period,” Jackson said. 
see hocKey PAGE 13 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 5, miami 0 
notre dame bests miami in blowout 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
in the midst of one of the most daunting schedules in the coun­try, no. 14 notre dame cruised to its easiest victory of the season sunday, blowing out miami, 5-0, at alumni stadium. 
after games against no. 3 stanford, no. 4 virginia, no. 7 north carolina, no. 9 virginia Tech and no. 15 Texas Tech, notre dame (9-4-1, 4-2-0 acc) had little trouble handling the hurricanes (2-11-1, 0-5-1), who have not won since sept. 5. 
five different irish players ac­counted for the five goals, the team’s most on the season. The irish also set a season high in shots on goal, with 18, off of 31 shots total. That was the second-highest mark of the year, behind only the 32 shots notre dame at­tempted Thursday in a 2-0 win over pittsburgh. 
“we built confidence from play well and from putting the ball in the back of the net,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “we had two good performances this week. ... Just to be able to put some goals in the back of the net is great for everyone’s confidence and our belief that we’re doing the right thing.” 

freshman forward Karin muya started things off just 45 seconds into the match, intercepting a soft pass back to miami senior goal­keeper emily lillard and trickling it by her to give notre dame its third-fastest lead since 1999. 
muya added an assist in the sec­ond half, passing a through ball to senior forward Karin simonian from eight yards out in the 62nd minute. The goal and assist dou­bled muya’s point total on the year and put the irish ahead, 3-0. 
muya missed the first four games on the irish schedule due to a combination of eligibility is­sues and injuries. 
“[muya] brings a great spark [to our offense],” romagnolo said. “she’s a great one-v-one player. she sees the field. she can play other people into goal. so it’s nice to be getting her healthy and fit again. ... The hardest thing was getting her on the field, so i think we’re just starting to get her going. we’re still learning what Karin muya can bring to the field.” 
sophomore midfielder morgan andrews once again spearheaded the irish attack, attempting eight shots compared to four for the entire miami team. she also col­lected her team-leading sixth goal 
see w soccer PAGE 14 




