The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 79  | FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Pope Francis names new cardinals 
Notre Dame alumnus Kelvin Edward Felix among 19 nominees 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer 
pope Francis’s recently re­leased list of 19 men who will soon become cardinals in­cluded a notre dame gradu­ate and bishops from haiti and burkina Faso, highlight­ing the current patriarch’s commitment to pastoral lead­ership and inclusion of the poor, director of notre dame’s institute for church life John cavadini said. 
“[pope Francis] appointed cardinals from places that have never had a cardinal before … and that certainly 
see cardinals PAGE 4 




magazine editor reflects on career 
has led the publication for al-louisiana. to find myself, to know what it 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer most 20 years. “i looked up to the local guys meant to be human, and then i Temple said his notre dame who went to notre dame from wanted to know how i might fit 


university appeals hhs ruling 
By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor 
The university is again chal­lenging a u.s. department of health and human services mandate that requires notre dame’s insurance plan to cov­er contraceptives, according to a report in The south bend Tribune. 
notre dame is asking the 
u.s. court of appeals for the seventh circuit to grant the university an exemption to the mandate in light of a re­cent supreme court decision, the Tribune reported. The supreme court ruled Jan. 24 that the nonprofit organiza­tion little sisters of the poor and other similar religious 
as the editor of notre dame 

magazine, kerry Temple tells 
the notre dame story 
— as a 

class of 1974 graduate, english 
major and former Farley hall 
resident, the university has in­
evitably become part of his own 
story. 
seven years after he turned 


my high school and really liked  into that world, what my place  groups do not have to cov­ 
what the place represented,” he  was, how i could contribute.  er  contraceptives  until  the  
said. “a campus visit convinced  “Those questions guided my  sisters’ lawsuit is resolved.  
me that it was the only school i  coursework and late-night talks  “There is no legitimate ba­ 
wanted to go to.”  and times spent alone. i’m still  sis upon which an injunc- 
Temple said he set his mind  living those questions.”  tion could be granted to the  
to grappling with life’s big ques- Temple said he returned to  little sisters of the poor but  
tions early on during his time as  louisiana after graduation to  denied to  notre  dame,” the  
an undergraduate.  earn a master’s degree in jour­ university said in its motion,  

his tassle, Temple returned to take a writer job at the maga­zine, became editor in 1995 and story began with the impres­sion of the university he formed as a high school student in 
“i wanted to learn all i could about the world, the meaning of nature,” he said. “i wanted 
nalism, but his career path see Temple PAGE 5 according to the Tribune. see appeal PAGE 4 



nFl funds nd team to study concussions 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
The national Football league (nFl) and general electric (ge) have teamed up to fund concus­sion-related research projects nationwide, and a notre dame re­search team is behind one of the 16 projects chosen so far. 
professor christian poellabauer said the 16 projects were chosen from a pool of more than 400 pro­posals by a panel of experts for the first of two ge-nFl head health challenges, each of which will share in a $10 million grant. 
“it’s very exciting, because having support from two pow­erhouses, the nFl and ge, is in­credibly helpful,” he said. “The opportunities that come from that — collaboration and expertise — can really make a difference. 
The goal of the notre dame project is to create an application for tablets and smart phones that diagnoses concussions based on voice patterns, specifically vowel sounds, which can be altered by concussive impacts, poellabauer said. he said being selected means his team will receive both the grant money and further 
see research PAGE 5 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite dog breed? 

Chloe Wieber 
sophomore 
howard hall 
“yorkie.” 

Connor Malone 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“border collie.” 

Janine Romy 
sophomore breen-phillips hall 
“pomeranian.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Peter Forbes 
sophomore o’neill 
“shiba inu.” 

Toni Schreier 
sophomore mcglinn hall 
“husky.” 

Zane Parker 
sophomore knot hall 
“weens.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson a.J. godeaux Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine owers william karnes charlie ducey vicky Jacobsen 

Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
keri o’mara miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 

Labor Cafe A Time to Write Men’s Lacrosse ACMS Colloquium Lecture: Biotech 
karla moreno dan sehlhorst 
Geddes Hall Workshop Loftus Sports Center 127 Hayes-Healy Center Innovation Park 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Colemon-Morse Center Time 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Discussion on social 10:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. Exhibition game Talk on Gaussian Talk on production of 




Corrections 

justice. Humantarian writing. against Detriot. process models. new medicines. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Curling Clinic Men’s Basketball Film: “Museum Hours” “Vincent Who?” Four:7 Catholic 
strives for the highest standards 
Compton Family Ice Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Student Fellowship 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Arena 12 p.m.-2 a.m. Arts Center Center Cavanaugh Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
5:30p.m.-7:30 p.m. The Irish take on 3 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Learn the basics for Boston College. 2012 film directed by Documentary on Asian Community song and 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
$5. Jem Cohen. American civil rights. worship. 
we can correct our error. 





Saint Mary’s celebrates Heritage Week 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s college plans to celebrate its history and the 50th anniversary of the death of sister madeleva wolff, the third president of saint mary’s, during next week’s heritage week festivities, se­nior mollie valencia said. 
valencia, student director on the alumnae association board of directors, said many of the heritage week events will be centered around sister madeleva and the mark she left on the college. 
Junior sarah prezek, chair of the mission committee for student government association said she worked with valencia to plan the heritage week events. 
“one of the most important goals of this week is to con­nect saint mary’s women to the women that founded and continually support our col­lege, the sisters of the holy cross convent,” prezek said 
valencia said sister eva mary hooker, professor of english, and John kovach, library archivist, will host a reading sunday of wolff’s work at 2 p.m. in the student center lounge. 
riedinger house, the guest­house on campus, will also host two tea parties monday, valencia said. she said stu­dents can attend an update on the capital campaign saint mary’s launched last year Tuesday in the vander vennett Theater. 
valencia said it is important for students to understand how deeply saint mary’s was rooted in history and how much of that history could be found all across the campus, even in less-frequented areas. 
“There are so many differ­ent places on campus that most students do not know about, and these are the places highlighted during heritage week,” she said. 
To showcase some of this saint mary’s history, sister veronique wiedower, vice president for mission, will lead heritage room tours wednesday, valencia said. she said students can also visit the college archives for tours wednesday. 
valencia said saint mary’s president carol ann mooney will have dinner with ju­niors and seniors in stapleton lounge on Thursday. 
“This dinner will allow stu­dents to dine family-style, similar to the type of dinner that was traditionally served when reignbeaux lounge served as the school’s dining hall,” prezek said. 
prezek said long-sleeved t-shirts will be given out at each event, but she said she hopes that student choose to attend the events to learn more about the history of the college. 
“The events are important to attend because each event sheds a light on aspects of saint mary’s that makes it unique and beloved,” prezek said. “students are given an opportunity to learn about and experience saint mary’s history and traditions.” 


Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

design students create personal websites 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 

in a competitive job mar­ket, students strive to dis­tinguish themselves from other job applicants. at notre dame, taking a web design courses can help undergrad­uate designers stand apart from the rest by creating per­sonal websites to showcase their work, according to se­nior marykate green. green said she used her web design class last semester as an op­portunity to develop and show off a new set of skills. 
“at this time, i was drown­ing in digital design agency job applications, searching for a way to diversify myself amongst all of the other com­petitive applicants,” she said. “as a marketing and graphic design double major, i was especially having a difficult time illustrating to poten­tial employers how i could use my diverse background and skills to help create im­mense value for their brand. i saw this class as the per­fect opportunity and plat­form to design a meaningful experience for my hopeful employers.” 
green said she wanted her website, nomiddlename.me, to show her personality as well as her marketable skills. 
“every aspect of nomi­ddlename.me is carefully constructed to exhibit all my design and marketing skills as well as to give insight into my personality,” she said. “my biggest strength lies in finding a harmonious bal­ance between responsive web design, storytelling, sensory marketing and mar­keting analytics. 
“The goal is that the inter­action of all of these dispa­rate elements is so seamless that it is invisible, creating a wildly entertaining and positive experience for my audience.” 
The website generated a positive response during her career search, green said 
“a few hiring managers and other business people have told me that it’s refresh­ing — that i have separated myself from the ‘pack’ by do­ing something creative with passion,” she said. 
she said she received en­
“A few hiring managers and other business people have told me that it’s refreshing — that I have separated myself from the ‘pack’ by doing something creative with passion.” 
Marykate Green 
design student 

couraging feedback about the site’s integration of mul­tiple design elements, from the overall style to the spe­cific computer code 
“[it] is helpful to employers because they can tell how i can help their company,” she said. “i have also gotten feed­back that the code is clean and precise, which is crucial for web design. i am con­stantly updated and editing my code so that it stays up to date with the most efficient techniques.” 
design professor andre murnieks said students in web design have a great ad­vantage in cultivating an online portfolio to show po­tential employers. 
“design students who in­terview with employers can bring portfolios that show their work, but a personal website can be viewed at any time,” he said. “now it’s be­come that if you don’t have an online presence, why would i [an employer] call you?” 
murnieks said the intro­ductory web design course is open to non-design major, as well. 
“we have people from all corners of the university,” he said. “For non-design students, their websites can include other information, for example, an english ma­jor could display writing samples.” 
although the course is open to non-majors, murnieks said the course is in-depth. 
“we try to do serious de­sign,” he said. “we meet twice a week for two hours and 45 minutes in the design studio. it can be intimidating.” 
in addition to creating per­sonal websites, murnieks said students also learn how to build mobile versions of their websites for touch­screen interfaces, such as those on ipads and iphones. 
“it’s been somewhat of a revolution,” he said. “and part of my mission is to boost what we do in the interactive realm.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

smc students promote modesty in modeling 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
heshima couture, a faith-based modeling agency found­ed in 2012 by saint mary’s senior wendy oduor and ju­nior erin cox, strives to em­brace the edginess of the fashion world while respecting the human body as a temple of christ, oduor said. 
oduor, heshima couture creative director, said she and cox, a photographer, wanted to represent and respect christ while pursuing their passions of modeling and photography. 
“when you look at profes­sional models, they have to one day either show their whole body or breasts, and that to me is too much,” oduor said. “The idea [for heshima couture] of faith-based is the idea of modesty. 
“There’s a verse we use, corinthians 6:19-20, and it tells us we were bought with a price and we should honor our body because it’s not our own body, its technically god’s.” 
heshima means “respect” in swahili and is part of heshima couture’s mission, cox said. she said spotlighting respect and modesty was oduor’s and her main goal in looking for words to describe their agency. 
Their first campaign, which ended in January, was meant to discover the diverse defi­nitions of modesty and how they intertwined with christ, oduor said. oduor said she and cox asked their models for their definition of modesty at each shoot. 
“modesty for me is more of following a commandment that god said,” oduor said. “because he says in his word to honor your body, so he is tell­ing me to honor my body. 
“so when i do it, yes, i do it because i want to i don’t want to expose my body, but most importantly it’s like i am giv­ing respect to my creator, someone who died for me and my sins.” 
cox said she wants people to be inspired and hopes the pictures will build confi­dence in young girls because of heshima’s models and the way they dress and hold themselves. 
“i want them to see strong women,” cox said. “i want them to be inspired by our models and the way that they carry themselves in the photos. 
“it’s a lot about attitude. 
we’ve been focusing on that. it’s a lot about the way you want people to perceive you and perceive yourself. 
“i think that girls having strong role models is one of the most important things. There are so many influences out there and you want to be one of the ones that are good. That’s what we are trying to do.” 
oduor said viewers must understand that heshima couture is not a run-of-the­mill modeling agency. she said people should be able to see god through a sense of glory in the photos. 
“i want them to see that god can be a fun activity,” oduor said. “when you bring religion to some things, some people think it can be boring, but that’s not true. i want them to see that this is cool but see god is in this. i want to make god proud.” 
hoping to help up-and­coming models, oduor said she and cox have big plans for the future. They want to cre­ate contracts with dependable models and fashion designers. 
“we want to help aspiring models who agree with the same mission statement so we can help them to build their portfolios,” oduor said. “it’s only a year old, so we are also trying to find a team who are willing to give it all to it. 
“i want to see all of my mod­els make it up there and still preach the modesty. i want to see heshima in vogue and elle, and with the definition of ‘i’m modest, but i’m still fierce.’” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 



Cardinals 
conTinued From page 1 
indicates the desire to reach out,” cavadini said. 
pope Francis’ list of new cardinals included kelvin edward Felix, archbishop emeritus of castries, accord­ing to the national catholic reporter. Felix received a master of arts degree from notre dame in 1969, ac­cording to the notre dame alumni association. 
“of course he wasn’t elect­ed because he is a notre dame alum, but because of his servant leadership in the church for many years as bishop,” cavadini said. “but it certainly shows [notre dame] can produce church leaders.” 
lawrence cunningham, church historian and theol­ogy professor, said the pope’s attention to marginalized countries will allow those regions of the world the pos­sibility of participating in the college of cardinals’ main responsibility, naming a new pope. 
“it’s usually around this time of year, the beginning of the year, that the pope typi­cally nominates bishops and archbishops to the college of cardinals,” cunningham said. “one of the reasons he does that is to be sure that the catholic world is represented in the college of cardinals because the most important thing that the college does is to elect a new pope. 
“The most interesting thing … was the fact that he named a cardinal from haiti and a cardinal from burkina Faso. burkina Faso is one of the poorest, most wretched countries in africa, and i think that that was done so that those bishops will have in the college of cardinals a voice for the forgotten part of the world, not the third world but basically the fourth world, or the poorest coun­tries of the world. 
“The most important thing is that it says something about [Francis’] tremendous concern for the poor of the world.” 
cavadini said pope Francis’ appointments of archbishop philippe ouèdraogo of burkina Faso and bishop chibly langlois of haiti reflected his attempt to promote the church’s core mission. 
“pope Francis wants to em­phasize that the church is not really here for its own sake, not here for itself,” cavadini said. “The church is here to serve. The church is here to be a witness to god’s love and that means especially in places where that love seems to be most absent. 
“in one sense, [Francis] wants the whole church to be a church of witness to the belief that god is love and so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son.” 

cavadini said pope Francis had continued pope benedict’s return to the fun­damentals of the catholic 
“Pope Benedict had a lot of concern for getting back to the basics of faith like God is love; that was his first encyclical. What Pope Francis is really doing is translating that into a pastoral strategy.” 
John Cavadini 
Institute for Church Life 
director 

faith, but Francis’ commit­ment to pastoral ministry sig­nified a different approach. 
“pope benedict had a lot of concern for getting back to basics of the faith like god is love; that was his first encyc­lical,” cavadini said. “what pope Francis is really doing is translating that into a pasto­ral strategy. 
“so if you’re going to pro­pose to get back to basics that god is love, then you should have a pastoral strategy that organizes the church ac­cording to those principles more obviously.” 
cavadini said the pope had set an example of his own emphasis on pastoral out­reach by reaching out more frequently to those in his own archdiocese. 
“he adds a kind of personal touch to this,” cavadini said. “i think he kind of expects us to have that touch. 
“For example, he says mass every morning where he lives in the domus sanctae marthae, in the [vatican] guesthouse, for just regular people from the archdiocese of rome. in other words, he’s emphasizing that he’s the bishop of rome.” 
cunningham said few of the bishops or archbishops on Francis’ list surprised those who follow vatican decisions closely since the bishops and archbishops of certain major cities or regions almost al­ways become cardinals. 
“he named a canadian, but no one from the united states, and that’s because the places where you tradition­ally find cardinals named are already cardinals,” cunningham said. “For ex­ample, if you become the archbishop of new york, un­less you do something egre­giously stupid or egregiously immoral, you’re going to be named a cardinal.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
Appeal 
conTinued From page 1 
a federal appellate judge in chicago will hear oral argu­ments in notre dame’s case Feb. 12, the Tribune reported. 
“if government is allowed to entangle a religious insti­tution of higher education like notre dame in one area contrary to conscience, it’s given license to do so in oth­ers,” paul browne, vice presi­dent for public affairs and communications, said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



Research of when athletes are ready to re-pennsylvania and Texas to test that group. improve and test the effectiveness 
conTinued From page 1 
assistance with their research. 
“it’s not just funding, it’s more like a partnership,” he said. 
poellabauer said ge’s support in particular could be important in gaining approval from the u.s. Food and drug administration (Fda), given the corporation’s experience with the application process. 
poellabauer said the winning award was granted to research that either diagnoses concussions more quickly and accurately, de­velops new treatments for con­cussions or improves assessment 
Temple 
conTinued From page 1 
ultimately brought him back to notre dame through a writing job at notre dame magazine in 1981. 
“The magazine seemed like an extension of the university and the education i had gotten, and the subject matter was var­ied and engaging and dealt with stuff i liked,” Temple said. “To a large degree, my work at the magazine is a continuation of my time as an undergrad.” 
Temple said he published a book in 2005 that addresses some of the same questions that interested him as a notre dame turn to competition. he said his project is unique among the win­ning proposals, most of which in­volve brain imaging. 
“our voice procedure seems to be very different from the other proposals,” he said. 
The funds will be used for two aspects of the team’s research, poellabauer said. The first use will be proving the technology can work, which is called “proof of concept.” 
poellabauer said the main com­ponent of the proof of concept is data collection. he said the team is partnering with high schools in indiana, illinois, wisconsin, the system on student athletes. 

student.  tough questions. The very first  decides?’. it had articles on abor­ 
“some years ago i wrote a  tion and euthanasia and capital  
book, ‘back to earth,’ about the  “It reflects a  punishment,” Temple said. “it  
search for god in the natural  university that is  was still a pretty edgy publica­ 
world,” he said. “it was the book  tion when i joined the staff [in  
i dreamed of writing when i was  engaged with the  1981], and i think that reputation  
an undergrad here, when i was  world, tells stories  endures to a certain degree. and  
exploring the world and myself  of alumni enaged  the questions posed are peren­ 
and my place in it.”  in the world  nial; we’re still asking them.”  
Throughout his years at notre  and addresses  since becoming editor in 1995,  
dame magazine, Temple said  Temple said he has worked to  
he has seen much continuity in  complicated issues  maintain the focus and esteem  
the magazine’s message and ap­ that our readers  of notre dame magazine, which  
proach, even amid changes in  confront in their  circulates approximately 150,000  
political climate and university  lives.”  copies during each quarterly  
life.  publication.  
“From the onset — back in  Kerry Temple  “its philosophy is essentially  
1972, because of some visionary  Notre Dame Magazine editor  the same,” he said. “it reflects a  
leadership at the time — notre  university that takes on difficult  
dame magazine dealt with the  cover asked, ‘who lives and who  questions, that is engaged with  

participants will provide a baseline recording before their respective competition season and then the schools’ athletic trainers will administer subse­quent tests after practices and games, poellabauer said. The re­cordings will all be analyzed and compared to the baseline, and the results verified against any di­agnosed concussions among the participants. 
poellabauer said the overall data collection effort will involve more than 1,000 students and the researchers expect a minimum of 50 concussions to occur within 
paid adverTisemenT 
The second use of the funding will be developing an algorithm so that the app is fully functional on the device without the wireless connection and cloud computing currently required, poellabauer said. 
“There’s some work involved in getting it all to work efficiently on tablets and smart phones,” he said. 
The researchers are partner­ing with the software company contect inc. to eventually bring the application to the public, poellabauer said. contect is fo­cusing their efforts on commer­cialization while the researchers of the application. 
“our hope is by 2015 to have this in the market,” poellabauer said. 
poellabauer said chemistry and biochemistry professor mayland chang was also doing research related to concussions and oth­er traumatic brain injuries and would submit a proposal for the second ge-nFl head health challenge. 
“The nFl has committed to funding concussion research giv­en the attention concussions have had the last few years,” he said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
the world, tells stories of alumni engaged in that world and ad­dresses complicated issues that our readers confront in their lives.” 
Temple said he envisions the future of notre dame magazine as running in tandem with that of the university, moving toward a global scope. 
“i’d like the magazine to con­tribute more to the international conversation on all manner of topics because that’s exciting and that is consistent with the university’s aspirations,” he said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 



Campus at a crossroads 
love thee, gridlock 

Dan Brombach 
viewpoint editor 

after watching president obama deliver his state of the union address this past Tuesday, i felt frustrated. 
why was i frustrated? obama declared during the course of his speech that this coming year will be one of “action,” of progress — much of it potentially driven by executive action — on issues like cli­mate change, education, immigration and income inequality. i’m not frustrated by the content of this modest agenda. rather, i’m crabby because i know that despite its limited scope, much of this agenda will hit the lovable, non-dysfunctional brick wall and cast of cuddly characters known as the u.s. house of representatives. 
some optimists point to last year’s bipartisan budget deal as proof of an atmosphere of increased political coop­eration, of a reduction of the gridlock and brinkmanship that has characterized our beloved congress in the past year. 
“maybe now both sides will stop throw­ing darts at life-sized photos of one an­other and get along,” they exclaim while buying J.c. penney stock and listening to music on their Zunes. The reality is that from gun control to the minimum wage, from the affordable care act to unemploy­ment insurance, from the debt ceiling to infrastructure spending, republicans and democrats aren’t exactly shaking hands and singing kumbaya. 
obama and speaker of the house John boehner are having more than enough trouble even keeping their own parties in line, as seen by an increasingly rebellious gop faction in the house and surprising number of democrats willing to break with the president on iranian sanctions. immigration reform does present a po­tential window for bipartisan legislative progress, but with house republicans sup­portive of step-by-step, bill-by-bill reform while obama seeks a more comprehensive overhaul, i remain cautiously optimistic about its prospects for success. simply put, it will be far from easy for obama to ac­complish key parts of his new vision before the political “polar vortex” know as mid­term elections dumps several feet of vanity and hair gel on washington, d.c. 
i may be frustrated with the state of politics at the moment, but i also feel like i should end by putting the aforementioned problems in perspective. nobody has violently prevented me from voting lately (as in Thailand), i haven’t been jailed or labeled a terrorist because of my political affiliation (egypt) nor have members of my own government targeted my home with chemical weapons or makeshift bar­rel bombs filled with shrapnel (syria). 
nonetheless, i can’t see 2014 being a “year of action.” whether you’re a democrat, republican or ralph nader en­thusiast, i think we can all look forward to yet another year of teeth grinding politics. 

EDITORIAL 
This week, the university announced plans to add three interdisciplinary buildings to notre dame stadium in an initiative titled the “campus crossroads project.” we are told these facilities will integrate and centralize student life in ways the notre dame community has never seen before, with a new student center, a digital media studio, a recsports facility and music, anthropology and psychology classrooms. 
The additions will also boast new club-level seating, a new scoreboard and a 500-seat ballroom that could substantially improve the gameday experience. The plans for the sur­rounding walkways include significant improvements in landscaping, which will undoubtedly make for a more pleas­ant experience walking among a more-beautified section of campus. There’s no doubt in our minds that this project will live up to its current promise, enhancing both the daily lives of students and the experiences of visitors year-round. 
This project meets long-present needs of the notre dame community and we applaud the way in which notre dame’s administration has paid attention to the needs of the university’s students and academic departments in addition to the needs of its sports teams. we believe these three new buildings will be physical testaments to notre dame’s dedi­cation to cultivating a student’s mind, body and spirit. 
academic departments will benefit from the project. The music department was in sore need of an upgrade — its home, crowley hall, was built in 1883.  although there isn’t mention of a chapel in the campus crossroads blueprints, the sacred music program will gain a “state-of-the-art” prac­tice facility in the new buildings. 
The anthropology and psychology departments, housed separately in Flanner hall and haggar hall, respectively, wished to relocate to locations more accessible for off-cam­pus visitors, so as to better conduct research with subjects who arrive from south bend. now, both departments will have access to the best resources a notre dame research facility can offer in a part of campus easily accessed. 
students will benefit from the project. all students will gain a new location to meet, study and relax. off-campus students who typically park in the stadium lot will no longer have to circle a desolate, empty stadium during the non-foot­ball months to trek to the populated sections of campus — a new community hub will offer comforts and respite from the bitter cold. 
sports teams will benefit from the project. a lot of the buzz has been football-focused, as fans have eaten up promises of improvements to the overall gameday experience. will there be video boards? how about FieldTurf? The basketball teams also gain a new practice facility in what is now rolfs sports recreation center with the relocation of recsports to the new complex. 
clearly, the announcement of this stadium expansion plan is a historic moment for notre dame. 
There have been public concerns about the incredible price tag, or about the focus on these specific improvements to student life. while notre dame has made it clear funding for this project will come from donors, will this construction cannibalize donations that might otherwise have been do­nated to other causes or student needs? 
essentially, there are other segments of student life at notre dame that would benefit from increased funding (e.g. overcrowding in dorms, increased student club funding); funding they potentially could lose if donors who would have given to the university are drawn away to give specifically to the new construction project. other needs persist among the student body and the campus community — we ask the university not to lose sight of these needs during this con­struction project. 
we are excited about the design for this fantastic new facil­ity, and about what it represents for the notre dame com­munity. This project heralds the beginning of a new era for notre dame, and we are eager to watch it come ever closer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
an ill-conceived bragging point 
The new plans for a student center, confusingly called “campus crossroads,” exhibit a level of cynicism and dis­respect for the students that is hard to match. students are the life of a university. education is a university’s first mission. at notre dame, we claim to educate the heart and the mind, but in many ways, our investment is elsewhere. our investment is in accruing prestige, not knowledge. we care more about maintaining our huge endowment, rather than endowing our students with the lessons of Fr. edward sorin and blessed basil moreau. we care about going against convention and being the first to do something new, as if tradition no longer has a meaning to us. 
besides the fact that the facility in question is ground­breaking in neither design nor concept, the disregard for student need is astounding. First of all, the stadium is not the center of campus now, and it shouldn’t be. our strength as a university is not in our sports programs, but in our faith and our academics. secondly, the quad system of the university is completely overlooked in a design that turns the three buildings proposed away from each other and not toward each other. instead, they have a huge field that nobody will be allowed to use ly­ing between them, blocking any natural path from one to another. The proposal furthers the sprawl of the campus, pushing for expansion while forgetting the need to keep our campus walkable. The walkability depends on be­ing able to travel directly and quickly to other buildings. instead of creating a behemoth building that is difficult to walk around, every effort should be made to improve, ren­ovate and build in the heart of campus, centered on god Quad, which houses the very symbol of our university. 
i have watched this campus develop for over the past five years. i have seen the new law school addition built, as well as ryan hall, stinson-remick hall, geddes hall, the morris inn and the stayer center. i have followed the path that campus planners have been taking closely, not only because i am an architecture student, but also be­cause among the many reasons i love notre dame is the beauty of its campus. notre dame’s campus center, which currently includes god Quad and south Quad, is distinc­tive, ordered and meaningful. it points not only to the early years of the university and the hard work of those that built this place we call home, but also to the funda­mental realities that led to the founding of notre dame. 
recent developments have been haphazard and, hav­ing seen the plans for the future, i do not see our campus staying comprehensible, compact and beautiful. instead, i see a university that is desperate to be relevant to other institutions becoming just as desperate to be relevant in higher education. i see haste and carelessness in an effort to show a good face to the world, while quality of student life, the very core of all we do, is rotting away. This new student center seems to be just another shiny package used to brag to the world that we are a premier, forward-thinking institution, while forgetting the needs of the students. 
Nathaniel Gotcher 
fifth-year senior morrissey manor Jan. 31 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
You’re not in Kansas anymore 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

not long ago, everyone considered the annual state of the union address a yearly grand presentation reminis­cent of the dignified ancient greek theatre masks symbolizing the dual­ity of life — melpomene, the muse of tragedy and Thalia, the muse of comedy. regardless of party or politi­cal stance, presidents spoke earnestly with formality and distinction before a respectful, courteous joint session of congress. Franklin d. roosevelt reassured the nation following the attack on pearl harbor. lyndon b. Johnson honored the legacy of John 
F. kennedy, slain by an assassin. This writer stood on the floor of the house of representatives just 10 feet from an optimistic ronald reagan. but alas, in recent years many in congress have turned the evening into personal farces through their rude and outright zany antics as though they traveled over the rainbow into another realm. 
in 2009, during president obama’s first state of the union speech, south carolina republican addison graves “Joe” wilson was formally rebuked by the house of representatives when he breached longstanding decorum by pointing at the president and twice yelling, “you lie.” at this week’s speech, representative steve stockman (r-Texas) walked out to protest what stockman called “a wholesale viola­tion of [obama’s] oath of office and a disqualifying offense.” stockman has brought with him such harsh critics 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

i am walking a quiet path. it’s a dirt road, a windy way through a per­petual, wooded autumn. hues of reds and golds shine as the sun dances through the trees. my eyes turn downward towards the unceremoni­ous path, watching and listening as my feet crunch the occasional leaf scattered throughout this wooded forest. 
it’s perfect fall weather. i am wear­ing a sweatshirt, the kind that fits just right and leaves me feeling like i’ve just been tucked into a bed of clean sheets, except that i am upright and walking around. 
pretty soon, a strange sensation comes over me. This is a dream, and in an instant, i begin to see myself on the path. i observe myself from a dis­tance as my eyes and feet continue to follow the appointed way. although brilliant sights and beautiful life surround me, i am oblivious. i make little sound, save the “crunch” of the occasional leaf that dances across my path. 
i can’t bear to watch myself; i am embarrassed by my tunnel vision. i have an urge to go off the path, of the president like Ted nugent and chad henderson, a student whose hoax of enrolling into obamacare mis­led journalists. 
obama succinctly articulated his accomplishments, oftentimes under­stated by his administration. honoring american citizens who make the state of our union strong, the president listed milestones such as the lowest unemployment rate in more than five years, a rebounding housing market, deficits cut by more than half and a manufacturing sector adding jobs for the first time since the 1990s. he fur­ther noted that more oil is produced at home than bought from the rest of the world — the first time in nearly 20 years. he concluded by saying that for the first time in more than a decade, business leaders worldwide have re­stored the united states over china as the world’s number one place to invest. 
of 80 interruptions, the president’s speech split about down the middle 
— three due to laughter, 40 standing ovations (19 bipartisan, 21 democrat-only), while 42 rounds of applause were democrats-only, 36 rounds were bipartisan and only two rounds were indistinguishable. cnn polls conduct­ed both before and after his speech asked if the president’s policies “will move the country in the right direc­tion.” obama gained 17 percentage points after delivering this year’s ad­dress, rising from 52 percent prior to 69 percent afterward — almost iden­tical to george w. bush’s 16 percent jump in 2006 when he also began at 52 and rose to 68 percent. 
nearly a third of respondents said 
obama should act alone on major is­sues while two-thirds preferred that he work across party lines and compro­mise. obama invited the gop to work together. however, he also warned that continual gridlock forces him to act within his executive powers to over­come the stalemate. 
afterwards, the political factions split the post-speech dialogue. The more zany obama foes seemingly whisked down some yellow brick road. rod serling should have introduced them crossing over with, “you unlock this door with the key of imagination. you’re traveling to another dimension, not only of sight and sound, but also of mind; a journey into a wondrous land whose boundaries are that of the imagination. at the sign post up ahead, your next stop? The Twilight Zone.” 
some like stockman hover on the bubble of pseudo-psycho talk, ginning up his political base by framing issues with wild-eyed rhetoric and straw-man issues. obviously not admitting that the current deficits or unemployment numbers are lower, stockman said, “after five years in office, obama re­fuses to admit his policies have failed.” stockman is running in the Texas senate primary against incumbent sen. John cornyn (r-Texas). 
others, like representative Tim huelskamp (r-kansas), simply dive headfirst into the land of oz by dis­respectfully and blatantly ignoring traditional decorum while tweeting a running stream of more than a dozen insults aimed at the president during the speech. The kansas republican 
love born of action 
off-script, to do something that might help me to wake up to all that is around me. it looks like dangerous woods, but i don’t care. The promise of beauty draws me to want to ne­glect the appointed way. but the “me” that i observe looks quite content to follow the safety of the path. The “observing” me, however, is anything but content. 
This is not a place i want to remain. 
you see, i’ve met this oblivious “me” before. it’s the “me” of only a year ago, a “me” that looked quite content with life and his work in min­istry, taking care of other people and their relationships. 
This “me” took delight in giving advice to others, in talking about love, god and theology as they relate to the human condition. but, the only problem was that like the “me” in the dream, i was oblivious. as i sought to advise and help others sort through the joys and challenges of loving others, i began to realize that, in spending so much time helping oth­ers think through and live out their deepest questions, i hadn’t actually made time to think through my own questions. who did i care about? who would i fight for? who did i love? 
realizing that i had few answers to these questions, i began to feel very empty. and let me tell you: you can’t fake empty. you can put leaves and branches over it and you can try to make it look like normal ground. but that never takes away the fact that the emptiness still exists. 
Then i read this book called “love does” by bob goff. and there i en­countered some words that made me sit up a little straighter: “most people need love and acceptance a lot more than they need advice.” 
and there it was, the error of not only my life in ministry, but also my life in general, staring me straight in the face. i had spent so much time in the clouds, theologizing and advising others about the nature of love that i had forgotten to come back down to earth to see what that love looked like in reality. i could talk about what love was, but i didn’t know what it actu­ally did. 
and the more i thought about it, the more i realized i needed some help. so, i thought about the best person i could think of to point the way: Jesus. i realized that while i may never be able to quote all that Jesus said, i can remember clearly what he did, that is, stretched out his arms on the cross to die for my (our) sake. and he didn’t need to give me any advice or compli­cated discourse about love to help me posted such invective against the commander and chief saying the speech “reads like dictates from a king” and accusing the president of an “imperial presidency,” asking if “a dip­lomat in benghazi … gave his life for his country,” using “crony capitalism” and “politicizing the military to end his speech.” 
huelskamp sealed his first-place prize for whacko-of-the-night by con­fronting msnbc television host rachel maddow. asked to explain his tweets, huelskamp said, “[regarding bangazi] … because it’s hillary clinton you don’t want the answers, rachel, face the fact. The president very clearly ran against the military. he continues to highlight them when it helps politi­cally … oh it’s pretty clear. he wanted to bring the troops home, he wants to close gitmo, he wants to do all kinds of things … it’s very clear, and all of a sudden he’s all for presidential power now.” 
should anyone have the phone num­ber for Toto, please urge the canine to run for congress and bring sanity back to the First district of kansas. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
understand — what he did said it all. 
i realized that the beautiful images, metaphors and explanations of love are not to be disregarded, yet they really resonate because they have been born through action, through sacrifice, through struggle. This is the heart of christianity, i think: god’s love is born most fully through action, through the memory and cel­ebration of christ offering up his life on the cross. 
and so, i think the love that i was missing, the love that will sustain me must be active, an offering up of my life, like christ, to and for another. and it’s going to hurt and cost me to share my vulnerabilities with others outside of a romanticized, ministry setting. but it is here, i think, that the reality of true love will be born. Jesus showed us that this reality is worth it — that it is the way to perfect love — a way worth living and dying for. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and a student in the Echo Faith Formation Leadership Program in the Notre Dame Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

The one-of-a-kind thrill and amaze­ment of “The intergalactic nemesis” returns to notre dame this weekend, as creator, writer, production designer and director Jason neulander and his cast and crew present both their original production, “The intergalactic nemesis 
— book one: Target earth.” The group performed this piece in the browning cinema two years ago, as well as their se­quel, “The intergalactic nemesis — book Two: robot planet rising.” 
The show in the spring of 2012 received rave reviews from at least one prominent theater critic in The observer’s scene section (me), and, as can be seen from the director below, the sequel aims to re­peat and enhance the fun. 
For a little background on the show, it combines a full graphic novel projected onto a screen behind the stage with ac­tors reading and acting the script like a radio play on stage. meanwhile, a Foley artist works in center stage creating all of the sound effects live for the action in the play. it’s an exhilarating and truly entertaining concept that the cast and crew executed magnificently for the first show. neulander agreed to speak over the phone before the performance this weekend, and the full transcript of the in­terview is below. “intergalactic nemesis 
— book one: Target earth” will begin at 2:00 p.m. saturday in the debartolo performing arts center and tickets will be $10. “intergalactic nemesis — book Two: robot planet rising” will be per­formed at 7:30 p.m. saturday in dpac and tickets will start at $15. 
KN: We talked two years ago when you came through and I just re-listened to the interview, it was interesting because one of the things you talked about was that you were about to be touring around the world, you went to Edinburgh, you played on Broadway, you played at the Kennedy Center. But when you came to Notre Dame two years ago you were still starting to build mo­mentum. It was still a brand new show. I’m curious what it’s like now four years into the show now that you’ve achieved so much success what it’s like looking back on where you’ve come from? 
Jn: it’s funny you say that, success is a wonderfully moving target. but it feels 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

amazing. everything that’s happened with the project so far has been nothing but a dream come true. it’s really hard to believe that when i launched a show in 2010, i had no idea that all of this would happen. it’s totally remarkable looking back, just amazing. 
KN: When you last came here you were debuting “Book One,” and now you guys have “Book Two” on tour, where does the story take off from “Book One” into “Book Two”? 
Jn: so “book Two” picks up two weeks after “book one” ends, and it is impor­tant for folks to know that you definite­ly do not have to see “book one” to see “book Two.” The story in “book Two” does stand alone; there’s definitely no obligation to see both. in “book Two,” my biggest inspiration for “robot planet rising” was my relationship as a viewer for “empire strikes back.” “star wars” kind of sets up that universe and then “empire strikes back” kind of makes it darker and more complex and introduc­es some great new characters, and that’s exactly what we tried to do with “robot planet rising.” 
so basically it picks up two weeks later, Timmy and molly are still on romanovia when their guide, the guy who kind of introduced them on that world. elbee­dee-oh, disappears into deep space, and it’s up to molly and Timmy to find out what happened to him. but at the same time, unbeknownst to molly and Timmy, through a crazy set of bizarre circumstances, molly’s former fiancée, dr. lawrence webster, finds himself on romanovia at exactly the same time. needless to say, things get very compli­cated very quickly. i’ll leave it there. it’s filled with mystery; it’s filled with adven­ture. yeah, i guarantee you it delivers. 
KN: With such a busy touring sched­ule, how do you find time to write this and coordinate with the artists and stuff like that? 
Jn: That’s such a great question be­cause i really don’t know. we’re in the middle of developing “book Three” and it is extremely difficult to find the time, although somehow i managed to do it. but looking back on it as i’m working on it now i’m like, “what the hell did i do last time?” and i honestly don’t remem­ber so it’s all kind of a blur. 
KN: I don’t mean to come off as insult­ing with this question, but how do you keep it fresh? I know with the first one, one of the things I loved so much about it was that it was a totally new experi­ence; I’d never seen anything like it be­fore. How do you keep the energy fresh in the sequel and keep it from being stale? 
Jn: For me, the reason i’ve stuck with this project is really it’s all about the characters for me. so the mechanism by which we’re delivering the story, the for­mat of the live show, to me is secondary to the experience of trying to do our best to tell a great story and develop great characters. i think with “book Two,” the format is the same and audiences that saw “book one” will immediately under­stand how to watch this new chapter in the series, the story is really kind of de­veloped at a pretty high level. it’s pretty different in feel from “book one.” like “book one” was really pretty straight up episodic adventure; in “book Two” what we do is we take four of what appear to be completely distinct, separate story arcs and over the course of act one weave those together so you’re like “oh, that’s what’s going on.” 
and then act two takes off like a rocket ship and never stops once all the arcs come together. one of the big inspira­tions for “book Two” was the movie “The big sleep.” it stars humphrey bogart, and it’s a film noir detective story. Timmy fol­lows this mystery story arc, for example, and that has a pretty different feel from anything in “book one.” and likewise introducing lawrence webster and his assistant dr. natasha Zorokov as charac­ters, there’s one like them in “book one.” and then when natasha and molly get together, which happens pretty early in act one of ‘robot planet rising,’ they’re such great foils for one another, you can’t help but get caught up in their story. plus, with ‘book one’ you had one actor doing a lot of multiple roles and the other two actors doing basically individual charac­ters. with ‘book Two,’ each of the three actors, there’rs six main characters and each of the actors plays two. so there’s a lot of vocal pyrotechnics going on that you just didn’t get in “book one.” 
KN: I’m looking at your touring sched­ule, and you’ve Hawaii, Canada, all over the world, but I’ve got to imagine that this is just a fun thing to be doing. Does it feel like work to you guys? 
Jn: it really is fun. one of the really fun things about when we get to bring the sequel back to a venue is, what hap­pens when we bring ‘book one’ is most everybody who comes to see the show really has no idea what they’re in for. and they come in curious and i really think they walk out fans. but what hap­pens with ‘book Two’ is now usually the audience is about half and half people who’ve seen the first one and people who haven’t. The people who’ve seen the first one, they’re already invested in the show and they bring this energy into the room, it’s kind of like a rock concert. it’s really amazing. and because the audience now, at least half of them, know how to watch the show, from the get-go they’re in it. and that’s really remarkable, and so far it totally has not gotten old. That’s something everybody talks about after pretty much every performance just how amazing the audience reaction is. so that’s definitely one of the main things that keeps it fun. plus we get to be tour­ists also a little bit while we’re traveling so that’s pretty fun, too. 
KN: You’re four years into this, you’re writing ‘Book Three’ right now, where’s the future for this show? Or are you even looking that far? Where do you see this down the road? 
Jn: well, with the show itself i think i just want to see how long we can sus­tain touring all three productions. but then with the ‘intergalactic nemesis’ universe that we’ve created, i’m already looking at expanding that. right now i’m in the beginning of developing a podcast based on Jean-pierre desperois who’s one of the secondary characters in ‘Target earth.’ my dream of the proj­ect would be to see the main trilogy a series of feature films, i’d love to develop a couple of television series out of it, i’d love to see a couple characters take on a life in a trade paperback novel series. so for me, now that we’re at the tail end of developing the live productions and that’s starting to take on a life of its own, i’m really starting to focus on how can i expand the title, how can i expand the characters and how can i just raise much greater awareness among the general population of what this project is. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at                    knoonan2@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2014| ndsmcobserver.com 
“They Reminisce Over You (T.R.O.Y.)” Pete Rock & CL Smooth  
“NFL on Fox” Scott Schreer, Reed Hays and Phil Garrod  
“The Other Side” Bruno Mars featuring Cee-Lo Green & B.o.B.  
“Black Skinhead” Kanye West  
“Radioactive (Remix)” Imagine Dragons featuring Kendrick Lamar  
“Omaha” Counting Crows  
“Let’s Go” Cypria  
“Ain’t No Mountain High Enough” Marvin Gaye  
“Here Comes the Boom” Nelly  
“Go Long” Nipsey Hussle featuring Z-Ro and Slim Thug  
“Friday Night Lights Theme” W.G. Snuffy Walden  
“Devil Town” Tony Luccia  

SUPERBOWL PLAYLIST 

Denver Broncos. Seattle Seahawks. Super Bowl XLVIII is here this Sunday. Here are a few songs to get you all fired up and ready to shout out “Omaha!” on every other down with Peyton Manning. 




Listen to the playlist online at 
ndsmcobserver.com/section/scene 

By ERIN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 
my earbuds are in; my radar is on. my eyes sweep across south Quad, keeping an eye out for quasi-familiar faces to avoid. spotted: one bubbly girl from my math tutorial. her ponytail is bouncing. she is eager to pounce on any chance for social interac­tion, hoping someone will notice that her water bottle matches her vera bradley laptop case. This is serious. my instincts kick in and i cut across one of the di­agonals on south Quad, success­fully avoiding a chummy run-in. 
i am not a social piranha. i am not a nerd. proof: i had to look up how to spell “piranha,” and google could not figure out what word to suggest for autocorrect (is “pyrrnaha” really that far off?). i had my ponytail-bounc­ing, sperry-sporting days. i would smile at anyone i knew or any cute boys i wanted to know. as a first-semester freshman, i couldn’t understand why i was the only one skipping through campus, waving madly at the girl i stood next to in the pasta line last Tuesday. Then i learned why some students avoid small talk at all costs. after the smile and the hug comes the inevita­ble inquiry, the “what have you been up to lately?” 
oh, both parties will pat themselves on the back for feign­ing interest in their Facebook friend’s life. Fewer will listen to or remember the answer to their cordial question. as notre dame students, though, both will probably have an exciting and impressive feat to offer off­hand. “oh, i’ve just been perus­ing peruvian literature” or “i’m kind of worn out today from my six-hour shift at the lab — you’d think i’d be used to it by now.” 
For me, these conversations went much like my freshman racquetball class. i would hit the ball and the ball would come back to hit me. For after my ac­quaintances dazzled me with eloquent anecdotes, they ex­pected me to share something stupendous. and just like in rac­quetball, i let the ball drop in my court. 

it’s not that my life is boring 
— it’s just that folding laundry is not on par with interviewing the mayor of chicago. do i spend all my time folding laundry? no. so what do i spend my time doing? That is the question. 
confession: i am a procrasti­nator. but i am not just any pro­crastinator. no, that would not do. i would call myself a produc­tive procrastinator, much like my grandma would say that she is in active retirement. complacent procrastinators may resign themselves to a “breaking bad” break or a starbucks run, but productive procrastinators will continue to reject the accepted and attempt the ludicrous. 
being a productive procras­tinator is an art — an art that is practiced by many, but recog­nized by few. do you color code your drawers instead of writ­ing your philosophy paper? do you sprint to rolfs rather than tackle your problem set? are you reading this article instead of reading “The odyssey”? if so, you may be a productive procrastinator. 
The good thing about produc­tive procrastinators is that we seem to have our lives together. we have picked up every crumb; we have planned out our outfits the night before … the week be­fore … we are not ashamed of our productive procrastinating ways. it’s just that when people ask us what we have been up to, we don’t want to admit that we have been hole-punching for 20 minutes. 
but someone has to hole-punch. someone has to bake muffins. The problem is: that someone is always us. we jump at the opportunity to support our friends at acousticafé or try a spinning class, even if it means pushing off our work — espe­cially if it means pushing off our work. so, while we have prob­ably made origami swans while watching opera, we probably have not started our homework yet. 
productive procrastination is similar to any other art: it can be done well, but one must learn from the masters. only an ex­pert should attempt to multitask while procrastinating. after a few years of experience, though, one should be able to listen to npr while crocheting on the el­liptical. don’t try to knit on the treadmill, though. save that for the professionals. 
The occasional self-taught procrastinator can revolution­ize the art, similar to how the autodidact leonardo da vinci brought a new perspective to painting. not everyone, howev­er, can create a mona lisa. when premature procrastinators try to innovate, the risks they take either fail miserably or usher in an era of efficiency. if they stray from the norm, their actions may be regarded as vulgar, at least ephemerally. performing jumping jacks while in line at the grocery store may be frowned upon. That doesn’t mean it won’t catch on eventually. keep in mind that people used to think that all secular music was sin­ful. Turn on the radio today, and you’ll see that the public, much like katy perry’s ex-fiancé, is hot and then cold. 
The procrastinator in us loves small talk, but the productive part of us craves to do more with our wasted time. we may avoid talking to acquaintances, since it reveals our less than normal natures and stops us from ac­complishing that which need not be accomplished. once we know them well enough to re­veal our amour of multitasking, we enjoy long and meaningful conversations — as long as we can brush our teeth and practice our pliés at the same time. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Sox-Yanks rivalry steeped in lore 

Kit Loughran 
sports writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the final installment in a 10-part series discussing the best rivalry in sports. In this installment, Kit Loughran argues that Yankees-Red Sox deserves the top spot. Join the discussion on Twitter by using #BestRivalry. 
red sox vs. yankees. hands down the best rivalry in sports. do i even need to say more? 
There really is no explana­tion necessary to defend this as the greatest sports rivalry. its span stretches from 1901 to the present. and, since the day the red sox traded babe ruth to the yankees back in 1918, there was no going back. The rivalry’s fate was sealed. 
The curse of the bambino adds an element to the rival­ry with which no one else in sports can compete. The red sox won four world series, and they sold ruth to the yankees for $125,000 and a $300,000 loan. probably the worst decision anyone could make. That sin haunted the red sox for almost a century, and it still fuels the rivalry today. 
The best thing about this rivalry: it is always relevant. even with boston’s last place finish under bobby valentine in 2012, the rivalry was still there. everyone knows what is at stake when boston and new york meet. 
in the 351 games between the yankees and red sox while one or both teams were in contention since 1992, it’s the yanks that come out on top leading 188 to 132 games. however, yankee fans, don’t get too ahead of yourselves. it’s now the reigning world series-champion red sox that are sporting the stronger roster. The question of how long the red sox will be better than the yankees really has no answer. but, i say, who cares? let it brew all the more tension between the teams. 
speaking of tension, 10 years ago there was the don Zimmer-pedro martinez fiasco. The 2003 alcs was tied 1-1, tensions were high, and pitchers martinez and roger clemens weren’t helping. The yankee bench cleared once when martinez nicked right fielder karim garcia’s helmet. Then it was clemens that got sox slug­ger manny ramirez in the shoulder with a fastball high and inside. 
That did it. next thing you know benches were cleared, and 72-year old yankee coach don Zimmer went straight for pedro martinez. martinez threw Zimmer down — i mean, he is 40 years his junior — and then it was pure chaos. if that’s not spurred by pure rivalry, then i don’t know what is. 
with every great rivalry comes the ultimate show­down. For the yanks and sox, it’s most definitely the 2004 alcs. The red sox lost the first three games of the series, and then mi­raculously went on to win the next four to win the american league bid to the world series. nothing could scream “rivalry” more than the red sox beating the yankees in game 7 at yankee stadium. new england was in uproar. headlines read­ing “dead sox” suddenly changed to “hell Freezes over” and “choke’s on us.” 
The yankees suffered the biggest collapse in post­season baseball history, and the red sox had the greatest comeback in post­season baseball history. coincidence that these two records were set by the big­gest rivals in baseball histo­ry — and against each other, nonetheless? i think not. 
The red sox are taking the lead now, the yankees are eagerly pursuing them, and former sox outfielder Jacoby ellsbury just switched uni­forms. The race for the “evil empire” might be undecid­ed, but one thing is for cer­tain: red sox vs. yankees is the greatest sports rivalry. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughran@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NBA 

dragic leads suns over indy 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — goran dragic had 28 points and seven assists and the phoenix suns handed the indiana pacers just their second home loss of the sea­son with a 102-94 victory Thursday night. 
gerald green and marcus morris scored 16 points apiece to help the suns win their fourth straight game. 
roy hibbert had 26 points and david west added 18 for the pacers (35-10). 
morris hit a 3-pointer with 
2:58 remaining to give the suns a 98-92 lead and dragic dunked to give the suns a 100-94 with 44 seconds left. 
The suns scored 66 points in the first half — the most given up by the pacers in a half this season since the suns scored 62 on indiana a week ago in a 124-100 win. 
The pacers rallied after trailing 66-49 at the break, but never could take the lead. 
They went on an 8-2 run early in the second half with shots by west, paul george, lance stephenson and george hill to get within 70­
53. later, george was fouled on a layup and converted the 3-point play to make it 71-61 with 7:01 left in the third. 
miles plumlee missed a dunk and hibbert scored on a putback to get indiana within eight. channing Frye answered with a bas­ket and then hibbert scored indiana’s next six points to get the pacers within 73-69. 
pacers guard c.J. watson scored a layup at the start of the fourth quarter to make it 77-76, but morris scored two free throws to put the suns back ahead by three. 
hill scored two free throws to make it 91-90 with 4:20 remaining, but gerald green extended the lead with two free throws and hill made a lay-up be­fore green scored a jumper to put the suns ahead 95-92 and morris hit a 3-pointer with 2:58 left to give the suns a 98-92 lead. 
The suns pulled away in the first quarter. They went on a 9-0 run early in the game when dragic tied the game on a layup and later hit a jumper to give the suns a 6-8 lead. Then green hit a 3-pointer and another bas­ket to make it 13-6 with 6:24 left in the first quarter. 
The suns went on a 15-2 run to close out the first quarter with a 36-19 lead. 
stephenson, who left the game in the first quarter af­ter getting hit in the right eye, scored 12 second-quar­ter points. west added 10, but the pacers were never able to put together a run or cut into the deficit. 
even when george hit a jumper falling out of bounds that went over the corner of the backboard and through the hoop, it didn’t matter. dragic hit a 3-pointer to take back the lead and to give the suns a 62-45 lead. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

gators chomp bulldogs 
Associated Press 

sTarkville — casey prather scored 16 points, patric young added 12 and no. 3 Florida beat mississippi state 62-51 Thursday night for its 12th straight win. 
The gators (18-2, 7-0 southeastern conference) had a slow start on offense, but made up for it with suffocating defense. it was the 12th time this season Florida held an op­ponent to 60 points or fewer. 
Florida’s michael Frazier ii had just nine points, but his three 3-pointers helped the gators keep a comfortable lead throughout most of the second half. 
mississippi state (13-7, 3-4) lost for the first time at home during conference play. The bulldogs have lost four straight to the gators. 
colin borchert scored 15 and craig sword 12 for mississippi state. 
both teams had a rough night at the free throw line. Florida was 8 of 19 (35.3 per­cent) and mississippi state 1 of 

FOR SALE 

2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call 561-588­5520 
6 (42.1 percent). 

chris walker, Florida’s touted 6-foot-10 freshman forward, is expected to make his college debut on Tuesday against missouri after be­ing cleared by the ncaa. his arrival will give the gators some much needed frontcourt depth. 
but young was enough on Thursday. The powerful 6-foot-9, 240-pound senior was a consistent presence on both ends of the court, provid­ing timely baskets and post defense. 
prather went to the locker room briefly in the first half with an apparent injury, but returned to shoot 7 of 8 from the field. his baseline drive and dunk gave the gators a 55-42 lead with five minutes left that helped put the game away. 
mississippi state had an 11-1 record at humphrey coliseum coming into Thursday’s game and was tough once again on its home floor. 
Florida was in control for most of the first half, jumping out to a 27-18 lead with 5:18 remaining. 
but mississippi state’s Tyson cunningham made an off-bal­ance 3-pointer with the shot clock winding down to spark an 8-0 run, and i.J. ready’s la­yup a few seconds before the buzzer pulled the bulldogs to 27-26. 
Florida was coming off a dominant defensive perfor­mance in a 67-41 victory over Tennessee on saturday, and the team’s length and athleti­cism also gave the bulldogs problems. but the gators couldn’t hit shots — making just 10 of 27 (37 percent) from the field in the first half. 
nothing was easy. young hit a couple inside buckets early in the second half and prather’s layup at the rim gave the gators a 42-32 advantage with 12:05 remaining. 
mississippi state had a couple of good moments in the second half, but Florida’s superior depth, size and ath­leticism proved too much to overcome. ready added 10 points for the bulldogs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Super Bowl Quotes of the Week: for other games. 
- “I’m S.R., bruh - stay ready.So there -I’ve thrown a lot of yards and touch­ain’t no gettin’ ready” - Seahawks run-down ‘ducks.’” -Peyton Manning, in ning back Marshawn Lynch, in response response to Seahawks cornerback to whether getting ready for the Super Richard Sherman claiming the Broncos Bowl was different than getting ready quarterback threw “ducks.” 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish welcome Wildcats to Eck for rematch 
was key to the last irish victory, pulling out the decisive match for the win and earning acc Tennis player of the week honors. sachire said covalschi will be just as important this weekend, but he also is comfortable with any of his players in a high-pres­sure situation. 
“we’ve talked to our guys all year about opportunities for suc­cess and eddy did a great job of stepping up and managing that situation,” sachire said. “we’re confident that he can play at that level if he has that oppor­tunity. and that can be said for any of the rest of our guys as well. [against minnesota], it was [ju­nior] wyatt mccoy that filled that role, so we’re very confident in our players.” 

with that level of depth, sachire said he will wait un­til sunday to set his lineup, but plans to make some changes to counter kentucky’s moves. 
senior greg andrews, notre dame’s top player, has struggled as of late. The no. 22 singles player in the country suffered two straight losses in singles to minnesota junior leandro Toledo and kentucky senior Tom Jomby, but has paired with soph­omore alex lawson to climb to no. 21 nationally in doubles. 
behind andrews and lawson, the irish are off to their best start in over a decade, but sachire said the team is tempering its excite­ment and looking down the road. 
“we’re confident that we’re capable of being a pretty good team, but we realize that this is still January,” sachire said. “it’s a long year. This is a marathon and we’re only at mile four. so, we’re taking this all in stride. we’re obviously excited to be playing well at the moment, but we knew coming in to the year that we had a good team. we’re on the right track, but there’s still a lot of work left to be done.” 
The irish return to the eck Tennis pavilion to square off against kentucky for the second time in as many weeks at 2 p.m. sunday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
eight days after upsetting no. 13 kentucky on the road, no. 22 notre dame will have a chance to take down the wildcats again on sunday, this time in the friendly confines of eck Tennis pavilion. 
The irish (5-0) handed the wildcats (5-1) their first loss of the season saturday in a thrilling, back-and-forth battle that notre dame won at the wire, 4-3. irish coach ryan sachire said he an­ticipates another close match as both teams adjust their lineups. 
“it’s a different venue,” sachire said. “it’s a different week. we know that there will be different individual matchups. really, the 

paid adverTisemenT 
only thing we can take from last week is that we know they’re a great team and it’s going to be a great battle.” 
still, sachire said he is confi­dent that his team will match up well with the wildcats, especially as they return home. The con­test is notre dame’s only home match for three weeks and the irish are eager to hit the road on a high note, sachire said. 
“[eck pavilion] is our home,” sachire said. “we love this place. especially recently, our players have really bought into the idea of protecting the eck. we excited to come back after beating them at their place and try to beat them here.” 
Freshman eddy covalschi 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

nd hosts shamrock invite 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
notre dame returns to rolfs aquatic center on Friday and saturday for the ninth annual shamrock invitational. it’s the team’s first home meet since november and the second-to­last competition before acc championships. 
The three-session meet fol­lows the order of the ncaa championships, albeit in a short­er time period. each race counts as a timed final instead of having preliminary and finals sessions as at the three-day ncaa meet. 
“[The sessions] are compact, but it is the same sequence as the ncaa meet,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “it gives us a sense of just reminding us what’s the order these events come up in, what does it feel like to go from 

paid adverTisemenT 
this event to that event, to go from individual events to relays. it’s a lot of racing in a short time.” 
welsh said the condensed nature of the meet is one of its benefits in preparing for confer­ence championships, where each swimmer can race in up to four individual and eight events total. 
“all three sessions take place in just over 24 hours, so guys will swim a lot,” he said. “That’s one of the advantages of it: it’s a lot of swimming in a very compressed timeframe. it’s all pretty intense because, for most guys, these are going to be their [acc and ncaa] championship events, and i think that’s probably true for each of the teams.” 
The irish (4-5-1, 1-1 acc) will host no. 25 iowa and missouri state at the meet. 
iowa (1-7, 1-6 big Ten) placed second behind notre dame in its own hawkeye invitational in december, the two team’s only meeting of the season so far. 
“iowa is always good, always fast and always challenging,” welsh said. 
missouri state (8-2, 2-0 mvc) also brings in competition with a strong, core group of swimmers, and welsh said the meet’s format could give the bears an edge this weekend. 
“They’re good, and their front line is very, very good,” welsh said. “The dual-meet scor­ing system [of the shamrock invitational] takes depth out of the picture, so the fact that missouri state has strong lead swimmers gives them a great chance in this meet. 
“i expect that we’ll have to race wall-to-wall in all 20 events, and that’s what we want to do.” 
incarnate word, in its first year of division-i swimming and div­ing, was supposed to round out the four-team field, but a flight cancellation will prevent the cardinals from arriving in south bend until after the meet com­menced, so the team will not make the trip, welsh said. 
notre dame has not competed in their home pool since its 191.5­
108.5 win over wisconsin in a dual meet nov. 16. 
“we love our pool,” welsh said. “we love racing here. we race well here. we usually have great crowd support, so we just love being back, and we think it’ll be a great weekend for us.” 
The irish will also honor their four seniors — colin babcock, Joshua choi, Frank dyer and bertie nel — in a ceremony prior to the saturday afternoon session. 
The competition kicks off Friday at 5 p.m. at rolfs aquatic center and continues with saturday’s sessions at 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Exhibitions kick off Notre Dame’s season 

By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
no. 5 notre dame kicks off its 2014 season with a pair of ex­hibitions this weekend when it hosts bellarmine and detroit. 
The irish are coming off a sea­son in which they went 11-5 and lost in the ncaa Quarterfinals to duke, the eventual national champion. notre dame, which returns four of its five leading scorers from last season, will look to again field a competitive team in its first year in the acc. 
“This year, we’ve got maybe the most challenging schedule that i’ve ever seen a team have,” irish coach kevin corrigan said. “no part of that scares us — it’s very exciting.” 
notre dame will first battle bellarmine, a team that went 7-7 in 2013 but had five of their seven losses come by two goals or less. The knights ranked eighth in the country in scor­ing defense last year, but lost their first ever all-american, goaltender dillon ward, to graduation. 
Following the matchup with bellarmine will be a tilt with detroit, an opponent notre dame struggled with during the first round of the ncaa tour­nament last year. The Titans struggled most of the year, compiling a 5-10 record, before earning an automatic berth to the ncaa tournament by win­ning the maac championship. detroit may sport the strongest attack in the maac in 2014, re­turning its top nine goal and points scorers. 
“i can’t wait [for the exhibi­tions],” corrigan said. “you get to a point in the preseason where you’re not sure what kind of progress you’re making. in order to make the decisions about your team, you need to play against somebody else.” 
corrigan will be looking to replace three-year starting goaltender John kemp, an all­american and a vocal leader on defense. Junior conor kelly will get the nod at goalie, with freshman shane doss pushing for early playing time. corrigan, however, was quick to dismiss comparisons. 
“we try not to talk about anybody replacing anybody — every year is new, every team is different,” corrigan said. “we’re not looking to replace John kemp, were looking to have conor kelly come in and 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

irish return home to face illini, hoosiers 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
coming off of a tourna­ment weekend where no. 23 notre dame split two match­es against no. 24 arizona state and oklahoma state in evanston, ill., the irish (3-1) will return home for a pair of matches over this week­end, starting against illinois on Friday and then facing indiana on sunday. This is the first time the irish have faced off against the Fighting illini (3-0) and the hoosiers (3-0) this season. 
when it comes to illinois, irish head coach Jay louderback says he knows where his team will need to step up. 
“They always play really good doubles,” louderback said. “maybe two of the last three years we’ve lost the doubles point to them. we’ve beaten them every time but it makes it a lot tougher and their doubles are always just really good.” 
while his team looks to stymie the doubles play of the illini, including se­nior misia kedzierski and freshman louise kwong, louderback will also be dealing with an opposing coach he knows quite well. illini head coach michelle dasso played for him at notre dame and was once his assistant. 
“she was not only a good singles player but also a re­ally good doubles player,” louderback said of dasso. “we get along, we’re very close. it’s hard playing them because i like to see them do very well … just not when we play them. she always has them ready to play.” 
The irish will likely coun­ter the play of illini with their own doubles teams, including sophomore Quinn gleason and senior britney sanders. 
on sunday, the irish turn their attention to indiana. louderback says the hoosiers aren’t a team to be taken lightly. 
“indiana is good,” louderback said. “They’re about the same as illinois. i think indiana is probably a little deeper than illinois. They’re, from one to six, very similar. They have a good number one, and then from two to six they’re all the same.” 
The irish have also been playing as a well-balanced unit and have not surren­dered a point in any of their three wins. louderback sees these matches as a good litmus test as the irish get closer to their first season of acc play. 
“[illinois and indiana] are two teams that’ll end up ranking anywhere between the top twenty and forty,” louderback said. “This’ll be a good weekend for us.” 
The irish resume play against the illini on Friday at 
3:30 p.m., and will conclude the weekend’s play with a match against indiana on sunday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
do his job.” 
whether it is kelly or doss who seizes the starting job, they will have an experienced and high-powered offense in front of them. The irish will bring back a trio of proven scorers, led by sophomore attackman matt kavanagh. kavanagh (who had 32 goals and 48 points in 2013) will get help from junior attack-man conor doyle (20 goals, 30 points) and senior midfielder Jim marlatt (20 goals, 32 points), among others. despite perenni­ally being a middle of the pack offensive team — notre dame has had an adjusted offensive efficiency ranking of just 27th since 2010 — corrigan said he has no plans to revamp his of­fense to become more explosive. 
“if we win, our offense and our defense were successful,” corrigan said. “if we lose, they weren’t as successful as they needed to be. we need to play smart, efficient offense [this year] that allows us to be up by one when the game ends.” 
The irish will look to finish the preseason on a high note when they battle bellarmine on saturday at 2 p.m., and detroit on sunday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 





Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
has to be good.” 
notre dame enters the weekend in eighth place in the 11-team hockey east, three points behind the sixth-place wildcats. but the irish are also tied for the fewest hockey east games played, as they try to work their way to the top four of the conference by the end of the regular season to receive a bye and home-ice advantage in the conference tournament. 
“it’s not just four points, it’s an opportunity for us to get four points and get on a bit of a roll here,” senior defenseman stephen Johns said. “and i think we have to if we want this season to go as long as possible. i think we all know we’re ca­pable of doing it, but it’s a matter of fact that we need 

paid adverTisemenT 

to go out and actually do it.” 
a potential boost for notre dame this week­end is the expected return of sophomore forward Thomas dipauli, who missed the last four games due to injury. he will come back to an irish team that’s won five of their last six games, but been unable to sweep any hockey east op­ponent this season. 
“it’s going to be a tough weekend,” Jackson said. “[new hampshire is] bat­tling for a top-four spot in the conference, and we’re still thinking that’s a possi­bility, but we’ve got to win games.” 
The irish and wildcats square off at 7:30 p.m. to­night and 4 p.m. saturday in durham, n.h. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
W BBall 
conTinued From page 16 
in the maryland game as we wanted to, so i think this was kind of our chance to redeem ourselves.” 
The second half of the game featured another play that brought the home crowd to its feet, this time courtesy of a series of quick passes between sophomore guard Jewell loyd and freshman guard lindsay allen capped off by an alley­oop layup for loyd. 
“it brought us energy,” mcgraw said of the play. “we just needed something to get that crowd going. we’d just been so dead in terms of our pace and our effort at both ends of the floor. we just looked like we were going through the motions, so that really perked the crowd up, so it was good to see we had a lit­tle bit of energy in our tank.” 
loyd, playing with a brace on her knee for the second straight game, dropped 14 points in the contest, while mcbride led all players with 18. reimer and senior forward natalie achonwa also posted double figures in scoring with 15 and 10 points, respectively. 
mcbride said her team’s mental toughness has been the most important factor in their 20-0 start. 
“we’re a really tough team,” she said. “we have this mentality of, we know what our goals are, and we’re not ready to settle for any­thing less than that.” 
another test awaits the irish en route to accomplish­ing those goals when they head to cameron indoor stadium to face no. 3 duke on sunday. 
The blue devils (21-1, 8-0 acc) are led by senior guard Tricia liston, who averages 
18.4 points per game and 50.4 percent from behind the arc. 
The team comes in to the contest in the wake of a last-minute, 76-75 win over miami on Thursday, in which junior center elizabeth williams sank two free throws with 1.7 seconds left to take the close victory for the blue devils. 
“This is going to be yet an­other big road game for us in a string of many,” mcgraw said. “it’s a tough time of the year. you’re in a grind, so we’ve really got to be fo­cused mentally and be ready because it’s going to be just a battle. i think it’s going to be a war. 
“we beat them last year to go to the Final Four, and i’m sure they have revenge on their mind.” 
The top two squads in the acc and two of the top three teams in the country will clash sunday, when the irish meet the blue devils at 2 p.m. at cameron indoor stadium in durham, n.c. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


M BBall 
conTinued From page 16 
a tough night you gotta come back and compete right away and almost kind of flush it a little bit.” 
still, brey said the only way to restore confidence in his squad is to come out on the right side of a few games. 
“you need to come into that locker room and feel good about a win to kind of feel good about yourself, and you can’t simulate that in practice,” he said. “i think you want to send a team out on saturday that’s loose and ready to compete and not like, ‘oh my gosh, we need a win.’ because that won’t help us.” 
boston college (6-14, 2-5) enters the game off a deci­sive 76-52 win over virginia Tech on wednesday, its first victory in four tries and only the second win in the last nine outings. The eagles are 10th in the acc in scoring offense but last in both scor­ing defense and scoring mar­gin. against the hokies (8-12, 1-7), boston college shot 44.4 percent from the field and hit 14 three pointers on 37 attempts. 
“saturday we play a team that can shoot the heck [out] of it and played well [wednesday], and in a lot of the same situations we’re in,” brey said. “you know, as they’re trying to figure it out.” 
The eagles placed four players in double-figure scor­ing against virginia Tech, including sophomore guard olivier hanlan, who leads the team with a season aver­age of 18.6 points per game. 
eagles redshirt junior guard alex dragicevich, who transferred from notre dame following his sophomore campaign, will make his re­turn to the purcell pavilion with his new unit. dragicevic has made 11 starts for boston college and has played in all 19 games this year. after scoring eight points against virginia Tech, dragicevich is averaging 4.6 points per game and is hitting 43.1 per­cent of his shots from behind the arc. 
“alex has found a niche out there at bc,” brey said. “i know he wasn’t playing there for a while, but he certainly played well [wednesday]. and he certainly will be ready to play against us. and you know what, i have a lot of respect for alex because he was part of a lot of big wins here. he was helpful to us in the years that he was here.” 
brey said the irish will fo­cus on the offensive side of the ball. 
“i think we’ve tried to sim­plify lately, just on the of­fensive end, how can we help each other,” he said. “reversing the ball and screening off the ball more, i think there’s been some slip­page there.” 
irish sophomore forward austin burgett underwent 
paid adverTisemenT 



surgery to address a heart is­sue wednesday. The proce­dure went according to plan, brey said, and burgett will join the irish on the sideline saturday before beginning rehab sometime next week. 
after hosting boston college, notre dame will travel to face no. 2 syracuse before returning home for contests against north carolina and clemson. 
“The history of us here is when you’ve been in these kind of situations, you get one or two [wins] and all of a sudden you feel a little bet­ter about yourself, and one or two can become a couple more,” brey said. “i know a couple years ago, one became nine, or eight more. i don’t know if we can do that with this personnel, i’m just be­ing flat-out honest with you. but can we pick off a couple and feel a little better and get a little more confident? That way is probably more who we are.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday:pick up the pace, set reasonable goals and make your mark. Focus on changes that are concrete and industrious. avoid personal changes based on whims rather than a well thought out and researched plan. less spending will help ease your stress. a change to the way you present what you have to offer will add to your appeal. your numbers are 5, 16, 22, 24, 28, 32, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): wreacting too fast will leave you little wiggle room as the facts unfold. a careful and thoughtful assessment will enable you to call in the appropriate help to manage the damage. protect your heart and your health. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): keep a steady pace and you’ll reach your destination. emotions will be difficult to control. let your feelings be known and you will know where you stand and what your options are. clear the air and prepare to make changes. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): express your thoughts and ideas and you will get the support required to make changes to your life and your future. refuse to overspend on items, products or a sales pitch promising the impossible. choose reason over false hope. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Tmake a change that will alter your income or help you come to an agreement that gives you greater financial freedom. contracts, settlements and investments are favored if you stick to a formula that is safe and offers a steady profit. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Talk matters over if you have doubts regarding your relationship with someone. whether it is a personal, financial or professional connection, honesty will make it much easier to pick and choose your next move. Take responsibility for your actions. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): eTake time out and focus on your looks, appeal and what you can offer someone who interests you. get back to basics and start a healthy regime that includes proper eating habits and exercise. ask and you will receive help reaching your goals. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): The more you interact with others, the greater your chance will become to explore new concepts, possibilities and partnerships with people who share your interests. a change may not be welcome, but it will end up being beneficial. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): keep your emotions in check and follow through with your plans. let your intuition guide you regarding matters of the heart and home. a move or change to the way you live will give you greater perspective regarding future possibilities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of business matters personally. don’t leave anything to chance and be prepared to make a quick decision in regards to a new contract or settlement. a change at home may upset a relationship but it will benefit you emotionally. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put in the effort and don’t stop until you reach your deadline. live up to your promises and stand behind whatever it is you do. expect opposition and be ready for whatever challenge comes your way. strive for equality in personal relationships. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): keep close tabs on what everyone is doing. offer suggestions, but don’t take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. a good idea will pay off if you follow through. a change in the way you approach work will bring positive results. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t share your secrets. a financial offer may end up costing you instead of bringing you profits. socializing or greater involvement in a cause or volunteer group that interests you will boost your popularity and promote new friendships. 


Birthday Baby: you are inquisitive and inventive. you are strong-willed and persistent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 74, vaTech 48 
Irish roll against hapless Hokies 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
Their game was not perfect, but the no. 2 irish did not need perfect play for their record to stay that way. 
notre dame (20-0, 7-0 acc) started slowly on offense be­fore pulling away from virginia Tech midway through the first half to earn the 74-48 win over the hokies (10-10, 0-7 acc) on Thursday at purcell pavilion. 
“That was a difficult game to play in between maryland and duke,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think it’s just that time of the year when it’s hard to find energy, especially from the starters, you really need somebody on the bench to come in and just give you a shot, and i thought [junior guard] madison cable did a re­ally good job of that tonight.” 
cable, who grabbed a career-high 13 rebounds, knocked down a 3-point shot with 4:45 left in the first half that high­lighted notre dame’s 15-1 tear headed in to the break to revi­talize the squad. 

Senior guard Kayla McBride leads all scorers with 18 
The five-and-a-half-minute run also saw the irish finally penetrate the virginia Tech de­fense in the paint. 
“i think it was just getting the ball inside,” senior guard kayla mcbride said of what sparked the run. “They went to the 2-3 [zone] towards the end of the first half, and we just started getting inside and getting easy looks and getting steals and turnovers, which allows us to get in transition, and we just started hitting shots.” 
notre dame limited the hokies to eight field goals on 24.2-percent shooting before the break and 27.4 percent throughout the game, and virginia Tech posted a season-low 48 points. 
The irish specifically held hokies senior forward uju ugoka to 10 points, well below her season average of 19.7. 

“we were just really focused on [our defense],” freshman forward Taya reimer said. “we worked on it a lot in practice. The post, we didn’t play as well EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Senior guard Kayla McBride handles the ball during Notre Dame’s 79-52 victory Jan. 23 against Miami. see w bball PAGE 13 McBride had 18 points Thursday  and converted all eight of her free throw attempts. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND looks to recover against struggling Eagles 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
after dropping six of their last seven contests, the irish look to break out of their slump saturday when they host a boston college squad in the midst of a similarly diffi­cult season. 
notre dame (11-10, 2-6 acc) committed a sea­son-high 20 turnovers Tuesday in a 68-53 loss to virginia on the way to its third-straight losing re­sult. irish coach mike brey said the team rebounded from the home defeat with promising practices. 
“i was really encour­aged with how we prac­ticed yesterday,” he said. “had some good energy in practice, tried to fine tune some things offen­sively as far as screen­ing off the ball a little bit more to help our guys … and i think when you have 
see m bball PAGE  14 


HOCKEY 

notre dame takes road trip 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
no. 14 notre dame will face its first true road test in more than two months this weekend when the irish travel to new hampshire for a two-game series. 
The irish (15-9-1, 4-6-1 hockey east) played boston college in Fenway park in boston on Jan. 4, but the last time notre dame played a non-neutral site game out­side of compton Family ice arena was 12 games ago in a 3-1 loss at umass-lowell on nov. 23. 

The irish not only have to re-acclimate themselves to life away from compton, but they’ll have to do so in a rink larger than their home play­ing surface. The wildcats (14-13-1, 6-6-0) play in the whittemore center, which has a rink width of 100 feet compared to compton’s 90 feet. 
“it’s a brand new environ­ment for us; our guys have to be prepared,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “our olympic practice rink here isn’t near­ly as big as their rink is. it’s an ocean out there. getting acclimated to the rink will be important, plus they have a rowdy building and a big student crowd. it’s a tough building.” 
special teams could play a big impact in this week­end’s series. new hampshire enters the game averaging just 7.39 penalty minutes per game, the lowest in the nation. notre dame, mean­while, will hope to limit a new hampshire power play, led by senior forwards kevin goumas and nick sorkin, that has converted on 20.7 percent of its attempts this season. 
“we’re taking too many penalties on the road,” Jackson said. “you can’t take penalties like that on the road, because you’re going to have a hard time winning. we have to play with more disci­pline, and our goaltending 
see hockey PAGE 13 





