The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 50 | tuesday, november 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Photos of robbery suspects released 
Observer Staff Report 
The suspects involved in a weekend robbery on notre dame’s campus this weekend are still at large, and police are ask­ing anyone with information to contact them immediately. The university released three pho­tos monday evening. The rob­bery took place at about 2 a.m. saturday between the morris inn and holy cross drive. 
ndsp emailed students saturday afternoon to alert them of the crime. according to the email, three men in a silver sedan approached a male notre dame student on campus, demanded the student get in the car, took the student to an off-campus lo­cation to withdraw cash and 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Security Police 
Notre Dame Security Police released these photos Monday of one of the suspects in Saturday’s robbery between the Morris Inn and Holy Cross 
see robbery PaGe 4 

Drive and the vehicle involved. Students received a crime alert email about the incident Saturday afternoon. 



poet calls for redefinition of gender stereotypes 
andrés gómez” in the carey “gómez urges men of all ages 

By EMMA BORNE 

news writer auditorium on monday. to break society’s rules of gómez, an award-win-male conformity and recon-
The gender relations ning poet, actor and writer, sider not just what it means center kicked off its an-shared his confrontation to be a man, but what it nual stand against hate with society’s rules of man-means to be a good man.” week with the event “man hood through personal story gómez said his initial up: reimagining modern and poetry. manhood with carlos according to his website, see gender PaGe 4 


SMC hosts dinner for Title I school 
Title i middle school, navarre 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
intermediate center. senior ministry assistant 

more than 50 saint mary’s Kaitlyn maierhofer, one of the students from four different res-dinner’s coordinators, said the idence halls will participate in a event includes a talk given by community dinner wednesday saint mary’s alumna Jackie in rice commons of the student center to benefit local see dinner PaGe 5 
news writer 


ND honors American veterans on campus 
ND men’s lacrosse team works out with veterans 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
The notre dame men’s lacrosse team will host a special functional fitness workout with veterans in honor of veterans day tonight at the loftus sports center. 
“our team and the nd mba veterans are hosting an athletic event to bring together veterans and students,” junior lacrosse player chris carter said. “we’re 
see lacrosse PaGe 5 



ROTC begins 24-hour vigil at Clarke Fountain 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
navy, army and air Force roTc cadets and midshipmen began their 24-hour vigil at the clarke memorial Fountain on north Quad yesterday, honoring the leg­acy of american veterans of war on veterans day. 
senior and midshipman First class lizzie Terino said the vigil began monday at 4:30 p.m. 
see roTc PaGe 5 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is something you couldn’t live without? 

Amanda Berusch 


Dearbhla Fay 
junior 

sophomore 
mcglinn hall 

ryan hall 
“sarcasm.” 

“my mattress topper.” 
Cate Pharris 


Kelsey Lyons 
sophomore 

junior 
ryan hall 

lyons hall 
“netflix.” 

“gilmore girls.” 
Catherine Young 


Margaux Collins 
sophomore 

sophomore 
ryan hall 

ryan hall 
“FJ’s.” 

“chipotle.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kayla mullen alex carson peter durbin christine mayuga 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
emily danaher caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Snite Salon Series SSLP Info Session Faculty and Staff Pep Rally Notre Dame Football 
wei lin Tabitha ricketts 
Snite Museum of Art Geddes Hall Mass TBA Notre Dame Stadium 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Log Chapel 5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 3:30 p.. - 7 p.m. Discussion of this Learn about the 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Pep rally for Notre Dame The Irish take on 
Corrections 

month’s Salon Summer Service RSVP to vs. Northwestern Northwestern. 
The observer regards itself as selection. Learning Program. Bracke.4@nd.edu. football game. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Grand Illusion” Sarah Fox Reading Artist Talk Men’s Basketball Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Hammes Notre Dame Snite Museum of Art Purcell Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Bookstore 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Sculptor Deborah The Irish take on 7:30 p.. - 8:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Classic film. Poet Sarah Fox shares Butterfield will speak. Binghamton. Music by the Women’s
we can correct our error. 

her latest work. Liturgical Choir. 


Saint Mary’s Food Week Journalist calls encourages healthy eating for alternative to 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
in preparation for Thanksgiving feasts, saint mary’s began its annual Food week yesterday, how­ever, encouraging students to learn healthy eating habits and prioritize nutrition. 
sophomore mary Kate luft said Food week, which start­ed in 2012, teaches students the implications of wasting food and emphasizes the val­ue of eating right and work­ing out. 
“we may have an abun­dance of food here, which may cause us to be under the impression that there is an unlimited supply of food, but we need to realize that this is not the case for many peo­ple,” luft said. “i hope that students will realize just how much food they are throwing away. i want them to become aware of how much food they put on their trays, and i want them to learn to limit this amount just to what they are going to actually eat.” 
luft said she hopes stu­dents’ concerns about ex­cess food waste will increase after weighing their trays during the noble Family dining hall’s lunch hours wednesday. 

“i often see plates full of food on the tray return that will just be thrown away,” luft said. “if you’re not actu­ally going to eat something, don’t put it on your tray.” 
luft said this year’s Food week promotes multicul­turalism by serving middle eastern cuisine as well as central and south american dishes on various nights of the week. luft said she hopes that exposing students to foods they don’t often en­counter will encourage them to step outside of their com­fort zones. 
“we hope to possibly in­crease students’ understand­ing and appreciation of other cultures and the people of those cultures,” luft said. “we also hope to regularly serve these foods even after Food week ends to continue to give students opportuni­ties to try foods from other cultures.” 
luft said students will gain lifestyle advice through­out Food week with an exercise and healthy habits presentation tonight at 8 
p.m. at the angela athletic Facility. The formal tips for healthy eating and work­ing out precede a screening of the documentary “Fed up,” with a supplementary 
paid adverTisemenT 
question-and-answer ses­sion with dietitian samantha 

forced migration 
Kauffman, she said. 
“Food week promotes a healthy lifestyle by provid­ing students with events that focus on health and nutri­tion, such as the event with yoga club that focuses on how to properly nourish your body before and after work­ing out,” luft said. “students will have the opportunity to learn more about how to eat healthily and make sure they are getting proper nutrition. 
luft said she hopes the messages of Food week will stick with students long after this five-day event. The saint mary’s student government association coordinated this week’s series of activities with all students in mind, hoping that everyone ben­efits in at least one way, she said. 
“besides having a ton of fun, students will be able to learn about healthy eating habits, sustainable and ethi­cal food sources, and foods from other cultures,” loft said. “They will have the op­portunity to voice their opin­ions about food served at saint mary’s.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 


By JEREMY CAPPELLO LEE 
news writer 
photographer and journalist david bacon explored the rela­tionship between employment rates and migration in a lecture monday titled “The right to stay home: Justice for migrants and sending communities.” 
bacon said many cases of mi­gration from mexico to the united states can be attributed to jobless­ness and limited educational op­portunities south of the border. 
“one of the most important movements in mexico today is for the right to stay home, which means the right to an alternative to forced migration,” bacon said. “it’s not that people think there’s something wrong with migration ... but they think it should be a choice, not something forced on you.” 
The recent economic down­turn drove an influx of mexican workers north in search of a bet­ter quality of life, bacon said. 
“mexico suffered when the 
u.s. economy took a dive,” he said. “when the current reces­sion started in the united states ... hundreds of thousands of peo­ple [in mexico] lost their jobs. so where do they go?” 
bacon said workers must con­sider migrating to the united states when they lack other vi­able options. 
“[workers in mexico] are fighting for their right to stay in mexico,” bacon said. “The con­sequence of losing those fights is that people have to do whatever it takes to survive — increasingly, what that means is to leave [their home country].” 
bacon said the disproportion-ally high cost of living in certain areas in mexico is another incen­tive of mexican migration to the united states. 
“The cost of a gallon of milk in a supermarket in Tijuana is more than it is in san diego,” bacon said. “workers live in homes that are made from pallets and other materials that are cast off by the factories ... with no sewers or run­ning water ... or electricity.” 
bacon said without documen­tation, migrants face numerous obstacles once they decide to work in the united states. 
“here in the united states, people without papers pay taxes and social security, but there’s no unemployment, there’s no dis­ability, there’s no retirement,” he said. “if you don’t have any pa­pers, it’s like the new deal never happened.” 
bacon said congress should take a more accommodating stance towards undocument­ed migrants instead of passing harsher laws. 
“when people have rights, peo­ple will organize and try and get something better,” he said. “First of all, we need legalization for the people that don’t have it ... a kind of a status so that people can live like normal people. we have to get rid of those detention centers ... and i guess no more guest-worker programs.” 
bacon said given the prox­imity of the u.s. and mexico, collaboration is necessary to im­prove worker conditions in both countries. 
“The reality is, whether we live in mexico or the u.s., we’re fac­ing the same economic and trade policies and even the same em­ployers,” he said. “so our ability to reach across the border and understand each other, and ... act together — this is the only way will be able to survive.” 
despite the hardships that many undocumented migrants face, bacon said he is hopeful that cross-national reform will improve the situation. 
“we can have a world, i believe, that respects human rights, and we can stop deportations,” he said. “we can have a system of security for working families on both sides of the border.” 
Contact Jeremy Cappello Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 




Gender 
conTinued From page 1 
awareness of society’s rules of masculinity came when he was told to “man up” by his soccer coach after falling dur­ing a game. 
“if i’m running full speed in front of 200 people, i do a tooth plant in the middle of the field 
— it’s miraculous that i didn’t lose all of my top and bottom teeth — if i can’t cry there, when am i allowed to express any emotion?” gómez said. 
gómez said he was sensitive as a child but strove to fit the mold of a masculine man after interpreting hints from those around him that valued men most when they acted hard and tough. he said the image was hard to keep up because it denied his natural self. 
“if you ever try to act like someone you’re not, it’s like the worst feeling in the world,” gómez said. “it’s exhausting. i was conflicted, i was in an­guish, i was hurting. … i was screaming for a reprieve from this person i had built myself into.” 
gómez said there were two major turning points in his life that redefined masculin­ity for him. he said the first came in high school during an open mic night for poetry where he learned about the idea of a gender spectrum — a concept that transcended the traditionally perceived di­chotomy of gender. 
gómez said the second crystallized moment of re­definition occurred when he accidently bumped up against another man as he exited a nightclub. The man initially incited a fight, but after tears welled in gómez’s eyes, the man jumped away, gómez said. 
“what makes us live in a world where the narrative, the dominant narrative of mas­culinity, the one-dimension, toxic, patriarchal narrative of masculinity that so many of us … are familiar with in some way … when two men who don’t know each other [have] their bodies unexpect­edly bump against each oth­er, we all know that the next thing they have to do is to fight, and it’s over nothing,” gómez said. 
gómez said that day he made a decision to spend the rest of his life challenging that toxic notion of masculinity. 
“i started to practice break­ing the conformity of how i learned to be a guy,” gómez said. “it was action and it was written; it was rethinking the way i thought about relation­ships with women, with my other guy friends, with my family.” 
To communicate his point, gómez also performed sever­al poems about masculinity, women and beauty. 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 
robbery 
conTinued From page 1 
robbed the student. “one of the men got out of the vehicle and instructed the student to come with them,” the email stated. “They demanded money and took the student to a gas sta­tion and a grocery store so he could get cash for them. They then brought the student back to campus.” 
according to the email, the student did not see any of the men carrying a gun, but it was implied they were armed. 
“The suspects were described as three black males wearing dark clothing,” the email stated. “They had no facial hair or vis­ible marks or tattoos. one of the men had dreadlocks. one of the men was about six feet tall, me­dium build. all three appeared to be between 20-23 years old.” 
ndsp  can be reached  at  
574-631-5555.  
paid adverTisemenT  








Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 1 
excited to have the opportunity to not only honor and support those who have served our coun­try but also to spend time with the veterans and learn about their experiences.” 
each lacrosse player will pair up with a veteran volunteer to com­plete a workout, based in repeti­tions of 11 to represent the history tied with the date of the world war i armistice on nov. 11. 
The workouts will help to raise both money and awareness for veterans nationwide. 
“coach corrigan has always emphasized service on our team, so i think this is another great way for our team to be active in the community,” sophomore lacrosse player shane doss said. “as of last week, our event had the second-most participants signed up in the country, so using our team and position at the school is a great way to get more people involved and raise awareness for the event.” 
carter said the event serves as a tool to help people remember and honor veterans day in a mean­ingful way, in addition to provid­ing a platform for veterans and community members to connect through fitness. 
“The active portion of the event will definitely be a great way for our team to connect with the vet­erans and vice versa,” carter said. 
The classic military exercis­es workout, featuring varying repetitions of sprints, air-squats, box jumps, push-ups and more, also includes a two-minute section for rest and reflection, symbolic of the moment of silence observed at the tomb of the unknowns. 
andy dytrych, an mba candi­date at the mendoza college of business, the lacrosse team men­tor and an u.s. army veteran him­self, was largely responsible for planning this event. 
“This event is significant be­cause it not only shows the dedi­cation that the notre dame men’s lacrosse team has in serving its community and remembering veterans, but the strong bonds that the university of notre dame has with the military community, both past and present,” dytrych said in a statement. “we, as a vet­eran community, are honored to be recognized by the notre dame men’s lacrosse team and thank them for all they do for our nation’s veterans.” 
notre dame head lacrosse coach Kevin corrigan said the team is looking forward to an im­portant evening honoring those who served. 
“we are excited to partner with the mba veterans, roTc and oth­ers from the notre dame commu­nity to work and sweat together as a way to recognize the service that veterans have provided for our freedom,” corrigan said in a state­ment. “it should be a fun and chal­lenging evening.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
dinner 
conTinued From page 1 
bauters and writing letters to students at navarre. 
“similar to last year, there was one [dinner] in each resi­dence hall,” maierhofer said. “This year, we’re just combin­ing them [from] all four. it’s meant to bring together differ­ent people from different halls, and we’re just going to have a little discussion about our gifts, what stood out for you in the talk, what in the talk reso­nates with your own situation and desires, what are some of your gifts and passions.” 
maierhofer said each din­ner table will have a discus­sion facilitator to encourage further conversation and will work together to wrap books and write letters for each stu­dent in an effort to encourage reading and the importance of education. 
“we [got] a whole bunch of middle school books,” she said. “we’re going to write to the students and then they’re go­ing to get the books. it’s going to be great.” 
although each hall did a different project last year, the ministry assistants decided to unite the college community in through this new approach, maierhofer said. 
“each of the [ministry as­sistants] have a role,” she said. “i’m personally introducing the activities. i talk about Title i schools.” 
maierhofer said Title i schools are given additional federal financial assistance because a large portion of the student population is from low-income families. The schools provide students with supplementary educational programs such as free tutoring and mentoring as well as free snacks and meals, she said. 
“Title i schools may serve certain types of students such as students with low english­speaking proficiency, home­less students, students with disabilities and at-risk stu­dents,” maierhofer said. “The funds for Title i schools go di­rectly to serving the needs of the student population.” 
she said there are 12 Title i elementary schools in south bend and one Title i middle school. 
“we’re just working with navarre intermediate,” maierhofer said. “we are do­ing this through the [office for civil and social engagement]. ... They gave us the ages and genders for all students. [Then] we went and bought books for each student. 
“we’re focusing on how we’re going to use our pas­sions and gifts with the Title i schools. we’re applying what we’re talking about. unless you’re really involved with ed­ucation or unless you attended a Title i school, you really don’t know anything about Title i schools.” 
maierhofer said the other ministry assistants’ main goal for the dinner is to educate the saint mary’s student body on the world beyond campus and provide a channel in which they can become involved once they leave that bubble. 
“it’s just trying to educate our student body, our saint mary’s community, on what’s happening outside of the saint mary’s bubble on how we can serve them,” she said. “we’re always going to have Title i schools ... anywhere we go.” 
maierhofer said the oppor­tunity to educate, a passion her math major for secondary education has fostered, is the biggest personal reward she gains for organizing and con­tributing to this dinner. 
“it makes me feel good, do­ing this stuff,” maierhofer said. “i just want to educate the community and get more people excited about serving others. it’s a whole circle with actually teaching in the class­room then bringing that out and teaching my residents as a ministry assistant and teach­ing my friends and having that compassion to not judge those students. 
“you can’t really ever judge. you have to go in with an open heart.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal@saintmarys.edu 
what people have done before us 
rotC 
and the honor and privilege of 
conTinued From page 1 

serving.” and will last until 4:30 p.m. on senior and battalion com-Tuesday. mander for army roTc michael 
“To honor the legacy of all those loftus said the cadets and mid-who have served in those wars, shipmen take shifts throughout especially the notre dame grads, the 24-hour vigil. each shift has we stand a vigil shift for 24 hours,” four slots, one to be filled by a she said. “after the conclusion of member from each of the three our vigil, we’ll have a ceremony services and one that can be filled with all three roTc units and a by a member from any of the ser­guest speaker — just to talk about vices, he said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“we organize by half-hours,” loftus said. “sometimes people will take two shifts in a row or even longer, but each shift is 30 minutes long.” 
Terino said the vigil takes place at the clarke memorial Fountain because the fountain is dedicated to veterans. 
“The clarke memorial Fountain is a war memorial fountain; it’s not just something we run through on game weekends,” she said. “each of the four sides is dedicated to veterans, of world war ii, Korea, vietnam and those who have served in peace times.” 
as a senior, Terino said her ex­perience participating in the vigil for the past three years varied de­pending on what shift she took. 
“when you’re doing it in the afternoon or during the day, a lot of people come by and take pictures,” she said. “so you are thinking about what it means for other people that you’re serving. ... when you do it at night and it’s dark and peaceful and there’s re­ally no one around, you are sort of reflecting on why you’re doing it. you start thinking about all the stories you’ve heard about the people who have done it before you. 
“so the time of day really dic­tates your mood.” loftus said he has always taken shifts in the middle of the night. 
“There’s definitely a lot of time of reflection, if you are prone to do that,” loftus said. “most people like it and think it’s a cool experi­ence, even when it’s snowing or raining.” 
Terino said participating in the vigil on veterans day enables her to commend her family members’ military service, as well as oth­ers who have made sacrifices for freedom. 
“my father, grandfather and uncle were in the air Force; my grandfather did two tours in vietnam,” she said. “every year it’s an incredible opportunity, es­pecially studying history here at notre dame and taking history classes. i went to the world war ii museum over fall break, and [heard] the stories of people and what they’ve gone through, and situations that i can’t even fathom. 
“it’s an incredible opportunity to take the time out of our busy schedules, and to really think about why we have the freedom to be this busy, to remember what others have gone through for that. ...we are here at school, and i feel like we always get wrapped up in our schedules, so it’s always nice to take the time to honor the peo­ple who have served and allowed us this freedom to do what we do.” 
Terino said the vigil previews the support she looks forward to gaining when she joins the navy. 
“any time you put the uniform on, you are representing every­body in navy and what they are doing,” she said. “a lot of people will start thanking you for your service, which as roTc students is hard to wrap our heads around because we haven’t felt like we’ve done a whole lot yet, but it’s in­spiring to get that kind of support and to know that two or three years down the road, when we are giving that service, when we are on ships or deployed, that there are people back at home who recognize that we are sacrific­ing time with our family or other things to have that opportunity to serve our country.” 
loftus said his participation in the vigil commemorates the ser­vice of his grandfathers as well as the service of his friends from the university program and from his home. 
“one of my grandfathers, i never met,” loftus said. “he died before i was born, so it’s nice to be honoring him and there are guys who were fellow cadets a couple years ago, who are now deployed or overseas.” 
meadow Jackson, sophomore and roTc midshipman, said the vigil is a unique opportunity to honor those who have served. 
“standing vigil in front of the war memorial reminds me why i came to notre dame,” she said. “To serve my god, my country and my family and friends. my father is a veteran, so today is a special day for me.” 
Jackson said although veteran’s day commemorates soldiers past, it transcends american generations. 
“i’m carrying on a tradition way more important than one individual,” Jackson said. “we do this for generations past present and future — so no one will forget the sacrifices made by so many so that we could be free.” 
Contact Caroline Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

Lessons from ‘Into the Woods’ 

InsIde CoLumn 

guilty pleasures 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 

when i look back at my first week at notre dame, some 15 months ago now, a few memories stand out. like everyone, i have great memories of serenading and domerfest during Frosh-o and like any o’neill guy, i will always remember my late-night, first-week interview. and, of course, it’s impossible to forget the 3:30 
a.m. grotto visit i made with my roommate that i barely knew on a balmy august night. 
perhaps, though, the memory that stands out most is being asked a seemingly simple question during the “getting to know you” part of the week: “what is your guilty pleasure?” 
i was in the middle of the room so i had some time to ponder my answer. i knew i wanted it to be thoughtful, more than a joke, but not something that would im­mediately weird out the people i would be intrinsically linked to for life. after a few moments, it came to me: musicals. 
i consider myself to be a fan of a good musical – it’s fun, the tunes are catchy and i’ll always have a soft spot for telling a story through songs. 
one of my favorite movies? “moulin rouge!.” it’s so perfect. i could go into detail about how awesome it is but i have a limit on words here. 
but then i realized that i have absolutely no “guilt” at all about liking musicals and “moulin rouge!” — i was simply substitut­ing “something that isn’t masculine” for “guilty pleasure” because it happened to be a more convenient definition. is that wrong of me? i’m not sure. 
but what does it say about our society if it is so convenient to make this change, so convenient to draw a comparison between something we feel “guilty” about and sim­ply something that we are not expected to enjoy? 
so let’s go back to the question that spurned this whole train of thought. 
what are my “guilty” pleasures? well, to start, musicals and “moulin rouge!.” but we’ve talked about those. how about my love of cher lloyd’s music? or how i, from time to time, listen to radio disney when i’m home in indianapolis. perhaps i could talk about my love of those daytime, “tabloid” television programs — you know, “maury” and “Jerry springer” — because from time to time, it’s nice to be reassured that, yeah, you generally have things together. 
These are all things that are a part of who i am – and to tell you the truth, i’m not feel­ing guilty in the slightest about enjoying any of these things. 
shouldn’t a “guilty” pleasure be more than liking certain music or television shows? let’s stop hiding those things that are really inconsequential, the things that make up who we are. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 
This past saturday at 4 p.m., i was not watching the foot­ball game. i was watching pemco’s “into the woods.” 
This might cause die-hard Fighting irish fans to cry out in horror, but for me, plays on the stage come before plays on the field. That was a sneaky way to confess that i am a theater nerd. 
i used to be embarrassed when i confused halftime with intermission and the audience with the fans, but i learned to embrace my lack of cool. i no longer ask: is my thespian showing? i know it is, and i will probably lose cool points because of it. 
a question i normally have to ask myself is: are they called cool points, or cool goals or cool touchdowns? “neither,” a sporty Jiminy cricket replies. he tends to spon­taneously appear on my shoulder to correct me when i’m wrong. “They’re called cool baskets,” he replies, smug as a cricket can be. if you don’t think a cricket can be smug, Jiminy over here will make you think again. he’s the pic­ture of self-satisfaction, a cocky captain of the cricket team. 
anyways, as i was sitting in the theatre and wishing sporty Jiminy cricket would chirp on someone else’s shoulder, i didn’t regret my choice to pick the show over the game one bit. as a recent transfer to the college of engineering, i missed the arts, and this musical was like a thick slice of culturally rich cheesecake. i devoured every bit. 
during the play, two unlikely characters drew me in: cinderella’s prince and the witch. These characters are probably the least “likable” characters in the play. The witch is, well, a witch, and the prince, in the words of Jane austen, is a cheating and egocentric tool. 
what was wrong with me for liking these characters? hmmm, i thought to myself. hmmm, i hummed out loud. shhhh, the lady in front of me hissed. i listened. 
Then i reflected. why did i feel a tie to the witch? she had captured my attention since she rapped about beans, but some of her lines in the last act really hit home (a home run — ohmygosh, a sports reference). she wanted to de­liver Jack to the giant (TbT to Jack and the beanstalk) so the giant could eat him and spare the rest of the town. The other characters stood there and didn’t know what to do. They knew they didn’t want to sacrifice Jack, but they didn’t have another plan. 
The witch was not afraid to act or take the blame of giving Jack to the giant. she says to the “good” characters who try half-heartedly to stop her: “you’re not good, you’re not bad, you’re just nice,” implying that they liked to act nice, while deep down, they were struggling with whether or not they should let the witch give Jack to the giant to save themselves. 

she continues with, “i’m not good, i’m not bad, i’m just right. i’m the witch; you’re the world.” she recognizes that doing what would bring the greatest happiness to the greatest people (mill utilitarianism, yay!) will make her seem evil, but she doesn’t care what others think of her. she acts selfishly, but at least she acts, while the other charac­ters can’t manage to do anything. she’s not exactly a virtu­ous role model to hold on a pedestal, but there is a lot of wisdom in what she says. sings. 
cinderella’s prince, on the other hand, is not exactly wise, but some of his lines provide food for thought (the rich cheesecake). Funny enough, his moment of insight comes right after his brief affair (very brief: only a “mo­ment in the woods”) with the baker’s wife. he cheats on cinderella, which is morally wrong, but he makes a good point when the baker’s wife asks him if they will ever have a similarly “stimulating” moment in the woods again. he replies, seeming fittingly obnoxious: “This was just a mo­ment in the woods. … leave the moment, just be glad for the moment that we had,” implying that they would prob­ably never revisit their one-verse stand. 
The baker’s wife is put off at first, for she wanted to elon­gate the moment. she was worrying about what would hap­pen in the future rather than enjoying the moment. how many times do i ruin the moment by thinking about what could happen depending on this moment in the future? when i take an exam, my mind wanders to the future im­plications of my score. when i take a selfie, i am focusing on communicating what i am doing right now to the oh-so­important social media world rather than enjoying where i am. cinderella’s prince reminds me to take a breath in­stead and enjoy the moment. 
seeing “into the woods” helped me see into my soul. reading this article may help you discover if there is a witch or a prince in you. That was extremely cheesy, but i can’t help it; i’ve eaten too much cheesecake. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her san­ity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIaL Cartoon 



The Cuban embargo and you 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

The past few months have seen the largest ebola outbreak in history. Though the epidemic is largely contained to three west african countries, there has been a global medical response to fight the disease before it spreads further. Taking the lead in yet an­other international humanitarian crisis has been the usual suspect: cuba. 
as the recent outbreak intensified, cuba was the first country to commit a substantial response team and remains the country with the largest force, hav­ing already sent 165 of a planned 460 doctors and nurses. it’s an old role for cuba, which took the lead in the aftermath of the 2010 haitian earthquake and dozens of other global disasters. with tens of thousands of medical personnel deployed around the world, cuba’s humanitarian internationalism is unparalleled, especially given its population of only 11 million people. 
This is a side of cuba that the average u.s. citizen rarely hears about. more than two decades after its cold war with the soviet union ended, the united states is still locked in conflict with its last true global, political and economic adversary. The upshot of this for the average american or cuban is that the united states has placed a nearly comprehensive embargo on the socialist island. under the Trading with the enemy act and several other laws, it is ille­gal for u.s. citizens to do business with cuba or even travel there without special permission. only cuba is classified as an enemy of the united states under this doctrine. The oft-cited reason is the cuban state’s human rights violations, but that excuse hides the truth. 
pre-revolutionary cuba was marred by inequal­ity, with life divided between the wealthy socialites in the casino town of havana and the dispossessed peasantry and working classes who suffered mal­nourishment and exploitation. land ownership was highly concentrated, with a great deal controlled by u.s. owners. a series of land reforms instituted by the new revolutionary government sought to re­dress these social ills, and in doing so threatened to destabilize u.s. economic dominance of the region. while some have cast it in light of the old cold war, the embargo continues to serve its initial purpose 
— punishment against a government that seized property from u.s. landowners and a warning to any others thinking of doing the same. 
The cuban revolution was itself a reaction to decades of u.s. imperialism. in 1954 guatemala, democratically-elected president Jacobo Árbenz instituted moderate land reform policies — angering the united Fruit company, now chiquita. The dulles brothers, secretary of state and head of the cia, had major investments in the company and pushed the united states to overthrow guatemalan democracy and prop up a series of brutal military dictatorships in order to reverse the land reform. che guevara, a future leader of the cuban revolution, was in guatemala city at the time and came to feel that only violent revolution could free the people. 
The united states government has often over­thrown democracies to protect the economic interests of its wealthy elite, in 1953 iran, 1954 guatemala, 1973 chile and a dozen others, including a failed attempt in 2002 venezuela and a success in 2009 honduras. The decades-long blacklisting of a whole country is part of that tradition. 

it would be dishonest to claim that the cuban state has not engaged in political repression. The degrees of repression have varied over time and have not been as comprehensive as the u.s. claims, but the fact of repression is indefensible. however, the united states is not embargoing cuba because of human rights. Throughout the period of the em­bargo, the united states has befriended dictators, mass murderers and enemies of human rights — from chile to indonesia to saudi arabia. cuba has been kinder to the poor than pinochet, kinder to opponents than suharto, kinder to women than King abdullah. 
in fact, cuba has recently been ranked the second best country in the americas for women, behind nicaragua and ahead of canada. it has provided the basic necessities of life for all of its citizens, plus comprehensive education at all levels, the democ­ratization of the arts and the best medical system in latin america. cuba poured hundreds of thousands of soldiers into africa to fight in national liberation struggles and stood up for mandela when the cia was hunting him down. when humanitarian disas­ters strike, cuban doctors are the first ones there, and they come in force. 
my ideal society does not look like cuba, with its strong state power. however, cuba is not my enemy. it is the enemy of wealthy landowners and corporate interests, who tell us, “you’re in the free world — now you better not leave it!” 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
contemplating ‘lichtgrenze’ 
Seamus Ronan 
guest columnist 

accompanied by my two good friends, alex Techar and elle necome, i traveled to berlin this past week­end. while the golden wießbier, the delicious brats and beauty of the Tiergarten would normally be enough to make the trek from spain to germany, we had a purpose in mind. it was the 25th anniversary of the Fall of the berlin wall, an event that many of our elders remember quite vividly, but was a few years before our generation’s time. That being said, the cul­tural significance of the wall and its fall in 1989, and the following victory of western ideals in the former eastern bloc, have not been lost on many of us. 
Thanks to some careful research by alex, we dis­covered that the weekend of nov. 7-9 was going to be a giant celebration in berlin, called the 25 Jahre mauerfall 2014. various dignitaries were scheduled to appear, a handful of speeches, performances by famous german artists including peter gabriel (but sadly no hasselhoff) and dozens of exhibits hosted by museums and the celebration committee to com­memorate the Fall of the wall. however, the largest attraction was the lichtgrenze. eight thousand white, illuminated balloons marked out a line 15 km long, covering the entire length of the original wall, which crisscrossed the city of berlin. The wall separated not only neighborhoods, grave yards and churches, but also friends, families, lovers and the dominant ide­ologies of the east and west. every few meters there would be a wall story, a blue box containing pictures and stories of those who tried to escape soviet-controlled east berlin. The bravery of those who made desperate attempts was not lost on us as we walked by the imposing guard towers, the freezing spree and the ever present remains of the wall. 
it was difficult to comprehend that 25 years ago, the capital of germany was partly in disarray. 
surrounded by soviet tanks and under control of the politiboro, there are still parts of east berlin emerging from the former poor economic status of a communist-controlled zone, in direct contrast with their richer, capitalist neighbors in the west. Today, germany stands atop of europe. led by angela merkel, the country now has the largest and most powerful national economy in europe, is leading the way in green renewable energy and technology and most recently was named champions of the football world in this summer’s world cup. yet, as the 8000 white balloons reminded us, not too long ago, the country was split in two. even after nightfall nov. 9, 1989, when hundreds of thousands of east berliners took to the streets, soldiers put down their weapons and the peaceful revolution brought the wall down, there was still the difficult process of reunification. it took some time for the country to be completely reunited politically, economically and socially, as the two factions of western capitalism and soviet communism were brought together in an awkward and unlikely marriage. 
This message of history should not be ignored, especially after a midterm election which saw the democrats “shellacked,” the republicans rise and our president left with a hostile congress for his remain­ing two years. The democratic and republican par­ties have different ideologies that at times have led to a political gridlock and contributed to an attitude of pessimism today in american politics, as addressed recently by Jc sullivan in his article “cynicism, irony and politics.” however, the united states of america can agree on one thing: this country is united in the principles of democracy, liberty and freedom. when germany was reunified in 1990 under the democratic lines of west germany, this was not the case. There was the difficult process of bringing former com­munists and socialists into the fold, of the release of the secret files of the notorious secret police, the stasi and numerous other obstacles in the way of german reunification. Families had been betrayed, friend­ships broken and east germans had been living under the puppet, authoritarian rule of the soviet union for 41 years. yet, just as thousands had tried to escape east berlin over the wall to a dream of freedom, east germans accepted the changes to their lives and uni­fied with west germany to become the power that the Federal republic of germany is today. 

surrounded by millions of germans in potsdamer platz, gazing at the balloons illuminated in the dark­ness, remembering the memory of life before the wall, i was filled with the hope that many germans must have felt after the Fall of the wall. it is a hope that the american people will again unite under the principles of democracy, seek positive change in the name of the common good and rise again to become the leader in not only the west, but across the world with a power­ful economy, new markets in green and renewable energy, a high standard of living, a functional social security and support for a universal health care sys­tem to deliver the most basic human right to all of its citizens. in light of the midterm elections, the current state of politics and the looming 2016 presidential race, this may seem like an impossibility. yet as we spoke with several berliners, my friends and i were astonished to find that many germans never thought they would be reunified, or that the wall would ever come down. when an impossible dream became a reality, an illustrious people with a rich history rose to the occasion and have overcome every obstacle to en­ter the world’s stage once again, unified and proud. as the balloons were all released simultaneously under the night sky, i was filled with the hope that the same will happen back across the pond. 
Seamus Ronan is a junior studying abroad in Toledo, Spain. He lives in Keenan Hall when not out of the U.S. He can be reached at sronan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

on monday, nov. 3, just days after the release of her new album “1989,” Taylor swift and her label big machine records pulled all of her music from spotify and other free streaming services in what is arguably the worst move of her career. 
in an interview with yahoo! music, Taylor swift herself makes an interesting case for removing her songs from spotify, claiming that she is “not willing to contribute my life’s work to an experiment that i don’t feel fairly com­pensates the writers, producers, artists and creators of this music. and i just don’t agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free.” 
big machine records group president and ceo scott borchetta also had some things to say about streaming services and their impact on fans. “we never want to em­barrass a fan,” he said, in a radio interview with motley crue’s nikki six. “if this fan went and purchased the record, cd, iTunes, wherever and then their friends go, ‘why did you pay for it? it’s free on spotify,’ we’re being completely disrespectful to that superfan.” 
These claims make some sense when viewed in isola­tion, but in the context of the current state of the music in­dustry these arguments come off as absurd and illogical. 
striking, first of all, is mr. borchetta’s apparent mis­understanding of how spotify works. spotify allows for the unlimited streaming of songs, but not for the actual ownership of music in the same way that purchasing an album in cd, record or digital download format does. Furthermore, spotify isn’t exactly free. spotify has a free format, but that is coupled with advertisements every four or five songs and limited options for playing music on mobile devices. 
The actual unlimited service charges $10 a month, or $5 for students. $60 or $120 spent on music a year is no laughing matter. 
according to a 2013 article from billboard, the aver­age iTunes user, the people Taylor swift and her label 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

entropy is commonly known — and often mistakenly simplified — as a measure of disorder in a system, a lack of order and predictability. what you learn as you begin to study thermodynamics (nerd alert) is that there is val­ue in that disorder, that when there is a lack of structure and confinement, the resulting freedom is oftentimes preferred, favorable and suggests something about the accompanied “free” energy of that something. 
Friday at 4 a.m., while the rest of the normal, routine world was sleeping, adult swim aired an 11-minute short that — even in your wildest dreams — you could never even dream about. The short, titled “Too many cooks,” is a spoof/parody of the ‘80s-era sitcoms, where every archetype of sitcom characters is introduced during a makeshift-opening credits — from the proud father, to the homely mother, to the head-strong little boy, to the uber-sociable teenage girl, to the “g.i. Joe” spin-off, to the 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 
are targeting now, only spends $12 on music per year. of course, the median is probably much higher since there are a number of accounts that, for whatever reason, spend no money whatsoever, but the point still stands that the spotify user base is spending a fair amount on music every year. 
unfortunately, artists like Taylor swift are not satisfied with this revenue from spotify, as rights holders make between $0.006 and $0.0084 per stream. while spotify may not monetarily compensate Taylor swift and other artists to the extent they demand, it is certainly doing its fair job, since about 70 percent of its revenue goes to rights holders, according to a report from spotify. 
spotify does more for artists than just compensate them monetarily, however; it exposes them to an audi­ence of 40 million and growing listeners. This is a huge opportunity that ms. swift is absolutely ignoring. 
To an extent, the decision to remove her music from spotify and not from other services is somewhat hypo­critical. when songs hit #1 on the radio or break 100 mil­lion views on video streaming websites like youtube, artists view this as a badge of honor. 
according to a new york Times article from February of this year, a video only makes about $2000 for a million views beFore youtube takes 45 percent of the cut. but when songs like “shake it off” are played 40 million times on spotify, artists cry that the compensation is not just. 
Taylor wrote about the future of music in the wall street Journal earlier this year. in that op-ed, she claims that “it’s my opinion that music should not be free, and my prediction is that individual artists and their labels will someday decide what an album’s price point is. i hope they don’t underestimate themselves or undervalue their art.” 
statements like this about the future make me think that ms. swift does not have a good grasp on where the music industry is right now. The ability to provide a record for free does not necessarily devalue it, as Taylor swift would say. a number of prominent artists have released their music for free this year, including u2 (somewhat 
detectives and police officers to the … well, you get the point. There are easily dozens of characters introduced, while the deliciously-addictive theme song “Too many cooks” keeps going. and going. and going. The intro­duction of characters is similarly endless. This routine seems to perpetuate until eventually a man who looks like a criminal directly out of “True detective” comes in, breaks all the monotony and — wielding a machete — re­ally begins to make things edgy. 
as the man comes in and begins to take out the afore­mentioned stereotypical sitcom characters one by one, the looping theme song begins to become distorted, warped and then surely enough the film transitions into undoubtedly pure disorder and randomness. and, just like any thermodynamic system, there is a lot of value in the disorder and lack of structure of the film. 
“i was working intuitively, and there’s a quote elvis costello has that i really like,” film creator, chris “casper” Kelly, said. “he said, ‘you start out imitating your heroes, and the way you [expletive] up becomes your style.’ i was unsuccessfully) and run the Jewels (very successfully). 

by doing this, these artists are focusing more on the in­herent value of the album and the potential for it to create new fans by breaking down monetary barriers and shar­ing their art with everyone. 
while Taylor may manage to sell close to 1.3 million re­cords in her first week and have the best first-week sales since eminem’s 2002 album “The eminem show,” every­one else is hurting, sales wise. “1989” is the only album from this year so far to reach platinum status, and it’s al­ready november. by the beginning of october last year, five albums had made platinum status. iTunes sales are also down, according to the wsJ, between 13 and 14 per­cent since 2013. 
streaming (obviously) and record sales (surprisingly) are the only markets right now where sales are actually increasing. The resurgence of record sales can be ex­plained by the desire for a better listening experience, while the increase in streaming sales is most likely hap­pening because streaming is simply the most convenient way to listen to music. 
no longer do listeners have to worry about whether their ipods have enough space for their songs or if the music is properly synced between all devices because streaming allows anyone to listen to music anytime, any­where, with any device. 
Taylor swift, then, has given up the possibility of intro­ducing herself to new legions of zealous, lifelong fans and markets who would attend her shows, buy her merchan­dise and support her in many other ways, in favor of short term gains in a market that has become irrelevant. by re­stricting the platforms that she exposes herself to, Taylor swift fails to embrace an opportunity for the growth of her fanbase. streaming is the future of the music, and it’s already here. artists like Taylor swift should come out of the woods and embrace the potential streaming has for them, or risk never ever ever getting together with new fans. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
just working on a feeling, working intuitively.” 
There is a beauty in the complete randomness and almost unstructured nature of the film. as the film pro­ceeds, only once the machete-wielding man — who re­ally embodies the concept of entropy — “finishes” his business does the film seem to finally escape the per­petuating introduction scenes. it is only after he disrupts the structure of the film can the story of the film proceed (though there really is no story to the film — it concludes shortly after the opening credits finally end). 
The film is humorously dark and must be taken with large doses of salt — after all, the film is almost glorify­ing a murderous “anti-hero,” if he can even be considered that — and it is very weird, quite disgusting and at the very least horribly graphic. however just like the concept of entropy, it is valuable in its disorder and randomness. it is beautifully misunderstood and wonderful, even if a bit nauseating. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabute@nd.edu 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

you have to be insane to want to push the envelope in art. To experiment outside the norm, to deviate from the mainstream requires at least a small delusion on the part of the artist in order to pursue something that would be perceived by most as ridiculous, undesirable and unap­proachable. attaching yourself to a project that audi­ences might not receive or understand the way you want them to is scary and could make the insecure hesitant to release their material, or hide themselves behind a fa­çade to escape personal insult. 
The irish comedy-drama film “Frank” opens with the motivated but incredibly boring day-to-day of main char­acter Jon (domhnall gleeson). The camera follows him from his room, to his work, to his town, while he practi­cally forces inspiration for his songwriting dream out of everything around him, or rather, the nothing around him. his talents are laughable, and his attempts at pro­fundity are as trite as a pop song’s chorus consisting solely of “oohs” and “ohs.” but when he stumbles upon an underground band in desperate need of a keyboardist for a local show, he jumps at the opportunity, hoping to immerse himself in the music he so wishes to be able to create. 
Jon gets even more than he yearned for though and more than he can handle, as the leader of the band re­cruits him permanently after the show ends because two members quickly storm off in a fight. The leader of the band is Frank (michael Fassbender), a man who wears a paper-mâché-looking, face-like mask at all times and only uses the name Frank. The film rapidly introduces its titular character and his band shrouded in bizarre 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

This year, observer scene writers wrote music reviews. They tirelessly listened to musicians who were and weren’t Taylor swift. They then thought about why it was or wasn’t as good Taylor swift. 
Then they wrote about how it could be more like Taylor swift and rated it a certain number of Taylors out of 1989 swifts. 
but no matter how many albums they listened to, no matter how many times they claimed they were going to “six characters in search of an author” “for the pro­duction value,” they managed to miss some records that didn’t sound at all like Taylor swift but would be awe­some if they did. 
here, without further ado, are 10 albums The observer didn’t review this year, but would totally have given at least 22 Taylors out of swift. 
owen Pallett – “In Conflict” 

pallett’s latest record is sonically spacious enough to store all of Taylor’s ex-boyfriends and yet lyrically pow­erful enough to diss all of them. essentially a group of pop songs disguised in haunting string arrangements and experimental song structures, “in conflict” master­fully weaves soaring hooks into meticulous baroque pop compositions. 
an enthralling balance between accessible and chal­lenging, “in conflict” is one of the most rewarding sing­er/songwriter/producer records of the year. 
quirk and mystery. Their band name is unpronounce­able — The soronprfbs — and their avant-garde sound is indiscernible — heavily influenced by musicians like captain beefheart. Jon, unable to penetrate their music or their odd personalities, looks in from the outside once the band moves into a cabin to craft their debut album. still, he is enamored with Frank’s presence: the lead sing­er emits a strange humanity and confident assuredness, plus a certain musical genius that Jon can only dream of possessing. 
The other members of The soronprfbs are just as ec­centric and intriguing as Frank, but much less acces­sible. They include a detached drummer (carla azar), a condescending French-speaking bassist (François civil) and an aggressive synth and theremin player (maggie gyllenhall). also with them is don (scoot mcnairy), the band’s seriously flawed, yet open and inviting, manager. Jon watches their erratic behavior and assesses that cre­ative brilliance comes from trouble and tragedy. he com­pletely submerses himself thereafter, hoping for a spark in his own talents as a result of his insane surroundings. 
as such, Jon sees Frank in part as a mentor, who is able to write a heartfelt song about the tuft in a chair’s uphol­stery, and in part as a gateway to his own fame, trying to ride his ingenuity’s coattails. Jon’s outsider perspec­tive provides a base for the comedy, allowing the audi­ence to meet the band’s odd members along with him, while already knowing how much he doesn’t fit in. The film charms in its upfrontness to its material, treating the naturally absurd with a rare curtness that deserves recognition. 
once Jon starts to descend into the madness he so welcomes, the tone shifts considerably in the film’s last third. Jon’s underlying attempts to exploit Frank for his 
Casualties of Cool – “Casualties of Cool” 
metal guitarist devin Townsend teams up with folk singer ché aimee dorval to craft a masterpiece that’s somehow blues, folk, ambient and post-rock at the same time. an exquisitely-produced and masterfully-performed record, casualties of cool’s self-titled debut is both one of the most gorgeous and most technically impressive records of the year. a must listen for fans of Taylor swift who listen to radiohead and nick drake on the side. 
ben Howard – “I Forget Where We Were” 
ben howard is a stunningly poignant songwriter, and his latest release finds him exploring the very depths of the human heart with the grace and taste of a 3 a.m. Friday night yak about “just wanting somebody to cuddle with.” 
haunting guitar lines, soft pattering drums and ben’s gorgeous voice craft a comfortable darkness that you’ll want curl up in for hours. essential for fans of The national, sufjan stevens and, of course, Taylor swift. 
FKa twigs – “LP1” 
imagine if Taylor swift sang r&b songs really slowly and all of the best electronic producers twiddled knobs behind it. a soulful, technically astounding masterpiece, “lp1” is bursting with sonic power in the form of cas­cading drum machines, lithe synthesizers and Tahliah barnett’s astounding voice. if you’re looking for pop an­thems with the restraint and class of a night stargazing next to the lake, don’t miss FKa Twigs. 

own musical gains rise to the surface, and Frank’s issues come to a head, so to speak. however, the script plants roots for these dramatic elements in the first hour that, once noticed, maintain the film’s consistency. besides, it handles both the comedic and dramatic so deftly that any of its time spent focusing on either, or any combina­tion of the two, makes sense in the movie’s universe. 
as Frank, michael Fassbender gives a career-affirming performance. he commands in the role despite the limi­tation of not having a real face with which to act, relying on an excellent vocal and physical performance. his nu­anced body language establishes the role’s extraordinary visionary tendencies, but continues to suggest an off-kilter, damaged psyche. meanwhile, Jon proves a wor­thy peer to his eccentric bandmates through gleesons’s steady character progression, and he proves an espe­cially strong counter to gyllenhall’s conflicted, explosive clara, vying for control over Frank’s time and skill. 
“Frank” flips the assumptions of “troubled genius” with the help of Jon’s metamorphosis over the course of the film. Jon turns out to be the most insane, forcing his way into the band and then trying to achieve con­trol from the outside, despite the utter mundaneness he brings with him. 
he expects tragedy to be the catalyst for talent, when in actuality it can be just as much a deterrent — and he only discovers this to be the case in an excellent, understated scene late in the film. To bring tragedy upon himself, the film implicitly argues, is crazy and destructive, some­thing no one should willingly do. and, evident in the re­verse fashion in which The soronprfbs become popular, damage does not alone breed talent. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
the new Pornographers – “brill bruisers” 
Just look at that album cover. neon lights, layered words, pretty colors. That’s exactly what you get from The new pornographers on their latest record “brill bruisers” 
– an impressive group of supercharged indie tunes that glow like the screen you’re reading this on when you’re watching the trippy nd commercial. with fist-shaking anthems and vivid syr ballads, “brill brusiers” has something for everyone. “brill bruisers” is something, say, Taylor swift would be a big fan of, so you should be a big fan too. 
spoon – “they Want my soul” 
Just like every year, the people who say “rock is dead” are proved hilariously wrong. alongside ex hex, Trophy scars, ought and many more, spoon released a fantas­tic record chock-full of singalong choruses and air-guitar worthy riffs. From the i’m-super-cool-but-i’m-sad-too jaunt of “inside out” to the awesome update of smashing pumpkin’s 1979 in “do you,” “They want my soul” has all that you need to feel at once like a teenager, a 20-some­thing and your cool uncle. if you just listened to this record and Taylor swift this year, you’d still be a happy camper. 
taylor swift – “Fearless” 
we didn’t review this record because it wasn’t released this year, but we know it’s no excuse. sorry notre dame, we’ll try to do better next year. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu
 EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



sPorts autHorIty 

Previewing college hoops season 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
in contrast to its high-pow­ered, frenetic spectacle of a championship in the spring, the college basketball season often begins with little fanfare. 
The start of the season fea­tures many “cupcake” games for big-name programs, tourna­ments in locales as far-flung as alaska and hawaii and several teams — i’m looking at you, Kentucky — trying to figure out what kind of on-court chemis­try they have. 
some even can argue that with the ncaa tournament now expanded to 68 teams, regular-season college basket­ball has become devalued — it’s now possible for teams to earn at-large bids with double-digit losses. There might be some truth to that — certainly, col­lege basketball doesn’t feature the same sort of high stakes in the regular season that college football does — but that doesn’t mean there’s not great players and teams to watch and in­triguing matchups both in and out of conference. 
here’s a look at some of the best college basketball story-lines heading into this season.
 What will Kentucky look like? 
This question can probably be asked every season as long as John calipari and his one-and­done model continue to be in lexington. The wildcats rolled to the national title in 2012, lost in the first round of the niT the following year and suffered 10 losses in the regular season last year before gelling on a run to the national championship game. 
Fortunately for the top-ranked wildcats, this season might require less team devel­opment than in recent years because Kentucky returns a number of starters, including the harrison twins, aaron and andrew, as well as juniors alex poythress and willie cauley­stein. add in a talented fresh­man class led by big man Karl Towns, and Kentucky should have a good shot at reaching the same game it lost in last season.
 Will arizona bring the Pac­12 its first championship this century? 
There have been constant rumblings of an east coast bias with regards to college basket­ball coverage, and such rumors might not be unfounded. The pac-12 hasn’t won a national title since arizona did it in 1997. This year’s wildcats might be the team to snap that streak, however, as sean miller’s squad looks to be the conference favorite even after losing nick Johnson and aaron gordon. arizona is tough defensively and includes a balanced attack that includes tested upper­classmen like point guard T.J. mcconnell and brandon ashley as well as promising newcom­ers like heralded recruit stanley Johnson. 
Will Connecticut be able to defend its national title? 
The huskies surprised many by winning the national cham­pionship as a seven-seed last season. connecticut returns several key contributors from last season’s team, including talented guard ryan boatright. unfortunately for the huskies, their top contributor and leader down the stretch, shabazz napier, is now in the nba, and their frontcourt might just be a bit suspect. still, connecticut should roll through an american athletic conference that is even further decimated by the loss of louisville and receive a solid seed, though it remains to be seen who will step the huskies up to an elite level come march. 
Which conference will be the toughest in the nation? 
speaking of louisville, its addition to the acc might just make the conference the tough­est in the nation. Though the acc didn’t have a Final Four representative last season, it currently has four teams ranked in the top-10 — duke, north carolina, louisville and virginia. Throw in syracuse and near-top 25 teams like pittsburgh and north carolina state, and the acc should at the very least be a battle at the top of the standings. 
Which freshmen will emerge nationally? 
The previously mentioned freshmen Towns and Johnson may well both be candidates for the top first-year player in the country. but it wouldn’t be fair to leave duke’s Jahlil okafor off this list. okafor is a six-foot-10 center that has drawn compari­sons to Tim duncan and will be called on to help out a blue devils team looking to replace Jabari parker and rodney hood. okafor will likely have a fellow freshman feeding him the ball in guard Tyus Jones. and who knows which other freshmen may emerge to help contribute to making the season’s end as exciting as it’s been the last few seasons. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
men’s tennIs | iTa indoor championships 

ND doubles duo advances to quarterfinals 
By MANNY De JESUS 
sports writer 
notre dame’s doubles pairs advanced to the quar­terfinals of the iTa indoor championships on Friday in Flushing, new york. 
The sophomore duo of eddy covalschi and Josh hagar started off their tournament on a bye in the doubles main draw after winning the dou­bles midwest regional title in ann arbor, michigan on oct. 
20. in the round of 16 at the indoor championships, the sophomore tandem defeated freshman Julian cash and sophomore Florian lakat from mississippi state in straight sets 7-5, 6-3. covalschi and hagar’s run came to an end in the quarterfinals as they lost straight sets, 6-3, 6-3, to no. 19 senior yannick hanfmann and senior roberto Quiroz of usc. 
“our players performed at a pretty high level this past weekend in new york,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “obviously, for both pairs to make the quarterfinals of the event is significant, consider­ing the tournament represent­ed the best college players/ doubles teams in the country. There are clearly some as­pects of the game that each individual player and each combo together must continue to improve moving forward, but we like the foundation that each of these teams have.” 
no. 27-ranked duo junior alex lawson and senior billy pecor also fell in the quarter­finals, after winning in the round of 32 and the round of 16. 
They defeated harvard’s no. 36 junior denis nguyen and sophomore brian yeung, 6-3, 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), in the round of 
32. in the round of 16, lawson and pecor played another tight match against university of southern Florida’s no. 12 ju­nior roberto cid and sopho­more sasha gozun, defeating them 7-6 (8-6), 6-2. however, the irish duo fell to ucla’s no. 31 sophomore mackenzie mcdonald and freshman martin redicki in straight sets, 7-5, 6-4. 
“i don’t know that there was a great difference of how these teams played compared to the regional championships,” sachire said. “The results in new york were, if anything, just further confirmation that we have some really good players and that these teams are capable of playing doubles at the highest national level. They all know that they have to improve significantly to accomplish all of the goals that they have set for themselves, but these last two events have shown them that they are on the right path.” 
notre dame has now com­pleted its fall season, and the irish will return to match play in January when they travel to rancho santa Fe, california, to compete in the morgan run hidden duals. coach sachire said he has already decided his plans for the team during their break from competition. he said he wants notre dame to be the most improved team in the country when they get back in January. 
“i’m really, really excited for these next two months be­cause each of our players, and therefore our entire team, can make a significant jump in our level of play,” sachire said. “This is a great period of time to emphasize, work on and im­prove the areas of each player’s game that needs to get better without the concern of how they will hold up in competi­tion. our goal for the months of november and december is very clear, and that is to be the single most improved team in the country once we start competing again in January.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
nFL 

chargers back at work to end losing streak 
Associated Press 
san diego  — The san diego chargers returned to work monday after their bye week, saying they’re still confident de­spite a three-game losing streak that’s put them in a perilous spot in the playoff picture. 
The chargers (5-4) host the winless oakland raiders on sunday. despite the raiders (0-9) being on a 15-game los­ing streak, they almost beat the chargers in oakland on oct. 12. 
That was san diego’s last victory, before it lost at home to Kansas city, at denver and then was routed 37-0 at miami. 
“i think normally if it was a non-divisional game you might 

FOR RENT 
1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 
view it a little different,” outside linebacker Jarret Johnson said about facing oakland. “but this is the raiders. we know how talented they are, we know how hard they play and if you take them for granted, if you look at them just for the record, you’re a fool.” 
The chargers stumbled around in the first game against the raiders, allowing rookie derek carr to throw four touch­down passes, before coming up with big plays in the fourth quarter to win 31-28. 
rookie branden oliver scored on a 1-yard run to put the chargers ahead by three with 
1:56 left and rookie cornerback Jason verrett made a leaping interception with 1:13 left to clinch the win. 
since then the chargers have had trouble running the ball, protecting philip rivers and mounting a pass rush. 
against miami, they had trouble doing pretty much everything. 
The losing streak is “in the past but it’s also kind of right there on your mind,” wide re­ceiver eddie royal said. “as a competitor you just hate losing and you know that feeling and you never want to have it again. so that kind of motivates you to come out and work that much harder, study a little bit more film, just so you don’t have that feeling again.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
My Anaconda don’t...My Anaconda Big friend he was getting some coins don’t...My Anaconda don’t want none Was in a meeting with the law, but he unless you got food hun. Cool toy live in a palace. Bought me Alexander named Troy used to live in Detroit. McQueen 


nd Women’s tennIs 

Irish split up to gain experience 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
notre dame wrapped up its fall season over the week­end as the team split up to participate in its final two tournaments. 
The irish sent the dou­bles pair of junior Quinn gleason and sopho­more monica robinson to Flushing, new york, for the usTa/iTa national indoor intercollegiate championships while the rest of the team headed north to the western michigan university super challenge. 
The trip to the national indoor championship was the second national tourna­ment of the fall for gleason and robinson, as they par­ticipated in the all-american invitational in pacific palisades, california, at the end of september. The pair was knocked out in the round of 32 this weekend by barry university’s team of senior linda Fritschken and ju­nior emma onila, 6-4, 7-5. although they did not make it as far as they had hoped, robinson said it was still a good trip. 
“i thought it was a great experience,” robinson said. “i thought this whole fall season, just traveling to nationals and regionals, it was just really good experi­ence for us. Just being there in the mix with these top players from all over and getting the opportunity to play and get different players and player types, it was good.” 
The two had never played together before irish coach Jay louderback paired them up at the start of the fall sea­son, but they have developed a good feel for each other’s games on the court, robinson said. 
“it’s nice working with [Quinn] because we are both really competitive and we both want to do really well,” robinson, the younger of the pair said. “we both push our­selves. sometimes we’re a lit­tle too hard on ourselves, but we’re both very motivated.” 
gleason and robinson bounced back from the loss to barry with two victories during consolation play in straight sets, defeating teams from Kentucky and virginia. 
meanwhile, the rest of the team traveled to Kalamazoo, michigan, for the final action of the fall season at the wmu super challenge. The irish doubles teams found success on the court, as the team of sophomore Jane Fennelly and senior Katherine white went 3-1 over the tournament, beating two teams from marquette and another from indiana. sophomore mary closs guided freshman part­ner brooke broda through the freshman’s first collegiate match, compiling a 3-1 record as well. The duo of junior Julie vrabel and notre dame’s oth­er freshman, allie miller, also went 3-1 on the weekend. 
“it was really fun playing with [broda],” closs said. “she’s a lefty also so we had two lefties out there which gave us an advantage with serving. she’s really smart on the court, so doubles was fun working strategy on the court. 
“both [miller] and [broda] are really hard-working, ded­icated. They’ve put a lot of hours in and i think that rubs off on everyone. i think ev­eryone has put in extra hours this fall that’ll pay off in the spring.” 
“we’ve got two freshmen who absolutely love to be on the court,” robinson said. 
on the singles side, closs, vrabel, miller and Fennelly all posted 2-1 records, while juniors darby mountford and alaina roberts both finished 1-2. 
when asked in separate in­terviews what they thought the team’s strengths were af­ter the 2014 fall season, both closs and robinson respond­ed with similar answers. 
“i think our strengths [are] our hard work and [that] we mesh really well as a team,” closs said. 
“i’d say our hard work and persistence [are our strengths],” robinson said. “also our bond. we’re all close and we trust each other, and we’re friends off the court, and that just makes all the difference.” 
as the schedule moves into the brief off-season period before dual-matches pick up in January, robinson said she and her teammates are eager for the possibilities the up­coming 2015 season holds. 
“i’m really excited,” robinson said. “i think we a have a lot of potential, and i think that if we work together and really build each other up, i feel like we could do re­ally well. i mean, the sky’s the limit, i feel. we did really well last year, making it to the sweet 16, and i feel like this year, why not win it?” 
The irish will rest and continue to work in prac­tice as they ready for their spring season opener Jan. 17, when they welcome western michigan to the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
roWInG 

ND scrimmages reigning national champion 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
notre dame finished the fall portion of its 2014-2015 schedule with a four-team scrimmage event at griggs reservoir in columbus, ohio. 
The all-day scrimmage, which featured the irish, michigan state, indiana and host squad ohio state, consisted of five race pieces, each timed at five minutes. 
irish coach martin stone said he was content with the way the team “fought hard” during the scrim­mage and especially how his team showed improve­ments throughout the day. 
“i thought by the end of the afternoon, we were better than we were in the beginning, and that’s cer­tainly a positive,” stone said. 
however, the irish coach noticed areas the team must improve upon during the winter training months, if they are to unseat two-time defending ncaa champion ohio state in the spring. 
“This event gave us a good idea on where are in relation to those other three teams, especially ohio state, and showed those areas that need more work,” he said. “i think it was pretty clear during the scrimmage that ohio state was the fastest team.” 

The scrimmage was the final event of the fall, and the irish will not compete until their spring schedule commences in march at the oak ridge invitational in oak ridge, Tennessee. 
although there is a large gap between the fall and spring seasons, stone said he preaches consistency to his team, since the fall is an opportunity to prepare for spring competition. 
“From the beginning of the fall all the way to the spring, our goals don’t change,” stone said. “it’s always a matter of trying to get as fast as we possibly can, and i think we all have a good idea of what we need to do to get there.” 
The cold weather adds restrictions to the team’s ability to practice outdoors during the winter, but stone said the team intends to practice outside as long as possible. 
“sometimes, you nev­er know, we may have a chance to get out there in January or February if the weather warms up enough, but we intend to be out there whenever it’s possi­ble,” stone said. 
stone said he views this weather restriction not as a negative, but as an oppor­tunity to improve upon fit­ness and strength through indoor training. 
“i think that each school has its challenges in differ­ent ways — ours just hap­pens to be the weather,” stone said. “it is what it is, and i’m not concerned about it. we’ll just train re­ally hard and make sure we take full advantage of those times where we are able to get outside.” 
despite not competing for another four months, stone said winter training is a time when he will encour­age individuals to chal­lenge themselves, which ultimately will translate into overall team improve­ment come spring. 
“we’re obviously interest­ed in each person getting as fit and as strong as possible before we get back onto the water in the spring,” stone said. 
The irish will open their spring schedule at the oak ridge invitational on march 14 in oak ridge, Tennessee. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 
men’s sWImmInG 

notre dame finishes second in double-dual 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame finished ahead of pittsburgh but fell to virginia Tech in a dou­
ble-dual  acc  meet  at the  
rolfs  aquatic  center  this  
weekend.  

The irish beat pittsburgh, 286-84, but fell to defend­ing acc champions virginia Tech, 201-169, in their last home meet of the fall sea­son. The irish posted three first-place victories and five runner-up finishes to close Friday’s 10 events, while several top-three finishes across multiple events. 
notre dame opened the weekend with a first-place victory in the 200 free relay. Freshmen Justin plaschka and Joseph Krause and se­niors Zachary stephens and matthew buerger posted a time of 1:21.94 for first place. 
sophomore Tom anderson finished the 400 im in 3:59.47, less than a sec­ond behind robert owen (3:58.54) of virginia Tech. sophomore Kevin bradley and senior John nappi also placed in the top 10, post­ing times of 4:03.69 and 

4:04.47 for fifth and seventh, respectively. 
nappi also claimed a sec­ond place finish (15:56.64) in the 1,650 free, while fresh­man benjamin Jany finished close behind in third place (15:59.09). 
The irish bested virginia Tech and pittsburgh in the relay event and swept first and second place in the 200 medley relay. plaschka, stephens, senior cameron miller and freshman robert whitacre represented the a-team lineup for a first place time of 1:30.68, while the b-team squad of Krause, junior bogac ayhan and seniors patrick olson and Jonathan williamson took second place with a time of 1:31.46. 
notre dame opened saturday with more success in the relay events. The a-team lineup of ayhan, stephens, williamson and buerger finished second 
(3:19.19) in the 400 med­ley, and the b-team squad of whitacre, miller, olson and bradley came in third (3:23.53). 
senior nick nemetz rep­resented the irish divers on the podium and won the 1-meter diving competition with a score of 322.15. 
The irish dominated saturday’s freestyle com­petition. plaschka took first place in the 50 free (20.67), while Krause and junior michael hudspith placed seventh and tenth, respectively. sophomore Trent Jackson came in third 
(1:41.70) in the 200 race be­hind two hokies swimmers. stephens, buerger, plaschka and senior Kevin hughes closed out the meet for the irish with a first-place fin­ish in the freestyle relay (3:01.34). 


The observer | tuesday, november 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

m Interhall 
conTinued From page 16 
zone and forcing a punt to keep the score within six points after the first quarter. 
The beginning of the second quarter brought more setbacks for a beleaguered carroll offense, however. on a fourth-down play at their own goal line, the vermin holder bobbled the snap and was tackled in carroll’s end zone for a safety to bring the score to 8-0. 
The carroll defense played close man coverage on the ensuing possession and earned an inter­ception of their own. carroll soph­omore running back, linebacker and captain Zachary dodd said he was satisfied with the work of his team’s defense. 
“i think our defense did a pret­ty good job,” dodd said. “giving up a 65-yard touchdown on the first play of the game is tough thing to bounce back from, but i thought we responded well. we didn’t give up any offensive touch­downs the rest of the game, and our turnovers gave us some great opportunities, but unfortunately we couldn’t capitalize. overall, i think the defense played a good game, just came up a little short.” 
The half concluded with no further scoring from either team, leaving the score 8-0 at the start of the third. carroll adjusted its offensive game plan after half time, abandoning its methodical running game in favor of a more focused short-yardage passing at­tack. a lengthy drive fueled by a 40­yard reception placed the vermin in the red zone, but mcminimee intercepted an under-thrown pass to reclaim possession for siegfried. 
neither team would find the scoreboard again until late in the fourth quarter, when a deep ball from the carroll offense found its way once again into the arms of mcminimee, who ran the ball back for a defensive score. The game clock ran out moments into carroll’s following possession, so­lidifying the ramblers’ 14-0 win. The siegfried defense, particularly mcminimee’s two interceptions, prevented carroll from mounting a second-half comeback. 
“The first [interception], i knew he wasn’t going to beat me on a fly,” mcminimee said. “The quar­terback was a half step too late throwing it. The other one, he just put a little too much on it to the outside. i knew he was a big tall guy and he was coming deep, so i just played outside and he threw it right to me.” 
mcminimee said he was pleased with the performance of a siegfried squad that went .500 in the regular season. 
“we’re a low seed here, but i don’t think that’s indicative of our team talent,” mcminimee said. “we dropped some games; we had some guys who weren’t here, who were hurt – so that kinda hurt. but today we were full strength, and we’re dangerous when we’re full strength.” 
siegfried will play Keenan on sunday at 2:15 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
morrissey 7,  Keenan 0 
By TYLER WOJCIAK 
sports writer 
no. 1 morrissey battled through a defensive matchup to claim a 7-0 victory over no. 8 Knott in the first round of the interhall playoffs. 
morrissey (4-0) had the ball to start the game, and senior quar­terback ryan lundquist drove the manor down the field, scoring the game’s only touchdown on a scramble into the end zone from five yards out. 
For the remainder of the game, both defenses dominat­ed the contest as neither team could produce on their offensive fronts. The score remained 7-0 at halftime. 
Knott (2-2) opened the second half with possession but was forced to punt. morrissey started to move the ball with some mo­mentum, before Knott junior safety griffin carroll halted the drive with an interception. 
a sack of Juggerknott senior quarterback and captain david Taiclet by the manor defense led to a turnover on downs and pre­vented Knott from capitalizing on carroll’s interception. 
despite the manor’s attempt to run out the clock, Knott took over from its own five-yard line with a little more than three minutes left in the game. 
Taiclet and the Knott offense were able to move the ball until morrissey junior cornerback pete ciuffo intercepted a pass and re­turned it all the way to the Knott 10-yard line, crushing Knott’s hopes for a late-game comeback. 
morrissey captain erik rayno praised the Juggerknotts and his team’s performance. 
“Knott played tough, just like we knew they would,” rayno said. “They have talented players, and they can both move the ball on offense and shut you down on defense. The defense did an out­standing job of pressuring Knott’s quarterback and keeping their of­fense in check. we have a couple of things to work on on offense, but i’m confident that with our starters back in against stanford, we’re going to be all right.” 
Taiclet said he was proud of Knott’s performance, especially defensively. 
“our defense was outstand­ing today; except for one big play, we were able to shut them down defensively, which is saying something since they are a much bigger team than us,” Taiclet said. “i think if you ask any of the teams that played or watched us play, they would say we were one of the best teams in interhall. we had a ton of talent, but we were small.” 
morrissey will play the griffins next week for a spot in the cham­pionship game, and rayno said he believes his team is ready for the challenge. 
“stanford is a very big and very physical football team, so i think a lot of this week needs to be dedi­cated to creating a mental tough­ness just as much as a physical one.” rayno said. “we know what we have to do, and our work is cut out for us, but we’re confident in our abilities as a football team.” 
The manor take on stanford on 
sunday at 1 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 
stanford 17, Fisher 0 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The no. 5 griffins defeated no. 4 Fisher 17-0 in a first-round upset in the interhall postseason sunday afternoon. 
with the win, stanford will ad­vance in the playoffs to face top-seeded morrissey, after the manor shut out Knott 7-0 sunday. 
stanford captain and junior daniel babiak said the team’s prep­aration was a major factor in the victory. 
“what helped us win today was that we had a great practice this week,” babiak said. “we got a lot of attendance, which is so hard in this league. [The team] got out here re­ally early and had a great warm up so everyone was fresh. The guys took it easy last night, and when we came out here everyone was all-in.” 
stanford’s preparation paid off as the griffins forced a fumble on the opening drive of the game, recovered by senior linebacker peter Jochens. The griffins capi­talized on the fumbled and scored a touchdown on the ensuing pos­session with a 33-yard pass from freshman quarterback andrew Foster to sophomore wide receiver brent Jordan in the end zone. 
Foster’s running and passing production helped the stanford offense dominate, as he ended the game with 93 yards passing, 31 yards rushing and a touchdown. babiak said Foster’s performance was the result of hard work in practice. 
“The passing game in general has been coming along the entire season,” babiak said. “Today was just showing the results of all the hard work we’ve been putting in the last two months.” 
on the next possession, the griffins forced the green wave to punt. stanford regained possession and scored another touchdown on a 5-yard run by junior running back michael grasso. Foster set up the touchdown with a 35-yard flea-flicker pass to junior receiver daniel muldoon. babiak said the trick play worked well. 


“we drew that up this week,” babiak said. “we weren’t sure if we were going to use it. we had a good scenario; we had the ball in good field position, so we figured why not run it.” 
stanford opened the second half with a long drive that led to a field goal by freshman kicker samuel Kohler. The drive took up most of the third quarter and left Fisher with little time to mount a comeback. 
in attempt to narrow the gap, the Fisher offense began to focus more on passing. Fisher quarterback and sophomore michael cooney threw for 58 yards in the game but was unable to conduct a scoring drive. however, time was against the green wave, and Fisher ultimately fell 17-0. 
Fisher captain and senior matthew nagy said there was “just a little bit of frustration at the end of the game,” but his team played well throughout the season. 

“we kept playing hard,” nagy said. “[we] couldn’t keep it moving too much on offense and the penal­ties really hurt us as well. our first game we lost pretty badly (Fisher lost to carroll 21-0), and we were a little worried after that, but we kept working hard and we came back and won our next three games, so we were pretty happy about that.” 
babiak said his team will need to continue practicing well to con­tinue on the path to the champion­ship game at notre dame stadium. 
“we just have to keep getting out there every day we have a prac­tice,” babiak said. “morrissey and Knott are both pretty good teams, so we’re going to have to prepare to play the best team in the league, in my opinion.” 
stanford will play morrissey on sunday in the semi-finals at 1 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





W Interhall 
conTinued From page 16 
conversion and trailed 8-6 heading into the second quarter. 
in the second quarter, mulhall took advantage of a pyros inter­ception by throwing a short touch­down pass, giving the pyros a 14-6 lead into the half. after a pyros three-and-out to start the second half, walsh was deep into the pyros’ territory when the pasquerilla east forced a momentum-swinging in­terception in their end zone. walsh was unable to recover, and the pyros scored two touchdowns in the fourth quarter to put the game away, 28-12. 
moore said he was satisfied with his team’s performance. 
“i’m really proud of the way we played today,” moore said. “it wasn’t our best game, and we still have some room for improvement, so i’m excited to see what the next two games hold for us. hopefully we can get into the stadium [to play for the championship] and play 
paid adverTisemenT 
well out there.” 
Contact Kyan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
Pangborn 27, Cavanaugh 0 
DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 3 pangborn shut out no. 6 cavanaugh in a 27-0 victory in the first round of interhall playoff games. 
pangborn senior quarterback caitlin gargan had four total touch­downs on the day, while the phoxes defense held the chaos scoreless to advance to the semifinals. 
gargan engineered a scoring drive on the game’s first posses­sion, moving the phoxes offense upfield before running into the corner for a 5-yard touchdown. 
pangborn senior cornerback and captain anna mcnamara said she was particularly impressed by her team’s opening drive. 
“our offense got us off to a re­ally quick start,” mcnamara said. “it really took the pressure off the defense.” 
The pangborn defense built on the advantage, intercepting cavanaugh senior quarterback sam Flores’s pass on third-and­long. gargan rewarded her de­fense’s efforts within three plays as she escaped pressure and threw for a 19-yard touchdown pass. cavanaugh came close to scoring on its second drive, turn­ing a deflected pass into a gain and converting a fourth down in the following play. however, after marching downfield and com­pleting a long pass to the 3-yard line, Flores threw a second pick on third-and-goal. 
The chaos soon earned another first-and-goal late in the half, but again pangborn’s secondary pre­vented cavanaugh from reaching the endzone. 
despite shutting out the chaos, mcnamara said the pangborn defensive performance wasn’t perfect, as the two flags against the phoxes extended cavanaugh drives on third down. 
“on defense, we need to work on playing a clean game and not get­ting as many penalties,” she said. 
cavanaugh started the second half with another long but scoreless drive, and the pangborn offense used this momentum to pull away. a deep ball from gargan found ju­nior receiver Katie schultz in space on 3rd-and-21 for a 61-yard touch­down pass. gargan soon added a 22-yard run to seal the win. 
harrington said she was still able to find positives from the way her team played the game. 
“i don’t think we gave up, which was really important,” harrington said. “we stayed in it the whole time. we had some good plays and left it all out on the field. 
“we got caught in a lot of tricky situations and couldn’t convert some first-and-goals. we just couldn’t catch the ball when it was really important.” 

pangborn will play pasquerilla east in the semifinals sunday at labar practice Facility at 4 p.m. The pyros handed the phoxes their only loss of this regular season. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


Football 
conTinued From page 14 
good position, and that’s on me as a coach.” 
however, Kelly said he was still confident in the abilities of his signal-caller to lead notre dame drives, especially since golson brought the irish back within three points of the sun devils in the fourth quarter. 
“well, i mean, after the first 30 plays, i mean we had — i think the first 35 plays we had most of all of our mistakes were made, and they were all cor­rectable mistakes,” Kelly said. “Then our next 47 plays, other than the last play of the game, the last sack there where we were trying to make a play, he’s doing really good things. 
“so we know what he’s ca­pable of doing. … it’s striving for consistency, because we get really great batches of work. it’s really gaining that consistency for four quarters. so my eyes tell me the body of work just needs to be more consistent.” 
Kelly said more of that consis­tency needs to come from the field-goal tandem of junior long snappers scott daly and hunter smith. The unit botched a hold on a fourth-quarter attempt during notre dame’s comeback bid. 
“yeah, i would probably use John mcKay’s line — i’m in favor of execution, executing both of them,” Kelly said. “better ex­ecution for those two. Those are the only two guys. These guys like live with each other all summer. it’s just absolutely crazy that we can’t get a snap and catch in that situation. 
“… it was a crucial time in the game to have that kind of a mis­take. so go back to the routine and continue to work on it, and hope that we don’t have that mistake again.” 
graduate student cornerback cody riggs sat out saturday’s game with a stress reaction in his foot, and Kelly said his staff will keep an eye on the injury. 
“it’s something we’re going to have to monitor the rest of the year,” Kelly said. “i think we’ll probably have to cut back a lit­tle bit in his practice and really kind of make sure that we can get him through the rest of the season.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

Jackson 
conTinued From page 14 
that last year. so he’s got a great feel for our stuff.” 
Jackson was quick to credit his teammates and coaches with his development in the last year. 
“i just feel like a year of ma­turity as well as getting closer to my teammates and coach­es has really helped me out,” Jackson said. “i feel so close to my teammates, and the coach­es also, that i can say anything and so i just want to communi­cate, be a good leader, help the team.” 
while Jackson has come out and put up high point totals to start the season, brey said he has been even more impressed with his defensive play. 
“i’ll tell you what: to do what demetrius can do offensively after pressuring the ball like he pressures it, that’s a work­out,” brey said. “when you pressure the ball like that, that’s an unbelievably unself­ish act because it wears you out. so i’m trying to figure out how to sub for him to get him a rest because he’s got a heck of a workout the way he pressures the ball. he helps the rest of our defense that teams are at least having to start their offense out a little further.” 
his unselfishness continues off the court. in addition to giving credit to his teammates and coaches for his develop­ment, Jackson is the first to point out what he thinks he can do better. when asked what he thought of his play against minnesota duluth on nov. 1, in which he put up 20 points, Jackson did not mince words. 
“i guess the first thing i noticed was my turnovers,” Jackson said. “i know how much we take pride in taking care of the ball, so that’s defi­nitely something i want to work on, just being better with the ball, having more assists.” 
“he had three turnovers in the first half [against duluth],” brey said. “now, overall, his stats in 20 practices are very solid. but we’ve just got to be smart with that thing because he’s going to have his hands a lot.” 
yet brey knows his young guard is still learning and will make mistakes occasion­ally. he said he does not want Jackson looking over at his coach on the bench when he plays though. 
“he got creative [against duluth],” brey said. “he’s driv­ing, he’s playing, he’s attacking, he’s going for it. … i don’t want you looking at the bench. i’m going to let you play through mistakes.” 
as many have noticed, Jackson is much more vocal on the court already than he was last year. he has even started to develop a trademark for what he wants his team to focus on. 
“one thing i want to work on personally [is] making sure we come out strong and finish strong, both halves,” Jackson said. 
“his whole thing was we’ve got to get off to a good start,” brey said. “he’s got a strong voice and he wants his team to be good. 
“ball’s in his hands [now]. italy was great for him because he got to quarterback us for four games. … he’s a confident guy and he’s become a voice for us but he’s firmly at the con­trols of this thing.” 
don’t try to tell that to Jackson though. he just wants to help his team win. 
“Throughout the whole year i just want to remain aggressive and play my role,” Jackson said. “i think that’s something that i can help our team do with my voice and communication.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CrossWord | will shorTZ 

HIGHLy PunLIKeLy | chrisTopher brucKer 

dome nuts | aleXandria wellman 

Edited by Will Shortz 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

PUZZLE BY JOEL FAGLIANO  
35 Monsoon period 36 Ones taking the 20-Across 38 Who said “It’s not bragging if you can back it up” 39 Trailer park people, for short 43 Topple (over)  45 Spoil 46 Vacuous 47 Volkswagen compact 48 “The Wind in the Willows” character 50 Bid at the last second, as on eBay  53 It’s next to fluorine on the periodic table 57 It’s over your head 58 Pilgrimage to Mecca  
44 “Cut that out!”  51 Meg and Paul  59 Slugger’s stat  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
sudoKu | The mepham group 
ACROSS 1 Pet adoption org. 
5 Campfire remains 10 Trim, with 
“down” 14 Gradually remove, as a foal from its mother’s milk 15 Cinnamon pattern, in toast 16 God whose name is a homophone of a zodiac sign 17 Humble reply to a compliment 
18 Two units, in 56-Across 20 Test for Ph.D. 
seekers 21 Two-time Cy Young winner Lincecum 22 “You can count on me” 23 Three units, in 
56-Across 27 Coral producer 28 Partner of desist 29 World’s fair, e.g. 
31 Facebook button 

32 Jobs announcement of 2010 
33 John McCain and Kurt Vonnegut, once, for short 
37 Five units, in 56-Across 40 “Wowzers!” 41 Brutish sort 42 Battery units 43 Potter’s oven 44 Small paving stones 45 Foe of Cobra, in comics 49 Three units, in 56-Across 52 Early afternoon time 
54 What horizontal head shakes signify 
55 Low island 56 Four units, in 
56-Across 59 Santa ___, Calif. 60 A few poker 
chips, maybe 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Relative of a giraffe 62 Windfall 63 Honey 
64 MetLife Stadium athlete, for short 
65 B&Bs 
DOWN 1 Drinks from a bottle, maybe 2 Kate’s groom in “The Taming of 
the Shrew” 3 1980s toy craze 4 Whatever 
number 5 Reach for the 
stars 6 Hindu teacher 7 Bomb’s opposite 8 Drop a fly ball, 
e.g. 9 School zone 
sign 10 Poet Neruda 11 On ___ (doing 
well) 12 Cry before “set” 13 Legally prohibit 19 Plan for losers, 
informally? 21 Stun gun 24 It was originally 
first on the Roman calendar 25 Roman god of horses 
26 Word before change or revenge 
30 Kissing in a crowd, e.g., in brief 
31 Droop 32 Poker 
declaration 33 Prefix with type 34 One whose 
success is well-earned? 
Level: 



9/18/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

HorosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: expressing the way you feel will be the turning point in all your negotiations. stand tall and state your case with conviction, and you will not be denied the opportunity to receive what you deserve and gain respect for your honesty. This is the year to make the necessary adjustments to live life your way. don’t back down. your numbers are 2, 14, 22, 24, 31, 35, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): home improvement will help your productivity and your state of mind. making a move or just rearranging your place to suit upcoming projects will help. altering your living arrangements can help you cut costs. don’t let your current professional position get you down. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help colleagues, and you will build a strong alliance that will help you advance in your chosen field. being a participant will lead to opportunities and greater expertise. sign up for courses that will help hone your skills. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The larger activities going on at your home or workplace will help you see the pros and cons of your personal situation. look at your alternatives and consider past experiences and financial costs in order to make a practical domestic decision. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): strive for perfection and stay within your budget. set limitations that will ensure you head down a practical path. a long­term partnership will add to your stability. love is highlighted, and simple pleasures will be your ticket to a solid future. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): listen carefully, but don’t share your thoughts or feelings. do your own thing and make a point to learn something that will help you advance. Taking a course or practicing and honing a skill you want to develop will bring the highest rewards. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions may flare up if you haven’t discussed your plans with someone affected by what you do. your practical outlook will win out in the end if you are honest. a partnership with a friend, lover or relative will lead to a prosperous future. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): sign up for a short trip or a course that will explore concepts or information that can help you advance. don’t let someone at home dictate what you can and cannot do. Jealousy is apparent and must not be allowed to disrupt your plans. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): evaluate your financial, emotional and domestic situations and you will come up with a solution that is innovative, cost effective and stabilizing. make a commitment to follow through with your plans, and don’t look back. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): help others, but make sure you get what you want in return. if you spell out your agenda, a partnership will develop that will bring continuous benefits to everyone concerned. honesty will be a must to make this coalition work. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t mix business with pleasure. Focus on what’s at stake, and take a route that ensures your success. it’s oK to be different and to pave the path for those less innovative. don’t let last-minute changes get in your way. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put discipline into play and you will be able to make the changes necessary to ensure your safety and your progress. not everyone will be happy with your plans, so be discreet and diplomatic regarding your every move. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): open the door to friends, relatives and peers. share your thoughts, and you will discover you are not alone. plans that can lead to a prosperous venture should be discussed. home improvements can be put into play. 


Birthday Baby: you are intense, passionate and expressive. you are original, creative and interesting. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ASYET  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
BLAFE  

TOBREH BLEMME  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Ans: A  
Yesterday’s  (Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: JUICE PLANK SLEEPY FIZZLE Answer: When her jigsaw puzzle was ruined, she did this — FELL TO PIECES  



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

FootbaLL 
‘Debacle in the desert’ 

Kelly talks turnovers, botched field goal, Riggs’ absence after Arizona State loss 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
notre dame will use this week to focus on improving for its final three regular-season games instead of looking at postseason possibilities, irish head coach brian Kelly said in his sunday teleconference. 
“well, after the debacle in the desert here on offense, we have a lot to focus on just on Tuesday,” Kelly said. “so we’re going to focus on cleaning up what we need to clean up inter­nally, offensively, defensively. so there won’t be any big-pic­ture conversations. we’ve got a lot of work to do to be better as a football team. That’s going to be the focus this week.” 
Kelly also said he will be look­ing for more consistency across the board from his players as the team heads into the final stretch of its schedule. 
in saturday’s 55-31 loss to arizona state, notre dame quickly fell behind and was not able to catch up, thanks in large part to the sun devils’ 28 points off five irish turnovers. 
senior quarterback everett golson threw four intercep­tions and lost one of his two fumbles on the night. 
“i mean, look, there is clearly a number of things that we’ve got to clean up, and in a game where the turnovers decided the game, there are things that we can do better as coaches,” Kelly said. “we’ve got to be able to — i think the biggest thing for me is, we’ve got to take care of the careless mistakes. There are going to be some mistakes made within the structure of our offense, but they can’t be careless. Then we’ve got to do a great job of putting him in a 
see FooTball PaGe 14 


men’s basKetbaLL 

Jackson shows promise for irish in offseason 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
sophomore guard demetrius Jackson has proved himself to be one of notre dame’s early-season surprises. 
much of the early-season focus has surrounded notre dame’s returning seniors, guard Jerian grant and guard/ forward pat connaughton. however, the development of sophomore guard demetrius Jackson looked promising this weekend. The mishawaka prod­uct averaged 19.5 across notre dame’s two exhibition contests, surpassing his 17 points as a high all of last season. his de­velopment extends beyond just his scoring capability. Jackson showed he has become one of the team’s vocal leaders as well. 
“i feel very confident talking to my guys, even if they don’t always listen,” Jackson said. “in the huddles i’m talking to the guys just trying to be a leader.” 
“he’s becoming more of a voice,” irish coach mike brey said. “i think he will become even more of a leader month to month. That’s his personal­ity, and when you’re the point guard, you’ve got to use your voice. i think he has a really good feel of our system and our sets and everything. i think as the year goes, he will become as strong a voice as Jerian or pat.” 

brey first handed the role of starting point guard to Jackson this summer when the team traveled to play four exhibition games in italy, and he said the sophomore has taken the ball and run with it. 
“he couldn’t wait to get the ball in his hands,” brey said. “he has a great feel for our system and our sets. i didn’t know he had that good a feel because i never had him at the throttle last year. but we start practicing for italy, he goes, ‘coach, what about we look at five and post pat?’ [graduated guard] eric [atkins] did all 
see JacKson PaGe 14 
men’s InterHaLL 

Siegfried knocks off Carroll 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
no. 6-seed siegfried held the offense of no. 3-seed carroll out of the end zone en route to a 14-0 upset win sunday. 
The victory over the vermin ad­vanced the ramblers (3-2) to the next round of the interhall play­offs. The ramblers scored what would prove to be the winning touchdown on their first play from scrimmage, as freshman wide receiver sean mcminimee beat double coverage to catch a 30-yard pass along the left side­line. The secondary failed to catch up to him, and mcminimee sprinted another 35 yards down-field for the touchdown. 
carroll’s unfavorable start continued as an errant pass re­sulted in a siegfried interception just a few plays later. however, the vermin defense stood stout for the remainder of the quarter, holding siegfried out of the red 
see m inTerhall PaGe 12 
Women’s InterHaLL 

pe and pangborn advance 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
on a chilly sunday afternoon, pasquerilla east proved to be too formidable an opponent for walsh as the pyros rolled to a 26-12 victory. 
pyros coach Kendall moore knew this would not be an easy game for his team; however, he said he knew if his team played well, they would have a good chance of winning. 
“we knew we were going to get tested today, but we wanted to come out and start fast and execute,” moore said. “we knew that if we played our best, we were going to be tough to beat. so, we wanted to come out here and com­pete at the highest level.” 
pyros quarterback macy mulhall’s two touchdown passes and an impressive all-around de­fensive effort carried pasquerilla east to victory. in the first quarter, both teams traded touchdowns, with walsh scoring a long touch­down off a halfback pass. however, walsh could not complete its 
see w inTerhall PaGe 13 





