The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 6 | monday, september 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd kicks off 2014 season with changes 
New turf, new uniforms and new tickets debut at football home opener 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
notre dame students be­gan this year’s football season with ponchos and umbrellas, cheering the irish to victory in the face of stormy weather and recent game-day changes made by the university. 
This weekend, notre dame not only debuted uniforms from under armour and a new turf field, but also instituted a system which allows students to forgo the traditional ticket booklet in favor of electronic tickets on their smartphones. 
Freshman enrique pajuelo said he appreciated the conve­nience of the “etickets,” even though the new procedure was not completely foolproof. 
“i’ve been told by sopho­mores that [in the past] you had to carry all the tickets with you all the time, so with the phone it was easier, but the main problem was that almost all iphones run out of battery really fast,” he said. 
although she agreed the electronic tickets were con­venient, senior annie plachta said she was disappointed that she would now be unable to have a booklet as a remind­er of her last football season at notre dame. 
“i have three ticket booklets from freshman, sophomore and junior year, so i kind of 
see FooTball paGe 4 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Senior Kyle Brindza takes the kickoff during Saturday’s game against Rice. Wearing new Under Armour uniforms and playing on new turf, the Irish defeated the Owls, 48-17. 


wiedower elected president of sisters of the holy cross 

Photo courtesy of Gwen O’Brien 

Sister Veronique Wiedower speaks with faculty and staff at a farewell event in the lobby of O’Laughin Auditorium on Wednesday. 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor 
after three years serving as vice president for the division for mission at saint mary’s, sister veronique wiedower left the role on Friday to pursue a new position as president of the congregation of the sisters of the holy cross. 
sr. wiedower was elected presi­dent of the congregation at the 2014 general chapter that was held in entebbe, uganda over the 
see wiedower paGe 5 



Dean assumes VP position 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame appointed gregory p. crawford, phys­ics professor and dean of the college of science, to associ­ate provost and vice presi­dent, effective July 1, 2015, according to a university press release. 
“greg’s passion, creativity, intellect, energy and enthu­siasm have taken the college of science to new heights,” provost Thomas g. burish said in a statement. “These same attributes will serve the university well as he establishes a physical pres­ence for notre dame in the west. we are grateful for his six years of service as dean and look forward to his con­tributions in his new role.” 

crawford will expand and develop notre dame’s con­nections in the san Francisco bay area of california before extending his work to include the whole state, the press re­lease stated. his work will in­clude recruiting top students, finding new internship and employment opportunities for current undergraduates and exploring connections that could help provide and fund sabbaticals for faculty. 
“extending our virtues and values to northern california is only the next step in notre dame’s goal of expanding across the state and elevat­ing our impact on the world as a force for good – build­ing on our long tradition of service to humanity and our accelerating achievements in that cause,” crawford said in a statement. “i am pro­foundly grateful and inspired by the students, faculty and 
see dean paGe 5 


library receives badin bible 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
The university recently acquired a bible belonging to stephen badin, the first catholic priest ordained in the united states and a pre­vious owner of the land that eventually became notre dame’s campus. The bible currently is on display in the department of rare books and special collections in hesburgh library. 

catholic studies librarian Jean mcmanus, who played a role in the acquisition, said John carroll, the first catholic bishop in the united states, gave the three-volume bible to badin in the late 1700s. she said badin took it with him in his travels. These included vis­its to Kentucky and northern indiana, where he made his land purchases and built the original log chapel. 
Kathleen cummings, di­rector of the cushwa center for the study of american catholicism, said badin gave the bible to the sisters of loretto in nerinx, Ky., who owned it for more than 200 years before only recently 
see badin paGe 5 


news paGe 3 viewpoinT paGe 7 scene paGe 13 IrIsH InsIder 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                             peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is your favorite student section cheer? 

Hannah Hartman 


Cara Spinosa 
junior 

sophomore 
mcglinn hall 

ryan hall 
“The kickoff cheer.” 

“celtic chant.” 
Jimmy Pennoyer 


Chad Binghay 
sophomore 

junior 
Fisher hall 

Keough hall 
“The first-down chant.” 

“The crab walk.” 
Robin Przybylski 


Gracie Williams 
senior 

sophomore 
ryan hall 

pasquerilla east hall 
“The fight song.” 

“suck it, owls.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Kayla mullen mike ginocchio Katie mccarty Zach Klonsinski 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Sacramental Workshop: “Getting Wellness Wednesday 2nd-Annual Fro-Yo ND Band: Trumpets 
wei lin gabriela leskur 
Preparation Info Started in Research” Rockne Memorial Social under the Dome Session Brownson Hall 3 p.m. LaFortune Student Main Building Brownson Hall 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Relax with free yoga. Center 4:10 p.m. - 4:20 p.m.. 
Corrections 

4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Formulate a research 1 p.m. Kick off for home 
The observer regards itself as Learn about RCIA. question. Open to the public. football weekend. a professional publication and 
LGBTQ 101 

strives for the highest standards 
“ND Alumni: “Hearts of the LaFortune Student Mindful Mediation Football Pep Rally 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Sculptors and World” film Center Coleman-Morse Campus-wide 
however, recognize that we will make 
Professors” Debartolo Performing 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Center 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Snite Museum of Art Arts Center Learn about LGBTQ 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Cheer on the Irish as 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
All day 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. issues on campus. All faith traditions they prepare to face 
we can correct our error. 

Open to the public. Classic WWI film. welcome. Michigan. 


Saint Mary’s announces new major 

By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s announced Friday the establishment of a new academic department, the department of gender and women’s studies (gws), and a new interdisciplinary major in gws. 
director of media relations gwen o’brien said the college has offered a minor in women’s studies since 1985, and the pro­gram was named gws in 2012. in February of this year, the academic affairs council ap­proved gws as a major, and the minor remains an option for undergraduate students. 
stacy davis, associate pro­fessor and coordinator of the gws program, said the process for recognition as a major be­gan in 2007, and the program just received administrative approval to become a major and department. 
“The gws steering commit­tee, with the help of associate dean Joe incandela, spent the 2011-12 school year developing a three-page prospectus for the major,” davis said. “This was approved by the president and the provost in may 2013. in the meantime, the program had a successful internal review, which helped us to make our case for the major.” 
once the prospectus was approved, the curriculum committee had to greenlight the major. 
“professors susan alexander, phyllis Kaminski, sonalini sapra, Jamie wagman [and i] drafted the proposal for the major, which was reviewed by gws faculty last fall,” she said. “The curriculum committee approved the proposal in February, and the chair of that committee, Joyce hicks, presented the proposal to the academic affairs council, which accepted it. once the major was approved, the pro­gram became a department.” 
The gws department con­sists of gws faculty and pro­fessors from several other departments at saint mary’s, davis said. gws curriculum encourages students to exam­ine and analyze women’s lives, she said. 
according to the 2014 smc bulletin, gws applies an inclu­sive and interdisciplinary ap­proach to the study of women, gender identities and sexuali­ties. it is guided by feminist ac­tivism and feminist theoretical insight into different forms of power, inequality and privi­lege. within each course in the department, students investi­gate the intersections of gen­der, race, class, sexualities and other identity categories from historical and contemporary transnational perspectives. 
gws, founded in 1984-85, was the oldest interdisciplin­ary program at saint mary’s, and davis said it was impor­tant to make the transition to having a gws department and major. 
“The best liberal arts colleges in the country, and especially women’s colleges, have tradi­tionally had departments [or] programs in women’s, gender, sexuality and/or Feminist studies,” she said. “Forty-four of the top 50 liberal arts col­leges have programs, and 32 of those colleges, including all of the women’s colleges, have majors. 
“our faculty concluded that transitioning from a program to a department would be another sign of the college’s continued commitment to high-quality education.” 
The department offers courses housed within gws, 

“[GWS] gives students an 
opportunity to 
learn about social 
issues.” 
Kylie Garabed 
Intended GWS major 
as well as courses from 14 other departments and programs, davis said. 
“These include courses in african-american history, postcolonial women’s writing, lgbTQ studies, stereotyp­ing and prejudice, becoming women, cyberfeminism, ro­mantic-era feminism and transnational feminisms,” she said. “... our goal is that stu­dents who take courses in the department learn the history of feminist movements and gain an understanding of the relationships between gender and other identity categories (race, class, sexuality, etc.) and how those relationships affect people’s lives, both positively and negatively. students can then use their knowledge to speak and write clearly about issues and topics surrounding women, sexualities and gen­der identities and decide what contributions they want to make in the ongoing struggles for gender and sexual equality.” 

sophomore Kylie garabed is the first intended gws major at the college. 
garabed said the gws major appealed to her because she is passionate about combating social injustice and wants to acquire the tools necessary to understanding social issues in society. 
“[gws] gives students an op­portunity to learn about social issues and hopefully become passionate enough to want to make a change,” garabed said. “even though it may not be possible to change the whole culture, it is possible to change the people around you ... and solve problems.” 
davis said she hopes the de­partment continues to be a place that nurtures both fac­ulty and student development. 
“it is exciting for me that the number of course offerings and affiliated faculty contin­ues to grow,” davis said. “over the last several years, we have graduated a healthy number of [gws] minors from a variety of majors, from art to nursing. 
“That gives us confidence that we will be able to at­tract majors to our depart­ment. i think any student who is interested in the history of women and gender, plans to work in a social service field or wants to change the world will find a gws major useful and empowering.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@stmarys.edu 
rome global gateway names new director 
facility one block from the grants, such as those offered catholic higher education said. 
By GUIDO GUERRA 

news writer colosseum through which it by the nanovic institute for and democracy in europe,” notre dame’s main campus 
will host academic colloquia, european studies, and con-will bring together leaders will not be left out of these 
professor Theodore J. seminars and forums as well ducting research during the of european catholic uni-developments. Though the cachey, Jr., who assumed as faculty and graduate stu-summer and breaks. versities to deliberate vari-program is still in its infancy, the position of director of dents conducting research. “The goal of the [rome ous ideas of civic education cachey cites early examples, the new notre dame global prior to cachey’s arrival and global gateway] is to encour-and the singular role these such as new undergraduate gateway center in rome, italy the christening of the new age more students to pursue catholic institutions play in internships at the vatican and in June 2014, aims to bolster site, no such means for ex-education abroad opportu-promoting virtues central to short-term graduate fellow-both the program’s european pansion existed for notre nities in rome and to enrich civic life. ships in rome, as foreshad­credentials and connection dame in rome. The gateways the variety and the quality of “The rome gateway of-owing future developments. to the university. go beyond standard study those opportunities,” he said. fers an ideal platform for the “i anticipate that there will 
according to the program’s abroad programs to furnish a The global gateway will global expression, the distil-be many positive changes website, the global gateways greater capacity for academ-support and work with vari-lation really, of notre dame’s and enhancements at notre are campuses around the ics, cachey said. ous organizations and in-catholic mission in research, dame’s home campus as the 
world – beijing, chicago, 
dublin, Jerusalem, london 
and now rome – where in­
ternational researchers and 
faculty come together with 
notre 
dame faculty and stitutes doing research in education and service,” he faculty and students in south 


rome and throughout italy, said. bend become increasingly 

cachey said. an early case in with notre dame’s status aware of the opportunities 

point is its support of a post-as one of the world’s premier presented by the fact that 

doctoral fellow of the the centers of study for dante and notre dame is operating a ma­

cushwa center for the study medieval italian literature, jor research and educational 

students to interact and co-of american catholicism the program aims to stimu­center in rome,” cachey said. 

operate on discussion and tasked with crafting a late research and scholastic “Through coursework,  re-

research. The gateways’ mis­guide to “roman archival collaboration with interna­search, service and through 

sion is fundamentally inter­disciplinary, as exhibited by their hosting of faculty and students of other programs and institutes, as well as symposia and workshops. 
rome’s gateway is housed in a newly reno­vated, 32,000-square-foot 
cachey said he hopes to see a rise in the number of undergraduate applications to study abroad in rome for a semester or entire scho­lastic year. he also said he expects to see a climb in the number of students traveling abroad on internships and sources for the history of u.s. catholicism, 1776-1939.” going forward, a biannual conference focused on is­sues facing the global church will also emerge from this partnership. an upcoming nanovic-sponsored confer­ence, “sources of the civic: tional peers, cachey said. 
“i plan to do within my own field of expertise what i in­vite colleagues from across the university to do, that is, to utilize the rome global gateway as a vehicle for fos­tering innovative research and teaching in my field,” he a linguistic and cultural im­mersion in the contemporary reality of the ‘eternal city,’ we invite the notre dame student to become citizens of the world.” 

Contact Guido Guerra at gguerrap@nd.edu 

The observer | monday, september 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

biologist receives research grant 
By SARAH VANCE 
news writer 
notre dame biology profes­sor Zachary T. schafer recently received a research scholar grant from the american cancer society (acs) to fur­ther his research on breast cancer treatment. 
The grant is funded by lee national denim day, a pro­gram sponsored by lee Jeans, in which people donate $5 for an opportunity to wear jeans to work. according to the website, the program has raised more than $91 million dollars for the fight against breast cancer, and $792,000 of that total will go toward furthering professor schafer’s research project, “The evasion of detachment-induced metabolic defects in breast cancer.” 
“[it is] great to be part of the department of biological sciences here where there is a significant track record of ob­taining substantial extramural funding in spite of the difficult funding climate,” he said. “i’m very grateful for the support from the acs and for the funds from national denim day.” 
schafer said his research primarily deals with explor­ing the metastatic cascade, or the molecular mechanisms that cancer cells use to survive while traveling from the site of the primary tumor to distant sites in the body. 
“we have data demonstrat­ing that pathways involved in cellular metabolism are critical for the survival of can­cer cells during metastasis,” schafer said. “[we] hope that better understanding how can­cer cell metabolism is regulat­ed will open up new targets for the development of drugs that target metastasizing cancer cells for elimination.” 
schafer said gaining this understanding could greatly enhance how breast cancer patients are treated and poten­tially reduce mortality rates. 
“This type of chemothera­peutic strategy could be par­ticularly helpful in that it could inhibit metastasis. most patients that die from can­cer die due to metastasis,” he 
see research paGe 5 


Football 
conTinued From page 1 
wanted the fourth one to complete the four years,” plachta said. “it’s kind of sad to have the eticket instead of the booklet.” 
The new under armour uniforms, on the other hand, were a good change, junior football captain and defen­sive lineman sheldon day said. 
“[The new uniforms were] excellent, especially with the nice, tight fit around the body. you’re just feeling good,” he said. 
The changes made to the uniforms were not obvi­ous from the student sec­tion, however, junior abbey dankoff said. 
“i don’t think there’s that much difference,” she said. “if there was, you couldn’t tell. i’m pretty pumped about the shamrock series uni­forms though. i think under armour has taken the design to a new level.” 
while the switch to under armour is not necessarily apparent from the student section, it is very clear while shopping at the bookstore, plachta said. 
“what’s in the bookstore this year is so much better than what they’ve had in the 
paid adverTisemenT 

past,” she said. “i don’t re­member adidas having any­thing cool like [what they have now], especially for women. The women’s stuff tends to be subpar to the men’s, and i thought under armour did a really good job.” 
as for field changes, day said the new turf made play 
“I thought it would look worse with the turf instead of the grass since grass is such a tradition and it’s so natural - a Notre Dame kind of thing. But I guess it proved that even though there are changes, change can be good.” 
Megan McCuen 
junior 
easier. 

“definitely, feeling faster, quicker, more explosive is a good feeling,” he said. 
Freshman ivan carballude said it was unfortunate that notre dame had to give up the traditional grass. 
“i liked having the grass,” he said. “we have such an old stadium, and it’s so tra­ditional … having the grass, and being one of the last teams to have grass was re­ally nice.” 
dankoff, though, said the switch to turf was long overdue. 
“i think that it just allows for a better-played game,” she said. “The athletes don’t have to worry about slipping in mud, don’t have to worry about puddles on the field. … it’s kind of ridiculous. we were one of the only teams to still have grass, and it’s just the way the game is evolv­ing. it’s not that it takes away from the tradition of the stadium.” 
Junior megan mccuen echoed the thoughts of many students regarding the new turf and game-day changes in general. 
“i thought it would look worse with the turf instead of the grass since grass is such a tradition, and it’s so natu­ral — a notre dame kind of thing,” she said. “but i guess it proved that even though there are changes, change can be good.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 



Wiedower 
conTinued From page 1 
summer, saint mary’s director of media relations gwen o’brien said. wiedower’s installation in the position will occur sept. 7. 
The college has not yet an­nounced a new vice president for its division of mission. 
wiedower said she was sur­prised her fellow sisters elected her as president, but she said she believes in her ability to lead. 
“For me, it’s a feeling of being humbled by people putting their faith in you as a leader,” she said. “i’m excited and have some gifts to share.” 
a motherhouse of the congregation of the sisters of the holy cross is on the saint mary’s campus in bertrand hall, so al­though sr. wiedower will not move far, her focus will shift. 
“i’m moving from the perspec­tives of college women to the perspective of women religious, a more global perspective, as we are in eight countries around the world, including the u.s., mexico, peru, brazil, bangladesh, india, ghana and uganda,” she said. 
wiedower, an alum of saint mary’s, said the college has been an important part of her life for many years, and she will miss the opportunity to make a difference there. 
“i have had the privilege to sit at the cabinet table and invite oth­ers to see the mission in all of the decisions that we make,” she said. 
wiedower said her ability to lis­ten to the students, staff and fac­ulty and encourage them to live the mission of the college is one of her greatest contributions to the school. 
“The heritage of the sisters isn’t something of the past, but it’s something that we carry today,” she said. “i’ve seen signs of peo­ple picking up on that, especially 
dean 
conTinued From page 1 
staff of the college of science, who devote themselves, day in and day out, to fulfilling notre dame’s mission.” 
crawford began his role as dean in 2008 and since then 
research 
conTinued From page 4 
said. “in excess of 90 percent of cancer mortalities are due to metastasis.” 
his research also explores how cancer cells shut down anoikis, a programmed cell death that inhibits cancer cell growth, and ways in which cancer cells use nutrient con­sumption to survive in an ab­normal environment. 
“as we accumulate more in­formation about breast cancer biology and technology im­proves over time, we will move towards individualized cancer treatment,” he said. “using this information, physicians may be able to personalize therapies to target each per­son’s cancer most effectively.” 

with students leaders. [There is] a desire to be part of the heritage of student leaders moving forward.” 
most of all, wiedower said she will miss the motivation provided by working closely with students. 
“it’s life-giving for me to be here because the students bring me life,” she said. “The students keep us in touch with the new, the vi­sion for the future. 
“They make me want to be a better person, and i find their spirit inside myself.” 
wiedower said the mission of saint mary’s has the potential to impact the world when students live out what they learn. 
“[holy cross founder] Father [basil] moreau’s mission was to provide an education so that people could make a difference in the world,” she said. “our stu­dents have so much potential to make that difference. if they can live the spirit of that, [the mission] multiplies. 
“There’s a need out there, and i think saint mary’s women can help to change the world, to meet the needs.” 
wiedower said she encourages students to make the most of their time on campus and utilize their resources. 
“it’s important for women at saint mary’s to make use of the time when they are surrounded by role models so that they do grow in that sense of mission,” she said. 
wiedower said the administra­tive leaders of both saint mary’s and the sisters of the holy cross meet annually to discuss is­sues that affect both groups on campus. 
“it’s a great privilege to be here and be asked to serve in both posi­tions,” she said. “as they say, once a belle, always a belle.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@stmarys.edu 
has overseen more than 500 faculty, staff and postdoctoral researchers, the press release stated. before that, he served at brown university as dean of engineering from 2006 to 2008 as well as professor of physics and engineering from 1996 to 2008. 
The funds will help schafer maintain the supplies, staff and scope his research requires. 
“The grant  will go mostly towards salaries for laboratory personnel and supplies for our experiments,” he said. “it also supports travel to conferences to disseminate the results of our research.” 
schafer also believes that the fight against breast cancer and other diseases is a team effort. 
“get involved in research,” he said. “There are a number of possible research-related careers that students can pur­sue, and all can contribute in unique ways to helping fight diseases like breast cancer.” 
Contact Sarah Vance at Sarah.E.Vance.24@nd.edu 
badin 
conTinued From page 1 
realizing its significance. she said the religious order had the books appraised and then contacted notre dame, who purchased them with grants from the library acquisitions Fund and the office of research, with let­ters of support from history and american studies facul­ty. The sisters then brought the book to campus and gave it to the university at a spe­cial mass in the log chapel in late June. 
cummings said the cushwa center and the library were interested in making the acquisition be­cause the bible linked two early american church lead­ers as well as other aspects of the early church in the united states. 
“The way the bible brings together the story of catholics at every level – the leadership, the laity and re­ligious – that’s enormously important,” she said. “The Fr. badin connection makes it special, but the signifi­cance is far larger.” 
margaret abruzzo, an as­sociate professor of history at the university of alabama, who is studying the corre­spondence between carroll and badin as part of a project with the cushwa center, said the bible also is significant because of its rareness. she said the bible was printed by matthew carey, an irish immigrant in philadelphia. The edition, which had only 500 copies, was the second full bible published in the united states and the first catholic translation. 
“[carey] was interested in kind of refuting the idea that catholics didn’t read the bible,” abruzzo said. “he wanted to get the catholic bible into people’s hands be­cause it was very important to catholics at the time that they read the catholic ver­sion of the bible rather than the protestant version.” 


abruzzo said the bible, which contains an inscrip­tion from carroll to badin, speaks to the closeness of their relationship at a time when the american catholic church was small and far-f lung. 
“badin would write ques­tions to carroll, and carroll would write answers,” she said. “he was a source of ad­vice for badin. 
“when there were issues, carroll would intervene, so sort of imagine something that is a very, very, very small version of any sort of diocese today. imagine carroll running the catholic church out of his garage. it’s that level of informality. They’re really trying to cre­ate a church from scratch.” 
mcmanus said the bible, which shows signs of heavy use, will be on display this semester in special collections, and it will be the subject of a symposium oct. 10. she said the bible will be available for schol­ars, who may study the book’s binding, marginal notes or relationship to badin’s other writings and letters. 
“connecting those let­ters to this time frame, and knowing where the bible lived, that’s all of interest as well,” she said. “its big­gest use is just gesturing towards this big story of the very early 1800s [when] catholicism was very much a minority religion. Things could have gone very differ­ently, but this is a piece of the evidence for how it did go, especially that westward movement.” 
cummings said faculty can bring classes to see the bible, and researchers also can study the bible’s trans­lation and inscription. 
“researchers who come 
– bible scholars, scholars of american history –  it will be a text that will be stud­ied by them for a long time now,” she said. “a lot of peo­ple come to notre dame to do research on catholicism, and so it’s a crossroads of source to scholars, so it will definitely get more exposure.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

volcano erupts in iceland 
Associated Press 
reyKJaviK, iceland — lava fountains danced along a lengthy volcanic fissure near iceland’s subglacial bardarbunga volcano sunday, prompting authorities to raise the aviation warning code to the highest level and close the surrounding airspace. 
The red warning code — the highest in the country’s alert system — was raised early sunday after the eruption in the holuhraun lava field, about five kilometers (three miles) north of the dyngjujoekull glacier. The warning was lowered 12 hours later as visibility improved and it was clear that no volcanic ash was detected. 
The country’s meteorological agency said scientists were mon­itoring the ongoing eruption. 
“visual observation confirms it is calm, but continuous,” the weather agency said on its website. 
sunday morning’s eruption at about 0500 gmT (1 a.m. edT) followed a smaller one in the same site on Friday that also prompted authorities to briefly raise the aviation warning code to restrict flights in the area. Thousands of small earthquakes have rocked the region in recent days, leading to concerns that the main volcano may erupt. 
The aviation warning meant that no flights were allowed in the airspace north of the fis­sure eruption area, up to 6,000 feet (1.1 miles) from the ground. aviation officials said the restric­tions do not affect commercial flights, which fly much higher than that. 
authorities said lava fountains of about 50 meters (165 feet) high erupted sunday from the fissure, estimated to be almost a mile 
(1.6 kms) long. 
The fissure eruption appeared about 40 kilometers (28 miles) from the main bardarbunga volcano, which lies under the vast vatnajokull glacier that dominates the eastern corner of iceland. 
Though remote and sparsely populated, the area is popu­lar with hikers in the summer. officials earlier evacuated all tourists in the region after in­tense seismic activity there. 
although sunday’s fissure eruption was more powerful than the one on Friday, experts say the situation is contained and is unlikely to result in the same level of aviation chaos as 2010. in april that year, an erup­tion at the eyjafjallajokull volca­no wreaked havoc on travelers. 


InsIde Column 

internship appetizers 

Jodi Lo 
associate photo editor 

summer is over. even sadder is that the sea­son for recruitment and job fairs has creeped up and started. 
as a senior, i feel like i am well within my rights to give the younger general population important advice: Forget everything and as­sume nothing about internships. 
somehow, the word internship has gained new meanings within the notre dame cul­ture. internships are about being able to learn in a new environment and gain experience from mentors and supervisors while hopefully having fun along the way, yet we as a student body have warped this word into a social indicator of intelligence and charisma. an internship is no longer about having fun and transitioning into adulthood; it’s about show­ing off to others how successful and social you are and about getting a job offer with a good salary well before you finish school. 
it’s the cultural crime of notre dame. we are all victims to the unhealthy internship mentality. we need to work against it. 
There’s a rather easy solution to this prob­lem, and perhaps the solution also will help you succeed with your future interviews and careers. don’t go and put all of your eggs into the big name companies’ baskets and only those baskets. i can’t stress enough that some­times those companies just don’t suit you, and an internship shouldn’t be about the ability to brag about working for google or deloitte for the summer. Just go out and look for some­thing that interests you, something that you enjoy doing. 
if you do that, you won’t be another person applying simply because of the company’s name. you won’t have to feign interest to score the internship. and if you get the internship, you won’t be bored out of your mind doing something you actively dislike or don’t care about. 
an internship is about having an appetizer for your career, and the best part is that intern­ships are simply that: appetizers. you don’t like it? well, good thing you ordered something else. if you enjoyed it, order yourself another dish just like it. don’t pick an appetizer based on the price tag; pick it because it suits your taste buds and it’s what you enjoy. 
This is your life we are talking about. do you really want to pick something based on other peoples’ views instead of your own? you, yes you, are a capable human being with a stellar personality and an intellectual mind. put that mind to use in an internship that excites you. 
i would like to wish everyone good luck in their internship and job-hunting endeavors. remember, it’s only the career Fair. 
Contact Jodi Lo at jlo1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Electronics can aid learning 
Logan Falleti 
The collegian 
my laptop comes everywhere with me. it comes with me to both work where it gets scratched, and on vacation where it gets a frightening dent. it goes online with me, from studying the history of the republican party for a research paper and to learning how to incorporate hand-fasting into a wedding, because sometimes it’s hard to stop following links. 
but the one place it goes every day is into the classroom, and where it connects from there is my business only. some teachers, especially in lectures, discourage the use of laptops or check out what a student is viewing. i believe this is an invasion of privacy and ultimately unhelpful to a student’s career. 
Typical laptop usage in a classroom ranges from taking notes on word documents, onenote lists and powerpoint slides. however, no one can deny that sometimes it just isn’t enough. lecture halls aren’t always the engaging, illuminating method of delivery that some believe they are. i’ve had this problem since i learned to read – i want to know more. i want to google new case studies or take the test or quiz the teacher mentioned. if a teacher doesn’t provide the stimulation i want, i go looking for it. 
From a purely economic standpoint, it’s the way i want to spend my money. The average cost of a three-hour class at K-state for an in-state student is $973.75. divided into 28 sessions for a class meeting Tuesdays and Thursdays, where boredom surfing is more likely since the classes are longer, it’s $34.77 per class. 
if i don’t feel like i’m getting roughly $35 worth of in­formation, discussion, understanding or growth out of that day, why not seek it elsewhere? i want to see new content and viewpoints, graphics and expanded horizons. a classmate of mine used his phone a few days ago to ask a professor an ethics question after searching for more information about a certain historical figure. i remember that the most out of that entire lecture. To curtail this sort of non-traditional learning increases the likelihood that students won’t make their own personal connections to the material. 
i’m not going to pretend all of my extracurricular googling is for the greater scholastic good. i also check my social media and read the news. college students lead some of the most stressful lives in the u.s., and we continue to look down on them for taking breaks. 

The massachusetts institute of Technology’s center for academic excellence suggests the most effective study­ing is done in one-hour blocks. The breaks might actually be productive if spaced efficiently during class time. The added stress of students hiding what they’re doing or wor­rying about the teacher seeing them doesn’t allow for a learning environment where everyone is relaxed, which only further distances students from the material. 
however, this freedom means an increase in respon­sibility for grades. Taking charge of the information absorbed also increases the duty of sifting through and making sense of it. it’s not just a personal laptop either: checking Twitter over someone’s shoulder and tak­ing notes at the same time can be just as distracting as reading your own feed. Former teaching assistant and education columnist rebecca schuman wrote in slate magazine she feels banning laptops creates a “13th grade classroom.” 
“policing the (otherwise non-disruptive) behavior of students further infantilizes these 18-to-22-year-olds,” schuman said. “already these students are hand-held through so many steps in the academic process: i check homework; i give quizzes about the syllabus to make sure they’ve actually read it … these practices also serve as giant, scholastic water wings for people who should really be swimming by now.” 
if you need a 3.5 gpa and you haven’t looked up from your screen all semester, you won’t find help from the in­structor very easily. your professor has the right to bump you to the bottom of the list during packed office hours or mark you harshly on essays that cover topics from the lecture. instructors are justified in their annoyance when they present information and their students don’t listen, then ask them to explain it later. as adults, we should be able to judge what needs our full attention and what can just stay open in the next window while we check sportscenter. when teachers don’t receive respect, stu­dents won’t get it back. balance your time wisely to make the most of your electronics and your learning. 
Logan Falletti is a senior in mass communications. The Collegian is the student newspaper serving the Kansas State University community. Please send comments to opinion@ kstatecollegian.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIal Cartoon 



change the way government does business 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 

For this past week, business and political circles have been abuzz with the news of another tax in­version deal, this one struck between burger King and canadian coffee giant Tim hortons. 
in the simplest terms, tax inversion is when a business entity chooses to relocate its headquar­ters to a nation with lower tax rates relative to its current location in order to avoid costs. members of the democratic party have lambasted compa­nies that make such moves as “corporate desert­ers” (president barack obama) and lacking in “economic patriotism” (Treasury secretary Jack lew). 
seemingly, these critics would rather turn the situation into a talking point on the malevolence of corporations than attempt to address the prob­lem it brings to the forefront: The united states is becoming less and less a business-friendly, pro-growth nation. 
i am going to venture into a few concepts some politicians apparently find hard to understand. First, the primary objectives of a firm are to sat­isfy shareholders, increase profit and expand in­fluence and market share. second, taxes paid by a firm to the government decrease profit and hinder the objectives of that firm. 
bearing these evidently incomprehensible, per­haps reprehensible to some, business principles in mind, it makes sense for corporations to move to areas of lesser taxation. corporations do not choose to move in an attempt to harm the nations they occupy; they move to satisfy their objectives. satisfying these objectives leads to profitability, which permits corporations to expand and cre­ate more jobs and also pleases shareholders and encourages them to continue investing. nations that act as host to corporations stand to benefit from the increase in employment and investment dollars. 
an analogy can be found in the controversy that surrounded professional golfer phil mickelson nearly two years ago when he spoke openly about the possibility of moving out of california for tax reasons. he had recently won the british open and was said to have been taxed over $100,000 on his winnings in a state whose tax rates are among the highest in the nation. mickelson later recanted his remarks, but they highlighted the fact that even individuals consider changing their lifestyles to avoid monetary dispossession. 
i am not defending mickelson’s comments per se, simply emphasizing the point that if taxes grow too high, governments risk losing revenue. For those who do not prefer phil’s golfing style or persona, Tiger woods stated during the mickelson controversy that he actually left california in 1996 to avoid the high taxes there. 
The issue comes full circle to our critics, president obama and secretary lew, who promote higher taxation of job creators and investors. 
responsibility should not be placed on corpora­tions to hold unquestioning loyalty to their host nations when business environments become an­tithetical to the objectives of the firm; the respon­sibility lies with governments of nations to keep their business taxation policies competitive. 
i by no means advocate for governments to be beholden to corporate desires or for the abolition of taxation – far from it. instead, i simply believe our nation (and individual states, for that matter) should be cognizant of the international busi­ness environment and strike the correct balance between benefitting both corporations and the nation’s citizens or government. is it so difficult to consider that business actually may not be the enemy of nations? 

This segues into another perpetual issue, that perhaps instead of the government worrying about how it will supply its ever-growing bureau­cracy with funds, it should concern itself with making the government apparatus smaller, more manageable and fiscally feasible. efficiency is not something to be feared; it is something to be strived for. 
The federal government holds nearly $18 trillion of debt, almost $1 trillion more than the entire united states gdp. as of 2012, 22 million people were employed by the local, state and federal gov­ernments, a staggering 16% of the american work­force, according to the u.s. department of labor’s bureau of labor statistics. 
why not attempt to decrease our risks instead of trying to fund and proliferate them? why con­tinue to prolong programs that are outdated and impractical? why continue the trend of normative government expansion that leads only to continu­ally unfathomable debt? 
it is time for our government to change the way it does business. if it doesn’t, phil mickelson and burger King won’t be able to make up the difference. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accountancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | monday, september 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

[Editor’s note: This article is part of a series called “Weekly Watch,” in which a Scene writer reviews a movie or show available on an instant streaming service each week]. 
when writer and director paul Thomas anderson began work on “The master” fol­lowing 2007’s critically acclaimed “There will be blood,” talk about the film’s controversial themes was abuzz.  namely, the film’s rumored focus on the church of scientology dominated the conversation leading up to the film’s release. Questions arose about whether anderson would admit the religious group inspired the movie or how much the character lancaster dodd, played by philip seymour hoffman, was based on scientology’s founder l. ron hubbard. 
even after the film’s premiere at the venice Film Festival, these questions dominated press coverage, with articles dedicated to anderson’s statements as he confirmed scientology was indeed a source of inspiration for the film. what often wasn’t discussed amidst the speculation about scientology’s presence in the film was its actual role in “The master.” From the beginning of production, many assumed the film was a thinly-veiled history of a religion or a condem­nation of its practices. but while “The master” centers on a vulnerable world war ii veteran (Joaquin phoenix) who meets dodd, the leader of a nascent religious movement called The cause, the hubbard-inspired cause is only one small part of a larger story about depression and isolation in postwar america. 
“The master” opens with a portrait of troubled protagonist Freddie Quell, played by the in­credibly talented Joaquin phoenix, at the end of world war ii. Quell, a crude, violent man, is difficult to like, even as he tries and fails to assimilate to postwar life. long, painfully-awkward shots of Quell’s confrontations with nearly everyone he meets show the extent of his dysfunction. with little dialogue in the first half hour of the film, we see Quell, an alcoholic likely suffering from pTsd, entirely alone in the world. 
The world around Quell in the film’s introduc­tion, however, is breathtaking. with cinematog­rapher mihai malaimare Jr., anderson shot “The master” entirely in 65-millimeter film, and the result is a super-saturated look emulating the vistavision films of the 1950s. The long, wide shots are stunning and distinctly anderson, but the choice of vistavision film is just one way the director nods to the culture of the 1950s. 
in fact, anderson cites the entertainment of the 1950s as central to the film. with its Technicolor visuals and peppering of songs from the 50s, the film is undeniably attempting to capture the feeling of that particular time. in an interview for the washington post, anderson describes the music of the postwar era: “[e]very­thing was about ‘seeing you again’ or ‘i’ll find you someday,’ ... you’re talking about finding ways to go back in time and to pick up some lost piece.” 
Just as the songs of the 1950s were soaked in nostalgia and sentimentality, so are the charac­ters in “The master.” at the very start of the film, as Quell is being discharged from the navy, he is asked during a psychiatric evaluation about a crying spell he had while serving. Quell re­sponds that he was not crying, but rather suffer­ing from nostalgia. 
Quell’s psychiatric evaluation hints at the theme of nostalgia in “The master” and also gives insight into how dodd’s The cause fits later in the film and how something like The cause came to be in the postwar era. Quell’s psychi­atric evaluation is filled with pseudoscience and trendy psychology: he gets a rorschach test and dream analysis from the united states military. given this context, the science-fiction­like cause and Quell’s involvement with the religious group seems considerably less out­landish. rather than criticize or even attempt to completely understand the inner workings of scientology, the inspiration for The cause, anderson uses the religious movement as a symptom of its time. 
The cause, like postwar america, is charac­terized by desire for the past. dodd hypnotizes followers to summon memories from their infancy, hints at previous lives and talks of time travel. while the rest of america is romantic in their nostalgia, dodd crystallizes the desire for the past with rigid rules, tenets and scientific claims. The cause combats postwar depression with the promise of a new life, as the new life the american military promised veterans like Quell failed to come to fruition. 

Though the film centers on themes of nos­talgia and rebirth and uses the songs and even film style of the time, “The master” is, most im­portantly, not nostalgic itself. The camera’s un­wavering gaze at Quell’s and dodd’s lowest and most uncomfortable moments creates a sense of realism that exists outside the film’s nostal­gic themes. instead, “The master” ultimately is about Quell and dodd in the midst of this puz­zling and largely unstable postwar era. They are two men trying to find meaning and belonging with each other, with dodd creating order and collecting followers, including Quell, his lost and needy subject. ultimately, the two fail each oth­er: dodd’s need for control and Quell’s unbridled violence create discord impossible to overcome, and the men end up despondent and alone. 
interestingly, the 1950s is looked back upon fondly in modern america, labeled an era of booming opportunity and purity. as i watched the film, a friend remarked that the 50s-esque cinematography looked “like a filter,” one of the options we choose from on the instagram app. our obsession with the nostalgic look suggests a belief in a simpler and happier time decades ago, but anderson shows that though the 1950s may look idyllic through vistavision glasses, some­thing much more complex occurred. 
This, of course, parallels the themes of the film itself: Just as we share the delusion of a perfect 1950s america, Quell and the rest of the nation desperately cling to the past as they seek comfort in a postwar world, and “The master” reminds us that what we hold on to may be only something we create rather than what truly was. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


Notre Dame 48, rICe 17 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2014 | NDsmCobserver.Com 
The Golson show 

Everett Golson accounts for five touchdowns in Notre Dame’s 48-17 win over Rice 
It’s time to hope again at Notre Dame 

Mary Green 
sports editor 
Irish head coach brian Kelly de­scribed Notre Dame’s win saturday against rice as “clean.” 
It wasn’t because the new Fieldturf eliminated the potential for mud stains on Irish uniforms once the rain started coming down. 
For the most part, Notre Dame stayed clean by avoiding sloppy mistakes. 
the team picked up only two penalties in 60 minutes of play and didn’t turn the ball over. 
every trip to the red zone yielded points for the Irish. 
the returners accumulated double-digit positive yardage. 
oh, and that Golson guy had a great game as well, collecting 336 yards, dishing out two touchdown passes and running in three scores. 
but just because the game was clean doesn’t mean it was perfect. 
Notre Dame started the game with two three-and-outs, missed a field goal and punted once more, all before halftime. 
the defense fell apart on a few big plays and got burned for a 19-yard rush, passes of 16, 26 (twice), 30 and 53 yards, the last of which was good for a touchdown. 
C.J. Prosise let go of a likely touch­down bomb from Golson that would’ve given the Irish a 21-10 lead instead of 14-10. 
No, it wasn’t perfect, but after all, this was the season opener. there always will be early kinks to work out, and there’s plenty of time left in the season to fix those. 
It’s not time to panic, but it’s also not time to buy a “Notre Dame: 2015 National Champions” t-shirt or book flights to arlington, texas. 
Yes, the owls won Conference Usa last year and earned 10 wins, one more than the Irish. Notre Dame certainly didn’t beat a bad team. 
but every Irish fan knows the first big test is next week against michigan, even though Kelly said the final installment of the rivalry “counts the same as the rice game.” 
still, without several key players saturday — notably austin Collinsworth because of an mCL injury and Keivarae russell, Davaris Daniels and Ishaq Williams because of the 
see HoPe PAGE 3 

By ALEX CARSON 
sports Writer 
tradition reverberates around Notre Dame stadium. and in the first game played on an artificial surface in the stadium’s his­tory, senior quarterback everett Golson wrote his own chapter of history in No. 17 Notre Dame’s 48-17 win over rice on saturday. 
Golson threw for two touch­downs and rushed for three, becoming the third quarter­back in program history to achieve the latter in a single game, joining Paul Hornung (1956 vs. UsC) and Jarious Jackson (1998 vs. stanford). 
after Notre Dame (1-0) and rice (0-1) combined for four consecutive three-and-outs to start the game, Golson put the Irish on the board first as he scrambled in from 11 yards out with nearly nine minutes gone. 
“It’s kind of one of those things for me — cool, every­thing breaks down, you’ve got to go,” Golson said. “You’ve got to make something happen today with the coverages they were playing.” 
the drive started in rice territory after graduate stu­dent cornerback Cody riggs notched a 25-yard punt return 
— longer than any the Irish had in the previous season. Notre Dame gained the game’s first first down when Golson found senior tight end ben Koyack for a 14-yard gain before capping the drive with the touchdown 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
EVERETT GOLSON 
IRISH SENIOR QUARTERBACK 
What more can you say about the senior signal-caller? Golson threw for 295 yards — highlighted by 75- and 53-yard scores — and rushed for 41 more. the senior could have added even another touchdown if not for a drop by junior receiver C.J. Prosise. Irish head coach brian Kelly called Golson’s play “electric.” 
run. 
rice (0-1), however, had a quick answer for Notre Dame as it marched down the field and leveled the score less than four minutes later. redshirt junior quarterback Driphus Jackson strung together a 30­yard completion to junior receiver Dennis Parks and 13­and 26-yard completions to redshirt sophomore receiver Zach Wright to even things up at seven. 
“I thought Driphus did some really good things today,” rice head coach David bailiff said. 
but while rice had a quick response to Notre Dame’s first score, the Irish were even faster than the owls in scor­ing next. on the first play fol­lowing a touchback on the kickoff, Golson slung the ball deep to sophomore receiver Will Fuller, who broke a tackle at the 15-yard line and put the Irish back up 14-7. 
“It was a post that I ran, and I realized that I had the guy beat probably at the break point,” Fuller said. “I made him slip his hips, and I thought I had him beat after that.” 
the Irish threatened to put points on the board on their 
see DomINaNCe PAGE 2 
Golson piles up 336 total yards in his return 

By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports Writer 
Irish fans spent a lot of the off­season holding their breath. 
First, they wondered who would start under center. once they found out it was senior everett Golson, they wondered how he would play. 
Golson, who was suspended for the 2013 season due to poor academic judgment, had not played in a game for almost 20 months before saturday, and there were concerns about whether he would be ready to play against rice in Week one. 
the first two drives ended with three-and-outs, but on his next opportunity, Golson cut up the middle for an 11-yard touchdown run, the first score of the game. From there, the Irish plowed to 48-17 win. 
apparently, he was ready. 

“obviously, the story of Golson was electric,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “and I thought he did that today extraordinarily well. He came back today and I think really showed the kind of player that he can be.” 
Golson was 14-of-22 pass­ing and threw for 295 yards and two touchdowns. He rushed for touchdowns of 11, 14 and four yards as well. 
“It was definitely good,” Golson said. “I was just thankful for my teammates. they came out with a lot of enthusiasm. they played loose and because of that, I think that’s why we were successful.” 
Golson also said he had plenty of work left to do. 
“I think I needed to polish a lot of things,” Golson said. “that’s what is in my mind now. … I was kind of getting out of the pocket and making plays and having the guy scramble. Definitely go­ing to get the timing down and be more precise.” 
big plays were the name of the game for the Irish, as sophomore receiver Will Fuller and junior receiver C.J. Prosise snagged touchdown catches of 75 and 53 yards, respectively, from Golson. 
senior captain and center Nick martin said he was pleased with his quarterback’s performance. 
“He’s a playmaker, and if we protect him up front, he’s going 
see GoLsoN PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 






QUARTERBACKS 

It was quite the welcome back to Notre Dame stadium for everett Golson. He had the game of his career thus far, pick­ing up almost 300 yards and two touchdowns through the air and adding 41 more yards and three touchdowns on the ground. 
RUNNING BACKS 

With Golson firing bullets down the field, it was hard for the ground game to compete with the air attack saturday. However, the Irish backs picked up good yardage, with five players collecting 40 yards or more, and were often able to break past the rice defensive line for crucial yards after contact. 
RECEIVERS 

besides C.J. Prosise’s probable touchdown drop in the first half, the receivers took advantage of the deep balls Golson fed them and freed themselves from owls defensive backs for touchdowns on a few of those passes 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

Golson had to scramble away from rice defensive linemen on several plays, but much of that was due to brian Kelly calling for his quarterback to be mobile. the offensive line gave up two sacks but did an overall solid job of protecting him. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Notre Dame gave up just 141 rushing yards and no single run of more than 19 yards. Driphus Jackson picked up 67 yards, but that much can be expected from a dual-threat quarterback like him. 
LINEBACKERS 

as with the defensive line, Irish linebackers were able to contain the run for the better part of the afternoon. Joe schmidt led all players with eight tackles and kept Jackson from breaking free for scores on a few plays. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

the loss of austin Collinsworth was a big blow to the Notre Dame secondary so close to game day. However, elijah shumate did what he could with little preparation to start, and matthias Farley and Nicky baratti each collected a rice turnover. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

one of the game’s main storylines was the presence of a return game for the Irish, something that hadn’t been seen in a few seasons. big returns from amir Carlisle, Cody riggs and Greg bryant led to scores later in those drives. a missed field goal and out-of-bounds kickoff were marks against Kyle brindza, but he racked up two field goals and four points after touchdowns. 
COACHING 

brian Kelly and his staff did a good job of containing a rice offense that bested its opponents by an average of two touchdowns last season. they called plays that utilized the poised and sharp new skillset of everett Golson, and the offseason improvement to the return game stood out from the opening kickoff. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.48 

While rice wasn’t as tough of an opponent as ones the Irish will face in weeks to come, Notre Dame nonetheless showed a marked improvement on offense and special teams from last season. even with key players out of the game, the Irish held strong from start to finish with few miscues to make a big statement in Week one. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
EVERETT GOLSON HITS WILL FULLER FOR A 75-YARD TOUCHDOWN 
after rice tied the game at seven in the first quarter, Golson connected with Fuller on the next play from scrimmage, launching a dart down the field to the open receiver. It opened up a floodgate of scoring, giving the Irish a 14-7 advantage from which they would never look back. 
Dominance 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
next drive as back-to-back big plays from senior running back Cam mcDaniel and sophomore receiver Corey robinson got them near the rice red zone. Ultimately, however, Notre Dame failed to put points on the board when senior kicker Kyle brindza missed a 39-yard field goal attempt wide left. 
after the Notre Dame defense forced another three-and-out 
— the fourth in rice’s five se­ries — the Irish left points on the board again when junior receiver C.J. Prosise dropped a would-be 55-yard touchdown pass on third down. 
a field goal for rice cut its def­icit to 14-10, as the Irish held the owls to three points thanks to key stops from sophomore line­backer Jaylon smith and senior linebacker Joe schmidt. 
“I just really thought that we were going to be able to hold up really well [defensively,]” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “Joe schmidt with Jaylon was outstanding.” 
In the next six minutes, the Irish put some distance be­tween themselves and rice be­fore halftime. Golson hit senior receiver amir Carlisle for a 32­yard gain before recording his second rushing touchdown of the day, this time from 14 yards out, to put the Irish up, 21-10, with 2:33 remaining in the half. 
rice pushed the ball to mid­field on the ensuing possession, but with 21 seconds to play, Notre Dame senior cornerback matthias Farley intercepted Jackson near the Irish sideline and gave his team the opportu­nity to add another score before halftime. 


the first play of the drive came close for the Irish — Fuller dropped a pass in the red zone — but Prosise would have an opportunity to atone for his earlier drop when Golson found him wide open in the en­dzone for a 53-yard touchdown pass. 
“Not everybody gets a second chance,” Prosise said. “but I got lucky and got a second chance and made the play.” 
the Irish opened the second half with a methodical drive, eating up nearly six minutes en route to a 36-yard brindza field goal to increase their advantage to 31-10. 

after a failed fake-punt at­tempt from rice gave the ball back to Notre Dame, the Irish used that field position well and bumped the lead up to four scores with 17 seconds to play in the third quarter when Golson picked up his fifth touchdown of the day, this one on the ground. Golson faked the handoff to no­body after sophomore running back Greg bryant cut the other way before running it in to put the Irish up 38-10. 
Golson finished the day 14-of­22 for 295 yards through the air in addition to 41 yards gained on the ground. 

“Pretty confident,” Golson said about his feelings saturday. “I was thinking to myself ear­lier, it felt completely different than 2012.” 
sophomore running back tarean Folston gained more than 40 of his 71 rushing yards on the next Notre Dame drive to set up a field goal that made the score 41-10. 
rice finally stopped Notre Dame’s run of 27 unanswered points on its next drive with a touchdown that cut the deficit to 41-17. 
With the game all but set­tled, sophomore quarterback malik Zaire entered the game for the Irish and immediately broke away for a 56-yard rush on his first collegiate snap. two plays later, bryant ran in a touchdown from 17 yards out for the final score of the game to bring it to 48-17. bryant was Notre Dame’s co-leading rush­er along with Folston, gaining 71 yards on eight carries. 
Despite the absence of cap­tain and graduate student safe­ty austin Collinsworth due to an mCL injury, the Notre Dame defensive unit held rice to just three scoring drives. 
“I love austin. I love play­ing with him,” schmidt said. “but at the same time, I think [junior safety] elijah shumate came in, and he had a lot of awesome calls, a lot of awe­some plays, so I think he did really well.” 
In the post-game press conference, Kelly said Collinsworth likely will miss the michigan game but could return for Purdue or syracuse. 
the Irish are back in action next saturday when they host michigan with kickoff at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 




WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson scrambles to his left during Notre Dame’s 48-17 win over Rice 
on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Golson 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
to make plays,” he said. “that’s our job. We just follow him, and I know I have to get in front of my man to give him as much time as possible.” 
Golson’s first game was about as successful as the Irish could have hoped. Golson showed how far he had come since re­turning in the spring, Kelly said. 
“He didn’t do a very good job 
Hope 
CoNtINUeD From PaGe 1 
University’s ongoing investigation into “suspected academic dishon­esty” — the overall team looked pretty sharp, putting 48 points on the board and limiting the owls to only 17. 
that’s a 31-point victory, which would fall under my definition of a blowout — not too shabby a way to start the season. 
saturday was what Irish fans wanted to expect but were too afraid to assume would happen. 
the 2012 season was great. but then Golson was suspended, and in the spring game,” Kelly said. “I thought he showed a lack of discipline, and he’s earned it through camp that just said, ‘Let you go play.’ I think he earned that right for us to give him that opportunity to get out there and make plays on the perimeter.” 

as Golson and the Irish close the book on a successful home opener, they turn their atten­tion to the heated rivalry with michigan for next week’s match-up. Golson said he already is 
the 2013 season didn’t go as well as everyone had hoped. It wasn’t all because of Golson’s absence, but a lot of people attributed most, if not all, of it to him. 
Golson came back this spring, and Irish fans were ready for an­other undefeated run, even if they wouldn’t admit to being so hope­ful. then five players were held out of practice and competition dur­ing the investigation, and a little hope drifted away. 
so although Irish fans would have liked to assume Notre Dame would pummel a team from Conference Usa, nothing seems like a given with this team these days. 
eager to focus on the Wolverines. 
“We’ve got to prepare for michigan just like we did for rice,” Golson said. “I don’t think I get into all of the hype of the game and things like that. but at the same time, you have to take care of business and you have to prepare. michigan’s got a great football team. It’s going to be a tough one, but I’m ready for it.” 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 
but then Golson fired a 75­yard bomb to Will Fuller to retake Notre Dame’s lead at 14-7, and the Irish never looked back. 
things are alright again — at least for now. 
saturday’s victory was clean 
— it wasn’t perfect, extraor­dinary or a given. but it was a great start to kick off a sea­son with so many hopes and expectations. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Collinsworth sits with injury 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports Writer 
Irish graduate student safety and captain austin Collinsworth did not play in the first game of the season. His only on-the-field ac­tion came when he walked to the opening coin toss on crutches. Irish head coach brian Kelly said he doubts Collinsworth will return for next week’s game against michigan. 
“He’s got a grade-two [mCL sprain],” Kelly said. “so those are usually two to four weeks, depending on how guys re­spond. so we don’t expect to have him this week.” 
Junior safety elijah shumate started in place of Collinsworth. 

Kelly said he plans to have Collinsworth back at the latest for the game against syracuse on sept. 27, the matchup after Notre Dame’s first bye week. 
Return of the return men 
after struggling all of last year with the punt-and kick-return game, the Irish showed a marked improve­ment in their special teams play against rice. senior receiver amir Carlisle had two kick returns for a com­bined 49 yards, with a 36­yard return being his longest. meanwhile, sophomore run­ning back Greg bryant and graduate student cornerback Cody riggs combined for 80 yards on punt returns, aver­aging 16 yards per return. 
Balanced passing attack 
In the midst of a strong return showing by senior quarterback everett Golson, the Irish receiving corps had a chance to shine as well. seven receivers snagged re­ceptions against rice for a combined 14 catches and 295 yards, an average of 21 yards per reception. sophomore Will Fuller led the team with four catches for 85 yards and a touchdown, including a 75­yard strike from Golson. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  3  0  7  17  
14  14  10  10  48  

NOTRE DAME 7, RICE 0 
everett Golson 11-yard run (brindza kick) 
6:02 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 47 yards, 3:04 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, RICE 7 
Zach Wright 26-yard pass from Jackson (Hairston kick) 
2:13 remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 65 yards, 3:49 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, RICE 7 
Will Fuller 75-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
2:01 remaining 

Drive: One play, 75 yards, 0:12 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, RICE 10 
James Hairston 33-yard field goal 
5:51remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 64 yards, 3:29 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, RICE 10 
everett Golson 14-yard run (brindza kick) 
2:33remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 86 yards, 3:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, RICE 10 
C.J. Prosise 53-yard pass from Golson (brindza kick) 
0:05remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 53 yards, 0:16 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 31, RICE 10 
Kyle brindza 36-yard field goal 
4:07remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 53 yards, 5:50 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 38, RICE 10 
everett Golson 4-yard run (brindza kick) 
0:17 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 34 yards, 2:23 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 41, RICE 10 
Kyle brindza 29-yard field goal 
7:47remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 72 yards, 5:01 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 41, RICE 17 
James mayden 53-yard pass from stehling (Hairston kick) 
4:57remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 75 yards, 2:50 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 48, RICE 17 
Greg bryant 17-yard run (brindza kick) 
3:32remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 75 yards, 1:25 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
141 281 
PASSING YARDS 
226 295 


Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 
30:09 29:51 
PASSING 

Golson 14-22-295 Jackson 13-24-163 
RUSHING 

Bryant 8-71 Jackson 11-67 Folston 12-71 Davis 14-34 

tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2014 | NDsmCobserver.Com 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson slips away from a Rice defender during Notre Dame’s 48-17 win over the Owls on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. After missing the 2013 season, Golson returned Saturday to the tune of five total touchdowns and 336 yards of total offense. 
Notre Dame rolled to a 48-17 win over Rice on Saturday at Notre 
Dame Stadium to start the season 1-0. The Irish used a well-bal­anced attack of running backs and receivers, and senior quarter-
OFF AND RUNNING 
back Everett Golson ran the offense to the third-highest offensive output (by yards) in the Brian Kelly era. Notre Dame welcomes 
IN 2014 
Michigan to South Bend on Saturday. 






The observer | monday, september 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

stepping into the patricia george decio Theatre at the debartolo performing arts center, the audience members eas­ily could see they was going to be trans­ported to another world. The stage was transformed into an ancient hall: Two sets of crossbeams hung down above the triple-layered stage, signaling the world of “henry iv” would be more primeval than the one they just left. 
“it looks like ‘beowulf’ up there,” sopho­more mollie effler said. 
while the world of shakespeare’s “henry iv” was not quite the one from the ancient epic “beowulf,” the two sometimes seem equally distant from the modern world. of course, the academic world considers shakespeare’s plays to be as relevant today as they were in his time — the key to any staging, then, is to make that clear to the audience. 
The professional Theatre in residence at notre dame accomplished this task through a combination of talented acting, masterful staging and impressive lighting. 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

[Editor’s note: This is an excerpt from a longer interview with Scene. To read the full interview, visit ndsmcobserver.com/section/ scene]. 
roadkill ghost choir, of deland, Fla., just released their first full-length album, “in Tongues,” last week and soon are tak­ing their show back on the road after an eventful summer with appearances at bonnaroo, lollapalooza and other festi­vals. with unsettling, powerful american rock and awesome shows inspired by the likes of Tom petty and radiohead, roadkill ghost choir definitely is a band to watch. scene was able to ask frontman andy shepard a few questions about the new album and life on the road. 
What were your biggest influences on “In tongues”? 
There’s always been a core sound we’ve liked. radiohead’s always been a big one production-wise, especially “in every aspect of the performance was de­signed to keep the audience engaged in the precarious situation of henry iv, as he fights against usurpers and the fear his heir apparent may never mature enough to be king, even through a three-hour performance. 
perhaps one of the most impressive parts of the performance of “henry iv” was the amount of acting talent pulled from various parts of the midwest. many of the actors were called upon to play mul­tiple roles. 
henry godinez, who took on the role of the title character, was particularly noteworthy in his role. From the very first scene, godinez created a strong, regal per­sona whose fears about stabilizing his cen­ter of power clearly haunt him. 
acting as a foil figure for henry iv, John lister performed the part of sir John Falstaff. lister’s Falstaff was at once ap­pealing and repulsive, garnering laughs and confusion at his character. in the end, when henry v finally abandons Falstaff for more regal pursuits, lister acted out his despair perfectly, garnering sympathy for a character even when it is not clear that it 
rainbows.” and definitely incubus, that’s always a big influence, especially going into the study. i know we’re listening to a lot of that new Kurt vile record; that’s a big one as well. 
How have things changed since the “Quiet light” ep to “In tongues” for you as a band and sonically? 
The ep, that was the first batch of songs that i have ever written. Those were when we were still figuring out our sound and which direction we were going in. The sound on the ep was kind of all over the place, honestly. but it took a few years to develop the full-length because we were touring pretty much nonstop. That gave us time to kind of figure out where we want­ed to go as a band and what direction we really wanted to take and kind of hone in on that. i think it was mostly — it was just time between the releases to grow and just figure out what we wanted to do for this record. 
With this album, you have previ­ously said in interviews that a lot 
is deserved. 
The play was a conflation of parts one and Two of “henry iv.” as written by shakespeare, henry iv is two full plays. director michael goldberg and ryan producing artistic director grant mudge worked together to create this version of “henry iv,” which combines the two origi­nal plays into one production. 
The end of “henry iv: part one” is the battle of shrewsbury, in which the audi­ence sees the prince of wales return to his father’s good graces by saving him from one of the rebels. 
The fighting in these scenes was par­ticularly remarkable in this performance of “henry iv.” each actor executed leaps and jumps in these scenes that made each battle scene compelling. 
in the final scene, the audience saw the recently-ascended henry v walk slowly away from his old friend and confidante, sir John Falstaff. The rest of the cast fell away and only the figures of Falstaff and henry v remained illuminated. This scene emphasized one of the best parts of this interpretation: the use of lighting and shadow. 
of it was about touring in emptier venues and not getting the pay you guys want. Can you talk about that? 
yeah, that’s definitely a theme through­out a lot of songs throughout the record, the bleakness of being away from home. especially when you’re playing for empty rooms and stuff like that. i remember our first tour was terrifying just because you don’t know what you’re getting. we had absolutely no idea that every show we would just be playing for the bartender, and no one was going to be there. we’ve been lucky enough to have really great op­portunities. now we go on tour — there’s at least a few people there beforehand, and we can always count on that. That was definitely a thing early on in the writ­ing process: dealing with being away from home and friends and family and trying to do this whole music thing. That was defi­nitely a theme, the loneliness of the road i guess 
What was the songwriting process for this album? How did this all come together? 

Throughout the play, lighting was used effectively to underscore the mood. each of the tavern scenes was brightly lit, in­stantly signaling the shift from castle to town. in contrast, the scenes where north­ern rebels plan their attacks against the sovereign king were dim, the corners of the stage in complete shadow. 
as with any shakespeare performance, the script is at once a blessing and a curse. The story is compelling and the writing already lauded as great. it comes down to troupe to make the performance great. The talent of the actors and the artistic direction of this recent performance of “henry iv” gave credit to the writing and upheld its place in the storied tradition of shakespeare. 
The first performance was august 19, with the last performance a matinee this sunday. “henry iv” was part of the notre dame shakespeare Festival, which ends in september with “much ado about nothing” performed by actors From The london stage.ge. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
There’s a couple songs that i wrote right after Quiet light. i don’t write much on the road because it’s kind of hard for me, kind of weird to get into that head space. … everything else i did in my room when we got back. we actually wrote a lot of songs together. six months before we re­corded the album, we found some space and just jammed on stuff and wrote three or four songs, which we’ve never done before like that. This record was definitely a different experience writing-wise. it was kind of all-over, rather than just strictly being in my room. There were some different things going on this time. 
What advice would you give to new artists who want to take their mu­sic to the next level? 
get at it. you have to work the local scene and bust your [expletive]. it’s going to suck, but you’ve just gotta keep working at what you’re doing. we got lucky; it just takes a lot of hard work and a lot of luck. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


sports autHorIty 

Athletes deserve right to play for U.S. 

Mary Green 
sports editor 
The Fiba world cup just started last weekend, and in case you haven’t been watch­ing too closely, the united states has torn through its first two games.
    The americans bested Turkey yesterday, 98-77, after trailing at the half, the day after they scorched Finland, 114-55. 
in the game against the Finns, the u.s. led 60-18 at halftime. no, that was not a typo. The u.s. had to ease up on defense to an nba-all­star-game level to avoid em­barrassing the scandinavian team too badly. 
international basketball competition has drawn some criticism from fans the past couple weeks, but it’s not because the americans have made the tournament more than a little lopsided thus far. 
it’s because of the horrific injury to indiana pacers for­ward/guard and nba star paul george. 
in an intrasquad tune-up before the american team headed to spain for the Fiba tournament, paul fractured his right leg in an awkward landing after contesting a shot. 
The injury was so terrible that most, if not all, networks, refused to show the uned­ited footage, instead opting to use video that blurred out george’s legs. many of george’s teammates looked sick as the two-time all-star was tended to on the court and later taken away on a stretcher. Team usa head coach mike Krzyzewski re­fused to discuss potential player cuts after the game, calling it “inappropriate” in light of the injury. 
The blogs lit up the next day when news of the scrimmage spread through social media and sportscenter. many peo­ple questioned how a player as important to the pacers and to the nba as a whole could suffer such an injury – one doctor estimated it could re­quire 18 months of recovery 
– during an inconsequential intrasquad game for the u.s. national team. 
i understand that criti­cism. it would be one thing if george broke his leg in game 7 of the nba Finals. it’s another that it happened in a Team usa tune-up for the Fiba world cup (which doesn’t exactly boast the glory or the glamour of its soccer equivalent). 
however, some people even called for the nba’s top talent not to play in this tournament – or any international compe­tition – in the future because of the potential risk. 
in their minds, if you’re not being paid thousands of dol­lars to hit the hardwood, why play at all? 
The pacers organization has some right to be upset because it will be impacted financially by george’s absence. 
but just because it pays george $18.3 million a season to put on a navy-and-gold jersey doesn’t mean it owns him (unless it’s written into his contract, of course). he’s a grown man who wants to compete for his country against the rest of the world for a gold medal. There’s noth­ing wrong with that. 
many of these critics are the same who complain about international competition in sports like basketball and baseball because “the u.s. is really the only country that plays that sport,” which is why, they say, the americans win. 
First of all, the americans don’t always win, and it doesn’t take a huge upset for them to fall short of first place. 
The u.s. baseball team was eliminated after the second round of this year’s world baseball classic. 
The men’s national team earned bronze medals at the 2004 summer olympics, which prompted an overhaul of the organization’s leader­ship that led to the “redeem team” reclaiming gold in 2008. 
on the flip side, the u.s. participating in international basketball grows the game’s popularity. The goal of many of these international tourna­ments is to spread the game to all corners of the world and draw in more fans. 
what better way to do that than by having some of the game’s best players compete? a variety of countries is repre­sented and so is the top talent, including players like paul george. 
at the end of the day, it was a freak injury with low odds of occurring again – odds much worse than those of george and his teammates coming home with a gold medal. 
does the reward outweigh the risk then? For many crit­ics, it doesn’t. 
but for those players who chose to pull on the red, white and blue, it does, and the final decision should be up to them. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Wnba | minnesoTa 82, phoenix 77 

Moore rallies Lynx from brink of elimination 
Associated Press 
after playing her worst game of the season, maya moore recovered to keep the minnesota lynx season alive.
 The league’s mvp scored 13 of her 32 points in the fourth quarter as the lynx avoided elimination by beat­ing the phoenix mercury 82­77 in game 2 of the western conference finals on sunday. 
diana Taurasi scored 23 for the mercury, who will host game 3 on Tuesday night. 
phoenix jumped out to a 22-9 lead after the first quarter, and after a dominant showing in game 1, the mercury had the three-time defending western conference champions on the ropes. but moore, who was held to nine points on 3-for-9 shooting in the opener, said she trusted the process that made her team the best in the league over her four-year career.
   “we always believe in each oth­er, and if we stick to what we’re doing, something’s eventually going to break,” moore said. “because we’re going to keep running it hard, trusting what we’re doing, with discipline.”

  Tied at 75 with 23.3 sec­onds left, seimone augustus hit a 15-foot jumper and was fouled by dewanna bonner. augustus, who finished with 23 points, converted the three-point play, and after candice dupree missed a 15-footer on the other end, moore hit two free throws to put it out of reach for the lynx. 
moore was an even bigger part of the comeback early in the fourth, as she hit three 3-pointers in a 13-0 lynx run that gave them their first lead since they scored the first point of the game. moore hit back-to-back 3’s to pull minnesota to within 65-62, and after Tan white made two free throws, augustus scored down low to put minnesota on top.
 Then, with little league world series sensation mo’ne davis on hand cheering her on, moore then drained her fifth 3-pointer of the game to send the sellout crowd into a frenzy.
   “i think she had the mindset that she’s the best player in the league and that nobody can stop her,” lynx coach cheryl reeve said of moore’s domi­nant fourth quarter. “i think maybe she had a stretch in game 1, not that she doubted that but she just didn’t play with the assertiveness that we’re accustomed to seeing.”
      Fellow uconn graduate Taurasi also has grown accustomed to seeing moore score at will. 
“she made a lot of shots to­night and when she does that it’s pretty much impossible to guard her,” Taurasi said. “you pretty much put everyone on her, but you can’t do that be­cause they’ve got seimone, they’ve got lindsay (whalen).” 
minnesota dug itself an early hole and almost didn’t recover. The lynx made just 2 of 14 field goal attempts in the first quarter as they fell behind 22-9 after 10 minutes. 
but with moore and augustus struggling, whalen put the lynx on her back. whalen scored 12 of her 17 points in the second quarter and hit five mid-range jump shots as minnesota recovered its shooting touch to make 47 percent of its shots the rest of the way. 
mlb | san Francisco 15, milwauKee 5 

brewers drop fifth straight, slide into tie for division lead 
Associated Press 
pablo sandoval hit a two-run homer among his three rbis and finished a double shy of the cycle, powering the san Francisco giants past the milwaukee brewers 15-5 on sunday to match a season high with their sixth straight win. 
madison bumgarner (16-9) followed up his one-hit gem Tuesday against colorado with seven strikeouts in six innings to win his third straight start. The left-hand­er finished august at 4-1 with a 1.57 era. 
hunter pence extended his nl-leading hitting streak to 13 games with a third-inning rbi double, the first of his four hits. he doubled again in the fifth and added a sev­enth-inning triple. 

WANTED 
Paid High School Boys Lacrosse Coaches Needed: St Joseph HS (1 mile from campus) is looking for la­crosse coaches for the 2015 season. 

The brewers lost their sea­son-high fifth straight road game and dropped into a tie for the nl central lead with st. louis. it’s the first time since July 20 that they don’t have sole possession of the division lead. 
milwaukee has held at least a share of the lead every day since april 5. 
martin maldonado hom­ered off giants reliever george Kontos in the seventh, but the brewers were swept at aT&T park for the first time since aug. 24-26, 2007. milwaukee was outscored 31-8 in the series. ryan braun homered in the eighth. 
Kyle lohse (12-8) allowed seven runs and nine hits in 5 2-3 innings for his fourth de­feat in five decisions. 
backup catcher andrew susac was given a start and went 3 for 4 with three rbis, including a two-run double and an rbi double. Joe panik had a two-run triple as san Francisco earned its fifth series sweep this year. The giants have a season-best six-game winning streak at aT&T park. 
The brewers briefly took a lead in the first when braun grounded into a run-scoring double play. bumgarner was unscathed otherwise, allow­ing five hits with one walk. 
san Francisco’s start­ing pitchers combined for a 
1.07 era with 57 strikeouts and seven walks on the 6-1 homestand. 
sandoval tripled to start the second. he walked in a seven-run seventh, his first shot at the cycle. Fans chant­ed “double!” but he flied out later in the inning. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
All coaches are paid as well as “When we lose to Notre reimbursed for travel expenses. Dame, it is so disheartening. It Season runs from March to May. leaves a bitter taste you can’t Please contact Head Coach Mike seem to get out of your mouth,” Williams at mwilliams@saintjoela-     -Tony Henderson, Michigan defen­crosse.com sive tackle 1991-1994 


men’s basketball | usa 98, TurKey 77 
Americans overcome slow start, topple Turkey 
Associated Press 
They figured it would be sim­ple, that they would just beat up on Turkey like they did Finland a night earlier. 
instead, the americans were the ones on the ropes for nearly three quarters. 
“i guess we felt like last night’s game was pretty easy and to­night was going to be the same way, but Turkey came out and they gave us their punch from the beginning,” forward James harden said. “we took it and we were sluggish. That second half we played a lot better.” 
Kenneth Faried scored 22 points, anthony davis all of his 19 in the second half, and the u.s. rebounded from a rare deficit at halftime to beat Turkey 98-77 on sunday in the basketball world cup. 
a night after crushing Finland by 59 in its biggest rout ever while using nba players in the former world champion­ship, the americans couldn’t take control against Turkey un­til early in the fourth quarter af­ter compiling a 17-1 run. 
“i think we didn’t come ready to play in the first half and we can’t afford to do that if we want to win a gold medal,” davis said. “so we’ve got to come out ready to play no matter who we’re playing against.” 
The americans trailed 40-35 at halftime and Turkey led by six early in the third before the americans could finally get the game into the quicker tempo they prefer and pull away to win the rematch of the 2010 gold-medal game in istanbul. 

but it was a much tougher one than expected after the americans hammered Finland 114-55 while Turkey was being outplayed for most of its opener by new Zealand before pulling out the victory. 
harden added 14 points for the u.s. and Kyrie irving added 13, playing extended minutes in the second half while strug­gling derrick rose sat. 
it was tied at 59 with 3:10 left in the third before the americans closed the period with a 7-1 burst to lead 66-60 after Faried’s basket. The u.s. then ran off 10 in a row to open the fourth and open a 76-60 cushion. 
The americans haven’t lost since the semifinals of the 2006 world championship and out­side of their victories over spain in the last two olympic gold-medal games, haven’t been in danger much since then. 
but they needed a long time to start looking like the team that is so considered the tour­nament favorite by so many. 
“before the game we talked about we trying to keep the tempo low, in fact slow down the game and we did it very well first half. i think actually three quarters we did it very well,” Turkey’s ender arslan said. “but after, physically united states team is great, they played 40 minutes ... so we get a little bit tired after third quarter and they still played at the same level.” 
The u.s. beat Turkey 81-64 four years ago to win gold, and though the Turks have eight players remaining from that team, they no longer have their best player, hedo Turkoglu, or fellow nba veteran ersan ilyasova. 
cenk akyol led Turkey with 12 points. 
The americans had to break from their pregame warmups to retake the official team picture that every team took saturday before their opening games, because they were still wearing sweats instead of their uniforms. 
They soon had bigger prob­lems than a fashion faux pas. 
it was 16-all after one, and Turkey controlled the tempo in the second quarter, getting to the foul line as the americans showed moments of frustration with the pace and some calls that went against them. baris hersek and emir preldzic made consecutive 3-pointers late in the half to give Turkey a 38-32 lead. 
unable to force the turn­overs or missed shots to get their transition game going, the americans looked ordinary in the halfcourt. davis, who scored 17 points in the opener and had been the americans’ best player this summer, was scoreless with one rebound in the half, playing just 10 ½ min­utes while picking up two fouls. 
“i tried to come out in the second half and just be a differ­ent player, just be the player i’m used to being,” he said. 

pGa tour | deuTsche banK championship 
henley leads deutsche bank 
Associated  Press 
russell henley doesn’t get into contention as much as he’d like, though he is tough to beat when he’s anywhere near the lead. 
rory mcilroy seems to be there all the time. 
They were among a host of contenders sunday at the deutsche bank championship, setting up the second straight week in the Fedex cup playoffs that the final round resembles more like a free-for-all. 
The difference at the Tpc boston is the presence of mcilroy so high on the leaderboard. 
henley ran off five birdies in a seven-hole stretch around the turn on his way to a 6-un­der 65, giving him a one-shot lead over billy horschel going into a labor day finish loaded with possibilities. 
Ten players were separated by four shots. six of them al­ready have won on the pga Tour this season. 
and one of them — mcilroy 
— has won the biggest events. 
mcilroy was dialed in with his swing and shot a 7-under 64 to get within two shots of the lead. he played with chris Kirk, who also shot a 64 with birdies on his last two holes — a chip-in for birdie on a shot that would have gone 10 feet by the hole had it not banged into the pin, and an eagle putt that stopped an inch short on the 18th. 

“i’ve been in this position quite a lot recently,” mcilroy said. “so i know how it’s going to feel tomorrow.” 
henley was at 12-under 201. he will play in the final group with horschel, who birdied his last three holes for a 67. 
henley can look as good as anyone, and then he can disappear. he won the sony open last year in his first pga Tour event as a rookie last year, and never seriously contended again. he won the honda classic in march in a four-man playoff that includ­ed mcilroy, and since then has missed eight cuts and has only two finishes in the top 20. 
“i think i’m just still figur­ing it all out,” henley said. “i feel like i’ve been working re­ally hard on my ball-striking to keep the ball more in front of me. i always feel pretty good with my putter. The other thing i have to work on is my attitude, and not be so hard on myself.” 
Jason day, who start­ed sunday tied with ryan palmer, reached 12 under with a short birdie putt on the 13th hole. but he missed a short par putt on the 14th and hooked his tee shot into high grass and had to pitch out, leading to another bogey on the 15th. day also failed to birdie the par-5 18th and shot 69. 
palmer took bogey on two of the par 5s and shot 71 to fall four shots behind. 
mlb | los angeles (al) 8, oaKland 1 
Angels top Athletics, complete series sweep 
the los angeles angels com-
Associated Press 

pleted a masterful four-
mike Trout hit his career-game sweep of the oakland high 31st homer and drove in athletics with an 8-1 victory three runs, matt shoemaker sunday. pitched seven shutout in-The angels won their sixth nings of five-hit ball, and in row and own the best 
paid adverTisemenT 

record in the majors at 83­
53. They shut out the a’s for the 29 consecutive innings while opening a five-game lead atop the al west head­ing into september. 
Trout had a two-run single during a six-run second in­ning. chris iannetta hom­ered and had three hits for los angeles, which has won 15 of 19. The a’s have lost 14 of 20. 
scott Kazmir (14-7) got just four outs for oakland, which scored its first run since Thursday on Josh reddick’s rbi single off mike morin in the eighth. 
The sellout crowd loudly chanted “sweep! sweep!” as the club finished off its most impressive weekend of a re­markable season. 
The weekend was awful for the a’s, who got slug­ger adam dunn from the chicago white sox in a trade sunday to help their slump­ing offense. 
oakland, which led the al west for nearly four straight months this season, now fac­es its biggest division deficit since may 25, 2013. 
after eight angels relievers pitched a three-hit shutout saturday night, shoemaker (14-4) provided the bullpen with plenty of rest. 
The rookie right-hander capped a tremendous month with his sixth victory of august, striking out seven and extending his personal scoreless innings streak to 23 1-3 innings while allow­ing no oakland runners to reach third base. 
gordon beckham and Kole calhoun drew bases-loaded walks in the second from Kazmir, who matched the shortest start of the season. 

a’s manager bob melvin was ejected for apparently arguing balls and strikes af­ter pulling Kazmir. 
Trout led off the seventh with a home run, tying his career high with his 97th rbi. 
iannetta added a homer in the eighth as the angels out­scored oakland 18-4 in the series. 
erick aybar extended his hitting streak to a career-best 16 games with a sec­ond-inning single to shallow left, and Josh hamilton ran straight through third base coach gary disarcina’s stop sign to score los angeles’ first run. 
Kazmir then issued three straight walks and got yanked by melvin, who was tossed after an animated conversation with home plate umpire gerry davis. 

The observer | monday, september 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

smC soCCer | beThel 3, smc 1; smc 2, mT. sT. Joseph 1 
Belles win one, lose one over weekend at home 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s opened its season this weekend with mixed results, dropping its first game, 3-1, to bethel on Friday but rebounding sunday to pull out a 2-1 victory against mount st. Joseph in extra time. 
The belles (1-1) started off strong against bethel (1-1), creating a few early shots and offensive pres­sure. in the 12th minute, as the pilots knocked the ball around in their back­field, belles senior mid­fielder erin mishu blocked an attempted clearance by bethel junior goalkeeper mallory conrad. The deflec­tion went straight into the back of the net, giving saint mary’s an early 1-0 lead. 
The momentum would not last, however, as 10 minutes later, sophomore midfielder diana diaz-diurych netted a 30-yard free kick for the pilots to knot the game at 1-1. 
The belles had plenty of chances throughout the game, outshooting bethel 16-8 and knocking a couple shots off the goal frame, but the team struggled to capi­talize on opportunities. 
“we created a ton of chances but were miss­ing that final quality with our finishing touch,” belles coach michael Joyce said. 
bethel, on the other hand, was able to convert its few opportunities into goals, scoring in the 62nd and 75th minute to take a 3-1 lead that would last for the rest of the match. The pilots scored three goals on just four shot attempts, and conrad anchored them in net with seven saves. 
“we were a little sloppy against bethel on Friday and pounded the ball for­ward too fast,” Joyce said. “we usually like to possess the ball more.” 
however, Joyce said he was happy with how the belles were able to turn that around and control pos­session when they took the field sunday against mount st. Joseph (0-2). 
again, saint mary’s strug­gled to find the back of the net despite a flurry of shot attempts throughout the game. 


The lions took a 1-0 lead on free kicks, so we’ll have after senior defender mary in the 36th minute off a to mark better defending Kate hussey netted a re-shot by freshman defender those [moving forward],” bound off a corner kick. brenna lonneman from a Joyce said. despite taking 21 shots in free kick sent into the box. in the second half, saint 
“we’ve given up two goals mary’s tied the game at one see smc soccer paGe 13 
smC GolF | oliveT labor day Tee-oFF TournamenT 
Saint Mary’s places third in opening tournament 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after two days of competi­tion at the olivet labor day Tee-off tournament, the belles finished in third place with an overall score of 694, 26 shots behind second-place finisher olivet. 
The belles were led this weekend by senior Janice heffernan, who earned a spot on the all-tournament team after finishing fifth individu­ally with a score of 159 over the weekend. 
her second-day score of 78 was also the second-best individual score of the day. Finishing behind washington university in st. louis, who finished first in the wgca division iii rankings in the spring, and miaa conference rival olivet, the belles have started out strong this season, coach Kimberly moore said. 
“This team has really come together and has gelled ex­tremely well,” moore said. 
sophomore ali mahoney combined rounds of 86 and 81 on the first and second days, respectively, finishing in 11th place individually. 

sophomore courtney carlson followed her up in the stand­ings, shooting a 179 that put her in 22nd place. The fourth eligible golfer for the belles, freshman lydia lorenc, re­corded a two-day score of 193 and landed in 29th place, while freshman Kelsey conkright had a tournament score of 199 and earned a share of 31st place. 
moore had previously said she has high expectations for the belles this season and af­ter their first tournament, she said she believes that they are on the right path. 
“going into my second season my expectations of this year’s belles team is very high,” moore said. “we are a very young team with one se­nior, one junior, three sopho­mores and three freshman. we have lost a lot of good ex­perience, but have gained a great deal of potential major contributors for the next few years. our young team will be forced into learning the col­lege game very early and that will lead to some great experi­ence and leadership down the road.” 
looking ahead to late september, when miaa play begins, moore said she is optimistic about the belles’ chances of winning the con­ference title for the first time since 2010. 
“my message to my team early on in this brand new season is to be as focused as you can in practice, so that all of our practices can be as pro­ductive as possible,” moore said. “also, [my advice is] to not be afraid of giving each other advice and helping each other out. The attitude going into this season is very opti­mistic. with the addition of fellow indiana section pga professional, Kasi hornback, as our assistant coach, our goals of leading this young team to a conference cham­pionship will be on the top of our priority list this fall.” 
The belles take the next step in their endeavor to become the miaa confer­ence champions when they step onto the warren golf course september 14 and 15 to host the o’brien national invitational. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

nd volleyball | minnesoTa 3, nd 0; wisconsin 3, nd 0 
irish fall to big Ten competition 
Observer Staff Report 
at a long weekend at the acc/big Ten challenge in minneapolis, the irish fell short, losing in a three-set shutouts to both no. 12 minnesota on Friday (26-24, 27-25, 25-18) and no. 6 wisconsin on saturday (25­16, 25-15, 25-16). 
notre dame (0-2) held set point in the first set of Friday’s matchup against the golden gophers (1-1). however, key mistakes on the irish frontline led to the gophers tak­ing down notre dame, 26-24. The second set played out in much the same fashion, with the irish losing 27-25 in another tight set. 
The final set saw a fatigued irish squad trail 11-8 early and ultimate­ly lose by a score of 25-18. 
senior middle blocker and right side specialist Jeni houser led notre dame, as she totaled 11 kills and nine digs against minnesota. graduate student outside hitter nicole smith also had a strong night, coming away with eight kills in the first two sets of the game and 10 kills overall. 
saturday evening proved no easier for the irish, as they took on last season’s ncaa runner-up wisconsin (2-0). despite keep­ing sets close against the golden gophers, notre dame could not do the same against the badgers, losing the first and final sets by nine points and the middle set by 10. 

wisconsin took a 9-1 lead early in the first set, easily securing a 25­16 victory in the first match of the game. The second set unfolded in a similar fashion, as the badgers cruised away with a 25-15 win to take a 2-0 lead in the match. a big run early in the final set helped wisconsin best the irish, 25-16, to close out the match. 
smith had team-high six kills on the night, while junior setter hanna muzzonigro remained perfect in hits for the entire match. Three freshmen — outside hitter sydney Kuhn and liberos Jo Kremer and natalie Johnson 
— made the first appearances of their careers over the weekend, and Kremer and Johnson had the two lone service aces for notre dame against minnesota. 
The irish begin the home por­tion of their schedule with the golden dome invitational, where they will welcome washington state, iupui and western michigan to purcell pavilion. notre dame’s weekend will kick off with a 7:30 p.m. matchup against washington state on Friday. 


nCaa Football | baylor 45, smu 0 
Baylor races past SMU in new stadium opener 
Associated Press 
bryce petty and no. 10 baylor had a nice house­warming party at their new riverfront campus stadium sunday night, even though the quarterback was clearly not feeling his best. 
petty threw for 161 yards and accounted for three touchdowns while playing the first half of the bears’ 45-0 victory over former southwest conference rival smu. 
petty, the reigning big 12 offensive player of the year, was held out in the second half because of a bruise to his lower back. he moved gingerly at times and often grabbed as his lower back and side between plays after taking an early shot. 
big 12 champion baylor (1-0) led 24-0 after the first quarter, including Td drives of 6 yards after an smu fum­ble and 4 yards after levi norwood’s 45-yard punt return. 
smu’s three quarterbacks 
m soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
the fact that they scored in the first nine minutes, but we played well,” clark said. “For us to come from behind and win made was more dif­ficult [and] there was more pressure.” 
in the 28th minute, Klekota tied the game at one with his second career goal. brown had a chance with a shot in 54th minute to take the lead, but it wasn’t until the 66th minute that were sacked a combined eight times. The mustangs (0-1) were held to 67 total yards, their fewest since coach June Jones took over in 2008, and shut out for the second time in their last three games. 

Jones’ predecessor at smu was phil bennett, who is in his fourth season as baylor’s defensive coordinator. 
on the day a statue of robert griffin iii was dedi­cated, petty extended his streak with at least one touchdown pass to a school-record 14 games, break­ing a tie with baylor’s only heisman Trophy winner. 
griffin was on hand for the bears’ first game on campus since 1935. 
The washington redskins quarterback and baylor’s only heisman Trophy win­ner took part in the statue dedication more than three hours before kickoff and was also on the field before the game, giving the invocation and taking part in the open­ing coin toss with former 
brown capitalized on cross from senior defender luke mishu to post his sixth ca­reer goal. The irish outpaced the golden eagles, gaining a 17-11 advantage in shots and a 6-3 advantage in shots on goal. 
Though the irish had a sol­id season-opening weekend, the team can learn from its mistakes and improve going forward, clark said. 
“i think we can improve on our errors, which came from our own game,” clark said. “we need to give the president george w. bush. 
baylor’s first short drive came after bryce hager forced a fumble that was re­covered by aiavion edwards at the mustangs 6. 
shock linwood scored on a 4-yard run. 
smu then went three-and-out before linwood’s return set up petty’s 3-yard Td pass to tight end Tre’von armstead. 
petty threw a 46-yard Td to freshman Kd cannon, wide open behind the secondary, after smu’s incomplete pass on a fourth-and-13 play. 
The mustangs turned it over in their own territory again when matt davis, af­ter scrambling out of the grasp of a defender, tried to throw across the field while running away from another one. 
he threw into a crowd and was intercepted by xavien howard. 
petty then had comple­tions of 15 and 13 yards to Jay lee before his 5-yard Td run made it 31-0. 
other team less opportuni­ties, which i think is easily improved upon. we need to eliminate those errors.” 
with their season open­er under their belt, the irish move on to host the mike berticelli memorial Tournament next week­end. notre dame is slated to play dartmouth at 7:30 p.m. Friday, followed by a match against Kentucky at 2 p.m. sunday. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr@nd.edu 
nFl 

49er arrested for domestic violence 
Associated Press 
san Francisco 49ers de­fensive tackle ray mcdonald was arrested early sunday on felony domestic vio­lence charges after officers responded to a home in an upscale neighborhood, san Jose police said. 
sgt. heather randol, a po­lice spokeswoman, declined to discuss the circumstanc­es that led to mcdonald’s arrest, saying only that of­ficers had probable cause to take him into custody. 
mcdonald, 29, was later released from santa clara county Jail after posting $25,000 bail. 
he wouldn’t discuss what happened with television news reporters who ap­proached him after he post­ed bail. 
“i can’t say too much, not right now, but the truth will come out. everybody knows the kind of person that i am,” mcdonald said. “i’m a good-hearted person.” 
nFl commissioner roger goodell announced tough­er penalties this past week for players accused of do­mestic violence. The move 
followed  scrutiny  over  
baltimore  ravens  running  
back  ray  rice’s  two-game  

penalty stemming from his arrest on an assault charge in February. 
“The 49ers organization is aware of the recent reports regarding ray mcdonald and we take such matters seriously,” general manager Trent baalke said in a state­ment. “as we continue to gather the facts, we will re­serve further comment.” 
mcdonald has been play­ing for san Francisco since he was drafted as a third-round pick in 2007. 
The incident is the latest blow to what has been one of the nFl’s fiercest defenses. 
on Friday, linebacker aldon smith received a nine-game suspension for what the league called viola­tions of its substance-abuse and personal-conduct policies. 
smC soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
regulation, the belles were not able to put in any more goals, and the game moved into overtime. 
Just over three minutes into the sudden death pe­riod, however, junior mid­fielder maggie mclaughlin struck for saint mary’s, beating two defenders be­fore touching it past the goalkeeper and finishing on an open net to give the belles a 2-1 victory. 
“goal scoring can be as much mental as it is physi­cal, so it was a relief to get the goal in overtime af­ter some missed chances,” Joyce said. “hopefully, that starts giving us some con­fidence and mental edge to keep it going.” 
saint mary’s will play its next game Tuesday at 
8:30 p.m. against illinois wesleyan in bloomington, ill. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 




W soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
against usc (3-0-1, 0-0-0 pac-12), irish freshman goal­keeper lexi nicholas was named the starter after little came down with an illness. nicholas made three saves in her first-ever regular-sea­son action, and although the irish failed to pull out a victo­ry, siergiej praised nicholas’ effort and ability to be ready at a moment’s notice. 
“i think lexi was huge for us today, in a lot of ways,” siergiej said. “Kaela is a great goalkeeper, and un­fortunately we lost her dur­ing the warm up. To have a goalkeeper as a backup find out she’s starting [that late], especially as a freshman — i was extremely proud of how [nicholas] handled that.” 
other than the switch in goal, sunday’s match had a similar narrative to the weekend’s first for the irish. notre dame was aggressive early and dominated the ball, eventually capitalizing when senior forward lauren bohaboy scored her third goal of the season from 16 yards out in the 19th min­ute. Junior midfielder cari roccaro assisted on the play. The irish outshot the Trojans 11-2 in the first half and again went to the locker room with a 1-0 lead. 
when the whistle blew for the second half, however, it was the Trojans on the at­tack. usc had four times as many shot attempts after halftime than it had in the first half, scoring twice on eight shots. 
in the 65th minute, usc tied the game when sopho­more forward savannah levin drilled a shot into the top left corner of the net from close range on an assist from junior midfielder Jamie Fink. The 1- 1 score line lasted only until the 72nd minute, when Trojans junior midfielder reilly parker made a sliding goal off a cross from junior forward Tamara mejia to give usc a 2-1 lead. 
notre dame continued to challenge after falling be­hind, earning a penalty kick in the 74th minute. Trojans senior goalkeeper caroline stanley was able to make the save on irish junior midfield­er glory williams’ attempt, however, and notre dame’s shot off the rebound went far over the net to end the threat. 
after notre dame failed to hold a halftime lead in back-to-back games, siergiej said the irish have a busy week of practice ahead to ensure they maintain focus for all 90 minutes of every game mov­ing forward. 
“we came out strong in both games and played well,” siergiej said. “going in [at the half] with a 1-0 lead, we have to come out with a sense of urgency, to not just defend that lead, but build upon it. That’s more the mentality of this program, and it’s some­thing we pride ourselves on. obviously, this weekend, we had two games where we’ve let that slide.” 
next week, the irish travel to santa clara, calif., to play santa clara on Friday. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
mlb | chicago (al) 6, deTroiT 2 

Quintana, sox declaw Tigers 
and is day to day. but the biggest issue for detroit was its defense. 
The Tigers committed three errors in the first two innings as the white sox jumped out to a 5-0 lead, and that was enough for Quintana (7-10). 
The left-hander allowed six hits in his first victory since winning at detroit on July 29. 
detroit starter rick porcello (15-9) went 6 2-3 innings, allowing six runs 
— three earned — and 11 hits. 
Associated Press 
chicago — Jose Quintana allowed two runs over seven innings to earn his first win in more than a month, and the chicago white sox beat the detroit Tigers 6-2 after trad­
ing adam dunn on sunday  
afternoon.  
The  white  sox  sent  

dunn to oakland before the game, ending a disap­pointing four-year run in chicago for the veteran slugger. 
Then, they took advan­tage of a season-high four errors by the Tigers to sal­vage a four-game split. 

adam eaton doubled twice and scored two runs. carlos sanchez had two hits and also scored twice. avisail garcia singled, dou­bled and drove in two. 
Jose abreu extended his hitting streak to 12 games, and the white sox won af­ter dropping 10 of 12. 
it didn’t hurt that the Tigers held miguel cabrera out of the lineup because of a sore right foot. he left the second game of saturday’s day-night doubleheader 
m Golf 
conTinued From page 16 
a blast and a great way to start the year.” 
Junior cory sciupider and sophomore matt rushton con­tributed to that team effort on the course. sciupider shot a three-over-par 75 in the morn­ing and then came back in the second round to shoot the tournament’s individual low­est 18-hole score of five-un­der-par 66. sciupider finished with a 36-hole score of one­under-par. rushton started the day with a first-round 68 and finished the second round at 70 for a total of four-under­par and a third-place finish overall. 
sophomore blake barens carded scores of 73 and 75 for an overall six-over-par score individual draw. 
now that the irish have their first competition under their belt, they continue to move for­ward with their fall campaign, Kubinski said.. The team will begin preparation for its next tournament at the minnesota gopher invitational on sept. 7 and 8. 
“we’ll get back to work on Tuesday, preparing in the same ways we did this past week, understanding that our development is a process requiring a consistent ap­proach,” Kubinski said. 
The irish will tee off again in the minnesota gopher invitation on sept. 7 and 8 at the windsong Farm golf club in independence, minn.start the year.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr@nd.edu 

of 148 and a 10th place finish. Freshman Thomas steve shot a first-round 73 and second-round 76 as he followed barens with a seven-over-par score of 149 and a share of 11th place. 
“i am really pleased that all five starters all posted at least one round that counted to­ward our team total,” Kubinski said. “it was a team win today. our strongest assets today were our resolve and attitude. we had opportunities to let shots slip away in both rounds but showed growing maturity out there. it didn’t seem like any missed shot or putt both­ered any of our players today. i was proud of our effort in those ways.” 
senior david lowe, sopho­more liam cox and junior Zach Toste also competed in the invitational, but golfed separately from the irish in the 
mlb | ToronTo 4, new yorK (al) 3 
Bautista, Blue Jays blast past Yankees 
Associated Press 
ToronTo — The blue Jays finished off a forgetta­ble august with their big­gest power display of the month. 
Jose bautista homered for the fifth straight game and Toronto erased a three-run deficit to beat the new york yankees 4-3 on sunday. 
edwin encarnacion and melky cabrera also con­nected for the blue Jays, who had their most home runs since hitting four in houston on July 31. 
“They win. it’s guaran­teed runs,” manager John gibbons said of the power surge. “we’ve kind of been missing that.” 
derek Jeter had a chance to tie it for the yankees in the ninth inning. 
with the sellout crowd of 45,678 on its feet, Jeter popped up against closer casey Janssen with a run­ner on third for the final out in his last regular-sea­son at-bat in Toronto. 
“i don’t think i have had much success against (Janssen),” Jeter said. “he was better than me this time.” 
J.a. happ won for the first time in seven starts as Toronto closed august with a 9-17 record. 
munenori Kawasaki sin­gled home the go-ahead run in the seventh to help the blue Jays take two of three in a series between al east teams trying to stay close in the playoff chase. 
new york’s loss was its fourth in six games. 
“it’s tough. we only have so many series left,” Jeter said. 
brett gardner finished a single shy of the cycle, but couldn’t deliver on a big opportunity in the ninth, grounding out with a run­ner on second to bring up Jeter. 
gardner gave the yankees a quick lead when he con­nected on happ’s second pitch for his sixth career leadoff homer and fifth this year. 
Francisco cervelli hit an rbi single in the fourth and the yankees made it 3-0 in the fifth when gardner tripled and scored on an errant relay throw by shortstop Jose reyes. 
new york right-hander brandon mccarthy allowed just two singles and a walk through the first five in­nings, but ran into trouble in the sixth. 
cabrera ended a streak of nine straight outs with a homer to right and, four pitches later, bautista went deep. 
“everything happened so fast,” cervelli said. 
Jose cruz Jr. holds the blue Jays record for con­secutive games with a home run, connecting in six straight from sept. 29 to oct. 5, 2001. 
encarnacion tied it at 3 with a leadoff drive in the seventh, and mccarthy left after walking dioner navarro. 
dellin betances got two outs before pinch-runner steve Tolleson stole second and scored on Kawasaki’s single, sliding in under cervelli’s tag at home plate. 
happ (9-8) allowed three runs and nine hits in seven innings to win for the first time since July 22 against boston. 
“his breaking ball today was as good as we’ve seen it,” gibbons said. 
brett cecil worked the eighth and Janssen fin­ished for his 20th save in 24 chances. 
mccarthy (5-4) allowed four runs and five hits in six innings, losing for the fourth time in five starts. 
starting as the designat­ed hitter, Jeter went 1 for 5 with a single in the first. 




CrossWord | will shorTZ 


sudoku | The mepham group 

HorosCope | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: sticking to your game plan and showing the reserve you have in order to reach your goals will make others take note. aggressive, no-nonsense appeals will get you what you want and when. emotions will drive you, but it’s your relentless courage that will help you reach your destination. protect your assets and your health. your numbers are 7, 13, 21, 25, 30, 32, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): change things up a bit and you will discover alternatives to the way you’ve been living. socializing will bring you closer to someone special and help you make choices that will ensure you are looking and giving your very best. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): consider your best course of action with regard to love and romance. don’t justify spending too much or trying to be someone you aren’t in order to please others. Taking a practical approach to life will lead to greater security. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do what needs to be done. Focus on home, family, your health and wellness and maintaining your current standard of living. Talk is cheap and deception apparent. rely on facts to keep you moving down the most suitable path. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): look at the choices you have and pick the one that will make you happy and allow you to fulfill your emotional needs. put pressure on anyone who tries to take over or make decisions for you. do things your way. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): watch carefully and take precautions against anything or anyone that may lead you into an emotional battle. change is necessary, but going about it in a positive manner is more important. be prepared to walk away from obstinate people. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): listen carefully to what’s being said. someone may try to falsify information in order to get your approval. an open, honest discussion that relies on facts and figures will help you see past any troubles brewing behind the scenes. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t be fooled by an offer someone proposes. Fast talk about big plans will fall through. make changes that you can relate to. if you cannot see the end result clearly in your mind, you are best to take an alternate route. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): your concern should be about you, your integrity and your future. if someone is too demanding or you feel stifled, back away. you’ll get a much clearer picture if you put distance between you and someone who is a problem. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Find time to pamper and play. you deserve a break and a chance to put distance between you and some of the troubles you face. change can make a difference to the way you live and the people you continue to associate with. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can make a difference if you put time and effort into a concern you feel strongly about. communication coupled with action will help drum up enough back-up to turn a negative into a positive. a unique investment should be considered. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Facts will be required in order to debate effectively. observe how others operate, and you will gain perspective regarding how to counter any attempt made to ruin your plans. a change will lead to a new partnership and a better future. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): dig in and do your thing. your passion and determination will help you gain ground and win favors from people who can help you make a difference. a work-related matter is based on false information. rethink your strategy for success. 

Birthday Baby: you are determined, competitive and loyal. you are aggressive, intuitive and secretive. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | monday, september 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

men’s soCCer | nd 2, marQueTTe 1; nd 0, georgeTown 0 
Notre Dame captures IU Classic title 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish earned a share of the adidas/iu credit union classic title at bill armstrong stadium in bloomington, ind. this weekend. 
no. 1 notre dame (1-0-1) and indiana (1-0-1) posted the same records over the weekend and finished as co-champi­ons of the tournament, which marks notre dame’s third straight iu classic title. no. 9 georgetown (0-0-2) and no. 12 marquette (0-2-0) came in third and fourth, respectively. 
The irish beat marquette, 2-1, on Friday and tied georgetown, 0-0, on sunday. indiana and georgetown tied, 1-1, in the opening round, and indiana beat marquette, 1-0, on sunday for a share of the title. 
“we played two tough oppo­nents, and i thought we played very well,” irish coach bobby clark said. “[sunday] against georgetown, we played excep­tionally well against a very, very good team, and that was a good test for us.” 

The irish and hoyas drew 0-0 in a defense-oriented game. The first shot on goal of the game occurred in the 34th minute, when junior midfielder patrick hodan crossed to freshman forward Jon gallagher. Junior midfield connor Klekota had another solid shot on goal in the 69th minute from the top of the pen­alty box, but georgetown se­nior goalkeeper Tomas gomez made the save. 
notre dame graduate stu­dent goalkeeper patrick wall also made an impres­sive save in the 57th minute. georgetown junior forward brandon allen delivered a di­rect shot on goal on a cross from sophomore forward alex muyl from eight yards out that wall stopped. 
Klekota had notre dame’s best opportunity at a goal in the second overtime with a shot just slightly wide of the far post. wall had another tough save on a close-up shot in in the 96th minute of the match prior to sunday’s game, the and again a minute later off a irish opened their season with header. Though scoreless, the a 2-1 victory over marquette irish had a 23-9 lead in shots on Friday. Klekota and gradu­and an 8-3 lead in shots on ate student forward leon goal. brown posted the two goals to surpass marquette’s ninth-minute 1-0 lead. 

“marquette has some very good players, [as seen] by 
see m soccer paGe 13 

men’s GolF | noTre dame KicKoFF classic  nd Women’s soCCer | Texas Tech 2, nd 1; usc 2, nd 1  
ND cruises to victory at  irish drop two  
season-opening tournament  matches  

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
notre dame opened its 2014-2015 campaign sunday with a team victory at the notre dame Kickoff challenge at the warren golf course. 
The irish began their fall season with a victory over iupui and ball state at its home course, posting team rounds of 281 and 280 to shoot a seven-under par to­tal of 561. They beat iupui by 19 strokes and ball state by 25 strokes. 
“i’m just proud of our team [today],” irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “we spent the last year or two unable to get that third and fourth qual­ity counting score. our guys have worked very hard to grow and mature these last several months. Today saw us with four quality scores and multiple outstanding rounds.” 
senior patrick grahek led the irish lineup this week­end and carded a first-round 67 and second-round 69 to finish with a six-under par 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
despite leading at halftime in both games, no. 11 notre dame lost 2-1 to both no. 16 Texas Tech and southern california this weekend at alumni stadium during the 22nd annual notre dame invitational. 
The first game pitted the irish (2-2, 0-0 acc) against Texas Tech (3-0, 0-0 big xii) in a matchup of ranked teams Friday. The irish struck in the 15th minute when junior captain and defender Katie naughton headed a corner kick from freshman defender sabrina Flores into the back of the net from six yards out. it was Flores’ first career as­sist and naughton’s second goal of the season. 
Flores’ strong weekend caught the attention of irish assistant coach dawn siergiej, who said the fresh­

136 in the 36-hole tourna-win a tournament, so now 
man’s contributions went ment. he co-medaled as the i want to win two,” grahek 
beyond the box score. tournament’s individual said. “it was great to have 
“sabrina was fantastic winner with iupui senior the team win, [and it] was a 
all weekend,” siergiej said. santiago ruiz. huge team effort. Today was 
“especially Friday, she start­“my goal this year was to 
ed off a little slow in the first see m golF paGe 14 


10 minutes or so, but after that, she gained her legs and was dominant. i thought she was one of our better players all weekend.” 
The irish held their 1-0 lead until halftime, out-shooting the red raiders 5-3 prior to the break. Texas Tech attacked with renewed vigor after coming back on the field for the second half, however, scoring two quick goals to take back the lead. 
The first Texas Tech goal came when junior forward hannah devine headed home an accurate cross from senior defender Jaelene hinkle. less than 30 seconds later, junior forward Janine beckie scooped up a loose ball and drove it past the gloves of sophomore irish goalkeeper Kaela little, pro­viding the game’s final goal. 
The irish attempted eight more shots in the game, but were unable to get another one past Texas Tech’s soph­omore goalkeeper lauren watson, who had seven saves Friday. 
prior to sunday’s game 
see w soccer paGe 14 




