


COMMENTARY 

Notre Dame’s season is on the line 


Mary Green 
Sports editor 
Saturday’s matchup against Arizona State will be Notre Dame’s biggest and best oppor­tunity to make a statement this season. 
However, it will be up to the Irish to determine which type of statement they make to future opponents, fans nationwide and, perhaps most importantly, the College Football Playoff selection committee. 
every team in America can say it doesn’t pay attention to the rankings, but those rankings still control whether a team makes it into the playoff and has a chance to contend for a national cham­pionship, and Notre Dame is no exception. 
That’s why this week is so important. 
The Irish have won all the games they were supposed to win, outscoring opponents 256­142 in victories. The defense has posted a shutout, the offense has posted more than one blow­out, and vegas has posted that everett Golson currently has the fourth-best odds of winning the Heisman Trophy. 
That’s not bad for a defense that lost seven starters, an offense that is heavily reliant on previ­ously inexperienced sophomores and a quarterback who didn’t take a single snap last season. 
Not many people gave Notre Dame a serious shot at beating Florida State, especially at the be­ginning of the season. In the end, the Irish walked away with their first and only loss of the season thus far. 
But to anyone who watched, the game was as close as you could come to a victory without actually placing another tally in the win column. It was as quality a loss as any other team in con­tention for the playoff has had all season. 
So why is Notre Dame ranked No. 10 in the country, behind seven other one-loss teams? 
For starters, its strength of schedule isn’t as difficult as it seemed before. Unfortunately for the Irish, opponents who once seemed formidable — such as Stanford and Michigan — have faded into mediocrity. 
The defense has given up a lot of points lately. Notre Dame didn’t surrender more than 17 points in any of its first five games, but since facing North Carolina in mid-October, the team has let opponents score at least 31 points in three consecu­tive games, including yields of 43 and 39 points. 
On a similar note, the Irish have shown their tendency to play to the level and style of their opponents in those last three games, which has both helped and hurt them. 
North Carolina was a shootout. Florida State was considered by some to be the best game of the college football season so far. Navy should not have been as close as it was, and as a result, the Irish fell down two spots in the AP poll to No. 8 and were jumped by Arizona State in the College Football Playoff rankings. 
And now, at a most conve­nient time, Arizona State wel­comes Notre Dame to Sun Devil Stadium. It’s the spark the Irish need to revive a dull patch in their season and rocket them closer to those coveted four spots in the rankings. 
If the Irish play to the level of the Sun Devils, this top-10 matchup will be everything viewers could hope for, with two highly potent offenses led by dy­namic quarterbacks and talented receivers facing one another. 
A win would shoot Notre Dame closer to the top. It would un­doubtedly pass Arizona State and could leapfrog at least one other team, since the victory would be against the country’s No. 9 squad. 
However, a loss would signal the end of any hopes Notre Dame has of making the playoff. Yes, Arizona State is a quality oppo­nent, so the loss would not be a crazy upset, but it is difficult to imagine a two-loss team outside the SeC West playing for a cham­pionship, at least at this point in the season. 
A win could make the season. A loss would break it. 
The Irish season is on the line, and their fate lies in their hands only. It’s time for them to show us if they’re championship material or not. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


RECRUITING 


QB Wimbush, WR Guyton excelling in senior years 

Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, 247Sports 
Class of 2015 quarterback Brandon Wimbush committed to Notre Dame in October after flipping from Penn State. Irish recruiting analyst Tom Loy said Wimbush is “a five-star quarterback in [his] book.” 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
Amid the seemingly never-ending stream of commitments, visits and other activity during the past few weeks, attention hasn’t always been directed at Notre Dame’s current group of 21 pledges in the class of 2015. 
But many Irish commits have compiled strong senior seasons as they get set to don the blue and gold next year in South Bend. Irish recruiting analyst Tom Loy said class of 2015 quarterback commitment Brandon Wimbush has been one of the most impres­sive players in the country this season, much less the Irish class. 
“I wouldn’t say that he’s sur­prised me with his performance, but Brandon Wimbush has taken his game to another level,” said Loy, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Blue and Gold Illustrated, part of the 247Sports network. “His overall play as a whole, he’s not only throwing the ball with arm strength and ball speed, but he’s throwing the ball so accurate.” 
Wimbush, the No. 4 dual-threat quarterback and No. 63 overall player in the country, ac­cording to 247Sports’ Composite Rankings for the class of 2015, an­nounced his flip from Penn State to Notre Dame on Oct. 7. Many believed the Irish would not land a quarterback in the class after former commitment and five-star prospect Blake Barnett flipped to Alabama in June. Barnett is the No. 1 dual-threat signal-caller in the country, per 247Sports’ Composite Rankings. 
“You compare their numbers to their senior season, it looks like Wimbush may be the better prospect,” Loy said. “Regardless of what any recruiting [outlet] calls him, he’s a five-star quarter­back in my book. He’s arguably the top player at his position in 2015. You could say Notre Dame got a huge steal late in the re­cruiting process and a potential difference-maker at the quarter­back position.” 
Loy said he has been some­what surprised by the play of class of 2015 receiver commit­ment Jalen Guyton this season. 

The three-star pledge checks in as the No. 494 overall player in the nation, per 247Sports’ Composite Rankings. Loy said Guyton had an “average to good” junior sea­son, highlighted by a strong post­season at Allen High School in Texas. This season, Guyton has teamed with his quarterback, Texas A&M commit and five-star prospect Kyler Murray, to form a strong duo through the air. 
“He’s just been dominant. He looks faster. He’s playing with more confidence,” Loy said of Guyton. “He’s added size. … Now you look at him and you see a guy that can step in and compete for playing time as a freshman. He goes from looking like depth at the wide-receiver position to a game-changer, potentially a difference-maker on offense for the Irish. He’s been a pleasant surprise.” 
Among other current Notre Dame commitments who could potentially contribute right away as freshmen, Loy mentioned center Tristen Hoge, cornerback Shaun Crawford, receiver C.J. Sanders and linebackers Josh Barajas, Tevon Coney and Asmar Bilal. Loy added that three-star cornerback Nick Coleman could surprise Irish fans. 
Loy has said he could see Notre Dame taking a class of 25 com­mitments in this recruiting cycle. He said he doesn’t expect some­one to come from completely off the radar as the end of the season nears and creeps toward National Signing Day, but long shots like cornerbacks Minkah Fitzpatrick and Iman Marshall, safety Marvell Tell and defensive tackle Christian Wilkins shouldn’t be completely ruled out. 
“Those are guys that are very much perceived as long shots at this point, but they could surprise you,” Loy said. “I could see any one of those guys choosing Notre Dame come signing day.” 
Nonetheless, Loy said there’s value for Notre Dame even in just being under consideration in some scenarios, especially with blue-chip recruits from states like Florida, Texas and California. 
“You get a kid on campus, it’s still a win,” Loy said. “It shows na­tionally that Notre Dame is worth a visit. … You don’t always have to sign a kid to make it a win in recruiting.” 
Class of 2016 quarterback Malik Henry announced Wednesday he will be committing Thursday af­ternoon. Loy, who once thought Henry would end up at Notre Dame, thinks that has changed. 
“My guess would be that he’s going to Florida State at this point,” Loy said of Henry’s de­cision. “A lot can change in a week, but it seems like ever since Brandon Wimbush committed to Notre Dame last month, it seems like the priority has been to just focus on Wimbush going forward and then slow the recruitment of 2016.” 
Loy said Notre Dame is also interested in class of 2016 quar­terbacks Jawon Pass and Shea Patterson. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueAndGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


NDSMCOBSeRveR.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2014 | THe OBSeRveR 




By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Managing editor 
For sophomore running back Tarean Folston, a few more car­ries went a long way. 
As a freshman last season, the Cocoa, Florida native, who was ranked as a four-star recruit by several services, including 247Sports, showed early flashes of his potential, including a 36­yard run in Notre Dame’s 35-21 loss to Oklahoma. But it wasn’t until the team’s ninth game of the season against Navy that Folston showed that he could be a featured running back. 
That game, he ran for 140 yards and one touchdown on 18 carries, nearly equal to the 22 carries he had received in the team’s first eight games. Folston said playing extensive­ly against Navy allowed him to validate what he had been working on in practice. 
“I guess I got into a little rhythm,” he said. “But, you know, I work hard all the time, and it showed up that game, and I try to continue to play at that ability.” 
Folston kept up his high level of play throughout the remain­der of the season, scoring a touchdown in his first career start against BYU and adding another score against Rutgers in the Pinstripe Bowl. Folston said the late-season success in­spired him to work hard in the offseason. 
“I just continued to work hard,” he said. “It’s just one of those things where you had a great moment, you can’t just let that go away. You’ve just got to work and try to have more mo­ments like those.” 
Folston entered this season competing for carries with se­nior captain Cam McDaniel and fellow sophomore Greg Bryant. He spent the first quarter of the season splitting carries in the backfield but struggling to find success — earning just 17 yards against Michigan, 22 against Purdue and 41 against Syracuse. 
But then, just like last sea­son, Folston made the case to put the ball in his hands more often. And he hasn’t stopped proving his point since then, recording 98 rushing yards and three touchdowns against North Carolina, 120 yards against Florida State and 149 yards and two touchdowns last weekend versus Navy. 

Irish senior quarterback everett Golson said Folston’s newfound suc­cess has come from his develop ­ment as a player. 
“He’s definitely gaining that 
con­fidence 

— I think, just talking gener­ally, that’s the big­gest thing for a lot of these players,” Golson said. “… But I think Tarean definite­ly got that even from last year. This year, coming in, going out, play­ing good and things like that. I think he’s definitely matured in that aspect.” 
But Folston said there was no single moment or realization that helped spark his recent play. 
“I come out with the same mentality every week — just work hard, grind it out and come out with the ‘W’ at the end of the day,” he said. 
Similarly, Folston said his success hasn’t been built by the improved play of the revamped offensive line. Rather, he said it’s been a byproduct of the team’s development over the course of the season. 
“At the beginning of the sea­son, everyone starts off slow,” he said. “But we continue to work hard and be more of a complete team. That’s all it is, not better nor worse.” 
Though he spends the major­ity of his time running between tackles or trying to get to the edge, Folston said his biggest strength is his ability to catch 
the ball in the backfield. 
The 5-foot -9, 209-pounder has caught 12 passes 
for 166 yards this season. 
Others around the Notre Dame prog ra m, however, had dif­ferent 

answers to that question. “I think he more works with us as a running back, just reading our blocks and just helping us set up 
our own blocks, forc­ing the defender to come to us, where we want him,” Irish 
junior offensive line­man Ronnie Stanley said of Folston. Irish head coach Brian Kelly praised 

Folston’s attention to detail in his Oct. 7 press conference. 
“[Folston] does little things sometimes that don’t show up in the stat sheet that as coach­es, we really appreciate,” Kelly said. “He really is an accom­plished player, and he’s less about potential, and he’s more in that production, as well.” 
If Folston wants to empha­size his receiving ability, he can be forgiven. Folston made receptions on both offense and defense throughout his time at Cocoa High School, re­cording eight receptions for 85 yards and four interceptions in his senior season. Folston, who played both cornerback and safety in the 2013 Under Armour All-America Game, said he picked up a defensive mentality from his father, James Folston, a former NFL linebacker who played for both the Oakland Raiders and 
Arizona Cardinals. 
“My dad, he’s all for me and whatever I want to do, and as far as giving me knowledge, he gave me knowledge both defen­sively and offensively through­out high school,” Folston said. “… He did help me out with a lot of defensive things, taught me a lot of stuff, but on the flip side, he helped me out with of­fensive stuff also.” 
Although he is firmly en­trenched at running back, Folston hasn’t completely lost his desire to play defense or field kicks, which he did throughout high school. 
“I wouldn’t have a prob­lem with [playing defense],” he said. “I’m here to help the team in any way possible, so if they decide to put me on defense, I’d be hap­py to do whatever they ask me to do — kickoffs, kick returns, 
anything.” 

For now, Folston has been asked to claim the lion’s share of carries. But h e rejected any notion that he is Notre Dame’s No. 1 running back, insisting that the offseason competition be­tween he, McDaniel and Bryant has not yet come to a close. 
“We all come out every day and just work hard,” Folston said. “… It’s always been a wide-open race, and it always will be.” 
Folston said the so-called competition among the run­ning backs has never been any­thing but friendly, as the three players involved spend much time together off the field. 
“When we are [together], it’s a brotherhood,” he said. “We do everything together — we usu­ally eat together, watch film to­gether, stuff like that.” 
This spirit of competitive friendliness extends to Folston’s relationship with Bryant, who hails from the same region of Florida as Folston. 
“… We’ve been tight since the first summer when we were roommates,” Folston said. “We’ve always had that bond, not just because we’re both running backs but because we come from the same area. We know things, and we both just want to be successful.” 
Folston and the Irish will try to build on this season’s success when they travel to face one-loss Arizona State on Saturday. For Folston, who was squarely in the midst of the recruiting cycle when Notre Dame reached the BCS National Championship Game in 2013, a win against the Sun Devils would be an opportu­nity for him to move one step close to a goal he’s envisioned since starting Notre Dame. 
“We’ve had the [national championship] in our mind the whole time,” he said. “… We’re stepping up to the oc­casion and playing big-time teams and big-time games and coming out with the ‘W.’ We just want to continue to do that and make this run for the championship.” 
And if the Irish are to make such a run, they’ll need to make sure the carries for their top rusher go a long way. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 




KEVIN SONG | The Observer KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

IRISH PASSING 
Last weekend, senior quarterback everett Golson became the first Irish quarterback to have three passing and three rushing touchdowns in the same game. Golson’s name is still in the Heisman conversation and for good reason — he has thrown for at least 300 yards and three touchdowns in each of his last three games. 
Golson has been complimented by the continued development of his receiving corps — three different receivers caught touchdown passes against Navy. And sophmore receiver Will Fuller has put his name among the nation’s most productive receivers, as he’s currently tied for fourth in the FBS with nine touchdown catches. 
Arizona State’s pass defense has been solid, particularly recently — the Sun Devils held Utah to only 57 passing yards last weekend. But the Sun Devils second­ary has struggled against top-tier quar­terbacks, as it surrendered 355 yards and four touchdowns to UCLA’s Brett Hundley and 273 yards and two touchdowns to USC’s Cody Kessler. Figure the Sun Devils to have some difficulties with the multi-threat Golson. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 


IRISH RUSHING 
Sophomore running back Tarean Folston has received the lion’s share of carries for the Irish after strong performances in his last three games. He’s rushed for more than 120 yards in each of the past two games, becoming the first Irish running back to do so since Darius Walker did it in 2006. His emergence has relegated senior captain Cam McDaniel and fellow sophomore Greg Bryant to limited roles. 
Folston and the Irish offensive line, which has also looked good the past three games, have to be excited to face Arizona State’s rushing defense. The Sun Devils have allowed more than 150 yards in all but one game this season and yield an average of more than 180 rushing yards per game, 88th nationally. Folston and Golson alike should be able to find running room this Saturday. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 

With the recent production from Folston and the offensive line, Irish offensive co­ordinator Mike Denbrock now has several more options at his disposal. The Irish have played four consecutive close games, but with the exception of the Stanford game, generating offense hasn’t been an issue for the Irish. 
Keith Patterson is in his first season as Sun Devils defensive coordinator, but he is familiar with Notre Dame — he was Tulsa’s defensive coordinator when it upset the Irish in 2010 and Pitt’s defensive coordina­tor during an ugly 15-12 Notre Dame win the following season. The Sun Devils have had some struggles replacing six starters from last season on defense but enter the game with some momentum, having held their last three Pac-12 opponents to a com­bined 40 points. 
EDGE: EVEN 

IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS
 After a strong start to the season, the Irish special teams have started to revert toward their usual mean. Notre Dame averages over seven yards per punt return and just under 20 yards per kickoff return. even the normally reliable senior kicker Kyle Brindza missed two field goals last weekend. 
But the Irish have potential for big plays against Arizona State’s punt and kickoff re­turn defenses, which rank among the worst in the nation. The Sun Devils have surren­dered both kickoff and punt return touch­downs this season. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
IRISH SCHEDULE (7-1) 

Aug. 30  Rice (W 48-17)  
Sept. 6  Michigan (W 31-0)  
Sept. 13  vs. Purdue (W 30-14)  
Sept. 27  vs. Syracuse (W 31-15)  
Oct. 4  Stanford (W 17-14)  
Oct. 11  North Carolina (W 50-43)  
Oct. 18  @ Florida State (L 31-27)  
Nov. 1  vs. Navy (W 49-39)  
Nov. 8  @ Arizona State  
Nov. 15  Northwestern  
Nov. 22  Louisville  
Nov. 29  @ USC  



HEAD TO 
SUN DEVIL STADIUM 

(So.) Will Fuller 


WR

(So.) Torii Hunter Jr. 16 
(Sr.) Amir Carlisle 

WR

(Jr.) C.J. Prosise 20 

(Sr.) Cam McDaniel 
-OR- (So.) Tarean Folston -OR- (So.) Greg Bryant 
(Sr.) Everett Golson 
(So.) Malik Zaire 


(So.) Max Redfield 
(Sr.) Matthias Farley 
(Jr.) Ronnie Stanley
(So.) Hunter Bivin 

RB (Sr.) Nick Martin
25 
1 (Sr.) Conor Hanratty 

(Sr.) Matt Hegarty
8 
QB 
(Jr.) Mark Harrell 
(So.) Steve Elmer 
(So.) Colin McGovern 
(Gr.) Christian Lombard 
(So.) Mike McGlinchey 
(Sr.) Ben Koyack
(So.) Durham Smythe -OR- (Fr.) Tyler Luatua 
(Jr.) Chris Brown
 (So.) Corey Robinson 

70 
LT 

65 
LG 

C
75 

62 
RG 

68 
RT 

80 
TE 
13 

WR
88 

(So.) Cole Luke 

LCB

(So.) Devin Butler 12 

(Fr.) Daniel Cage 75
(Fr.) Nyles Morgan
MLB
(So.) Michael Deeb 42 
(So.) Isaac Rochell 

DT
(Fr.) Daniel Cage 75 

(Jr.) Elijah Shumate

FS

(Fr.) Drue Tranquill 23 
(Jr.) Romeo Okwara 

DE

(Fr.) Andrew Trumbetti 98 
(So.) Jaylon Smith

WLB
(Fr.) Greer Martini 48 
(Gr.) Cody Riggs 

RCB

(Fr.) Nick Watkins 19 
(So.) James Onwualu 

SLB
(Jr.) John Turner 31 

(Jr.) Sheldon Day
SS 

DE

41 (Gr.) Justin Utupo 53 
(Jr.) Jarron Jones 

DT 


(Sr.) Kyle Brindza 

(Sr.) Kyle Brindza
PK

(Fr.) Tyler Newsome 85 (Fr.) Tyler Newsome 
(Sr.) Kyle Brindza 

(Sr.) Amir Carlisle
P

(Fr.) Tyler Newsome 31 (Sr.) Cam McDaniel 
(Gr.) Cody Riggs 

(Jr.) Scott Daly
PR

-OR- (So.) Greg Bryant 1 (Jr.) Hunter Smith 

85 
KO 



KR
33 

99 
LS 

Mike Monaco 
Senior Sports Writer 
Tempe looks perfectly primed for a Notre Dame slip-up. 
With Joe Schmidt lost for the season and an improved Arizona State defense, the Sun Devils could be favored at home in front a crowd looking to prove eSPN wrong for by­passing the spot for “College GameDay.” 
But ASU quarterback Taylor Kelly hasn’t looked like him­self in the last two games since returning from a broken foot while everett Golson continues to roll. There will be offensive playmakers aplenty in the desert coupled with young, aggressive defenses. 
It will be close, just like last year. 
But Golson will carry the Irish to a marquee victory, an 8-1 record and, most importantly, a rise in the College Football Playoff rankings. 



Brian Hartnett 
Managing editor 
One thing is for sure about this Saturday’s game — there will be a lot of points. 
Both teams possess high-powered offenses led by dual-threat quarterbacks and quick receivers. And they both have aggressive defenses that at times have struggled to match such potent offenses. 
Although the two teams look pretty close on paper, I have to give a slight edge to Notre Dame. Simply put, the Irish offense has been rolling the last few weeks, and the emer­gence of Tarean Folston is not what Arizona State’s sub-par rush defense would like to see. 
The Irish do lose quite a bit with Joe Schmidt out, but Nyles Morgan should make up for his lack of experience with his athleticism. 



Samantha Zuba 
Assistant Managing editor 
Notre Dame and Arizona State have a lot to lose or gain.
 The Sun Devils leaped over the Irish this week to No. 9 in the College Football Playoff rankings with Notre Dame remaining at No. 10. Both teams have 7-1 records and cling to the fringes of the top four and a playoff berth.
 On Saturday, both teams will be scrapping to keep those playoff hopes alive.
 The Sun Devils have beaten Utah — No. 17 in the play­off rankings — but were clubbed by No. 18 UCLA, 62-27. Notre Dame has yet to defeat a team still in the rankings.
 But the loss to Florida State proved the Irish could hang with anyone, and they will do so against Arizona State. 
FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 34, Arizona State 27 FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 38, Arizona State 34 FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 28, Arizona State 24 

NDSMCOBSeRveR.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2014 | THe OBSeRveR 




TO HEAD 

3:30 P.M. ON ABC 
NO. 9 ARIZONA STATE 


Kweishi Brown (Jr.) 
FCB 
13 Armand Perry (Fr.) 

Antonio Longino (R-Jr.) 
WLB 
4 Dj Calhoun (Fr.) 


Marcus Hardison (Sr.) 

Jordan Simone (R-Jr.) 

DE 
FS
6 Chans Cox (R-Fr.) 18 James Johnson (R-Fr.) 


Tashon Smallwood (fr.) 
DT 
94 Demetrius Cherry (R-Jr.) 

Viliami Moeakiola (R-So.) 


LB 
4 DJ Calhoun (Fr.) 
Jaxon Hood (Jr.) 

NG 
41 viliami Latu (So.) 

Edmond Boateng (R-So.) 

Damarious Randle (Sr.) 
DT 
94 -OR- Demetrius Cherry (R-Jr.) 
BS 
5 Chad Adams (Fr.) 

Salamo Fiso (R-So.) 
SLB 
44 Alani Latu (R-Fr.) 


Lloyd Carrington (R-So.) 
BCB 
13 Armand Perry (Fr.) 

Cameron Smith (So.) 

WR 
15 Ronald Lewis (R-Fr.) 

De’Marieya Nelson (R-Sr.) 

TE 
83 -OR- Kody Kohl (R-So.) 

Tyler Sulka (R-Sr.) 

RT 
75 William McGehee (R-Jr.) 

Deantre
 Lewis (R-Sr.) 

Vi
 Teofilo (R-Jr.) RB 



9-OR- Kalen Ballage (Fr.) 

RG 
77 Stephon McCray (R-So.) 


Taylor
 Kelly (R-Sr.) 

Nick
 Kelly (Jr.) 


QB

C 
77 Stephon McCray (R-So.) 2 Mike Bercovici (R-Jr.) 

Christian Westerman (R-Jr.) 

D.J.Foster (Jr.) 

LG 
TB 
77 Stephon McCray (R-So.) 4 Damario Richard (Fr.) 

Jamil Douglas (R-Sr.) 

LT 
57 evan Goodman (R-So.) 

Gary Chambers (R-Jr.) 

WR 
89 Frederick Gammage(R-So.) 

Jaelen Strong (R-Jr.) 

WR 
19 ellis Jefferson (R-Fr.) 





Alex Garoutte (R-Sr.) 

Zane Gonzalez (So.) 

KO 
PK
5 Zane Gonzalez (So.) 25 Alex Garoutte(R-Sr.) 


Kyle Middlebrooks (R-Sr.) 

Matt Haack (So.) 

KR 
P
1 Deantre Lewis (R-Sr.) 27 Dylan Kegans (Jr.) 


Kyle
 Middlebrooks (R-Sr.) 

Donnie
 Shields (Jr.) 



LS 
PR 

63 -OR- Mitchell Fraboni (Fr.) 3 -OR- Damarious Randall (Sr.) 


Notre Dame vs. Temple 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
SUN DEVILS PASSING 
Arizona State has long had a potent pass­ing attack, and this year is no different. Redshirt senior quarterback Taylor Kelly has had a distinguished career — he just passed Jake Plummer to move into third in Sun Devils history in passing touchdowns, and he threw for 362 yards against the Irish last year. 
When Kelly missed three games earlier this season due to a foot injury, redshirt junior quarterback Mike Bercovici stepped in, and the offense didn’t miss a beat as the signal-caller threw for nearly 1000 yards and eight touchdowns in his first two games. 
The Sun Devils have several good re­ceivers, but none has been more explosive than redshirt junior Jaelen Strong, who av­erages more than 100 yards per game and has eight touchdowns on the season. 
Although the Irish secondary has been aggressive and forced turnovers all sea­son, it will be hard-pressed to stop an ex­perienced Arizona State passing attack. 
EDGE: ARIZONA STATE 
SUN DEVILS RUSHING 
Arizona State’s running game doesn’t quite stack up to its passing attack, but it still generates over 190 yards per game. Dual-threat junior D.J. Foster has gen­erated many of those yards, though his effectiveness in recent weeks has come mainly as a receiver.
   Perhaps more concerning for Notre Dame is the fact that Kelly is a running threat himself. If sacks are removed from rushing statistics, Kelly has averaged nine yards per carry on the ground. The Irish allowed 132 rushing yards to North Carolina multi-dimensional quarterback Marquise Williams last month.
       Still, Notre Dame’s rush defense has been solid throughout the year. The Irish have allowed only two players to rush for at least 100 yards — Williams and Navy’s Noah Copeland. The unit has strug­gled with running quarterbacks, but it has been strong enough against run­ning backs to make this category a push overall. 
EDGE: EVEN 
KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
SUN DEVILS OFFENSIVE COACHING
  Under offensive coordinator Mike Norvell, Arizona State ranked 10th na­tionally in scoring offense last season. The Sun Devils have dropped to 36th in that category this season, but they also were without their experienced starting quarterback for three games.
   Despite some struggles in the past three games, the Irish defense under new de­fensive coordinator Brian vanGorder has been fast and aggressive. Notre Dame will need vanGorder to prove his worth this week as it looks to replace senior line­backer Joe Schmidt, arguably the quar­terback of the team’s defense. How will defensive calls change with the talented but raw freshman Nyles Morgan at mid­dle linebacker? 
EDGE: ARIZONA STATE 
SUN DEVILS SPECIAL TEAMS 
Field-goal kicking has been one of the few bright spots for Arizona State’s special teams this season.  Sophomore kicker Zane Gonzalez has connected on 14 of 17 field goals this season, and he averages nearly 10 points per game, putting him seventh among kickers and 14th nationally. 
   Arizona State’s kickoff return unit ranks above average nationally, but its punt re­turn team has been abysmal, ranking 122nd in the nation. 
     Notre Dame’s kickoff and punt coverage units are nowhere near as cringe-worthy as they were the past few seasons, though the potential to give up long returns still exists. 
EDGE: EVEN 
SUN DEVILS SCHEDULE (7-1) 
Aug. 28 Weber State (W 45-14) Sept. 6 @ New Mexico (W 58-23) Sept. 13   @ Colorado (W 38-24) Sept. 25   UCLA (L 62-27) 

Oct. 4  @ USC (W 38-34)  
Oct. 18  Stanford (W 26-10)  
Oct. 25  @ Washington (W 24-10)  
Nov. 1  Utah (W 19-16 (OT))  
Nov. 8  Notre Dame  
Nov. 15  @ Oregon State  
Nov. 22  Washington State  
Nov. 28     @ Arizona  


Isaac Lorton 
Assistant Managing editor 
     The matchup against Arizona State is the biggest game remaining for the Irish. It is their last oppor­tunity to prove they should be put in the mix for the College Football Playoff, especially after the playoff committee selected ASU to jump Notre Dame as the No. 9 team. 
     Both defenses are quick and aggressive, and dy­namic quarterbacks lead both offenses. But Taylor Kelly has not put up his usual numbers, especially in the rushing category, since he returned from a three-game hiatus with a broken foot. Notre Dame looks to have the slight edge with Golson controlling things. 
     Ultimately, Notre Dame will triumph over the Sun Devils. 
FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 41, Arizona State 34 



Mary Green 
Sports editor 
Three weeks ago, Notre Dame nearly upset the No. 2 team in the country. One week ago, the Irish lost a second-half lead to Navy in what should have been a blowout. 
If one thing’s for certain, it’s that Notre Dame has played to the level of its opponents since its Oct. 4 matchup against Stanford. 
Fortunately for the Irish, they face the nation’s No. 9 team this week. Arizona State’s Jaelen Strong creates a matchup nightmare for opponents with his 6-foot-3 frame, and the Sun Devils boast an above-average rushing game, led by 
D.J. Foster. 
However, Notre Dame stepped up to go toe-to-toe with Florida State until the very end. Arizona State will be a chal­lenge but not one big enough to stop the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE : Notre Dame 34, Arizona State 28 


THe OBSeRveR | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2014 | NDSMCOBSeRveR.COM 





Irish defense adjusts without LB Schmidt 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Assistant Managing editor 
With sidelined senior Joe Schmidt moving from lineback­er to “coach on the field,” as Irish coach Brian Kelly has called him, the Notre Dame defense will have to adjust Saturday against Arizona State. 
Schmidt fractured and dislo­cated his ankle last Saturday in the third quarter of Notre Dame’s football.” 
Defensive players from vari­ous position groups have upped their leadership in practice, ju­nior defensive lineman Sheldon Day said. 
“everybody’s stepped up their communication a lot, especially coming from me and [sopho­more linebacker] Jaylon [Smith] and then the safeties,” Day said. “everybody’s making sure we understand what’s going on, the 


“I think everybody will pick up the slack there for the loss of Joe.” 

Brian Kelly Irish head coach 
49-39 win over Navy. Before the injury, Schmidt was the leading tackler for the Irish with 65 and also had two interceptions. 
In comes freshman lineback­er Nyles Morgan from Crete, Illinois. But it won’t be a one-man effort to fill the hole left by one of the defense’s amiable leaders. 
“I think everybody will pick up the slack there for the loss of Joe, and I think that we’ll make it so Nyles doesn’t have to do too much, but he’s going to have to do something as well,” Irish head coach Brian Kelly said at his Tuesday press conference. “He’s been here — he’s got enough play call and make sure every­body’s on the same page.” 
When asked how Smith has been able to act as a leader al­ready as a sophomore, Day an­swered, laughing, “I guess it’s what Fort Wayne kids do, I don’t know.” 
“He does a great job of com­munication and making sure everybody’s on the same page, so I commend Jaylon a lot,” Day added more seriously. 
Day described how his own position on the defensive line gives him more opportunities to guide the rest of the defense in defensive coordinator Brian vanGorder’s scheme. 
“Coach vanGorder’s big thing is always start off with viewing the field,” Day said. “So being a defensive lineman, I can view the field and then get in my stance and kind of see what things can be and where the defense needs to line up, so I wouldn’t say it’s a greater role, but I definitely have to communicate more.” 
Overall, despite the loss of Schmidt, Notre Dame’s defense won’t change too much, at least in terms of its scheme. In terms of position-by-position roles, not much will change, sophomore defensive lineman Isaac Rochell said. 
“We have a next-man-in men­tality, so it’s not like we’re chang­ing our defense because Joe is hurt,” Rochell said. “I mean, ob­viously he was an integral part of our defense, but at the same time, we have to keep going.” 
even Schmidt’s middle line­backer position might not feel that different overall with Morgan receiving his first career start, Kelly said, although he and Schmidt play the position with a different style. 
“I think [Morgan’s] physical ability is probably his biggest strength,” Kelly said. “He’s fast. He’s athletic, strong. … Joe was able to put himself in the right 

PAID ADveRTISeMeNT 
position and maybe does not have quickly as Nyles can get there because Nyles has got the physical ability.” 
And since stepping into his new role, Morgan has started to add a vocal command of the de­fense to his skill set at practice, Rochell said. 
“He’s definitely more vocal,” Rochell said. “Because when you go out with the twos, it’s a different feel than when you go out with the ones, and we kind of always looked to Joe, and so now we’re looking to Nyles. even though he’s young, we don’t look at it like that.” 
As for Schmidt, Kelly said he’s confident the senior will be an active presence. 
“He’ll absolutely be working with us as soon as we get him out of surgery and get him up and around,” Kelly said. “He’ll be a coach on the field for us, there’s no question. He’ll be an asset for us and helping us and utilizing his great knowledge of the posi­tion to help Nyles.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 



Interested in writing about Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s sports for The Observer? 
Email Sports Editor Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



NDSMCOBSeRveR.COM | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2014 | THe OBSeRveR 


Kelly, Strong power Sun Devils offense 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant Managing editor 
even with their starting quarterback sidelined for three games, the Sun Devils offense has produced. 
Junior receiver Jaelen Strong had 30 catches for 323 yards and four touchdowns in Arizona State’s games against UCLA, USC and Stanford, three of which came in the last-minute against Washington, Strong and Kelly have not had huge games. Strong has amassed only eight catches for 132 yards and two touchdowns, but Irish head coach Brian Kelly said he is wor­ried about Kelly returning for Arizona State (7-1, 5-1 Pac-12). 
“Taylor Kelly back in the line­up really changes things [for ASU’s offense], I think, in terms of his ability to run the foot­ball as well,” Brian Kelly said. “[Taylor Kelly] is extremely elu­sive and looks for Jaelen Strong, who is as good as any wide re­ceiver in the country.” 
Brian Kelly praised Strong’s ability, comparing him to for­mer Irish receiver Michael Floyd. 
“[Strong] is athletic, fast, re­minds me of Michael Floyd,” Kelly said. “Big, athletic, strong hands, goes up and gets the football — just very dynamic.” 
Sun Devils head coach Todd Graham said both Taylor Kelly and Bercovici could run Arizona State’s offense, but Kelly wins games and will continue as the starter.  
“each week, we’re working both Taylor and Bercovici be­cause they both bring great qualities to the field, but Taylor is our guy, and he’s the only quarterback right now I believe in the Pac-12 who is undefeat­ed,” Graham said. “He’s a win­ner; he’s getting better every rep. … He is not our team, he is a part of our team, so we just have to get prepared and get better.” 
Taylor Kelly has continued his winning ways after his re­turn with a 24-10 win over Washington (6-3, 1-2 Pac-12) in Seattle and a 19-16 overtime victory against Utah at home. Graham said a win, regardless of the margin of victory, is how he has evaluated Kelly’s return to the lineup. 
“He’s undefeated, and it’s our job to transition him back and having missed six weeks, and he’s coming back playing some really good people,” Graham said. 
Brian Kelly said with Taylor Kelly back at quarterback, Notre Dame’s defense must prepare for a difficult task. 
“We certainly have had play­ers of [Strong’s] caliber, but he’s a unique blend of speed and size that I don’t know that we’ve quite seen, but clearly we know what we need to do,” Brian Kelly said. “We saw him last year, too, and he’s an outstanding player.” 
The young Irish secondary will need to be aggressive, but only when the situation is ap­propriate, Kelly said. 
“You know, [the corners] are going to have to fight,” Kelly said. “They’re going to have to fight for every possession against [Strong]. I think it’s more about timing. If they have time to get the ball to him, it’s going to be a battle every single time, there’s no question. He’s that good.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

38-34 comeback win over USC (6-3, 5-2 Pac-12) on Oct. 4. Meanwhile, senior quarterback Taylor Kelly was sidelined with a broken foot. 
The two had established themselves last year as one of the most dangerous duos in the Pac-12 and some may argue college football. Kelly threw for 3,635 yards and 28 touchdowns while rushing for 852 yards and nine touchdowns. Strong was 
PAID ADveRTISeMeNT 
Kelly’s top target with 75 recep­tions for 1,122 yards and seven touchdowns. 
This season began well for the pair as Strong had 19 catches for 266 yards and 2 touchdowns through the first three games before Kelly’s injury. 
While Kelly was hurt, how­ever, Strong’s production con­tinued with junior quarterback Mike Bercovici stepping in. 
Since Kelly returned Oct. 25th 




Interested in writing about Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s sports for The Observer? 
Email Sports Editor Mary Green at 

mgreen8@nd.edu 

PAID ADveRTISeMeNT 



