the IndePendent neWsPAPer serVIng notre dAme And sAInt mAry’s 



University marks Fr. Sorin’s bicentennial 
Notre Dame launches year-long commemoration 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor 
Fr. edward sorin’s legacy at notre dame is so profound that his 200th birthday celebration will last right up until the day he would have turned 201. 
on Feb. 6, the university launched a year-long celebra­tion of its founder, with a mass celebrated in the Basilica of the sacred heart and 19th-century French cuisine served in south dining hall. chuck lamphier, lead advisor for the office of mission engagement and church Affairs, said the events planned for the bicentennial celebration are intended to help students un­derstand sorin’s lasting legacy. 
“We all stand in that legacy, and 

Members of the Notre Dame community would send handmade greeting cards to Fr. Edward Sorin for see Fr. sorIn PAGE 5 Founder’s Day, celebrateed annually on Oct. 13. This card, from Eleanor C. Donnelly, dates from 1890. see BIcentennIAl PAGE 4 



SENATE 



Athletic director addresses alma mater policy 
“the discussion was 

By MARGARET HYNDS 

news Writer prompted after an away game. It was really an unhappy ex-At Wednesday night’s perience. … It was everything student senate meeting, you’d expect — a lot of un­
director of Athletics Jack friendly gestures, a lot of stuff 
said dating on campus tends to 

Lecturer promotes revised campus dating culture 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news Writer 

For the second installment of the theology on tap series, Bree haler, assistant director of evangelization for campus ministry, talked about the “lost art of dating” at legends on Wednesday night. 
Although she has only worked at notre dame one semester, haler to our nature, for what we’re cre­ated for, for what our hearts really desire,” she said. “Pseudo-marriage in a vacuum is kind of just as iso­lating as hooking up and opting out. opting out kind of just forfeits both kinds of intimacy and says, ‘I’m not really going to try because I don’t believe what I want and desire exist[s].’” 

swarbrick addressed the group being thrown, a lot of foul 
hold three separate forms: pseudo-
about the alma mater policy  language. It seemed totally  marriage, hooking up or opting out.  
and the  campus  crossroads  inconsistent with singing the  Pseudo-married  couples  are  
stadium expansion.  words of the alma mater. After  people who always seem to be to­ 
swarbrick explained the or- that, we said to ourselves,  gether, she said. their relationship  
igin of the alma mater policy,  ‘What is our rule?’”  seems to lack meaningful relation- 

by which the football team does not sing the song after home losses. 
“the decision actually oc­curred more than a full year before it manifested itself,” swarbrick said. “We were for­tunate to not have a home loss for quite a while, and we had a bunch of guys who hadn’t been around for the decision who didn’t know what to do. 
swarbrick said the foot­ball team’s “student leaders” were behind the decision two years ago, not the university administration. 
“I was proud of the process, proud that students made the decision,” he said. “I was proud to support almost any conclusion they would have 
see senAte PAGE 4 

ships outside of the emotional inti­macy they share. 
the hook-up culture, on the con­trary, lacks any emotional intimacy, haler said. 
“It involves physical intimacy where emotional intimacy does not exist, and I think [hook-up] is a pur­posefully vague word,” she said. 
haler said some people “opt out” of dating by staying busy. 
“hooking up doesn’t really speak 
the reality is that we are created for more than these extreme styles of relationships, haler said. 
“many people are just really con­fused about the meaning of love and the purpose of sex,” she said. “I think many of us are searching for the meaning of life and love, but we don’t realize that the answer is actu­ally right in front of us. 
“I think the key to finding that love is really hidden in god’s origi­nal design for our bodies and our souls.” 
haler said hook-up culture dis­torts this and makes people feel bad for wanting a more committed re­lationship. today’s society expects the church to bend to the moral laxity of secular culture, she said. 
“the church’s teaching on sexu­ality is not in place for enforcing rules or control over us, and I don’t 
think it’s meant to come from this 
place of rigidity or to keep us un­
happy,” haler said. “I think the 
church’s teaching on sexuality is 
not meant to confine us but to really 
liberate us to love others and to give 
us the capacity to give of ourselves freely in the way that we were de­signed to do.” 
her rule is to ask somebody out in person, haler said. 
“We are a Facebook, snapchat, text message generation, so most of our communication is not in per­son,” she said. “But if we cannot risk vulnerability in asking somebody 
see dAtIng PAGE 5 


neWs PAGE 3 VIeWPoInt PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 Women’s lAcrosse PAGE 16 Women’s BAsketBAll PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.o. Box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan thomassen  Peter Woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa Iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: Ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan Brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant tobin Graphics Editor: steph Wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, Assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

Post office Information the observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices PostmAster send address corrections to: the observer P.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 the observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
If a movie were made about your life, what genre would it be? 

Brad Plunkett 


Dana Bouquet 
freshman 

freshman 
keough hall 

Welsh Family hall 
“comedy.” 

“cartoon.” 
Carly Piccinich 


Katey Haus 
sophomore 

junior 
ryan hall 

mcglinn hall 
“romantic comedy.” 

“Action movie.” 
Micaela Arizmendi 


Rachel Nasland 
sophomore 

freshman 
Welsh Family hall 

Breen-Phillips hall 
“murder mystery.” 

“silent movie. Black and white.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

tori roeck sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rebecca o’neil greg hadley Abi hoverman kit loughran 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
steph Wulz kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Symposium: “Fashion SonnetFest 2014 Men’s Hockey Faculty Organ Recital Men’s Boxing 
karla moreno caroline lang 
to Football” 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Compton Family Ice DeBartolo Performing Joyce Center Mendoza College O’Shaughnessy Hall Arena Arts Center 6 p.m.-7 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Listen to readings of 8:05 p.m.-10:05 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Tickets for Bengal 
Corrections 

How businesses make all of Shakespeare’s The Irish take on Featuring works from Bouts prelims for sale 
the observer regards itself as a positive impact. 154 sonnets. Maine. the Baroque period. at ND Ticket Office. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
L.A. Theatre Works: Yoga Workshop Film: “The Act of Sorin’s Wine Women’s Basketball 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
“The Graduate” Rockne Memorial Killing” (2012) Academy Dinner Joyce Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Morris Inn 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center Come for a relaxing Arts Center 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Game against Georgia 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m.-8:45 p.m. and free workout in 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. Four-course meal with Tech in the Purcell 
we can correct our error. 

Revival of the 1967 film. room 109. Free admission. Burocao wines. Pavilion. 


speaker examines ethical decisions 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news Writer 
Ann tenbrunsel, direc­tor of the Institute for ethical Business Worldwide, dis­cussed the discrepancy be­tween promises and actions in her talk titled “ethical Blind spots,” which took place in the mendoza college of Business on Wednesday as part of notre 
dame’s ethics Week.  
tenbrunsel  said  ethical  
knowledge  does  not  always  
translate to actions.  

“People that think a lot and know a lot about ethics are not necessarily immune to unethi­cal behavior,” she said. 
she asked the audience to rate themselves on a scale of zero to 100 of how ethical they consider themselves to be, with zero be­ing not ethical, 50 being average and 100 being the most ethical. 
“People rate themselves high­er than they should,” she said. “not only do we inflate how good we are relative to other people, we hyper inflate our own ethicality.” 
tenbrunsel said the three steps of ethical decision-mak­ing are prediction, action and reflection. 
“studies show a large discrep­ancy between prediction and action, and this is known as forecasting errors,” she said. 

tenbrunsel said people often make forecasting errors when they think about charitable giv­ing. most people predict that when the time comes, they will donate a dollar or so to a charity, but less than half of them actu­ally end up doing so, she said. 
this phenomenon has to do with the difference between desirability and feasibility, tenbrunsel said. Visceral forc­es, such as hunger, tiredness and fear, even influence our ethical decisions. 
“the more sleep-deprived you are, the more likely that you will behave unethically,” she said. 
Another reason for the dis­crepancy between prediction and action is “ethical fading,” tenbrunsel said. 
“[ethical fading is] a process by which the moral colors of an ethical decision fade into bleached hues that are void of moral implications,” she said. 
tenbrunsel said she aims to help people to recognize their ethical illusions and thus avoid 
ethical  fading  and  correctly  
compartmentalize  ethical  
questions.  

“[then] we can work to be­come the people that we want to be,” she said. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 
PAId AdVertIsement 

Trivia night raises money for Riley Hospital 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news Writer 

saint mary’s dance marathon hosted a trivia night Wednesday as a part of riley Week to raise funds for riley hospital for children in Indianapolis. 
senior christa mccoll, co-exec­utive chair of dance marathon’s fundraising committee, said trivia night kicked off with a story about a child who received treatment at riley hospital. 
“[riley stories] are important to show so people know why we are doing all of [these] events,” mccoll said. “I hope people realize what we are inspired by and why we work so hard for the kids.” 
senior erin nanovic, co-exec­utive chair of dance marathon’s fundraising committee, said trivia nights have become widely attend­ed in the south Bend area. 
“A lot of friends have been go­ing to [trivia nights] off campus, and we thought we could do one on campus as a great opportunity to raise money for riley,” nanovic said. 
the event cost $2 per person or $10 for a team of four to eight par­ticipants, nanovic said. 
mccoll said she was happy with the turnout. 
“We’re really excited about all the people that came out to sup­port riley,” she said. “there were some people from [the] commu­nity and saint mary’s and notre dame students.” 
nanovic said riley Week pro­motes the importance of riley hospital and puts the April 5 dance marathon on students’ radars. 
“riley Week gets the [saint mary’s] community excited for the cause and allows them to see how much fun it can be to be a part of something that gives back to the Indiana community,” she said. 
nanovic said dance marathon combined with yoga club on tuesday to offer a yoga sculpt class with all funds going to riley hospital. Wednesday night, dance marathon partnered with chipotle on eddy street for a “give-back night,” on which 50 percent of the proceeds went to riley hospital. 

“the chipotle give-Back night is an opportunity to appeal to the wider community,” nanovic said. “hopefully, families in the areas, notre dame and holy cross stu­dents that don’t see the [dance marathon] efforts all the time on saint mary’s campus will support it.” 
mccoll said dance marathon will set up a table in the dining hall Friday where students can make Valentine’s day cards that will be delivered to riley hospital. 
“riley Week has been well sup­ported, and we have been really excited about the turnout at all events,” she said. “We hope that students understand what this great cause supports.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Alumna discusses prayer as response to abortion 
By KATE KULWICKI 
news Writer 

saint mary’s campus ministry 
sponsored a lecture Wednesday by 1984 alumna Allison sturm about how to be passionately pro-life and to have compassion for those who have experienced an abortion. 
sturm began her talk in the student center with a prayer, in which she asked god to promote compassion toward those who have dealt with abortion. 
“I pray for all of the unborn children, for their mothers, for their fathers, and I pray for those who are wounded by abortion, that you will place someone in their path, lord, that will bring them to your love and mercy,” sturm said. 
sturm said a woman facing an abortion undergoes a lot of pain and most women choose abor­tion because they do not think they have any other choice. even though an abortion might free the woman from immediate trauma, it often produces relent­less guilt for choosing her own comfort over the life of her child, sturm said. 
“can we look beyond the obvi­ous tragedy of abortion to see the pain [of] the individual, the mer­cy of god and his forgiveness of all sin?” she said. 
In order to respond to abor­tion, catholics must first pray, sturm said. 
“We ask god for an open heart, and we ask to be ready for op­portunities where people might come to you because you want to lead them to restore their rela­tionship with god,” sturm said. 
since it is difficult for someone to imagine being presented with the decision of whether or not to get an abortion, sturm said she encourages people to sus­pend their speculation and judg­ment and instead embrace the individual. 

“If someone shares this pain with you, hold it in confidence as a precious gift,” she said. “hold it like you would hold that child that has been lost.” 
sturm said people should em­brace those who are suffering with kindness. 
“We need to respect those whose lives are broken by this sin and who still struggle to find healing,” she said. “they may not be open to the truth that there is forgiveness because they are not able to look beyond the feeling of condemnation to heal. many believe that they could not pos­sibly be loved if anyone found out about this part of their life. so they continue to endure their suffering in silence, and their lives remain broken.” 
catholics boldly proclaim that all life is sacred, sturm said, but they must also vocally de­clare that no sin is beyond god’s mercy. 
“god uses us to bring his love and mercy to those in despair,” she said. “could I or could you be that voice that offers the truth that there is no sin too big to be forgiven by god? could my com­passion, or yours, help propel someone who is holding onto guilt and shame to take a brave step towards healing? 
“If god has done this time af­ter time for all of us, how could we not extend the same love and mercy towards others?” 
Contact Kate Kulwicki at kkulwi01@saintmarys.edu 

the oBserVer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2014 | ndsmcoBserVer.com 

Bicentennial 
contInued From PAge 1 
all of us who are part of the notre dame community are part of that,” he said. “understanding Fr. sorin and what he wanted to do is an important part of being at this university.” 
the majority of the celebration will center on the feast date of sorin’s patron saint, edward the confessor, on oct. 13. lamphier said this decision was made to re­spect sorin’s own wishes. 
“When sorin himself was alive, he discouraged the students of the university from celebrat­ing his birthday. he didn’t want to bring attention to himself,” lamphier said. “he did allow the students to celebrate on the day of st. edward the confessor. 
“We were faced with a dilem­ma, because what we’re celebrat­ing is his 200th birthday, but we wanted to do so in a way that re­ally honored him. And, it would be a lost opportunity to celebrate his bicentennial on one day. this gives us the chance to do it over a couple months, and the two dates are nice bookends.” 
Fr. robert loughery, rector of sorin college, said mass in the Basilica of the sacred heart on his hall’s namesake’s birthday. this community celebration of mass was the most obvious way to mark the occasion, lamphier said. 
“In commemorating Fr. sorin, we knew that we had to celebrate the eucharist in mass, which was so central to his spirituality,” he said. “We wanted to gather the campus community in the Basilica to celebrate his legacy in the way he would have. he’d have said mass in that building, too.” 
Also on Feb. 6, the dining halls served authentic 19th-century French cuisine, including poulet sauté chasseur (chicken sauté, hunter style), matelote a la mari­ner (fish stew) and estouffade á la provencale (braised beef pot roast). lamphier said the meal’s purpose was to engage under­graduate students in the celebra­tion, and “there’s no better way to do that than the dining hall.” 
“the staff at Food services were just terrific and willing to design a meal much like what Fr. sorin would have had himself,” lamphier said. 
lamphier said groups across campus already have events lined up for the fall to continue the celebration. 
“the university Archives is launching a major effort to digi­tize Fr. sorin’s papers so they can be more available to scholars and researchers,” he said. “they’re launching a new website they hope to have completed by october. the library will also be displaying Fr. sorin’s artifacts in the concourse.” 
the Institute for church life will sponsor a lecture in the fall by theology professor John cavadini about sorin’s spirituality and how that is shown in the way sorin designed the Basilica, lamphier said. the cushwa center for the study of American catholicism will also host a lecture about missionaries in the united states in the 19th century, including, but not limited to, sorin. 
lamphier also said because sorin was an educator at heart, the Alliance for catholic education at notre dame will host a lecture to explore how sorin’s zeal for education can inspire today’s ed­ucators. campus ministry’s an­nual preached retreat will focus on sorin’s spirituality, as well. 
Beyond the specific events to celebrate the bicentennial an­niversary, lamphier said stu­dents will be encouraged to visit sorin’s burial site on campus in the congregation of holy cross cemetery. 
“When I think of Fr. sorin’s leg­acy at notre dame, I think of that letter he wrote to Fr. Basil moreau just after he arrived here, when he said that notre dame would be a means for good in this coun­try,” he said. “As notre dame has grown, it has become exactly that. you can see it in the students that we graduate, the research done here and the service that students undertake.” 

Although sorin was French by birth, lamphier said many of his goals for the university reflect his understanding that it should be a “distinctly American institution.” 
“he understood that the united states was going to be a great su­perpower and an important place for the growth of the church,” he said. “And he wanted notre dame to be not just a great catholic cen­ter, but an outstanding university, the best university of its time. 
“I’d encourage students to par­ticipate in the events, but also to spend a bit of time at the Basilica or at the log chapel to realize that a great American figure was here within this community. sometimes, we should take a minute to stand in awe of that.” 
For more information about specific events and plans, see sorin200.nd.edu 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Senate 
contInued From PAge 1 
reached.” 

the policy will continue to be debated in the future, swarbrick said. 
“Just as we posed the ques­tion two years ago, we will pose it again in the spring,” he said. 
swarbrick also defended the new campus crossroads expansion project after o’neill hall senator kyle mccaffery said students are concerned about the project possibly interfer­ing with events, such as commencement. 
“the principle dynamic is the encroachment on park­ing,” swarbrick said. “the construction fence will move out into the parking lot. however, parking will be made available during com­mencement and football games.” 
swarbrick said he was ex­cited about increased space for recsports’s use and hos­pitality space. 
“For all the great things about this campus, there just aren’t a lot of spaces where you can have functions,” he said. “Whether it’s a small concert or a dance, we’re cre­ating space for these things.” 
other decisions about notre dame stadium, such as whether turf or a video board will be installed, are still undetermined, swarbrick said. 
student body president Alex coccia welcomed in­coming president and vice president lauren Vidal and matt devine, who will sit in on senate meetings until their term officially begins April 1. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

PAId AdVertIsement 



“so Bishop [célestine guynemer bold extralegal action to solve a campus even better than it was 
Dating 
Fr. Sorin de la] hailandière offered that to problem.” before, which timothy howard 
contInued From PAge 1 contInued From PAge 1 

sorin on the condition that with-sorin also solved a conflict with recounted in a letter to Fr. daniel 
in two years he build a school some of the holy cross brothers hudson, a correspondence hope role in founding notre dame here.” by sending them to pan for gold in reprints in his book. 
out and putting ourselves out there is well known, many aspects of the site had been a location california during the gold rush, “I was then present when Fr. 
face to face, then we never lay the sorin’s personal history are unfa-for French missionaries in the lysy said. sorin often disagreed sorin, after looking over the de­
foundation for communication in a miliar to students, including the past, but sorin turned it into a with his holy cross superior in struction of his life-work, stood at 
relationship.” influence of his French upbring-place with many different levels France, Basil moreau, in defense the altar steps of the only building 
In addition to her rule, haler rec­ing on his decision to become a of schooling, from elementary of notre dame, lysy said. left and spoke to the community 
ommended three phases to the priest, lysy said. to commercial to manual labor, “At one point, Fr. moreau or-what I have always felt to be the 
dating process. she said phase one “there was anti-clericalism lysy said. dered [sorin] to go to Algeria or most sublime words I ever lis­
involves dates one through three. on at the time in France, especially In the early years of the some place as a missionary, and tened to,” howard wrote. “there 
date one, there should be “no alco­during the revolution, a little less university, sorin was quite pro-he said, ‘no, I’m not doing that,’” was absolute faith, confidence, 
hol,” haler said. so during the napoleonic era, tective of notre dame, as exhib-lysy said. “given the distance be-resolution in his very look and 
“you have to be able to speak so-and then when there was the res-ited during a cholera outbreak tween them, sorin could exercise pose. ‘If it were all gone, I should 
berly,” she said. “And no physical in­toration of the monarchy, there on campus in 1855, according some independence from him.” not give up!’ were his words in 
teraction. Also, if you ask, you pay. If was also an attempt to reestab-to Arthur J. hope’s book, “notre sorin would often sail to closing. the effect was electric. It 
the girls are asking, the girls are pay­lish the church, so that was the dame — one hundred years.” europe, and in fall 1875, his vessel was the crowning moment of his 
ing. It’s considerate, and it shows that context in which sorin decided to sorin determined the illness was was shipwrecked in the middle of life.” 
you care to then pay for the date.’ become a priest,” he said. “But he caused by mosquitos inhabit-the Atlantic ocean, according to despite all of sorin’s accom-
Phase two involves dates four and was an enthusiastic American. ing the marsh land surrounding hope. plishments, lysy said he would 
onward, haler said. he [thought] his contribution to campus, so he intended to buy it, While sorin was planning to most likely want to be remem­
“What you’re doing here is really mankind and to catholicism was but the land’s owner was uncoop-sail to europe in April 1879, he bered as an educator. 
getting to know this person better, going to come through America.” erative, according to hope. had to turn back because a great “I think being remembered as 
revealing things about yourself,” she sorin came to the united “In principle, they had agreed fire engulfed the campus, ac-a saintly, gentle man who wanted 
said. “Phase two dating is exclusive. states in 1841 and began teach-to the sale, but when the time cording to hope, but this famous to educate youth and wanted to 
In phase two dating, everyone is still ing at a school in st. Peter’s, Ind., came to consummate the sale, fire was not the only one to hit develop them [would make sorin 
responsible for their own feelings. no where he came into conflict with the [land’s owner] left town,” lysy notre dame in its early years. happy], and for him, a major part 
one is bearing the burden of anyone the bishop there, lysy said, but said. “so [sorin] couldn’t con-“In 1849, there was a fire that of that would be to have them 
else’s heart yet.” this discord led to the founding of summate the deal, yet he wanted almost put us out of business,” be good, orthodox catholics,” 
Finally, phase three dating in­notre dame. to knock down the dam that was lysy said. “And the original log lysy said. “that’s fundamental 
volves the “define the relation­“the bishop in the fall of on that property to drain the chapel burned down in 1856, to what his mission would be as 
ship” talk, she said, and finally, the 1842, so a year after sorin got to swamp because that would help although it was being used as a a priest, but also to be educated 
relationship. America, said that he has this alleviate the mosquitos. stable at that time. It didn’t have with the sense that education and 
“the more we put ourselves out property, which had been given “so he just organized the the cache then that it does now. catholicity go together. they’re 
there, the more we realize that what to him, sold to him, in northern brothers, and they went over and Fifteen years later, it was a junky not in opposition, but they mutu­
we want and what we desire in rela-Indiana, on the condition . there chopped down the dam anyway, old building that they’d be happy ally reinforce each other.” 
tionship — it exists,” haler said. was a proviso in the agreement . even though he hadn’t bought to get rid of, and now it’s historic.” that an educational institution the property yet. But he did buy it After the great fire, however, Contact Tori Roeck at 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at be established there,” lysy said. subsequently. so it’s sorin taking sorin felt compelled to rebuild the vroeck@nd.edu 
chutyra@nd.edu 
PAId AdVertIsement 


trip to remember 
Zach Llorens 
Photographer 

coming to school in Indiana for the very first time was a completely nerve-wracking adventure for me. traveling 2,000 miles and not know­ing a single person around was a kind of new experience that I had never encountered previously. Before leaving home, there were just so many things in my concerned mind for me to fret about. From uncountable pens and pencils, to shirts and pants, my thoughts were cluttered with potential disasters just waiting to happen. Visualizing terrible predicaments upon arriv­ing at school and possibly missing something, I took every measure to make sure I was fully prepared to leave. truly, I was hoping to make the transition as smoothly as pos­sible. still, before I knew it, the last traces of summer vacation were gone. 
It was midway through August, and my family was packing up to drive across the country for move-in day at the university. A 2,000­mile drive is quite an interesting experience, but definitely not one I would take great pleasure in repeat­ing. Into the car piled my father, mother, brother, grandmother and I, ready to take route 66 straight east. Although I have endured many road trips in the past, I was not particularly excited for yet another long, grueling drive. together, we drove 12 hours every day for three days, and each day was more tax­ing than the previous. Whose idea was it? I am still unsure, but this unique trip definitely had its ups and downs. 
cramped into close quarters, I en­joyed the opportunity to be with my grandmother before beginning my first semester at school. I was her first grandchild to leave my home­town for college, and I was glad we had the time together. nevertheless, for me, at least, the pleasures ended there. Being on the road, driving approximately 800 miles myself, gave me all the time in the world to worry about the coming semester. In the hot car, I continued to worry and was just extremely relieved when I finally arrived on campus. 
that drive, hopefully the last road trip I make, began my college expe­rience and is something I will never forget. now, I can never complain again when someone reclines his or her chair a little bit too far back on a short five-hour plane ride home. 
Contact Zach Llorens at zllorens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Amanda Pea 
the Bubble 
I used to hate Beyoncé’s song “If I Were a Boy” when it first came out. As much as I love Queen B, her song irritated me because it was another lamentation of bad boyfriends breaking girls’ hearts. there wasn’t anything original about the lyrics, other than the fact that Beyoncé would make one heck of a boyfriend. But the real reason I hated this song was what it provoked me to think about: What per­petuates these terrible-boyfriend qualities in the first place? does it stem from being viewed as inferior? 
As a society, we eat up all the love gar­bage thrown at us from all of the heart­throbs making up our musical timeline. 
“I’d catch a grenade for you,” a coura­geous Bruno mars exclaims. 
“As long as you love me, we could be starving/homeless/broke,” declares the soon-to-be-deported Justin Bieber. 
“I will take you in my arms and hold you right where you belong,” ‘n sync promises. 
Why do women swoon over these lyr­ics? maybe it’s because these songs paint an alternate reality of nurturing, tender relationships where boyfriends respect and value their girlfriends. or maybe they subtly empower women to feel superior as the captors of men’s hearts, the dominant figure in a man’s life. maybe it’s a little of both. I’d like to believe the real issue is more than the “all men are pigs” attitude, but a deep-rooted social structure that has historically made women inferior and feel like that respect and appreciation Beyoncé and other artists dreamed up for us is unattainable. 

don’t get me wrong; there are multiple dimensions to this problem, and I am in no way stating these examples are all-inclusive or even correct observations about the issue at hand. At the end of the day, though, women aren’t treated right because as a whole, we’re simply not re­spected or valued the way men are. I have a personal example: 
ever since I was a little girl, I was always considered the son my dad never had, “daddy’s little Athlete.” growing up in a house full of women, though, the “girly” stuff was inevitable, too, but my com­petitive personality gave me a masculine brand. I was a “tomboy.” my sisters used to tell me guys would never like me if I continued to act like a tomboy when I got older; guys want girls who dress and act, well, like girls. As I got older, what girls were expected to look and act like evolved. I couldn’t just be an athlete anymore with­out being “butch.” even now it’s shocking to others that I can be heterosexual, box and play rugby, too. 
yet, no matter how “tough” I am per­ceived to be, I’m still scared to be a girl sometimes. I cross the street to avoid large groups of men waiting on the corner be­cause I’ve been harassed by their catcalls, the honking and whistling, the explicit images shouted at me. I’ve been followed and asked to get in someone’s car, not once, but twice, so I keep my key locked between my knuckles on my walks home at night. I’ve been criticized for my physi­cal appearance and sexually assaulted at my own university. I’ve been degraded and disrespected, not because I did any­thing that “asked for it,” but because I am a woman. 
Women shouldn’t have to ask for respect and dignity. they earned it the day they decided to carry you for nine months and bear the scars and stretch marks that development would put on their bodies. you have the right to be respected, solely on the basis of being human. 
yes, sometimes my hormones make me emotional, but not irrational. I have my period every month, so don’t give me a disgusted look when I pull a tampon out of my backpack. you did not choose the genitalia you were born with, the same way you did not choose your skin color or birthplace. 
When I stand up for myself or other women, I am a feminist, sensitive and emotional. Why should I justify my right not to have my body violated? I didn’t ask for a play-by-play of what you wish you could to do to me. And if I did, it certainly wouldn’t be while I’m waiting to cross the street. 
I am not a dog. you do not own me. do not whistle at me or think you’re allowed to touch me just because I’m not growling. don’t sell me to strangers. don’t put me on a leash and call me stupid for choking when I reach the end of it. And don’t pull me back for running faster than you can keep up. there is so much beauty and potential in the human spirit; we deserve respect and dignity by that merit alone. human rights aren’t up for debate. 
Amanda Pea is a junior and a sustainable development studies major with a poverty studies minor. She can be contacted at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“For beautiful eyes, look for the good in others; for beautiful lips, speak only words of kindness; and for poise, walk with the knowledge that you are never alone.” 
Audrey Hepburn 
American actress 



the oBserVer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2014 | ndsmcoBserVer.com 
A culture of exclusion 
Bianca Almada 
this is real life 

It is no secret that the notre dame student body is more or less homoge­neous. despite strong administrative recruiting for minority and diversity students in recent years, the vast ma­jority of the student population con­tinues to be white, upper-middle class, catholic, politically conservative and from the midwest. What is even more disheartening is that many notre dame students do not view this as an issue. 
there is absolutely nothing wrong with being from any particular race, religion, political affiliation or socio­economic background. however, it is arrogant and inappropriate to assert one background or affiliation is of greater worth to the university than another. the official university policy aims to promote a spirit of Inclusion among the notre dame community, welcoming all people from different creeds, cultures and experiences to be embraced as members of the notre dame family without judgment or ridicule. 
not everyone who attends notre dame fits the typical profile I described above, and it is important to remem­ber that “diversity” does not just refer to race. even though notre dame is a catholic university, many students affiliate themselves with a differ­ent religion or with no religion at all, choosing to attend the school based on other factors, such as academic prestige or unique community life. the same is true for many students who identify with other groups considered minorities on the notre dame campus, a spectrum that includes racial minori­ties as well as ideological ones, such as democrats and homosexuals. 
these people are just as important to the student body as those who qualify under the “majority” profile. they bring unique perspectives to student interactions and keep the campus from becoming completely ignorant to the experiences, viewpoints and needs of many kinds of people. they help to cre­ate on campus a more accurate depic­tion of the diverse modern world. their opinions, contributions, student orga­nizations and events hold an important place on this campus. 
however, despite the administra­tive push for inclusion, these kinds of students are continually made to feel unwelcome at the university by their peers, in both overt and furtive ways. 
A timely example was provided in many comments made by mark gianfalla in his column, “missing the Ball on nd gender relations” (Feb. 4). though the article focused on his ter­rible misreading of emma terhaar’s satirical her campus article, “nd’s 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

redirect crossroads 

observer staff, nd administration, holy cross brothers and current and fu­ture domers: 
I’m just hoping notre dame really goes nuts with this campus crossroads Project and holds nothing back. hot-tub seating areas in the end zones, cheer­leaders with stripper poles and a tropi­cal forest-themed seating area, two to four Jumbotrons (just one is for the poor schools), a 7-eleven, a chuck-e-cheese for the kids and a rollercoaster built around the stadium complex. maybe a giant eight- to 10-story leprechaun to juxtapose touchdown Jesus would com­plete the experience. oh, and some class­rooms, too. 
on an added note, I wonder what Pope Francis, the Brothers of the holy cross and the pencil sharpeners under the dome (those concerned with excessive elitism/excessiveness, education afford-ability for all and help for the poor) were thinking when this ridiculous $400-mil­lion idea was hatched. 
$400 million could hypothetically pay for one year of tuition ($50,000 range) for every single undergraduate on that cam­pus (approximately 8,000) for one year. $50,000 is above the average individual mean income of the entire western world, yet we need to create the monstrosity of a “crossroads” of classrooms with a foot­ball field? spend it, because we are notre dame and we can. 
Is that the right message to send to old and new alums or catholics alike? Is that the social message to send around the world from the most recognized catholic university in that world? What is notre dame saying here? “Whatever happens in south Bend stays in south Bend?” Is this the carnivalization of one of the most beautiful institutions in the world? Is this nd-ocracy (idiocracy)? 
What is this “vision”? the practicality 
— aside from the architectural controver­sy — left me scratching my head. What’s the goal? classrooms “with a view”? ridiculous. 
my second-generation uncle just gave $1 million two years ago to notre dame’s general fund, and I am going to enlighten him on the details. the university does not need many more buildings or monu­ments to its own glory. It needs great stu­dents from all walks of life, sitting in desks, learning great things and exploring chal­lenging ideas at an affordable price. 
the rest will follow, including beautiful, historic football games each fall for de­cades to come, amongst our lady’s other traditions. 
colin Fleming alumnus class of ’92 Feb. 12 

Fabulous gender relations: how to help All the Bruised male egos out there” (Jan. 28), I found his comments on “minorities” on campus to be the most hateful and offensive. (editor’s note: terhaar writes for the observer’s scene section.) 
gianfalla wrote, “dissenters of our lady’s university’s conservative, catholic culture should simply leave or accept it.” And after alerting his readers that one of the leading reasons that he chose to attend this school was because of “its conservative, catholic roots” (while failing to acknowledge that other students choose to attend notre dame for other reasons) he makes a rude, asinine and completely unnecessary comment toward “liberals:” “All 20 of you outspoken liberals just rolled over in your lofts.” the intent was clearly to insult anyone with “liberal” views and to belittle them by insinuating that there are very few people on this cam­pus who share them. gianfalla goes on to compare “a minority attitude run­ning through campus” offensively to “a rat in a new york city subway tunnel: unnatural and unsettling.” lastly, the author has the audacity to close his article by telling notre dame to “stay classy,” though his article full of hate speech and insults exhibits the com­plete opposite of class. 
telling anyone who holds remotely “different” views, and who wishes to 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
express these views, that they should leave this university is a terrible idea and a just plain hateful statement. If students cannot give enough respect to listen to and be open to another’s ideas, they should, at the very least, not personally insult them or insinuate that there is no place for them on this cam­pus. notre dame students should not aim to make anyone who is “different” feel like an outsider. students should be mature enough to disagree respectfully instead of resorting to childishly insult­ing another person for their beliefs. calling a minority position “unnatural” is detestable, especially when the com­ment comes from someone who is rep­resenting our university. 
the notre dame community has a reputation of being friendly and wel­coming, but it also has a reputation of being exclusive and clannish. notre dame students should strive to meet the first stereotype, and not the second. It is close-mindedness, hate speech and exclusion — not “different” or “minor­ity” students and their ideals — that do not have a place at notre dame. 
Bianca Almada is a sophomore in Cavanaugh Hall. She is studying English, Spanish and Journalism. She can be contacted at balmada@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

the oBserVer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2014 | ndsmcoBserVer.com 

By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene Writer 

For those who enjoyed the 1967 film “the graduate,” the deBartolo Performing Arts center brings its stage adaptation to notre dame this thursday, Friday and saturday. 
the play is part of a national tour by the 
l.A. 
theatre Works presenting their ad­aptation of the book by charles Webb, the movie directed by mike nichols and the Broadway play. 

l.A. 
theatre Works is traditionally a ra­dio theatre company and has reworked the Broadway play to fit this type of per­formance. the staging will be similar to the performance of “As you like It” put on by the Actors From the london stage last weekend at Washington hall. there is minimal scenery, but the actors appear in costume, speaking into a microphone on stage. 


“the graduate” centers on recent col­lege graduate Benjamin Braddock, who is seduced by the wife of his father’s law partner, mrs. robinson, at his graduation party. After his tryst with her, he meets and falls in love with her daughter, elaine robinson. In addition to all this, Braddock is under pressure from his parents to find a purpose in his life, as he is unmotivated after having just finished his undergradu­ate career. 
the play is directed by Brian kite and stars heidi dippold from “the sopranos,” matthew Arkin from “law & order” and tom Virtue from “even stevens” along­side darren richardson, Jill renner and diane Adair. terry Johnson directed the original adaptation. 
reviews of previous performances of the play are full of praise for the acting 
— something that becomes even more important when the play is put on in a radio-theatre style. caroline sposto of BWW hub says dippold performs the iconic character of mrs. robinson “with a delicious mixture of unabashed vulgar­ity, country-club cunning and wrenching desperation.” 

the play is hailed as hilarious, giving a new feeling to the iconic American story. much of the visual aspects seen in the 1967 film are adapted to the stage using sound. their adaptation of the famous scene where Benjamin tries out new scu­ba gear in his family’s pool is reinvented using primarily sound to give the percep­tion of being underwater and opens the play. 
erika nichols of the Flynn center for the Performing Arts blog said “the lack of physical movement allowed the actors to really emphasize their emotional re­actions and allowed the audience to re­ally hone in on each character,” while the minimal physical interaction between the characters enhances the simplistic production. 
l.A. theatre Works chooses to do one show a year as a live radio show produc­tion and takes it on tour. In previous years, they have performed “Pride and Prejudice” and “the rivalry.” 
“the graduate” comes with the warn­ing that it includes mature content — spe­cifically, sex scenes performed behind a sheet held up by Benjamin Braddock’s parents, who hurl abuses towards him throughout the scene. 
Anna Weltner of the new times says the scenes emphasize the obliviousness of the Braddocks to what is going on with their son. 
tickets are $15 for notre dame students and $30 for regular admission. the per­formances are at 7 p.m. thursday and Friday and at 7:30 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Associate scene editor 

the snite museum of Art pairs up with suB’s Acousticafé again thursday for this semester’s snite@ nite. the free gathering tonight combines art, music and food and highlights all the museum has to offer. After a successful snite@nite event in october, the evening of programming is returning to give patrons old and new a look at the museum after dark. 
Acousticafé performers for the evening include Jon schommer and the cute townies, olivia godby and emily migliore, who will play in various rooms through­out the museum, rather than at suB’s usual venues. the event will also feature a performance from notre dame’s own humor Artists, a set from dJ shiny Pants (aka notre dame senior John stallings) and a photo booth to cap­ture those museum memories. 
Along with the live performances, snite@nite is an opportunity to see the museum’s notable exhibitions available this semester. these include “American ruins: challenging Ideas of Progress,” the newest exhibition currently in the museum. created by a group of student curators with the help of American studies professor erika doss, the collection consists of 20 photographs that examine American industrialism and exceptionalism through images of ruins across the united states. 
Another exhibition, called “the Artist’s View: landscape drawings from the crocker Art museum,” features a diverse collection of drawings of nature land­scapes by european artists. this evening, snite@nite will offer the opportunity for attendees to make their own landscapes, bringing a unique interactive element to “the Artist’s View.” 
If drawing isn’t exactly your cup of tea, you can turn to the food and beverages that will accompany two more of the snite’s collections. 
“no little Art” is an exhibition featuring 16th-century woodcut prints, with a focus on the formative work of german artist Albrecht dürer. Jumping forward a few centuries, “ornament doesn’t need little Flowers” fea­tures the work of contemporary german printmaker Anton Würth, along with a collection of prints by vari­ous artists that trace back the history of engraving. to celebrate the achievements of these two german art­ists, german food provided by south Bend’s own Weiss’ gausthuass will be available at snite@nite. 
If you can’t make it to this fun-filled event, fear not. the exhibitions will remain until march and shouldn’t be missed, and the snite has an impressive lineup of events this semester, including a talk with Anton Würth him­self, a “Print-a-Palooza” as part of the museum’s third thursdays series and an upcoming poetry slam. take advantage of the snite’s fantastic exhibitions, as well as their unique opportunities to discuss, participate and learn from the arts on our very own campus. 
the snite@nite event is tonight from 7 to 10 p.m. in the snite museum of Art. Admission is free. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


the oBserVer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2014 | ndsmcoBserVer.com 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: “The Graduate” When: 7 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center How Much: $15 
l.A. theatre Works brings its adapta­tion of mike nichols’s classic 1967 film “the graduate” to the dPAc this week­end in the format of a radio stage play. the original made dustin hoffman a star, introduced the world to the now-infamous mrs. robinson and put a whole new spin on how people look at plastics. 
FRIDAY 

What: Second City When: 9 p.m. Where: Washington Hall How Much: TBD 
chicago’s most famous improv comedy theatre, the second city, Inc., brings one of its touring compa­nies to Washington hall this weekend to show off its humor and on-the-spot talents. check out the show to see the next Amy Poehler, John Belushi, chris Farley or tina Fey. see the Washington hall box office for ticket prices. 

SATURDAY 

What: Sharknado When: 11 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $7 
2013’s smash hit in the sharks-falling-out-of-the-sky-via-tornado genre lights up the dPAc screen this saturday night in the late night at the Browning series. come for the sharks, stay for the guy who slices a shark in half from the inside with a chainsaw. 
SUNDAY 

What: Chocolate on sale When: All day Where: Grocery stores How Much: 50 percent off! 
had a bad Valentine’s day? get ditched by your date? Burned through all the chocolate and candy you fool­ishly purchased in the hopes of find­ing love? no worries! you can make all your troubles go away with the likely great sales on chocolate at your gro­cery store. 

By AMANDA GILBERT 
scene Writer 

When I first picked up “lone survivor,” (the book, not the movie based on it) I as­sumed it would probably just be another story about the struggles of war and battle with lots of gore and misfortune. 
Within reading the first few pages, though, I realized I was beyond mistaken. It took just one paragraph to make tears well up and one chapter to give me chills and a pounding heart. 
After finishing the book and a box of kleenex later, I could only imagine the emotions I would feel seeing it on the big screen. 
“lone survivor” is so much more than another war chronicle. marcus luttrell, the real-life lone survivor and author of the memoir, has had every opportunity to boost his own image via his book and na­tional interest. 
the man survived hours of immediate gunfire, as well as suffering a broken back, ribs, leg, hands and infectious wounds. luttrell crawled strenuous miles after watching his three brothers-in-arms be killed by Afghan terrorists, and he lived to tell the story. 
Instead of glorifying his own accom­plishments and successes, he has un­veiled one of the most glorifying war stories in history. 
not only is “lone survivor” a mind-bog­gling story of bravery and true patriotism, it is the most selfless and honorable story to date of the true brotherhood of the u.s. navy seAl team 6. 
Wanting no recognition for his own injuries and psychological damage he has suffered for our country, luttrell has giv­en his fallen brothers and their families a film to be proud of. 

next time you are thinking about seeing a movie, I encourage you not to waste your time seeing “the Wolf of Wall street,” “American hustle” or another “Anchorman” film. 
If you’re looking for a movie that does not glamorize money, sex, drugs or fame, then “lone survivor” will be the best 12 bucks you’ll ever spend. 
It is so refreshing to have a film out there that recognizes the courage and strength of the brave men who put on helmets for their country, rather than for their foot­ball team. 
Although the helmets luttrell and his brothers wore were not painted in gold, their bravery and honor will forever wake up the echoes of their lost men, thanks to this amazing movie. 
Contact Amanda Gilbert at agilbe01@saintmarys.edu 
“Lone Survivor” 
Director: Peter Berg Studio: Universal Studios Starring: Mark Wahlberg, Taylor Kitsch, 
Emile Hirsch 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The legacy of Derek Jeter 

Alex Wilcox 
sports Writer 
Wednesday was the day I hoped would never come: derek Jeter announced he would retire after the 2014 season, making this his last year in pinstripes. 
It’s a rather weird experience, knowing these will be Jeter’s last 162 games. It’s something like watching an elderly relative as his or her health declines. We all knew this day would come, as, for the past few years, we have painfully watched his once-sound defense deteriorate, his bat speed slow down and his injuries mount. 
knowing, however, doesn’t make it any easier when the day finally does come. 
Jeter is not dying, of course. he is only retiring, even if it feels more like the former to fans of Jeter, the yankees and baseball in general. 
It is only so heartbreaking to see Jeter go because of the im­pact he left on the game and his fans. derek Jeter is the ultimate All-American boy, and his pro­fessional career looks like it was scripted from a fairy tale. 
Jeter was just a scrawny teen­ager from michigan when he was drafted sixth overall by his favor­ite team, the new york yankees. In the minors, he teamed up with Andy Pettitte, mariano rivera and Jorge Posada, a group that would collectively become known as the “core Four” and lead the yankees back to prominence. 
As a rookie in 1996, Jeter was the yankees’ starting shortstop on opening day, becoming the first yankee rookie to start at the position in the season opener since 1962. he went on to be unanimously named Al rookie of the year and won his first World series. 
Jeter won three consecutive championships from 1998 to 2000, giving him four titles in his first five years as a pro. he was part of the 1998 team that won 114 games and is widely con­sidered one of the best teams in the history of baseball. In 2000, he was named mVP of both the All-star game and the World series, the first time any player accomplished the feat in the same season. 
Jeter gave new yorkers some­thing to smile about when they so desperately needed it after the sept. 11 terrorist attacks. he led the team to its fourth straight World series appear­ance and earned the nickname “mr. november” for his walk-off home run in the bottom of the 10th inning of game 4 after the clock crept past midnight to make the game the first ever non-exhibition played in november. 
In 2003, derek Jeter was named the yankees’ 11th captain. he is one of only five captains to have played for the yankees his entire career, and he is the longest tenured captain in team history. 
Jeter won his fifth champi­onship in 2009. Along the way, he has accumulated the most hits (3,316), stolen bases (348), games played (2,602) and at bats (10,614) in yankees history. he also earned 13 All-star selec­tions, five gold glove awards and five silver slugger awards. 
Besides all the numbers, what is most sad about derek Jeter retiring at the end of the season is that, for all yankee fans born in the last 20 years — myself included — Jeter is the yankees. 
derek Jeter is not just some talented baseball player; he is a symbol of excellence and served as a true role model when the game so desperately needed one. derek Jeter represents more than stats, accolades and even championships. Jeter represents our childhood. With Jeter gone, we will have lost the last remain­ing — and most important — connection to the glory days of the late 1990s and early 2000s. somehow, it feels like when we lose Jeter, we lose the yankees. 
such was his impact, not just on me, not just on yankee fans, but on all of baseball. 
so, when will that fateful day finally come? 
It will be sunday, sept. 28, in undoubtedly esPn’s featured primetime game. Fittingly, it will come against the defending world champs and the yankees’ fiercest rivals: the Boston red sox. there will most likely be a special pregame ceremony hon­oring Jeter, and he will surely re­ceive multiple standing ovations. 
how is this different than any other star in his last game, you ask? surely, any team would do this for its undisputed leader and captain in his final game. 
the difference is this game will be played in Fenway Park. 
you could take away every­thing you know about derek Jeter . all his championships, hits, All-star games, gold gloves and silver sluggers . and the fact that he will receive a standing ovation from his most-hated rivals tells you everything you need to know. Boston fans, who hate everything new york and especially those damn yankees, do not hate derek Jeter; they respect him. 
that act alone is all that needs to be said about derek Jeter. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
ncAA aims for more bracket fairness 
Associated Press 

kAnsAs cIty, mo. — the chairman of the division I men’s basketball commit­tee said changes made last August to the way teams are bracketed in the ncAA tournament will result in a fairer march madness. 
ron Wellman also said Wednesday that there have been no discussion of ex­panding the field beyond 68 teams, and that officiating emphases put in place in the regular season to crack down on physical defense will carry over to the ncAA tournament. 
the new bracketing rules should be apparent to most college basketball fans. 
Previously, the selection committee tried to keep schools from playing re­matches before the regional finals, sometimes moving teams multiple seed lines in the process. Wellman said relaxing that policy allows the committee to honor their seeding, creating a fairer overall bracket. 
“that first and foremost is important,” said Wellman, the athletic director at Wake Forest. “there have been years where we’ve had to drop a team or promote a team; there was even a year where teams dropped two seed lines. We don’t feel that’s appropriate.” 
under the new policy, teams that have played once could meet in the third round of the ncAA tourna­ment, and teams that have played twice could meet in the sweet 16. the commit­tee will still try to avoid teams that have met three times from playing before 

FOR SALE 

Perfect home for sale! Close to downtown and N.D. right across the street from the St. Joe river. 2 bedroom 1 bath 2419 Riverside in South Bend. Open house Sunday Feb. 16th. Call or email Amanda Ieraci @ Cressy &amp; Everett Real Estate. 574-298-0266/ amandaieraci@cressyeverett.com-
FOR RENT 

4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime location next to cam­pus. Walk to everything. email 
the regional finals. 

Another benefit is that the committee will have more latitude in assigning teams to sites closer to home, thereby easing the travel burden shared by schools and their fans. 
“We spend so much time getting teams in order, set­ting them one through 68, and it’s not until the process is fully vetted that we begin 
“There have been years where we’ve had to drop a team or promote a team; there was even a year where teams dropped two seed lines. We don’t feel that’s appropriate.” 
Ron Wellman 
chairman, Division I men’s 
basketball committee 

the bracketing process,” Wellman said. “now, we think we have much greater flexibility to honor the seed lines that we established.” 
Wellman also addressed several other topics dur­ing a break in the commit­tee’s orientation meeting in Indianapolis, which con­cludes with its annual mock selection: 
— there have been no discussions of further ex­pansion to the tournament, despite more parity in the game. this will be the fourth year that there are 68 teams in the field. 
— officials will empha­size rules against hand-checking and physical defense during the ncAA tournament, just as they have during the regular season. the idea is to free up players and allow for more offense, but the result has often been games that resembled foul shooting contests. 
“the result of these new officiating emphases has been positive, even though we know this process will take longer than one year,” Wellman said. “the bot­tom line is the stakeholders all want the game to be less physical and have more free­dom of movement.” 
—
 Wellman said that in­juries will remain a con­sideration for the selection committee, though he ac­knowledged that each mem­ber places a different value on them. that’s important for bubble teams such as colorado, which lost star guard spencer dinwiddie to a torn Acl in January. 

— 
the committee not only will consider strength of schedule and rPI, but also a school’s intentions in sched­uling. Wichita state is try­ing to land a no. 1 seed, but may be hurt by what is widely perceived as a light schedule. the shockers have struggled to schedule marquee home­and-home series, and were left in a weakened missouri Valley conference after creighton’s departure. 


“often times, schools will develop a schedule thinking it’s a very strong schedule, only to have their opponents fall on their face, and the schedule isn’t nearly as strong as what they thought it might be,” Wellman said. “those are some of the factors that we look at.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
nd-house@sbcglobal.net for addition­al info and photos. 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/ mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 

Summer nanny job,S. of Boston; ISO energetic, reliable, creative, car­ing ND/SMC student to become part of our family, 5 days a week,some evenings/wknds. 3 boys ages 1, 3, 
9. May/June-Aug. Prefer local w/ own transportation. Valid DL,sense of humor required. Love of minivans a must. If interested respond with brief bio/experience to currentstudents@ ndboston.com 
“September” -Earth, Wind, and Fire “Do you remember the 21st night of September?/ Love was changing the mind of pretenders/ While chas­ing the clouds away/ Our hearts were ringing/ In the key that our souls were singing/ As we danced in the night/ Remember, how the stars stole the night away, yeah yeah yeah/ Hey hey hey/ Ba de ya, say do you remember/ Ba de ya, dancing in September/ Ba de ya, never was a cloudy day/ Ba duda, ba duda, ba duda, badu/ Ba duda, badu, ba duda, badu/ Ba duda, badu, ba duda/ My thoughts are with you/ Holding hands with your heart to see you/ Only blue talk and love/ Remember, how we knew love was here to stay/ Now December found the love that we shared in September.” 



SMC BASKETBALL | hoPe 89, smc 59 
Belles outmatched by dutchmen 
SMC TENNIS 

SMC to host spring opener 
By ALEX CARSON sports Writer  tournament, we’ll take it from there.”  Andrea Fetters and freshmen kaity Venters and samantha setterblad  
Junior Jackie kjolhede went 13-3  all factor into campbell’s plans.  
saint mary’s will look to start  in singles matches last year to lead  “Fetters will play this week at the  
its spring season on the right foot  the Belles, while the doubles tan- no. 6 position, and setterblad will  
Friday when it hosts ohio northern  dem of junior kayle sexton and se­ start at no. 3 doubles this week,”  
at the eck tennis Pavilion.  nior mary catherine Faller posted  campbell said. “Venters will con- 
the Belles (1-0) return six play­ 11 wins on the year. returning  tribute and is working hard to get  
ers  from last year’s  team  that  with kjolhede, sexton and Faller  into the main lineup. the first-year  
finished tied for  fourth  in  the  are juniors Audrey  kiefer and  players all have strengths that will  
michigan Intercollegiate Athletic  shannon  elliot and sophomore  push the veterans.”  
Association, but missed out on a  margaret Faller.  the Belles will test their lineup  
conference tournament spot after  “We have a very deep team with  against  ohio  northern (1-1), a  
losing the tiebreaker for the tour- a lot of players close in position,  team coming off a 2013 season  
nament’s fourth and final spot to  which could require some chang­ in which it recorded 27 wins and  
calvin.  ing during the season,” campbell  a perfect 9-0 record in the ohio  
“[this year], we would like to be  said. “All of [our returning players]  Athletic  conference.  the Polar  
in the top three of our conference  will be in the main lineup.”  Bears won a conference title and  
at the end of the season,” Belles  the Belles will also look for con- advanced to the second round  
head coach dale campbell said.  tributions from three new faces  of the ncAA tournament.  more  
“once we get in the [conference]  in the 2014 season. sophomore  recently, ohio northern is com­ 
ing off a loss at kalamazoo on  
PAId AdVertIsement  saturday. campbell said he want­ 
ed to see his team come out and  
be assertive Friday to open the  
season.  
“In the first match, I want us  
to come out assertive in doubles  
and just show how hungry we  
are to compete,” campbell said.  
“Perseverance and expecting to  
win are a few qualities we want  
to see and just players competing  
point by point. We have enough  
experience to get off to  a  solid  
start.”  
It might just be the first game of  
the season, but campbell said he  
looks at tomorrow’s contest as an  
opportunity to set a high standard  
from the beginning.  
“We want to set a high standard  
to begin with,” campbell said.  
“there’s never a time to play with­ 
out a purpose to play our best.”  
the Belles host the Polar Bears  
tomorrow  at  the  eck  tennis  
Pavilion on the campus of notre  
dame, with the opening serve set  
for 6:30 p.m.  
Contact Alex Carson at  
acarson1@nd.edu  

PAId AdVertIsement 


By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s fell behind early in the first half and never re­covered, unable to handle the potent hope offense in an 89-59 loss Wednesday. 
the Flying dutchmen (22-0, 14-0 mIAA) dominated from the start, jumping out to a 17-3 lead to start the game. senior guard megan kelley led the way, scor­ing 10 points over that stretch. 
A few shots began to fall for the Belles (6-16, 4-9) midway through the half, but hope con­tinued to pull away, scoring pos­session after possession. the dutchmen finished the game at 9-18 from 3-point range and add­ed 24 points on 33 attempts from the free throw line, which Belles coach Jenn henley said was due in part to poor defense. 
“We put them at the line way too much, and they got easy looks from three,” she said. 
the Flying dutchmen took a commanding 53-25 lead into halftime. 
saint mary’s rallied in the sec­ond half, trading baskets with hope for most of the period. the Belles nearly outscored the Flying dutchmen, 36-34, in the second half. 


“We played much better in the second half at both ends,” henley said. 
however, the early deficit was too much to overcome, and the Flying dutchmen retained a comfortable 30-point lead for most of the second half. hope scored from almost every spot on the floor, and all 14 players on its roster recorded points. 
sophomore forward eleni shea was a bright spot for the Belles, scoring 14 points and grabbing six rebounds. senior guard shanlynn Bias added 11 points for saint mary’s, while kelley led all scorers with 17 points. 
With just three games remain­ing on their schedule, the Belles prepare to host Alma for senior day, which will honor the ca­reers of the team’s two seniors, co-captains Bias and forward katherine Wabler. 
the scots (0-23, 0-14) have struggled this season, losing each of their games so far by an average of 21.5 points. henley, however, said she is careful not to underestimate the energy they will bring. 
“Alma will be ready to play,” she said. “We have to come out ready to defend and push our transition game.” 
When these two teams squared off Jan. 4, saint mary’s narrowly edged the scots 70-67 in a comeback victory, fueled by Bias’s career-high, 20-point ef­fort and a late 13-0 run. 
Alma is led by junior guard mallory Pruett, who supplies the scots with an average of 
12.4 points and 5.7 rebounds per game. 
“senior day is always special,” henley said. “there will be a lot of emotions as we prepare to say goodbye to all three seniors, co-captains Bias and Wabler, as well as our manager eileen cullina.” 
the senior day matchup be­tween saint mary’s and Alma will take place saturday at 3 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish prepare for SPIRE Invitational 

FENCING 

Four fencers head to Portland 
to qualify, these fencers must 
Observer Staff Report 
be on the Junior national Points 

this upcoming weekend, standings or in the top 25 per-four of notre dame’s top un-cent of their division’s qualify­derclassmen will represent ing event. the Irish at the united states Four Irish men will fence Fencing Association national throughout the weekend. Junior olympic Fencing sophomore garrett mcgrath championships, held at the and freshmen conrad sutter and Portland convention center in Arthur le meur will fence Friday Portland, ore. in the Junior men’s epee com-
this championship, hosted petition, while sophomore John by the usFA, invites the most hallsten will compete saturday highly touted young fencing in the Junior men’s sabre com-athletes in the country to com-petition. no female Irish fencers pete against one another in a will travel to Portland. four-day-long tournament. though not an official team 
notre dame has a strong his-competition, this individuals tory with the usFA national tournament will be important Junior olympic championships. for mcgrath, sutter, le meur the university’s chaplain, Fr. and hallsten, who are highly lawrence calhoun, founded ranked in their respective weap­this event and hosted the first ons. If these fencers win each two national Junior olympics of their bouts, they will gain in 1972 and 1973 in niles, Ill. points, which are accumulated since then, the Junior olympics throughout the season and used has moved to various locations to determine their individual across the country and will take rankings. place this year in Portland. though only freshmen and 
the Junior olympic Fencing sophomores, these male fenc­championships consist of both ers hope being among the oldest cadet (born between 1997 and and most experienced partici­2000) and Junior (born between pants in the Junior olympics 1994 and 2000) events. the will help them feel confident 
younger collegiate fencers, gen-about winning their bouts this erally those who are freshmen weekend in Portland. the com-or sophomores, are usually able petition runs Friday through to compete in the Junior events. monday. 
By MATTHEW GARCIA 
sports Writer 

notre dame will send some athletes to geneva, ohio, on Friday for this weekend’s sPIre Invitational but will rest most of the team as the Acc finals draw nearer. 
the Irish finished off an­other impressive meyo Invitational this past week­end, with 16 top-five finish­es, four event victories and three meet records. Irish coach Joe Piane said his team gained valuable confidence going into this weekend’s invitational. 
“We have two of the best lady 4-mile [runners] in the conference and the same thing on the men’s side,” Piane said. “[We have] two great quarter-milers, some really good middle distance people in both genders.” 
notre dame graduate stu­dent Jeremy rae set a school record of 3:57.25 in the meyo mile, his third victory in the event. senior middle distance runner kelly curran also broke the meet record with a time of 4:37.10 in the women’s meyo mile while finishing as the top collegian. these top runners have led the way for the Irish so far this season, Piane said. 
“In the mile right now, kelly curran is ranked no. 1 in the Acc and Jeremy rae is also first,” Piane said. 
Finishing behind rae in the meyo mile were two other Irish graduate students, nick happe (3:59.58) in third and 
J.P. malette (4:00.92) in fifth. notre dame claimed a vic­tory in the 1,000-meter race when sophomore danielle Aragon came within a second of the school record, finish­ing in 2:48.70. the Irish also showed off their sprinting ability with wins in both the men’s and women’s 400-me­ter dash. Junior sprinter chris giesting finished in 
46.38 seconds, while senior michelle Brown crossed the line in 53.15 seconds, set­ting a new meyo Invitational record. 
Piane said one week after his record-setting meyo mile, Jeremy rae will get some rest this week, as will be the case for many of his team­mates. After a training ses­sion Friday, the athletes who remain at home will take the weekend to rest and recover. 
“We are not going to race everybody this weekend,” 
PAId AdVertIsement 

Piane said. “We are only go­ing to take about 35 kids, split pretty evenly between the two genders. Jeremy rae will not be racing this week.” 
the invitational will take place in the sPIre indoor track and field complex. the facility has almost double the square footage of notre dame’s home loftus center, as well as a seating capacity of 5,000 people and a large video board, in addition to the 25,000-square-foot, glass-encased meeting space that overlooks the arena. 
on the track, the Irish will face strong competition from michigan, michigan state and Penn state. Just three weeks ago, the Irish men fell to michigan state by just eight points at home during the notre dame Invitational. 
“It will be a good competi­

tion  at  a  wonderful  place,”  
Piane said.  
With  only  two  weeks  
before  the  Acc  Indoor  
championships,  the  sPIre  

Invitational will kick off Friday afternoon and contin­ue through saturday evening in geneva, ohio. 
Contact Matthew Garcia at mgarci15@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish face Wolverines looking for redemption 
played, they knocked off no. 
Observer Staff Report 
39 Indiana at south Bend by 

After a near two-week a score of 4-3. during the break between matches, the course of the day, five of the no. 22 Irish will take to the six singles matches came road saturday to face one down to tiebreaker sets. the of their oldest rivals: the critical match of the day michigan Wolverines. was the no. 2 singles match, 
the no. 13 Wolverines (4-where sophomore Quinn 
2) are coming off of a 1-2 gleason squared off against weekend at the ItA national junior carolyn chupa. After team Indoor championships falling behind 7-1 in the tie-where they lost to clemson break set, gleason roared and the eventual tourna-back to edge out chupa by a ment champion duke be-score of 12-10. the final tally fore defeating miami (Fl.) for the match went 5-7, 6-3, in a consolation match. the (12-10) in favor of gleason. Wolverines currently hold a the Irish will have their four-game winning streak work cut out for them in over the Irish. singles matches against 
the last time the Irish (5-1) michigan, as Wolverine 
PAId AdVertIsement 

junior emina Bektas was named the Big ten Athlete of the Week for the second week in a row and for the eighth time of her career. Bektas posted a 3-0 record in singles play during the ItA national team Indoor championships, includ­ing a victory over then-no. 3 Beatrice capra of duke by a score of 6-2, 7-6. the Wolverines also got a strong showing out of sophomore ronit yurovsky, who made her dual match debut over the course of the tournament and went 2-0 in singles play. 
the Irish also boast strong play in singles competition, with gleason, freshman monica robinson and senior Britney sanders each nation­ally ranked in singles play at no. 99, no. 105 and no. 119, respectively. elsewhere, the Irish doubles team of gleason and sanders is ranked no. 27 in the nation, and the team of robinson and senior Jennifer kellner clocks in at no. 41. 
the last time the Irish faced off against the Wolverines was during last year’s ncAA tournament, when the Wolverines shut out the Irish 4-0 during the second round of the tournament. earlier that season, michigan de­feated notre dame at the eck tennis Pavilion by a score of 5-2. the Irish own the over­all series matchup by a score of 22-13, though they have not defeated the Wolverines since the spring season of 


W Golf 
contInued From PAge 16 
team will rely on Armstrong, a captain, to provide leader­ship, holt said. so far in her career, Armstrong won the Big east championship as a freshman and earned a spot in the u.s. Women’s open that same year. 
“Ashley is one of our stron­ger, more consistent perform­ers,” holt said. “[I’m looking] for her to do well.” 
Armstrong leads the team in scoring average, but the Irish feature a balanced line­up. Four other players’ fall scoring averages are within two strokes of Armstrong. Junior kelli oride, sophomore talia campbell, freshman Jordan Ferreira and senior kristina nhim also all carded at least one top 20 during the fall season. 
“our depth is definitely our strength,” holt said. “We just need to have four play­ers show up every day. If we can do that, I think we’ll be very competitive every tournament.” 
holt, the 2013 Big east coach of the year, has guided the Irish to seven consecutive ncAA regional appearances. In order to reach regionals again, holt said she is look­ing for consistency from her 2010. 

the Irish travel to Ann Arbor to take on the Wolverines on saturday. the match is scheduled to begin at 1 p.m. 
players. 
“If we can be really sharp when we’re out there and not make careless mistakes, I think that [will put us in] re­ally good shape for the sea­son,” holt said. 
In preparing for the tourna­ment this weekend, the Irish have spent most of their prac­tice in the rolfs Family All­
“Our depth is definitely our strength ... We just need to have four players show up every day.” 
Susan Holt 
Irish coach 

season Varsity golf Facility due to the cold and snow. two weeks ago, however, holt and the team traveled to orlando to practice outdoors. she said the girls are itching for the season to start. 
“As a group, we’re just ready to get out and play some golf,” holt said. “We’ve had enough of this snow, I can guarantee you that.” 
the Irish begin their spring season Friday at southwood golf club in tallahassee, Fla., at the Florida state match-up. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 



W Lacrosse 
contInued From PAge 16 
team, but she was happy with the results. 
“I know what our brand is,” halfpenny said. “It’s hard going into an opener when we didn’t have any film on cincinnati and they didn’t have any film on us, but that’s the beauty of early-season games. our players were very focused on doing what we do and to be flexible with the changes.” 
Fortunato came out of the gate strong, with two goals in the first 2:01 of play. the Irish then continued a string of unanswered offense, scoring five goals in the next seven minutes without losing pos­session for longer than a few seconds to bring the score to 7-0. 
With 23 minutes remaining in the first half, cincinnati was finally able to get some offense moving. the two teams battled back and forth for three minutes be­fore junior midfielder caitlin gargan’s second goal of the game made the score 8-0 with 
20:07 remaining in the first half. 
the Irish notched six more goals before the half end­ed. Freshman attack grace muller scored twice in a two-minute span before notching her third and final goal of the half with less than three minutes remaining. sexton scored her second goal of the game, while sophomore mid­fielder Brie custis and sopho­more attack michele Phillips scored one apiece to bring the score to 14-0. 
cincinnati got an offensive break in the last 30 seconds of the half but couldn’t get a shot off before the buzzer sounded. 
notre dame’s scoring run in the first half included goals from several freshmen and sophomores. halfpenny said she saw the influence of her more experienced players in the play of the underclassmen. 
“A lot of credit goes not just to the rookies, but the older kids who complemented them and set them up for success,” halfpenny said. “most of the communication out there, our quarterbacks, came from our juniors and ours seniors. We’re really excited that ev­erything is meshed together, and that’s what you hope for as a coach.” 
In the first minute of the second half, freshman midfielder casey Pearsall knocked one in to bring the score to 15-0. the ball re­mained in Irish possession for the majority of the sec­ond half, with four more Irish goals following in the next eight minutes. the Irish closed out their offensive run with the score at 25-0. 
the Bearcats took con­trol in the last minute of the game, getting their offense moving and scoring with less than 40 seconds remaining on the clock. 
the Irish are back in action saturday when they take on Boston college at 1 p.m. in the loftus center. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
W Bball 
contInued From PAge 16 

players. eagles senior for­ward katie Zenevitch is av­eraging 11.2 points per game and 6.6 rebounds per game, while senior guard kristen doherty is averaging 13.2 points per game and 6.0 re­bounds per game. 
“they have two really good players, [Zenevitch] and doherty,” mcgraw said. “Zenevitch is a really smart and crafty player.” 
For the eagles, the se­nior forward brings a ver­satile skill set to the table, as she has shot 53.6 percent from the field this season. When facing notre dame in January, Zenevitch scored 11 points and pulled down seven rebounds. 
“It’s difficult to prepare for a player like that because she does a lot of things well; she doesn’t just do one thing well,” mcgraw said. “she can face up; she can score on the block; she can do so many different things. It’s harder for us to guard her because she’s so versatile, but we have been working on how we’re going to defend her this time around. We’re just going to keep working on that.” 
notre dame is currently the best 3-point shooting team in the ncAA, as the team has hit 43.6 percent of its attempts this season. But when the Irish faced Boston college in January, they scored 46 of their 95 points in the paint. tonight, the Irish will look to bring a sim­ilar approach to their offen­sive attack as they attempt to set the mark for the best start to a season in program history. 
“We’d sure like to try and do it the same way,” mcgraw said. “We like to use our 
inside game a little bit more  Forum  in  chestnut  hill,  
against the zone. We’ve been  mass., at 7 p.m. tonight,  
shooting the ball very well  as the Irish seek their 24th  
from the perimeter but still  straight win in their unde­ 
want to be able to attack  feated season.  
inside.”  
notre  dame  will  face  Contact Aaron Sa nt-Miller  
Boston college at the conte  at asantmil @nd.edu  

PAId AdVertIsement 

PAId AdVertIsement 
PAId AdVertIsement 


CROSSWORD | WIll shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrIstoPher Brucker SUDOKU | the mePhAm grouP 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hIllAry mAngIAForte 


HOROSCOPE | eugenIA lAst 
Happy Birthday: Plan your actions carefully and make choices based on your abilities, as well as what’s important to you. taking an emotional, passionate approach to what you do is fine as long as you don’t let feelings stop you from finishing what you start. use your energy effectively and recognize that anger is a waste of time. your numbers are 9, 16, 23, 26, 37, 41, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): emotional upset and anger will not solve any personal problem that arises. take the quiet, observant approach and document anything that is bothering you. Impulse will lead to a no-win situation and potential loss. Bide your time. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make plans to get together with friends, or delve into a hobby or activity that brings out your best. make travel plans or sign up for a conference or course that will enlighten you. expand your interests and meet new friends. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t make a move because you are uncertain about your current direction. know exactly what you want to do and where you want to go before you initiate any plans. Put thoughts on paper and research the possibilities. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): lighten up and let your imagination take you on a journey. look at the possibilities and discover what’s available to you. changing the way you live or where will revitalize you. Initiate love and romance to enhance your personal life. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do your best to please those who are counting on you. Added responsibilities are likely. handle whatever you are given swiftly and you will gain control and respect. once you are in the driver’s seat, you can make the changes you want. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): last-minute changes will take you by surprise. stay on top of any joint investments. don’t let an emotional relationship cost you. love is in the stars, but that doesn’t mean you have to spend in order to gain someone’s attention. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): ease into whatever you do. expect to face opposition. look for ways to appease everyone you have to deal with without compromising your own position. An unusual approach to problem-solving will give you the edge you need to excel. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): travel and dealing with people from different backgrounds will lead you on an adventure. love and romance are highlighted and should be incorporated into whatever plans you make. let your intellectual wit and keen intuition lead the way. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t wait for someone to ask for an update regarding a financial, legal or medical matter. get your personal papers in order and be prepared to discuss whatever needs to be done so you can make the adjustments that will make you happy. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Question motives, take a step back and re-evaluate your situation and your strategy. Follow your gut feeling and ask direct questions in order to find out where you stand. the choice you make now will influence your future. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Whatever you do, don’t slow down when there is so much to do in order to reach your destination. concentrate on what’s important and refuse to let anyone push you off course. the changes you enforce will help to stabilize your life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): take care of your needs. Pampering or socializing with the people you enjoy being with the most will help you relax and will rejuvenate you for upcoming endeavors. your love life will take a positive turn if you let your romantic nature lead the way. 


Birthday Baby: you are intelligent, intuitive and articulate. you are determined and willful. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hoyt And JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
P.o. Box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

the oBserVer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2014 | ndsmcoBserVer.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Boston bound 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports Writer 
After defeating Boston college by a resounding 42 points at home Jan. 9, the no. 2 Irish will travel to chestnut hill, mass., to take on their Acc rival again tonight. 
“I think it’s difficult to play a team twice when you beat them by that much the first time,” Irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “In your mind, you know you can win, but yet you have to be ready, be­cause they’re such a good team.” 
When notre dame (23­0, 10-0 Acc) hosted Boston college (12-13, 3-8), the Irish raced out to a double-digit lead in less than nine min­utes of play. the Irish con­tinued to run away with the game in the second half, be­hind a bench that scored 55 points, as the team claimed its 14th victory, 95-53. 

For notre dame to come to rely on strong leadership before,” mcgraw said. “I rely most intense and ready. that conference, Boston college’s out strong again in an effort from their veteran players. on our veterans, our upper-will be the challenge for us.” roster still carries standout to continue an undefeated “We need to have the same classmen, to set the tone and despite the lopsided loss season, the Irish will have attention and focus we had to be the ones that are the and poor record in the see W BBAll PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 25, cIncInnAtI 1 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

notre dame kicks
Irish blow past Bearcats 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports Writer 
the Irish opened their season Wednesday evening with a blowout 25-1 win over cincinnati in the loftus center. 
sophomore attack rachel sexton and freshman attack cortney Fortunato led the offense for notre dame (1-0) with four goals apiece, and 12 different players scored for the Irish against the Bearcats (0-1). notre dame outshot cincinnati, 40-3. 
Irish coach christine halfpenny said she saw the potential she was expecting to see in her younger players. 
“this is what I was hoping for,” halfpenny said. “We’re so young that I try to keep the word ‘expectations’ out of everything, and I told them, ‘let’s play our game and stay focused on the things we 

off spring season 
14 south carolina in a field that also includes Florida state, clemson, Virginia, mississippi state, kansas, texas A&m, Florida gulf coast, Furman, kansas state and mercer. the scoring sys­tem is similar to a typical invitational, but instead of counting the top five scores for a team, the four best marks from each of the part­ners will make up the score for the match-up. 
leading the Irish in the sunshine state will be ju­nior Ashley Armstrong, who is coming off of a strong fall season. Armstrong carded a scoring average of 74.54 in 11 tournament rounds and tied for second at the mary Fossum Invitational. the 
see W golF PAGE 13 


By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 
no. 46 notre dame looks to get its spring season off on the right foot when it trav­els to tallahassee, Fla., this weekend for the Florida state match-up. 
this unique tournament, played at the Fred couples-designed southwood golf club, features six schools that are each allowed to invite a partner school. After the three days of competition, the partners with the lowest score win the match-up champion­ship. there are also team and individual championships. 

can control.’ When we do difficult to prepare for a 
“this is a unique format,” that, this is the outcome we season opener without any 
Irish coach susan holt said. get, so we’re very obviously knowledge of the opposing 
“We did it last year and had a beyond pleased.” 
lot of fun with it.” halfpenny said it was see W lAcrosse PAGE 14 
the Irish will pair with no. 


Hockey at Providence Fri., 7 p.m. ND Women’s Lacrosse at Boston College Sat., 1 p.m.
ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Cincinnati W 25-1 SMC Tennis vs. Ohio Northern Fri., 6:30 p.m. Baseball at Florida Atlantic Sat., 1 p.m.
SMC Basketball at Hope L 89-59 
Sat., 6 p.m. Track and Field at SPIRE Invitational Fri.-Sat. ND Softball at Louisville Sat., 9:30 a.m. Men’s Tennis at ITA Indoor Championshps Fri.-Sat. ND Softball at Missouri Sat., 1 p.m. 

ND Women’s Basketball at Boston College 7 p.m. ND Women’s Golf at Florida State Match-Up Fri.-Sun. SMC Basketball vs. Alma Sat., 3 p.m. 



