The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 67 | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Oxford chancellor named Commencement speaker 
Christopher Patten will receive honorary degree, address class of 2014 graduates on May 18 
Observer Staff Report  the honor of hosting him on our campus in the past, and  elizabeth appointed patten in 2011 as chair of the bbc  the 28th and final governor of hong kong until its handover to  and his groundbreaking re­forms of policing in northern  
christopher  patten,  lord  we are so pleased that he has  Trust, the governing body  the people’s republic of china  ireland,” Jenkins said. “many  
patten  of  barnes,  chan­ accepted our invitation to re- of the  british  broadcasting  in 1997. in 1998 he chaired the  thought impossible the pres­ 

cellor of the university of 
oxford and chair of the 
bbc Trust, will be the 2014 
commencement speaker, ac­
cording to a university press 
release. patten will speak and 
receive an honorary degree 
on may 18 at the university’s 
169th commencement. independent commission on ervation of hong kong’s corp. 


patten graduated from policing for northern ireland prosperity in the face of 

balliol college, oxford, for one year, set up under the communism, just as others 

where he studied history. good Friday peace agreement, deemed unattainable police 

he began his career in the and from 1999 to 2004, was reform in a society so long di­

conservative party’s re-one of the united kingdom’s vided by sectarian prejudice 

search department, first two members to the european and violence. 

as a desk officer and then commission. “lord patten proved the 

as director. he was elected “one of britain’s and doubters wrong.” 

“chris patten’s global ex­periences and expertise — from higher education, to government service to the broadcast media — are re­markable and sure to reso­nate with our graduates,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said. “we have had 


Our new website 


Andrew Gastelum 
editor in chief 
our world is changing. 
or, better yet, it has changed right in front of us with the creation of the in­ternet. Those of us in college right now are some of the last people who will remem­ber life before the internet, before our world changed. 
The way we consume news, hear about stories and share experiences has changed because of dot­coms, social media and blogs. 
but in our little world in the basement of south turn and address the class of 2014.” 

patten, who was bestowed the title of baron in 2005, was elected chancellor of oxford in 2003, and previ­ously served as chancellor of newcastle university. Queen as a member of parliament for bath in 1979 and served for 27 years as minister for overseas development in the Foreign and commonwealth office and in the cabinet as secretary of state for the environment. 
in July 2002, he was named 


contraception now available to nd employees 


Former Saint Mary’s student dies in accident 
The investigation is on-
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor going with assistance from 
the indiana state police, 
The death of former first-according to the Tribune. year madelyn stephenson alcohol was not a factor in has weighed heavily on the the incident, the Tribune 

reported. 

mandate, which is part of 


By MARISA IATI 
assistant managing editor the affordable care act, 

world’s preeminent catholics, lord patten was called upon by his govern­ment to help resolve some of the most daunting issues on the world stage, includ­ing his masterful governance of hong kong’s transition from british to chinese rule, 
in 2010, the prime minis­ter tapped patten to direct the preparations for pope benedict Xvi’s visit to the united kingdom, the coun­try’s first papal visit in al­most 20 years. he has been recognized as one of britain’s most influential catholics. 
saint mary’s community in recent weeks. stephenson is remembered fondly by friends and faculty, and a memorial service for stephenson will be held Friday at 4 p.m. in regina chapel. 
stephenson, 19, died Friday, Jan. 3 from injuries sustained in an automobile accident. 
according to The south bend Tribune, the marshall county sheriff’s department said stephenson was south­bound on u.s. 31 near 7b road in plymouth, ind., just after 11 a.m. on Friday, Jan. 
3. stephenson’s honda was struck on the driver’s side after turning into the path of a semi-tractor. 
dining hall, we have always had one goal in mind since nov. 3, 1966: To uncover the truth and report it accurate­ly. we have worked the last 47 years to serve the notre dame and saint mary’s community with that state­ment at the forefront of our operations. 
so in order to continue our 
see websiTe PAGE 6 
notre dame employees may now receive contracep­tive coverage through the university’s third-party in­surance administrator as of Jan. 1, in compliance with a 
u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) mandate. 
nevertheless, the university is continuing its legal action against the with the hope of ending that coverage. 
The u.s. court of appeals for the seventh circuit de­nied notre dame’s third request for relief from the mandate, which required nonprofit religious organi­zations to start to provide contraceptive services on new year’s day. 
see lawsuiT PAGE 6 
Though stephenson was planning to attend indiana university in bloomington this spring, she completed her fall semester at saint mary’s while living off cam­pus in granger, ind., her hometown. Fellow first year and friend elizabeth renner said she especially enjoyed sitting next to stephenson 
see sTephenson PAGE 3 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is the best part of being back on campus? Brian Mukhlya Emer Middleton 

freshman 

sophomore duncan hall pasquerilla west hall 
“my roommate even though he “Finally having starbucks again.” 
always leaves the room dirty.” 
Gabriel Griggs 
Danica Lapid 
senior junior 
off campus walsh hall 
“being in class.” 
“south dining hall.” 



Zach Wendeln 

Patrick Bottone 
junior 
junior 
stanford hall 
dillon hall 
“seeing all my friends and 
“all of my friends coming back 
catching up as i was abroad in 
from abroad.” 
london this semester.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

christian myers mike monaco Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: catherine owers sam gans haleigh ehmsen samantha Zuba 

Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 

emily hoffmann allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Yoga Zen Meditation Blood Drive Women’s Tennis Mass in Spanish 

grant Tobin Tabitha ricketts 
Rockne Memorial Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Library Eck Tennis Pavilion Dillon Hall 3 p.m.- 4 p.m. Center 9 a.m.- 4 p.m. 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 1:30 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. Part of Wellness 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. Benefits Relay for The Irish play Western Lunch is provided after 
Corrections 
Wednesdays. Open to all faiths. Life. Michigan. mass. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 
Film: “The Lodger” Film: “Fruitvale Men’s Hockey Vigil Mass Men’s Basketball 

strives for the highest standards 
DeBartolo Performing Station” Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Purcell Pavilion 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Arena Heart 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 

however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m. Arts Center 7:35 p.m.- 9:35 p.m 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. The Irish play the 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Part of the Hitchcock 7 p.m. The Irish take on Lake Music by Women’s Virginia Tech 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
series. Award winning film. Superior State. Liturgical Choir. Hokies. 
we can correct our error. 



Student encourages transplant awareness 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
Following her uncle’s ill­ness and her own experience as a registered donor, saint mary’s junior krista ury is looking to raise awareness about bethematch.org, an online bone marrow registry. 
ury, a junior nursing major, said she was inspired to join the registry after her uncle, a notre dame graduate, re­ceived a bone marrow trans­plant through be the match. 
The transplant helped lengthen his life, combating his leukemia, but ury said her uncle ended up dying of liver complications. 
ury said she joined the reg­istry in June and was matched in september with an 11-year­old boy, who ultimately was paired with another donor, and in november with a 15-year-old boy for whom she was a perfect match. 
ury said she was surprised to be matched with anyone so quickly because her parents have been in the bone mar­row registry for 10 years and have never been considered a match for a transplant. 
ury said she is grateful for the opportunity to give back and feels her uncle with her every step of the way. 
“it’s just pretty incredible that i joined because of my uncle and i’ve gotten two calls about two young boys,” ury said. “i swear it’s part of him trying to spread the word about [be the match] through me.” 
ury said she never felt alone throughout the entire process and talked with the coordinator every day before the transplant. 
common notions about bone marrow transplants fo­cus on a particular method that involves drilling into your bones and a fair amount of pain, ury said. she was scheduled for the more com­mon procedure in which the actual transplant takes about four hours and the patient is conscious. 
“The process was not scary whatsoever. it’s scary be­forehand not knowing what to expect, but a lot of people have this [idea] that they drill into your hip. my process was called a peripheral blood stem cell transplant,” ury said. “so basically my pro­cess was injections five days before the transplant. 
“it was cool because i’m a nursing student and i got to give myself three of the injec­tions at school.” 
The transplant was sched­uled for dec. 23 in seattle, but ury said when she landed in her home state of california on dec. 21, she learned that the boy had slipped in a coma and died suddenly. 
she said the procedure she would have undergone in­volved sifting the necessary cells from her blood. 
“if i would have gone to seattle, which is where the transplant was supposed to be, they would have hooked me up to a machine, an iv in each arm and sift off my stem cells in the machine. it’s almost like dialysis. you’re blood runs out one arm and back through the other.” 
ury said that the whole process is confidential until the transplant, but when the transplant didn’t happen she got a different kind of clo­sure when she heard from the boy’s family. 
“The family reached out to the coordinator and said ‘we are so grateful you gave us hope during christmas. you gave my son happiness and that’s a great gift you can give someone,’” she said. 

Stephenson 
conTinued From page 1 
and listening to all the funny jokes she would utter beneath her breath in their arabic course last fall. 
“madelyn was shy, but once you got to know her, she was someone very special. she was bubbly and had great en­thusiasm for the arabic lan­guage,” renner said.  “after moving seats towards the end of the semester, i was able to get to know her better. she stephenson’s advisor and was so helpful whenever i associate professor of biol-did not catch a phrase or if i ogy ryan dombkowski said missed class. she was always she was passionate about sci-ahead of the class and a very ence and had plans to pursue smart girl.  i wish the rest of a degree in environmental the class had a chance to hear science. her hilarious jokes. she will “madelyn was a quiet and be missed by our arabic class reserved young woman, yet so much.” full of enthusiasm about 
her teachers from the science, especially with re-college remember her as a gard to the environment,” quiet but friendly student dombkowski said. “From the with a passion for the scienc-short time i knew her, she es and learning. was quite pleasant to have in 
paid adverTisemenT 
“That’s why i really want to let people know about [be the match] because, yeah shots are never fun, but when it comes to there’s young per­son and you could save their life, there’s no comparison.” 
ury said anyone can log on to bethematch.org and sign up. The site sends a package with a swab included, and only a cheek swab is needed to enter the registry.
 “it’s very simple to join. i think just a lot of people don’t know about it,” she said. “i 
class. i am sure she brought a lot of joy and happiness to her family, and our thoughts and prayers are certainly with 
them  during  this  difficult  
time.”  
another  of  stephenson’s  

professors, professor soraya wirth, remembers her as pas­sionate about her studies and medicine in wirth’s arabic course. 
“i found her to be very stu­dious, to be a person with a very legitimate passion for think if people actually do the research and look into it they’ll be really surprised about how easy it is to help someone else.” 
be the match covers all costs before the transplant includ­ing medical bills and trans­portation costs, ury said. 
“The process was painless compared to what [the pa­tients] had to go through,” she said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
learning ... and to thoroughly enjoy the culture and tradi­tions of middle-eastern coun­tries.” wirth said. “madelyn shared with me and her class­mates her dream of becoming a doctor, and she was very ex­cited about it.” 
wirth also said stephenson stood out academically and respected by her classmates. 
“she was one of my best students and had not missed any arabic class throughout the semester. madelyn was highly respected and regard­ed by all of her classmates, and she was always in control over any adverse situation,” wirth said. “i am so sad that her journey came to an end with this horrible accident … she was a truly enjoyable student.” 
saint mary’s president carol ann mooney expressed her sympathy to the college’s community in a Jan. 7 email. 
“on behalf of the entire saint mary’s college commu­nity, i would like to express our heartfelt condolences to madelyn’s family,” mooney said. “our thoughts and prayers are with them. death is never easy, especially when it is a young person with so much life ahead of her.” 
grief counseling is avail­able to students through saint mary’s women’s health center, campus ministry and residence life and community standards. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Snow storm shuts down campus over break 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
while the notre dame community usually braves its fair share of winter weather, a combination of road condi­tions and frigid temperatures Jan. 6 necessitated closing campus for a day-and-a-half. 
superintendent pat mccauslin and assistant superintendent Tim dyczko of the landscape services center were on site to man­age the snow removal fol­lowing the storm. although campus roads and side­walks were cleared of snow, mccauslin said the storm left the roads in poor condition around notre dame. 
“[The driving] wasn’t dif­ficult on campus because we were pretty much on top of that situation,” dyczko said. “our campus was fine. it was very passible.” 
mccauslin said side roads around the county were left unplowed for one to two days. he said campus shut down due both to the poor state of the roads in the south bend area and the cold temperatures. 
“we were [at] minus 15 as an ambient air temperature, [and there were] 25 mile per hour winds so the wind chill temperature was down to mi­nus 45 for a while,” he said. 
a countywide state of emergency was declared and no traffic was allowed on the streets, mccauslin said. 
“when they declare a regu­lar state of emergency they can actually stop and tick­et people for being on the streets unless you’re emer­gency personnel,” he said. “all the staff in landscape services are considered es­sential personnel with snow emergency situations like that.” 
mccauslin said in order to stay ahead of incom­ing storms and to keep up with general landscape the department of landscape services has 31 full-time staff members. although the staff generally rotates through three shifts during the course of a day over the winter months, mccauslin said situations such as the snowstorm require two 12­hour shifts.
 “about 4 o’clock in the morning we started new years day and worked a full day until 2 a.m. the next day,” he said. 
The decision to close cam­pus, however, rested with a university committee ad­vised by landscape services, ndsp and the office of campus safety. mccauslin said his department advises on weather conditions while ndsp advises on county and city road conditions to deter­mine whether or not to close the campus. 
“it’s a difficult decision to make, certainly, in that you don’t want to put anyone’s life at risk,” he said. 
not only did this particular storm bring in 12 to 15 inches of snow, it was also a heavy lake snow with a higher water content, dyczko said. 
“it takes us a little longer to get it off the roads,” he said. “it’s harder to move. harder on equipment.” 
mccauslin compared the snow to the consistency of wet sand. 
“it can get that heavy,” he said. “and just the way it snowed, it was continuous so it’s just a matter of keeping at it, not letting it build up.” 
The snow was accompanied by winds that piled the snow in drifts, mccauslin said. 
“we did a lot of work with drifting,” he said. “it just slows you down, so it slows the operation down. you get one area cleared and you go back 20 minutes later and it’s plugged shut again, so you just keep opening it up and opening it up.” 
mccauslin also said lake snow is more difficult for meteorologists to precisely forecast. determining the effect. just part of living in south start and stop times and even “i’ve seen it snowing like bend, you just never know.” predicting potential amounts hell here and if you went five of snow to be received are miles that way it was blue Contact Carolyn Hutyra at more difficult due to a lake sky,” dyczko said. “and that’s chutyra@nd.edu 



Alta Gracia to produce The Shirt for 2014 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
For the third straight year, The shirt committee has chosen alta gracia as the vendor of The shirt for the 2014 football season, com­mittee president John wetzel said. 
wetzel said The shirt 2014 will mark the 25th anni­versary of The shirt, whose sales raise funds used to help clubs and students in finan­cial need. 
The committee began meeting in november last se­mester to work on The shirt for the upcoming football season, wetzel said. 
“companies send us sam­ples of shirts in different sizes, and then we invite some to come to campus,” he said. “They tell us what they can do for us, what the price options are and then a com­mittee of 10 students and a faculty advisor decides.” 
alta gracia produced the shirts in 2012 and 2013, wetzel said, and the com­mittee decided in december to remain with the company. alta gracia’s commitment to paying their workers a “liv­ing wage,” played a large role in the committee’s choice, he said. 
“They pay their factory workers in the dominican republic a ‘living wage,’ which is more than minimum wage,” wetzel said. “These workers can afford to send their children to school, or save money to buy a vehicle.” 
wetzel said he believes se­lecting a socially conscious company maintains a com­mitment to the mission of the university. 
“The shirt project is the largest student fundraiser, so we want to align with notre dame’s mission [of social justice],” he said. 
The funds raised by The shirt project are distributed to three different causes, wetzel said, including The shirt charity Fund and the rector Fund. 
“The money goes to The shirt charity Fund, which supports students with ex­cess medical expenses,” he said. “The money also sup­ports the rector Fund, which supports students who may need financial assistance to purchase tickets to football games or dorm dances.” 
The funds raised by The shirt project supplement the student activities fee that is included in all students’ tu­ition as well, wetzel said. 
“The student activities fee supports different clubs and organizations on campus,” he said. “most colleges have had to increase this fee in order to support more clubs, but notre dame has not had to raise their fee in the past 10 years because of the funds from The shirt project.” 
For more information, fol­low The shirt project on Twitter and Facebook. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 



Lawsuit 
conTinued From page 1 
paul browne, the university’s vice president for public affairs and com­munications, said Jan. 2 that notre dame advised its em­ployees that its third-party administrator would cover contraceptives. 
“as part of an ongoing legal action, however, the program 
“Women deserve better than abortion-inducing drugs and contraception.” 
Erin Stoyell-Mulholland 
Notre Dame Right to Life 
president 
may be terminated once the university’s lawsuit on reli­gious liberty grounds against the hhs mandate has worked its way through the courts,” browne said. 
hours before the man­date was set to take effect, supreme court Justice sonia sotomayor temporarily blocked enforcement of the mandate against an order of nuns, the little sisters of the poor, and certain other catholic nonprofit groups, according to The new york Times. 
a substantive ruling on the little sisters case is pend­ing, but browne said without a ruling by the full supreme 
“We are currently organizing an issue briefing that presents both sides of the argument, and we will hold an inclusive conversation with many Demcratic voices at Notre Dame.” 
Sean Long 
College Democrats of Notre 
Dame 
co-president 
court, sotomayor’s order ap­plies only to that particular case and not to notre dame. 
browne said, if sotomayor rules in favor of the little sisters, notre dame might ask the seventh circuit to reconsider the university’s case. if she rules against the little sisters, browne said, notre dame will continue its appeal as planned. 
Junior mark gianfalla, president of notre dame college republicans, said his club supported the university’s lawsuit against the hhs mandate. 
“The college republicans believe that notre dame’s lawsuit had standing and was a valiant effort by the university to thwart an un­constitutional encroach­ment of government into the arena of religious liberties,” gianfalla said. 
The president of notre dame right to life, junior erin stoyell-mulholland, said 
“The College Republicans believe that Notre Dame’s lawsuit had standing and was a valiant effort by the University to thwart an unconstitutional encroachment of government into the arena of religious liberties.” 
Mark Gianfalla 
Notre Dame College 
Republicans 
president 
her club also stood behind the university’s litigation. 
“women deserve bet­ter than abortion-inducing drugs and contraception,” she said. 
Junior sean long, co-pres­ident of college democrats of notre dame, said for­mulating an official stance on the hhs mandate is one of his club’s priorities this semester. 
“we are currently orga­nizing an issue briefing that presents both sides of the ar­gument, and we will hold an inclusive conversation with many democratic voices at notre dame,” long said. “we hope to emerge with a clear articulation of notre dame college democrats’ stance on the issue that takes into account the diverse voices of our democratic community.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Website 
conTinued From page 1 
mission, we at The observer felt as though we could bet­ter serve you — the student body, faculty and commu­nity — with a new website, one that fits your needs, schedules and curiosities. 
over the past year, we have been working on get­ting it perfect, from a more appealing design to more user-friendly components. after all, this website is for you, the reader. we real­ize you most likely get your news online, and we are here to cater to you. 
we wanted to make this about you, so we went for a more interactive, sim­pler design that will make it easier for you to access our content in ways that you have never been able to before. 
our new commenting system links your Facebook, Twitter or google account to an article, blog or video that will create a more interactive realm for stu­dents, faculty and others to gather and create their own forum within a story. you can now share photos with us of events on campus or in the surrounding commu­nity. you can also directly submit letters to the editor online for the next day’s issue. 
starting next week, you can view any of our stu­dent-life video features on the new youTube ribbon on our home page or view a pdF version of our daily print edition from your lap­top, tablet or computer and flip through the pages your­self if you didn’t make it to campus. 
by no means is this a competing venture with our award-winning print news­paper. we have seen this happen all too often with other outlets and newspa­pers around the country. what we wanted to do with our new website is create a supplementary experience that goes hand-in-hand with our daily newspaper and provides an additional, interactive service to the community — such as multimedia features and up-to-the-minute breaking news, among other features 
— that you wouldn’t be able to have by picking up our paper. 
we at The observer are lucky to not face the same challenges that affect the rest of the newspaper in­dustry with subscriber-based production. we are lucky to have you, the peo­ple who pick up our paper every day and make it what it is. because of you, our newspaper will live on and continue our mission. 
we just thought we could show our gratitude for jour­neying with us in a chang­ing world. (Just bear with us as we break in the site.) check out our new world at ndsmcobserver.com and please let us know what you think. after all, this is for you, the reader. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 



new Jersey governor apologizes for scandal 
Associated Press 
TrenTon, n.J. — republican gov. chris christie, faced with a widening political scandal that threatens to undermine his second term and a possible 2016 presidential run, apolo­gized again Tuesday, saying his administration “let down the people we are entrusted to serve” but the issue doesn’t define his team or the state. 
on the eve of his second term, he opened his annual state of the state address by touching only briefly on the apparent political payback plot, involving road lane clo­sures that caused major back­ups at the george washington bridge, one of the busiest bridges in the country. 
“The last week has certainly tested this administration,” he said. “mistakes were clear-closings, which delayed emer-carried out by members of his ly made. and as a result, we gency vehicles and school inner circle. let down the people we are buses for hours and infuri-“we have succeeded in entrusted to serve. i know our ated commuters. democrats working together to be an ex-citizens deserve better.” believe the scheme was re-ample for the entire country 
he received tempered ap-taliation against the town’s dispirited by partisanship,” plause after he went on, say-democratic mayor, who christie said. “let us not ing, “This administration and didn’t endorse christie for abandon that course.” this legislature will not allow re-election. Turning to policy matters, the work that needs to be done after addressing the scan-christie stuck mostly to uni-to improve the people’s lives dal, christie moved on in versal goals such as making in Jersey to be delayed.” his speech to such familiar communities safer without 
christie’s measured tone themes as avoiding tax in-offering much of a blueprint. was a noticeable contrast creases and working with christie kept plans vague from a year ago when a blus-the democrats who control for a key initiative, extend­tery christie promised to both chambers of the state ing the school day and cutting lead new Jersey back from legislature. but he returned short summer vacation, which superstorm sandy, the cost-to the theme of bipartisan-was met with skepticism from liest natural disaster in state ship throughout as he sought wendell steinhauer, president history. to repel doubts about an ag-of new Jersey’s largest and 
The scandal broke wide gressive brand of politics that most powerful teachers union open last week with the re-propelled him to the forefront and a frequent adversary of lease of documents showing of his party but might also christie. christie aides and appointees be responsible for an appar-The union bitterly op-orchestrated the Fort lee lane ent petty political vendetta posed an overhaul of 
paid adverTisemenT 


public employee retirement benefits by christie and the legislature in 2011 and spent millions of dollars on anti­christie ads during his guber­natorial campaigns. 
The governor warned that the state in the coming year must reduce its pension and debt service payments, which are scheduled to rise by a combined total of nearly $1 billion. 
democrats oppose the pros­pects of failing to make prom­ised pension contributions or cutting payouts to retirees. 
christie also promised to present choices to overhaul the state’s tax system next month when he presents his budget proposal but did not offer an insight on how he might want to do that. a tax cut he proposed two years ago foundered in the legislature. 
The reception to his ideas from political opponents is likely to unfold as the legislature gets to work. democrats may be unwilling to go along with a republican they sense may have been weakened by the scandal. 
as christie left the cham­ber after his speech, he tersely shook the hand of the democrat leading one of sev­eral investigations into the scandal, which the governor has denied knowledge of and first apologized for last week. christie also has fired a close aide, and others on his team have resigned. 
democrats plan to vote Thursday on continuing their investigation. 
“public safety and abuse of power are the no. 1 issues,” democrat vincent prieto, the incoming speaker of the state assembly, said after the speech. “we have to get to the bottom to make sure it doesn’t happen again.” 
christie’s state of the state address and inauguration, scheduled for next week, were intended to launch a second term that’s consid­ered a key building block for his political future. after his november re-election, his ad­visers suggested he had just a one-year window to stack up accomplishments as a can-do, bipartisan leader before his lame-duck status — and a prospective white house campaign — start to interfere. 
The recent revelations may have slammed that win­dow shut. Though he’s not announced plans to run, christie is an early front-run­ner for his party’s presidential nomination who now is work­ing to rebound from the scan­dal, the most serious threat to his administration and politi­cal ambitions so far. 
unlike previous years, christie had no live radio or television appearances scheduled for the day after the annual address. 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
changing the economic discussion 


INSIDE COLUMN 

vacation from hell 

Meghan Thomassen 
managing editor 

it was the vacation from hell. literally, everything that could go wrong, did go wrong. so please excuse me while i rant and complain for these next 400-odd words, because frankly, after this ordeal, i deserve it. 
don’t get me wrong — i was lucky to be going to london for a week solo, thanks to a generous grant from the nanovic institute. i didn’t have to pay for housing, since i would be staying in my old apart­ment from studying abroad last spring. 
but when the perfect storm rolled into the northeast and dumped snow all over boston and new york, i should have known i was doomed. i should have just thrown in the towel. my flight was already delayed three days, what more of a sign did i need? 
but no, foolish bright-eyed optimist that i am, i just shoved my rose-colored glasses further up my nose and booked a flight for three days later. so my trip was cut virtu­ally in half. so what? 
i arrived in london heathrow in style, having scored a seat in premium economy, where they ply you with champagne and ugly purple socks for sleeping. This was the last good thing to happen to me for a week. 
my bags were nowhere to be found. They were stuck back in new york. determined not to let this silly little hiccup ruin my adventure, i struck out to enjoy london as best as i could. 
my bag never made it to london. i wore the same clothes for three days straight until the fear of smelling like an insane va­grant compelled me to buy another outfit. i couldn’t work on my research report be­cause my computer charger was in my bag. i couldn’t take pictures to document my research because, guess what? my camera was in my bag. i couldn’t even brush my hair for five days because combs in britain cost more than a day’s worth of food. 
even the best part of my trip was ruined by another act of nature. my daytrip to oxford’s ashmolean museum was almost cancelled by massive flooding that covered the train tracks to and from london. what should have been an hour’s trip turned into a six-hour tribulation. 
do you pity me yet? no? ok, let me continue. Three days after i lost all of my personal belongings, i came down with a raging fever. slammed with a killer head­ache, obnoxious sniffles and the persistent sensation that i would faint dead away on my feet, i was confined to my little bed for a full day, shivering alone while mourning the museums i could be perusing and the rare london sunshine i could be enjoying. 
so pardon me for my unfettered joy when i came back to the good ol’ u.s.a. i love free vacations, and i love london, but after roughing it in one of the most expen­sive cities in the world, i’m going to swear off jet-setting to exotic locations for a long time. i don’t think i would survive. 
Robert Alvarez 
man on a nag 
not many people see the study of economics as having very dire moral implications. it likes to market itself as a science, like any other science, which merely describes reality, whereas if it had moral implications it would have to make judgements upon the value of different kinds of possible reali­ties. however, this type of economics ignores its origin, an origin very much laden with value judgements, and as a result of this selective memory it has created a system of morality that is now causing the oppression of people across the world. 
The term “economics” comes from the greek word, “oikonomia,” which according to wikipedia translates to, “management of a household, ad­ministration.” This initial definition has since expanded to revolve around wealth, how to make it, how to keep it and how to use it. newer defini­tions also try to construe economics as a hard science, creating theories and rules to predict how a market would behave, an endeavor much like newtonian physics. however, despite efforts to morph economics into an “objective” science, it has always been plagued by this initial defini­tion as “management of a household”. growing up as a kid, my household was run in a different way than your house­hold because it was run by a different set of parents with a different set of ethics. These ethics are ostensibly sub­jective, making it hard to create uni­versal laws for the money management of all households. since this subjectiv­ity has a direct influence on the viabil­ity of economic predictions, economics assumes people are “rational actors” in order to obviate this problem. 
This idea of “rational actors” states people act according to their own self-interest. The logic is that a ratio­nal person will want to be happy, and therefore will evaluate options insofar as they relate to their own happiness, i.e., be self-centered. Temporarily put­ting aside the assumption that rational people act selfishly — a rather cynical innuendo with a much more compli­cated reality — this idea has become less a safe guess made about human nature in order to create predictive models and more a categorical im­perative. This means selfishness has become not only acceptable, but good and just. This has created a system of idolatry where the pursuit of wealth is one’s moral duty. 
since wealth has been linked with personal happiness, happiness has become understood as a utilitarian calculation of material goods. a while back bloomberg published a good example of this, an opinion piece entitled, “who needs a raise when you have Tv?” The gist of the article is the increased availability of cheap and quality entertainment should be taken into account when asking the question, “are you better off than you were 10 years ago?” The assumption made in this argument is that quality of life is a function of material goods. Furthermore, this viewpoint leads to the commodification of everything, people included: either something is valuable to exchange for something else, or something is valuable for con­sumption. it shouldn’t be hard to see how this paradigm effects business ap­proaches to labor markets, creating a dynamic of a race to the bottom rather than an elevation of general living standards. 
The imperative of self-interest has also created a new system of social darwinism. whereas old darwinism equated the value of a person with race, this new darwinism equates the value of a person with their produc­tion. Thus people are valued by their wealth and have fully earned the wealth they have, nevermind the fact that people face an inequality of op­portunity and the commodification of people incentivizes the labor abuse of disadvantaged people. 
Thus we are left with an unjust system, endorsed by science and sanctioned by culture. however, the assumption that “rational actors” in­herently act out of self-interest is com­pletely wrong. it’s a false dichotomy. granted, it is true if you equate hap­piness with utilitarian materialism. however, if you think happiness is more than stuff, one cannot assume one’s self-interest is one’s self-interest. The reality is rather a unity between self-interest and other-interest, not of the breed where two people’s immedi­ate material interests happen to align, but rather of the type where the other is our happiness and we are theirs. This is a relational understanding of happiness and one that is blatantly ignored by our economy and culture. 
what would economics look like if it no longer assumed people as material­istically self-interested? i have no idea. i don’t think it is impossible, though, to have societies that are fundamen­tally relationally-centered. There are societies and businesses that behave in this way now; we can all play a role no matter our future professions. all that is necessary is for us to have the will to reject the fabricated “reality” of “rational actors” and instead choose to live in a different way. Today might be a good time to start. 
Robert Alvarez is a senior studying in the Program of Liberal Studies. He is living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

The people you’ll meet: syllabus week 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

“‘Twas the first week of classes, and everywhere in sight, students full of excitement, smiles, and delight. They do not know what the semester will bring; a job offer maybe, or the famed ring by spring. There will be months to prove you’re a smarty and spread some good cheer, but for this week we throw a party, and hey kid, pass the, uh, syl­labus.”  –anonymous 
i thought about attributing that little ditty to Father Jenkins, but then remembered you’re not supposed to lie, especially about a priest, particu­larly in The observer. regardless, syllabus week has once again graced the lives of thousands of college stu­dents, and those lucky souls located in the snow globe of south bend are no different. but before the semester’s inaugural weekend, students will make the journey to class for a few handouts, and a chance to see if this semester is finally the one their din­ing hall crush is in class with them. as you set off for debartolo, Jordan, a room in some city around the globe or wherever it is engineers go to class, we present to you a preview of several people you’re about to meet. 
The Front row: This consummate professional is ready to tackle not only this second theology require­ment, but apparently cure cancer and end global hunger as well. They did the first week’s reading and have color-coded notes. They showed up early, grabbed a seat in the front row and introduced themselves to the professor. roughly 10 minutes into class, they’ll ask for clarification about whether office hours are on for later this afternoon. hey hermione, we get it. you’re getting an a. give us a break. be forewarned: if they get the first b+ of their life on that first test, there may well be enough tears to cry a river and drown the whole world. 
The grouch: almost always a male professor in his mid-50s to late 60s, he’s ready to give our generation a taste of the discipline that “once made this country great.” he relishes making his intolerance for texting in class known almost as much as he enjoys the faces of his students when he announces essays will be written by hand in this class and “not with any of that technology garbage.” he may regale you with a nostalgic tale about the glory years of one ronald reagan while silently longing for the days of corporal punishment. his office hours will take place during the convenient hours of four to seven on Friday mornings. and yes, you should absolutely take that as a chal­lenge to go directly from Feve to his office. if there’s one thing college has taught us, it’s that life’s best choices are made in the wee hours of the morning. 
The comedian: The bane of the grouch’s existence, this self-nominated king of comedy is ready to take the stage. having honed their jokes on their little brother all of christmas break, they’re ready to take the classroom by storm and es­tablish their reputation as the funny guy. while they’ll toss out a few jokes that will be met by confused, awkward silence, they may provide some laughs that mercifully break up the steady stream of balance sheets, physiology lectures and again, what­ever engineers do, that stand between now and summer. 
The late kid: he stumbles in 37 minutes into your 50-minute lecture sporting a neck beard that would put abe lincoln to shame. depending on the previous evening’s activities, he may or may not have images of the not-family-friendly variety on his face in sharpie. he overslept but still man­aged to make it to class while clinging to that last shred of academic dignity that distinguishes him from the rest of his quad, who are skipping their classes altogether. sure, he’s in the wrong classroom. still, give him some credit for trying. 
The laptop: They fell behind on breaking bad and they’ll be damned if they’re not going to finish it so they know what the heck everyone is talk­ing about. braving south bend’s tem­perature, they trudged to class with their laptop and ear buds, sat down and promptly got to work. you have to have some degree of respect for the kid . the professor is literally staring at them and yet they continue on, their casual apathy at a level usually unseen until midterms. They’ll take a Facebook break in between epi­sodes, their squinting at the screen occasionally punctuated only by their laughing at something their friend posted on their wall. 
The “acquaintance”: you, uh, “know” them, but you don’t know them. luckily, they just sat in front of you instead of beside you and … oh crap, you made eye contact. were they in your freshman seminar? pe class? maybe they’re in the adja­cent dorm? of course not. Today is wednesday, and wednesday is not your day. They’re the other half of a dorm party rendezvous from last year. you smile awkwardly before scanning the class in desperate hopes of finding someone else to talk to. you turn to your neighbor. you think you’re in the clear. Then the acquain­tance’s roommate walks in, sees you two and laughs before announc­ing to the class, “oh look, it’s an nd makeouts reunion.” #%&^. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior from Cape Elizabeth, Maine studying ‘abroad’ in Washington D.C. He’s been seeking an attitude adjustment ever since his middle school teacher told him he needed one. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Fort lee scandal damages christie’s reputation 
Chris Piemonte 
The daily orange 

“i am who i am, but i am not a bully.” Those were some of the 19,000 words new Jersey governor chris christie uttered in his 1 hour and 48 minute press conference last Thursday. using some varia­tion of “apology” 34 times, christie did everything in his power to con­vince us all that he was not to blame for the incident now being called ‘bridgegate.’ 
known for his hard-nosed attitude and unapologetic style, christie im­mediately fired the people respon­sible, but still risks looking like a man who goes out of his way to pun­ish anyone who opposes him. The incident was retaliatory in nature and if he did know about it, christie undoubtedly is the bully he denies to be. 
There are two conclusions to be drawn from christie’s defense and neither is particularly attractive: 1.) he knew the entire time and is now lying to cover his tracks, or 2.) 
he didn’t know and three of his own employees acted against his wishes right under his nose. 
if the first conclusion is true, christie is a bully who will make sure you pay if you stand in his way. if it’s the latter, then it seems he had no idea what kind of people he hired. either way, the incident paints christie as an inept man­ager at best or an abuser of power at worst: not exactly presidential qualities. what’s more, those sound an awful lot like things republicans love to criticize president barack obama for. 
The incident took place on sept. 9, 2013. Two lanes of the george washington bridge, which runs from Fort lee, n.J. to new york city, were closed for what was said to be a traffic study. while this hardly sounds like the makings of a scan­dal, the effect of the closure had a much greater magnitude than one might expect. 
The george washington bridge sees more traffic than almost any other bridge in the country and the closure resulted in extraordinary gridlock for four straight days. one particularly publicized story details how an elderly woman passed away from cardiac arrest while emergen­cy responders were stuck in traffic. 
during christie’s successful re­election campaign last fall, Fort lee’s mayor declined to endorse him. it was recently revealed that after the snub, christie’s deputy chief of staff, bridget kelly, sent an email to an official of the port authority of new york and new Jersey (who controls the bridge in question) containing the follow­ing message: “Time for some traffic problems in Fort lee.” The recipient of this email, david wildstein, was appointed by christie himself, who wildstein has known since high school. he simply replied: “got it.” 
wildstein then ordered the clo­sure, and the aforementioned gridlock ensued. Further emails between kelly, wildstein and christie’s campaign manager bill stepien displayed unabashed joy from the mess they had caused. eventually, another port authority official discovered wildstein’s order and reversed it, but the damage was already done. christie spent weeks denying any political motivation behind the closure, right up until the email threads were exposed. 
so where does this leave christie, who is regarded as one of the stron­gest republicans looking to run for president in 2016? many people say in deep trouble. coming off a sterling 2013, christie was poised to solidify himself as a potential champion of the gop. instead, he began 2014 by telling everyone again and again that he had no knowledge of his employees’ ulte­rior motives. 
either he manages his staff with complete ineptitude and lack of awareness, or he is a blatant liar. whichever one is true, neither characteristic seems remotely presidential. 
The Daily Orange is the independent student newspaper serving Syracuse University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

hosted for the second consecutive time by comedians Tina Fey and amy poehler, the golden globes were full of stunts ranging from the good to the bad to the just plain ugly. 
while perhaps not as funny as last year’s (possibly an unintended consequence of an obvious attempt to be nicer), poehler and Fey’s monologue was gold — setting up jokes that would be continued throughout the night. From their mispronunciation of “Tam hunks” to Fey’s zinger about george clooney, they were full of clever one-liners for a certainly star-packed audience. 
The speeches started out a bit rough, as the sec­ond award winner of the night, Jacqueline bisset (who won best supporting actress in a series, miniseries or Television movie for her role in “dancing on the edge”), began a problem that started to plague the night: long, winding speeches with no apparent purpose. award speeches are hardly ever good, but these were particu­larly bad — and bisset’s was the worst of the night. 
By WILL NEAL 
scene writer 

every once in a while, a movie will come along that will grab hold of your perception of society’s mechanics and challenge the way you look at the world and humanity as a whole. martin scorsese’s latest directorial entry, “The wolf of wall street,” which exaggeratedly reenacts the rise and fall of real-life stockbroker legend Jordan belfort, is certainly not one of these films. instead, it’s one of the most entertaining and darkly comedic films of the year. 
based on his autobiography, the once-innocent belfort (leonardo dicaprio) becomes consumed by the fast-paced, cocaine-fueled, high-reward world of stock trades, beginning his path to becoming a legend … a despicable legend. belfort was just a simple, middle-class kid hop­ing to make a decent living for him and his wife, but his first day on wall street opened his eyes to prospects far beyond his original desires. after an informative discus­sion with his mentor (matthew mcconaughey), a market crash and the collapse of his firm, belfort takes his new­found skills from wall street to long island. There, he learns of the huge profit that comes with selling penny stocks to unsuspecting citizens, from which he can make an astounding 50% commission. To put it simply, he makes a ton of money selling shares of awful companies to suckers. 
Joined by newfound partner donnie azoff (Jonah hill), belfort pursues the penny stock trade and assembles a team of old drug-dealing friends and wannabe brokers for a new firm that will master the art of selling crap for profit. in a short time, the firm expands at an incredible rate, gaining an enormous amount of profit and recogni­tion for belfort and his employees. soon, the overwhelm­ing success leads the company into a hedonistic spiral of 
on the other hand, robert downey Jr. shone when he presented the award for best actress in a motion picture – comedy or musical. he listed off all the ways he would win supposing each nominee were to win, saying, “if it’s meryl, i could supplement my income by leasing out a shipping container so she can put it with the 200,000 awards she’s already received.” 
The award went to amy adams for her role in “american hustle” which also took home awards for best supporting actress in a motion picture (Jennifer lawrence) and best motion picture – comedy or musical. 
“american hustle” took home the most awards of the night, but going into the awards ceremony was tied for most nominations with “12 years a slave” at seven a piece. “12 years a slave” took home the award for best motion picture – drama, though it received no other honors. 
as it did at the emmys, “breaking bad” did well in its nominations. The show took home awards for best actor in a Television series – drama (bryan cranston) and best Television series – drama. cranston said his honor was “a lovely way to say goodbye” to the show. 
Two of the big surprises of the night were the winners of 
in-office drug use and ramped sex. From narcotics and prostitutes to orgies and midget tossing, anything goes behind the doors of stratton oakmont. belfort becomes a pleasure addict and will go to great lengths to ensure that his needs as satisfied, even at the cost of his wife, liveli­hood and, eventually, freedom. when belfort does fall at the hands of the Fbi (“was any of this legal? absolutely not.”), he makes sure to live up to his reputation and go out in a blaze of glory (and poor decisions). 
Told through the words of Jordan belfort, this story bares a striking narrative resemblance to scorsese’s ear­lier masterpiece to appropriately be considered the white collar “goodfellas.” The film is easily scorsese’s funniest film to date, with consistent moments of laugh-out-loud humor. it’s also incredibly vulgar, profane and absurd in nearly every scene. basically, it’s easy to see why this film barely escaped an nc-17 rating. i cannot stress this enough when i say this is not a family movie, so try to avoid bringing your parents along. it’s three hours (that is not an exaggeration) of utter chaos, but good god is it fun to watch. 
beyond its exceptional direction and pure entertain­ment value, i urge you to watch this film to see its cast members at the top of their game. Jonah hill is hilariously splendid as donnie azoff, and shares a wonderful broth­erly on-screen chemistry with dicaprio’s belfort. Fellow broker bros played by Jon bernthal (“walking dead”), ethan suplee, p.J. byrne and kenneth choi, all have their stand out and outright hysterical moments throughout the film, making “wolf of wall street” a true career boost­er for the supporting cast. The real surprise comes from the performance of 23 year-old newcomer margot robbie playing belfort’s second wife, naomi. as stunning as she is, her performance elevates her far above the status of eye-candy and shows off both her comedic and dramatic the awards for best actor and best actress in a Television series – comedy or musical. andy samberg won best actor for his role in “brooklyn nine-nine” while amy poehler won best actress for her role in “parks and recreation.” both were caught off guard and noticeably flustered in their speech (though poehler did celebrate her win by making out with bono). 
woody allen was honored with a lifetime achievement award. he was not present at the golden globes, so diane keaton made the acceptance speech for him. her speech was fine, if a bit long, until the end when she began singing a girl scouts favorite to commemorate their friendship. 
emma Thompson presented the award for best screenplay – motion picture, which went to spike Jonze for “her,” by coming out on stage carrying her louboutins and her drink. 
as a whole, the golden globes were full of hilarious moments —  even if it is, as most award shows are, best watched an hour behind so those lengthy acceptance speeches can be skipped. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
talent. matthew mcconaughey’s role, while significantly short in on-screen time, is incredibly fun as the coked-up executive of belfort’s original wall street firm. 
while the supporting cast is certainly outstanding, this is by all means dicaprio’s film. his performance is both electric and outrageous, as does a fantastic job balanc­ing the flaws and good-hearted qualities of his character. The film acts as an open door for dicaprio to show his comedic chops, and he delivers the humor consistently. This is his most impressive role to date and his best shot at finally taking home the gold at the oscars. 
“The wolf of wall street” shows that even at the age of 72, scorsese can still compete with any filmmaker of to­day. even at its excessive run time, there is never a dull moment as the director brings out the best of this story and its actors. The film may be consistently raunchy and over the top, but the lifestyle serves as a cautionary tale rather than a glamorized perspective. “The wolf of wall street” is a true competitor among 2013’s best, and shows just how much talent scorsese and dicaprio can bring to the screen. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
“The Wolf of Wall Street” 
Red Granite Pictures 
Director: Martin Scorsese 
Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Matthew McConaughey If you like: “Goodfellas” 



EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ERIN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 

even though temperatures were below freezing over break, “Frozen” continued to attract and delight notre dame students. 
lauded in a trailer as “the greatest disney movie since ‘The lion king,’” many students, like sophomore annemarie coman, flocked to theatres with a mix of “high expectations and skepticism.” 
Few were disappointed, however. Junior ashley Towne said it was her new favorite disney movie, while junior rob callus said it made his “top three.” what is it about “Frozen,” though, that distinguishes it from other disney films? if you have not seen “Frozen” yet, don’t read fur­ther — exit your web browser and sprint to theatres. 
in “Frozen,” disney surprises audiences by conceal­ing the villain from them. normally, a villain is appar­ent from the beginning: maleficent curses sleeping beauty in the first scene, and scar is openly evil in “be prepared.” consequently, audiences were surprised to learn at the end of the film that hans only pretended to be prince charming to procure the throne for himself. until the end, most people seemed to assume the duke of weselton (aka weaseltown) was the main villain. Junior gavin hsu said he realized disney used the duke as a de­coy to satisfy the audience’s need for a scapegoat until hans proved himself to be the actual antagonist. 
disney continued its trend towards feminism in “Frozen,” allowing ana to save kristoff when he is 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

Though spike Jonze’s new film,  “her,” is undoubtedly a love story, the not-so-distant futuristic tale also has every­thing to do with the role of technology in our lives. Just as the movie’s unconventional romance and impressive gad­gets characterize its technological theme, so did the film’s carefully designed wardrobe. 
with the help of costume designer casey storm, Jonze created clothes for a tech-saturated world, complete with large pockets (to fit the characters’ personal computer operating systems, of course) and minimalistic, fitted pieces that render belts and ties use­less. but while “her” takes place a little ahead of our time, the film’s unique apparel can be purchased today thanks to the “her” collec­tion by fashion brand opening ceremony. 
launched in december, the “her” collection was created by opening ceremony founders humberto leon and carol lim in collaboration with longtime friend Jonze. instead of exact rep­licas of costumes made for the film, the line consists of ver­satile pieces inspired by storm’s original designs. “her” by opening ceremony makes wearable the collarless shirts, sleek sweatshirts and high-waisted pants seen in the film, almost eaten by wolves instead of having him save her. Furthermore, the true love that thaws ana’s frozen heart is sisterly love instead of romantic love. students noticed disney’s trend towards female empowerment in other recent films such as “brave,” a story about the relation­ship between a mother and daughter instead of the usual prince and princess. however, disney has not turned completely feminist in the modern sense of the word, since the main female characters in “Frozen” were still built and dressed like barbies. 
musically, “Frozen” was more mature and complex than previous disney creations. The film featured lay­ered duets à la les mis in “For the First Time in Forever,” when elsa and ana sing their own verse before sing­ing them at the same time. sophomore music major elizabeth charles said the “Frozen” songs intertwined sung and spoken lyrics in order to push the story along. These songs communicated crucial points in the story, instead of being tangential excuses for song and dance. 
since the directors cast broadway stars in the leading and supporting roles, all vocals were impressive. kristoff, who only sang for about a minute in the film, previously starred in “spring awakening” with glee’s lea michelle. idina menzel, the original elphaba in “wicked,” contrib­uted her powerful voice to elsa. disney’s leading ladies are normally sweet, soft sopranos with vibrato to spare (think snow white), so casting menzel as elsa was a dar­ing step for disney. 
some students remarked that her raw voice seemed strange coming out of a lithe blonde, but others did not 
and though we don’t quite have our own personal oper­ating systems to fall in love with yet, the distinctive deep pockets are included to comfortably fit an iphone instead, according to leon. 
marketed as unisex and described by storm as “retro­futuristic,” the collection incorporates 1920s-style, mark­edly out-of-fashion elements with the minimalist basics made popular by brands like uniqlo and kenzo. in fact, despite high-waisted pants not being considered stylish in decades, the “her” trousers are flying off shelves. Though the prices may be considered steep (a shirt costs around $175), the fashion line is seeing considerable success. 
This isn’t the first time that on-screen style has inspired a clothing line — opening ceremony and Jonze actually col­laborated only a few years ago on a “where The wild Things are” collection inspired by the 2009 film. similarly, brooks brothers released a “gatsby” line last year, banana republic intro­duced a “mad men” col­lection and the insanely 
popular h&m sold out a “girl with The dragon Tattoo”­inspired collection in a single day. opening ceremony even released a “spring breakers” line recently, based on harmony korine’s acid trip of a film. 
care about the apparent incongruity because they were so captivated by menzel’s voice. when musical buffs heard her belt “let it go,” they were reminded of her rendition of “defying gravity,” since both songs are about a young wom­an with dangerous powers who breaks free from society. 
kristen anderson-lopez and robert lopez, the music and lyrics couple who are famous for “The book of mormon” and “avenue Q,” brought their fresh sense of humor to the “Frozen” tunes. They made ana real for young female fans by poking fun at her awkwardness and relatable by having her use words that her fans would use. The idea that comedy can come from a princess’ faults started in “Tangled” and was expanded in “Frozen.” (can you imagine cinderella singing while stuffing chocolates in her face?) The use of “valley girl” language also started with these two films. (can you picture snow white calling the evil Queen “totally crazy”?) much to the chagrin of traditional linguists, the word “like” crept into “Frozen” when prince hans used it several times in “love is an open door.” 
“Frozen” explored new frontiers, but it also stuck with some of disney’s traditional themes. similar to “The hunchback of notre dame” and “Tangled,” the main char­acter sings a song about escaping from imprisonment and interacting with the rest of the world. similar to “bambi” and “The lion king,” parents die early in the film. however, disney switched up many of its usual tactics and was re­warded with an original masterpiece that remains no. 1 in the box office and in many of its viewer’s hearts. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 
unlike opening ceremony for “spring breakers,” how­ever, with its array of neon tank tops, the “her” collection has the potential to introduce some new and interesting trends into menswear. if successful, spike Jonze’s jazz­age-meets-high-tech style could start to be seen not just in theaters or for $200 online, but in everyday apparel. like “risky business” to ray-ban sunglasses, items like high-waisted trousers could possibly reenter real-world fashion due to box office success. 
This idea of the cinema generating fashion trends cer­tainly isn’t new. legend has it that when men saw clark gable without an undershirt in 1934’s “it happened one night,” t-shirt sales dropped dramatically. it wasn’t un­til 1955, when the iconic James dean starred in “rebel without a cause,” that t-shirts fully recovered and sales skyrocketed. hollywood has always had a hand in what’s hot in the fashion world, and “her” could be the newest example. 
it’s hard to tell whether opening ceremony’s success will translate into a larger trend — the opening ceremony brand isn’t necessarily for everyone, and even Joaquin phoenix expressed doubts over the costume design. only time will tell whether the film’s “retro-futuristic” look will make its way into our wardrobes this year or if Jonze and storm are accurately ahead of their time, but “her” fashion is certainly an interesting addition to the menswear con­versation. now that the fashion is available, all we have left is to wait for a personal operating system to fill our hearts and extra-large pockets. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 





SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bid good riddance to BCS 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
looking back, Jan. 6 will be remembered as liberation day for college football. 
on the greatest stage in college sports — a national championship at the rose bowl — Jimbo Fisher and Florida state toppled a ty­rant and signaled the final defeat of a broken system. 
The seminoles manufac­tured an incredible come­back to best auburn, 34-31, ending a seven-year run in which the bcs cham­pion emerged from the southeastern conference. 
That meant, of course, that an sec team had been named the best team in college football for seven straight years. but it also meant that, for eight straight years, it was determined that one sec team — if not two — would be part of the national championship. That determination was made by the bcs: a combina­tion of biased voters, a prof­its-driven committee and mysterious computers that has thrived under the sec’s reign of terror. 
i’d claim that the system was biased towards the south, but clearly that’d just make me a bitter yankee throwing stones at the goliath down in dixie. since the start of the bcs era in 1998, the sec has won more bowls, had a better winning percentage in bowl games and won more bcs bowls than any other existing conference. The only real football is played in the sec. any other conference cham­pion couldn’t go .500 against the gauntlet that is the sec schedule. Football is reli­gion in the south, and these statements are the preached gospel. (if i recall, Tim Tebow is the patron saint.) 
however, the system un­der the bcs established machinery in which the sec was set up for glory — and national title berths — every year. based on the historic trend of sec success, the preseason top 10 usually contained three or four sec teams, anticipated to be the next national champion. sometimes they survived their schedules, other times not. any losses were writ­ten off by the overwhelming “depth” of the conference and catapulted the win­ning sec team into the bcs conversation, as well. by the time bowl season rolled around, the sec continued to keep its three or four best teams in the top 10, even outranking some undefeated champions from other con­ferences less favored by god. 
The sec would then tear off success in the bowls, val­idating the next year’s rank­ings and starting the cycle over again. but the bowls radically favor the sec. of the 35 bowl games played this postseason, 19 were lo­cated in the sec’s footprint (states with an sec school). 
sure, the sec’s 7-3 record in bowl games this year was the best of any conference, but only one of its 10 rep­resentatives had to travel outside of that conference footprint (auburn’s trip to the rose bowl). 
compare that to the big Ten, which went an inferior 2-5 this bowl season, but played none of its games within the big Ten’s bound­aries. iowa had the shortest trip of any of these seven schools: some 1,200 miles to Tampa (where it lost to an sec team in sec territory). 
even the more fair-weath­ered pac-12, with plenty of sunny sites available for december and January bowls, played just one-third of its nine bowl games with­in their footprint. 
and of the five bcs bowls, either two or three were played each year in sec states. 
The bcs system was rigged towards the southeastern squads, but the only thing providing it with widespread credibility was the sec’s run of seven championships, a run as unlikely as it was impressive. 
but Florida state’s win this year, combined with the end of the bcs system, ends the sec’s stranglehold on title berths. The four-team play­off system instituted next year will probably feature two sec teams more often than not, but the seminoles’ win punches a hole in the conference’s mystique, steal­ing some momentum from the vicious cycle that en­sured an sec team a place in the championship. 
The sec is, most years, the best conference in college football, and it’s not going anywhere. but thanks to Florida state, its strangle­hold on the chance at a national championship has been seriously loosened. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NHL 
Maple Leafs defeat Bruins 
Associated Press 
bosTon — Tyler bozak scored twice, phil kessel had three assists and the Toronto maple leafs held off the boston bruins 4-3 on Tuesday night. 
Jonathan bernier made 38 saves for the maple leafs, including 15 in the third period as the bruins tried to rally after allowing three straight goals. 
James van riemsdyk’s goal a minute into the third put Toronto up 4-2, and the maple leafs held on despite getting outshot 41-26. 
Jake gardiner also scored for Toronto. 
brad marchand and patrice bergeron each had a goal and an assist for boston. gregory campbell pulled the bruins to 4-3 with 10:25 left in the third period, but bernier stopped a late flurry of shots af­ter boston pulled goalie Tuukka rask for the extra skater. 
boston won the first two meetings this season with the maple leafs, who were on the verge of winning their first-round playoff se­ries in game 7 last spring before the bruins rallied from a 4-2 deficit late in the third period and won 5-4 in overtime. 
rask made 22 saves in this one for boston, which lost for the third time in four games. he was booed after van riemsdyk’s wrist shot got past him early in the third, but came up with two big saves later in the period that kept the bruins in it. 
rask made a sliding pad save on nazem kadri as he was being taken down by Zdeno chara with a hook, then stopped a big shot ear­ly in the ensuing power play to keep it 4-3. 
bernier withstood a flurry of shots by the bruins early in the second, then stopped boston on a power play to preserve a 2-all tie until gardiner gave Toronto its first lead with 12:51 left in the period. 
The maple leafs were on a power play when gardiner drifted in from the point to the right circle, where he took a cross-ice pass from kessel and wristed a shot through rask. 
bergeron tucked a back­hand between bernier’s left pad and the post to put the bruins up 2-1 with 9:12 left in the first period. The goal stood after a review to make sure the puck didn’t slip un­der the side of the net. 
noTes: chara played in his 1,100th career game. ... rask entered with 22 wins, tying his career high set in 2009-10. ... Toronto had not beaten the bruins since a 2-1 victory in game 6 of their playoff series last year. after playing three times so far this season, the original six rivals have one meet­ing left. ... dion phaneuf’s assist in the second period for Toronto snapped a five-game scoreless streak. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | kansas sTaTe 72, oklahoma 66 
k-state upsets oklahoma 
Associated Press 
manhaTTan, kan. — marcus Foster scored 18 points, nino williams made four clinching free throws in the closing seconds and kansas state held on to beat no. 25 oklahoma 72-66 on Tuesday night. 
shane southwell added 16 points for the wildcats (13-4, 3-1 big 12), who rallied from a 62-56 deficit with just over 5 minutes to play to turn back the streaking sooners. 
ryan spangler had a ca-reer-high 21 points and 14 rebounds, and buddy hield scored 12 points for oklahoma (13-4, 2-2), but it wasn’t enough to offset a lousy night by cameron clark. 
The big 12’s leading scorer, clark was held to two points on 1-for-9 shooting. he was stripped of the ball with 24.5 seconds left and the sooners trailing 67-64. 
The turnover forced 
oklahoma  to  foul,  and  
williams  made  both  free  
throws.  Je’lon  hornbeak  


FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $137,500. Call 561-588-5520 
missed a 3-pointer at the other end and the sooners fouled williams, and again he knocked down both foul shots to help seal the game. 
wesley iwundu added 11 points for kansas state while williams and will spradling 
finished  with  10  points  
apiece.  
The  sooners,  the  highest  

scoring team in the big 12, got the up-and-down game they wanted in the first half. The only problem was that kansas state, which tends to struggle offensively but is the league’s best on defense, was knocking down shots from all over the court. 
The wildcats hit 3-pointers on five straight trips midway through the first half. Foster had the first three, thump­ing his chest on his way back to the bench after the last of them. 
kansas state eventually pushed its lead to 28-19 on iwundu’s 3-pointer before the sooners started to find some success in the paint. isaiah cousins’ driving la­yup started an 18-5 run over the next 7 minutes, capped by hield’s basket for a 37-33 lead. 
The wildcats answered with a 3 by southwell, and spradling was fouled just before the halftime buzzer and made three free throws to give kansas state a 39-38 lead. 
oklahoma slowly took control in the second half as the wildcats cooled off. spangler’s three-point play with 6½ minutes left gave the sooners a 58-56 lead, and a breezy jumper by cousins from just inside the 3-point arc extended the lead with about 5 minutes to play. 
once more, kansas state clawed right back. 
big man Thomas gipson stuck back a miss by southwell for his first field goal with 2:59 left in the game to knot it 63-all. Foster then buried a 3-pointer from right in front of kansas state coach bruce weber to give the wildcats a 66-63 lead. 
They managed to hold onto the lead through a tense closing stretch. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Everything” by Michael Buble coy, but it’s kind of cute. Ah, when you 
You’re a falling star, you’re the get-smile at me you know exactly what you away car. You’re the line in the sand do. Baby, don’t pretend that you don’t when I go too far. You’re the swimming know it’s true, ‘cause I can see it when pool on an August day. And you’re the I look at you. And in this crazy life, and perfect thing to say. And you play it through these crazy times, it’s you. 



WOMEN’S SWIMMING | norThwesTern dual meeeT 
Irish defeat two of three competitors at dual meet 
only seeing each other for events and one relay. reaney 
By ALEX WILCOX 
that amount of time could took three of the individual 
get bad,” reaney said. “i events, which earned her 

after an intense training think instead we used it to the title of acc women’s and team-bonding trip to our advantage and strength-swimmer of the week for the the bahamas, notre dame ened our bonds. we played fifth time this season. kicked off the spring season, a bunch of stupid but fun “i experimented with some taking two of three in a four-games that helped us let different race strategies team dual meet on saturday loose. Training was pretty which i think gives me some at northwestern aquatic hard, but we all knew it was really important information center. coming so it wasn’t too bad.” going into championship 
while 11 days on the beach reaney said the training season,” she said. in the bahamas over winter left the squad drained and senior kelly ryan and ju­break sounds like a dream had an effect on the team’s niors bridget casey and trip, it certainly was no vaca-performance in saturday’s allison casareto also won tion for the irish. The team meet, though. individual events, and the trained long course meters “[The trip] affected us pret-team of ryan, reaney, soph­twice daily every day and ty heavily i’d say,” reaney omore cat galletti and fresh-lifted three days a week. said. “we were all really tired man catherine mulquin took 
while the training was and it showed. That’s a good home the 400-yard freestyle tough, junior emma reaney sign for us though because relay. said the trip was good to it means we put the work in The 100-yard butterfly second. six of its last seven dual strengthen team chemistry that we need to and once we proved to be notre dame’s “we’ve always been really meets. The squad will get the and get away from the win-rest, we will be ready to go.” strongest event. The race strong in that event and it’s opportunity to add another dowless pool at loftus. despite the fatigue, the was one of reaney’s three in-great to know we are keeping victory this saturday when it 
“Trips like that have the irish (6-4) knocked off dividual victories, and three that legacy going,” reaney travels to louisville. potential to be bad for team rutgers and northwestern, of her teammates also fin-said. “i’m really proud of how chemistry. lots of girls who but fell to michigan. The ished in the top five, includ-we stepped up in that event.” Contact Alex Wilcox at are always with each other team won six individual ing galletti, who came in notre dame has now won awilcox1@nd.edu 
sports writer 


SMC BASKETBALL | kalamaZoo 70, smc 67 
belles fall to kalamazoo despite comeback run 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
despite a frenetic second-half rally, saint mary’s ultimately fell 
short saturday in a 70-67 loss to belles coach Jenn henley said. kalamazoo, dropping the belles “we played a good game over­(4-10, 2-3 miaa) to 2-7 in their all, especially toward the end of past nine games. the second half when we made “we just ran out of time,” our run, but just didn’t have the 
paid adverTisemenT 


time.” 
it was a back-and-forth game for much of the opening half, with saint mary’s holding a nar­row lead until a 6-0 hornets run put kalamazoo (8-5, 4-1) up 33­31 — its first lead of the game 
— with just more than two min­utes to go in the half. kalamazoo would hold a 35-34 advantage going into the break. 
belles senior guard shanlynn bias connected on five of her nine first-half shots and entered halftime leading all scorers with 10 points. 
The second half picked back up where the first half ended, with the teams seemingly trading buckets for the first six minutes of the half. after a baseline jump­er tied the game for the seventh time with 13:51 to go, though, the game got away from the belles as the hornets embarked on a 12-2 run during which the belles went cold, going 1-for-11 from the field. 
still, the belles clawed back into the game, thanks to a 14-5 run of their own. a layup from ju­nior forward ariana paul capped the run to bring saint mary’s within one, 60-59, with 3:13 re­maining, but that was the closest the belles would get. 
kalamazoo extended its lead to 67-61 before a floater in the paint from belles sophomore forward krista knapke cut the lead to four with 1:26 to go. Two free throws from the hornets ex­tended the lead back to six, but four belles free throws made it a one-possession game with 26 seconds left. 
after the yellow Jackets missed one of two free throws, paul had an opportunity to tie the game with a corner three, but her attempt with 10 seconds to go was off target. 
paul led the belles with 16 points, while bias finished with 14 points. sophomore forward eleni shea was the only other belle in double figures, finishing with 11 points. 
The belles committed 13 turn­overs, were outrebounded 47­35 and allowed the hornets to shoot 46 percent from the field, including 57 percent in the sec­ond half — all areas henley said the belles have to improve upon moving into their next contest, a home matchup against calvin on wednesday. 
“we missed some key re­bounds down the stretch, and need to do a much better job of boxing out,” henley said. “we also gave up too many points off the drive, allowing them to beat us off the dribble and get in the paint for easy looks. we need to play better one-on-one defense. That, combined with limiting our mistakes on the offensive end.” 
The knights (8-5, 3-1) are com­ing off a conference win over alma and bring a high-powered offense that has topped 80 points five times already this season. 
“calvin will be a very good test for us,” henley said. “They have some very good shooters and good team speed in the transi­tion game. we’ll be alright as long as we contain their guards and pick them up early to slow down that transition game.” 
The belles take on the knights on wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at the angela athletic Facility. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SWIMMING | nd 150, norThwesTern 150 
Meet versus Northwestern ends in rare tie 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
while the majority of the stu­dent body rested during winter break, irish swimmers and div­ers were still hard at work, ty­ing northwestern, 150-150, on saturday at the norris aquatic center in evanston, ill. 
no. 20 notre dame (4-4-1) trailed at the beginning of the meet, bounced back and fell behind the wildcats (5-3-1) again. The irish claimed the lead after junior Zach stephens, senior colin babcock, fresh­man Tom anderson and ju­nior matthew deblasio swept second through fifth places in the penultimate event, the 200­yard individual medley, before two northwestern squads beat out the notre dame teams in the final 400-yard freestyle re­lay to seal the tie. 
“it was very competitive,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “Those were all hard-fought races. with two events to go, the meet was tied. … The second-to-last event, we went up by 13, and the last event, [northwestern] went up by 13 — tie. but there was good racing all around.” 
The tie is the second in school history, with the first coming against chicago, 43-43, in the program’s first-ever dual meet on dec. 6, 1958. 
“i’ve only been in one other tie in my life,” welsh said. “it’s very hard to tie a meet.” 
michigan also competed in the meet against northwestern, but the irish and the wolverines did not score against each oth­er because they faced off in a dual meet oct. 12, a 201-99 michigan win. 
Freshman diver Joe coumos picked up notre dame’s two individual wins in the 1-me­ter and 3-meter events, with a score of 311.80 in the first and 
339.50 in the second. stephens and junior John williamson each took home two second-place finishes, with stephens’s coming in the 200 im and 200-yard breaststroke and williamson’s in the 100- and 200-yard butterfly events. Junior cameron miller added a fifth irish silver in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
“i thought we raced well,” welsh said. “i thought we competed well. we had been on the road since the 28th of december, so it was a long time on the road, and we trained hard every day. 
“and yet when you look at the numbers to see how well we swam, we swam great. better than that, we swam with spirit and we swam competitively. i was very pleased with it.” 
The meet against the wildcats came on the heels of notre dame’s annual winter training trip to puerto rico. 
while on the isle of enchantment, the irish prac­ticed each morning in a long-course pool, lifted weights or had a dry-land training ses­sion afterwards and practiced again at night. however, they also found time to hit the 
beach  and  compete  against  
other  american and  puerto  
rican  schools  in  the  copa  

coqui meet in Trujillo alto, puerto rico. 
“it’s a little more festive than a meet we would have here, in a very positive way,” welsh said. “once the race starts, they play music while people are racing back and forth. There’s a band that comes in and goes around and plays in each team’s tented 
paid adverTisemenT 

area. … it’s just a spirited af-take on former conference ri­fair, and we’ve enjoyed it, so val louisville on Jan. 24 in it’s a nice break in the middle louisville, ky. of the trip.” 
The irish return to the pool Contact Mary Green at for more training before they mgreen8@nd.edu 




MEN’S BASKETBALL | georgia Tech 74, nd 69 
irish fall to georgia Tech in first acc road test 

JOHN NING | The Observer 

Irish senior point guard Eric Atkins, pictured during Notre Dame’s 73-69 loss to North Dakota State on Dec. 11 at Purcell Pavilion, led Notre Dame with 20 points on Saturday as the Irish fell to Georgia Tech, 74-69, at McCamish Pavilion in Atlanta. The Irish dropped to 10-6 overall and 1-2 in the ACC. 
roughly two minutes to play, By JOSEPH MONARDO associate sports editor notre dame (10-6, 1-2 acc) took  said. “we just couldn’t get a key  to 25-23. notre dame had 11 points off six yellow Jacket turn­ irish run, powered largely by auguste and sherman down low.  
a 68-67 lead over georgia Tech  stop at a key time, either out of  overs in the first half while giv­ after missing his first nine at­ 
aTlanTa – in their first road (10-6, 1-2) with a layup by grad- a zone or man-to-man,” brey  ing the ball away only twice.  tempts from the field, sherman  
acc matchup, the irish were uate student garrick sherman.  added. “so, disappointing for  georgia Tech quickly pulled  drilled four consecutive shots  
on the wrong side of things for The yellow Jackets answered  us, but again, i’m proud of our  away from notre dame, though,  to bring the irish within two  
very nearly the entire contest as with a 3-pointer from senior  group because we were search- scoring eight straight points to  (54-52) with 9:09 remaining. a  
their most recent comeback at-guard Trae golden with 45 sec­ ing for 30 minutes on who we  extend its advantage to 33-23.  three-point play by atkins tied  
tempt came up just short. notre onds remaining and would not  were, how to play. we kind of  notre dame used another run  the game at 57 with 6:48 to go,  
dame fell 74-69 to georgia Tech relinquish their lead from there.  found it the last 10 minutes and  to enter the break trailing 39-35.  but georgia Tech embarked on  
on the hardwood ofmccamish “he is a tough one to handle.  you thought it was going to be  atkins led the way for the vis­ a short five-point run to regain  
pavilion. when he took it, i’m thinking,  enough. georgia Tech made  iting team throughout the half,  the lead. notre dame answered  
after working out from under ‘i wish he wasn’t taking this for  really big shots and key free  scoring 12 points on 4-for-7  right back and, after a three by  
its deficit and into a tie at 66 with them,’” irish coach mike brey  throws to win the game.”  shooting. Junior guard/forward  atkins and consecutive jumpers  
a three-point attempt by irish  pat connaughton added eight  by sophomore forward austin  
paid adverTisemenT  senior guard eric atkins, who  points, four rebounds and three  burgett and connaughton, took  
released a lobbed runner from  assists. sherman came up emp­ the lead for the first time at 64­ 
deep in an attempt to draw foul  ty in the points column, missing  62 with 3:56 left to play.  
shots, missed the mark in the  all eight of his shots from the  “it’s pretty remarkable the  
final ten seconds with the irish  field in the first half while bring- holes we’ve fought out of, but  
down three.  ing down a team-leading six  you put yourselves in those  
“i saw their coach say, ‘foul  rebounds.  holes and you are not always  
him when he’s coming up the  “They really have a power- going to come out of them,”  
court,’” atkins said. “so i knew  ful, athletic front line and we  connaughton said. “so we need  
they weren’t going to let me get  just couldn’t get him going,”  to start games like we finish  
to the three-point line. as soon  brey said of sherman. “in the  games.”  
as he put two hands on me i shot  second half he got into a better  connaughton and sherman  
it. but they didn’t call it so it’s not  rhythm and that really helped  both recorded double-doubles  
a foul.”  us. but not only [yellow Jackets  in the game, with 10 points and  
The irish struggled in the  center daniel] miller, but the  10 rebounds and 13 points and  
opening minutes, missing their  other guys coming over. i think  12 rebounds, respectively.  
first six attempts from the field  miller initially is a big, physical  notre dame will resume ac- 
and falling behind 6-0. georgia  presence. he’s a heck of a college  tion with another road game  
Tech maintained control  basketball player.”  wednesday at maryland after  
throughout most of the first half,  georgia Tech came out strong  getting a first look at being the  
building a lead as large as 13  to begin the second period, us- away team in its new conference.  
points in the first period while  ing an 8-1 run to extend its  “That was a great atmo­ 
hitting four of its first six 3-point  lead to 11. The Jackets worked  sphere,” brey said. “playing on  
attempts.  their way to a 15-point advan­ the road, and today was the ulti­ 
notre dame fought back to  tage with 13:59 remaining in  mate. Their fans were great and  
narrow the lead to two with  the game before sherman and  their fans gave them probably  
eight minutes remaining in the  irish sophomore forward Zach  the confidence to win the bas- 
opening half after a layup from  auguste deposited back-to-back  ketball game.”  
freshman guard demetrius  buckets to end a notre dame dry  
Jackson followed a georgia Tech  spell.  Contact Joseph Monardo at  
turnover and brought the score  Those scores began a 13-0  jmonardo@nd.edu  


The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Basketball 
conTinued From page 20 
mcgraw said she would like to see more balanced scoring than the irish exhib­ited against the cavaliers, but appreciated the efforts of several players, particu­larly the upperclassmen. 
“i’m really pleased with achonwa and mcbride … they’re playing like seniors,” mcgraw said. “we can count on them to show their poise in adverse situations. i would like to see a little more bal­ance — that would be better 
— but as it turned out, it was good to have three people in double figures.” 
cavaliers sophomore guard Faith randolph came off the bench and led virginia with 23 points, while junior for­ward sarah imovbioh scored 18 points, but they could not keep the cavaliers from suf­fering their second narrow loss in three acc matchups. virginia sandwiched a 67-60 victory over virginia Tech between a four-point loss to pittsburgh on Jan. 5 and sunday’s loss to notre dame. 
The irish, on the other hand, have been perfect in the acc so far this season and remain one of two un­defeated teams in the coun­try. no. 1 connecticut is also unbeaten with an 18-0 over­all record, but will not play notre dame this season af­ter years of rivalry in the big east. 
The irish will face other challenges, however, includ­ing no. 3 duke on the road in a high-powered acc match-up Feb. 2. 
notre dame and virginia drew 4,451 fans sunday, and the irish can expect noisy road crowds in the future, especially for the marquee matchup with the blue devils (16-1, 3-0). being undefeated can cause distractions, but mcgraw said notre dame has used its perfect record to its advantage. 
“i think we’re playing with a lot of confidence,” mcgraw said. “we expect to win, we try not to be influenced by the crowd, we concentrate [on ourselves.]” 
The irish continue their acc campaign Thursday against pittsburgh at the petersen events center in pittsburgh. Tip-off is sched­uled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
guerriero after starting freshman matt larose on Friday, notre dame didn’t have difficulty finding the net. The irish started quick­ly, with sophomore forward sam herr opening the scor­ing four minutes into the game off assists by rust and Tynan. Just two minutes lat­er, freshman center vince hinostroza scored his sec­ond goal of the weekend off a pretty spin pass from junior right wing peter schneider. senior forward and captain Jeff costello added his sixth and seventh goals of the sea­son to make the margin 4-0 irish. 
“it’s always nice to con­tribute offensively like that,” costello said. “i think, so far this season, i’m not up to my own expectations to how i should be producing and scoring.” 
The final goal was scored midway through the second period, a backhander by rust 
— his eighth of the season and fourth of the weekend — off assists from Tynan and junior defenseman robbie russo. 
russo opened the scoring Friday just 38 seconds into the game with a wrist shot past larose. rust gave the irish a 2-0 lead at 10:53 with his first goal of the night. Tynan added an assist on the goal and then another just two minutes later when he found herr from behind the net for notre dame’s third 

paid adverTisemenT 

goal of the night and herr’s ninth of the season. 
rust and Tynan followed their first period success with a pair of goals in the middle period. rust put home a backhand shot to make it 4-0 before Tynan scored his fifth of the season on a de­flection off a russo slap shot. The irish made it 6-0 in the final minute before intermis­sion when hinostroza put back the rebound of sopho­more left wing mario lucia’s attempt. 
overshadowed by the irish offensive explosion was a 16-save performance by irish freshman goalie chad katunar in his third career start. he stopped all but one of the chargers’ shot at­tempts, only losing his shut­out when freshman forward matt salhany scored early in the third period for alabama­huntsville. senior Joe rogers replaced katunar in goal in the game’s final minutes and made one save. 
rust put an exclamation point on his stellar perfor­mance at 6:25 of the third pe­riod with his seventh goal of the season, again assisted by Tynan, beating larose glove side to earn his first career hat trick. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said after saturday’s game the weekend provided the irish a chance to gain some comfort with their new plan for the remainder of the season. 
“The best thing about it for us was just to get some line combinations to get some chemistry,” Jackson said. “i think that’s probably the most important thing. plus, we implemented a few things about how we want to play in the second half here.” 
notre dame returns to ac­tion Friday against lake superior state at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 




Football 
conTinued From page 20 
as a coach,” vangorder said. 
in the first step of develop­ing his players, vangorder said he is still in the early stages of evaluating his defensive con­tingent. while he does that, vangorder said he will con­sider the team’s strengths and, then, determine the type of defense he intends to run. 
“no matter what you run schematically, the idea of our players’ enthusiasm for what they’re doing and their stan­dards and expectations are relative to whatever we do, whether it’s 4-3, 3-4, all those kinds of things that we like to talk about,” he said. 
in surveying notre dame’s defense, vangorder said he has liked what he has seen thus far. 
“when i put the film on, i like our players’ intensity,” vangorder said. “you can see their body language and en­thusiasm. They’re all in, and so that’s the most important thing is you build scheme and all those things moving for­ward. but that’s what i like. i like their enthusiasm and their commitment to excellence and they represent notre dame, so that’s the way it should be.” 
before entering the coach­ing ranks, vangorder was a four-year letterman at wayne state, where he ranks seventh in school history with 335 
paid adverTisemenT 
career tackles. in February, vangorder was inducted into the wayne state university hall of Fame. 
at wayne state, vangorder was coached by dick lowry, a fellow university hall of Famer who spent six seasons at the helm of the Tartars. vangorder mentioned lowry as one of his primary coaching influences. 
after coaching his three seasons at grand valley state, vangorder left to take the head-coaching job at his alma mater in 1992. he spent time visiting michigan and learned from then-wolverine coaches cam cameron and les miles. 
roughly 10 years and four coaching stops later, vangorder made the jump to the nFl with the Jacksonville Jaguars in 2005, and he noted the experience of learning un­der then-Jaguars coaches Jack del rio and mike smith. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Basketball 
conTinued From page 20 
percentage (.377). 
maryland junior guard/forward dez wells leads the team in scor­ing at 14.4 points, while also av­eraging five rebounds per game. The 6-foot-5, 215-pounder wells is almost exactly the same size as connaughton, who will take the lead in defending maryland’s leading scorer. on top of his defen­sive duties, connaughton is aver­aging 13.3 points and 7.3 rebounds per game for the irish and is com­ing off a double-double against the yellow Jackets. 
“we ask him to do a lot,” brey said of the junior captain. “he may be our point guard. he may be guarding a four man. we want him to shoot it. we want him to drive it. we want him to rebound it. 
“we’ve had him as the defen­sive stopper at times. obviously he’s got to deal with dez wells a lot wednesday night. That’s noth­ing new for him. we’ve asked him to make big shots. he’s gone and gotten double-digit rebounds. he makes free throws.” 
sharing the backcourt with connaughton at times, senior guard eric atkins will look to con­tinue his recent hot streak. since the suspension of senior guard Jerian grant for an academic mat­ter after notre dame’s 64-61 loss to ohio state on dec. 21, atkins has averaged 20.8 points per game, bringing his season average up to 14.0. 
despite what have been at times stellar individual performances from connaughton, atkins and sherman, the irish have been de­ficient in several areas, brey said. 
“our shot selection needs to be better and we need to be more pa­tient,” he said. “if we don’t have it in transition, i don’t know that we need to shoot it 15 seconds into the shot clock. we’ve been pretty good in long possessions in the clock, historically, where we move a team around a little bit. i think at times atkins, connaughton and sherman feel they need to jump-start us individually. it’s a fine line because we want them to be ag­gressive, but we want them to take a great shot. and if that takes a little longer in the shot clock, we’ll live with that.” 
brey also said his team will need to play strong defense late in the game at maryland and moving forward. 
“we got key stops in the duke game the last 10 minutes, and we have not been able to do that the last two games, especially saturday in atlanta,” he said. “we take the lead, have a chance to get a stop and go up two possessions on the road, which you have to do to win a road game. and whether we were in our zone or our man, we just couldn’t get a stop. and i think we have to be better there collectively, digging in and not reacting.” 
The irish square off with the Terrapins on wednesday at 7 
p.m. in college park, md., at the comcast center. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2013 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

1/16/13 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: dave grohl, 45; Jason bateman, 45; ll cool J, 46; holland Taylor, 71. 
Happy Birthday: make an effort to reach your highest potential and you will make a difference and leave an impression this year. The key is knowing what you are worth and not selling yourself short. That, along with offering suggestions, kind gestures and love to those you encounter, will make a huge difference to your life and your future. your numbers are 6, 11, 24, 29, 35, 37, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): prepare for the unexpected. don’t make impulsive moves when thought and planning are required. size up your situation, look at your opponent or dilemma, and make simple moderate alterations to counter any diversion. set a standard and stick to it.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a community event will bring you closer to someone you share the same interests with. you will learn a great deal from someone with experi­ence and clout. a partnership will develop with someone responsible. stick to the truth.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): say what’s on your mind. you may face opposition, but at least you will know where you stand and who your allies are. once you establish your position, it will be easier for you to follow through with your plans.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): emotional issues will mount, making it important to reveal your feelings and clear the air before situations get blown out of proportion. re­evaluate your position and make the changes that will help you move forward. leave the past alone.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t fear changing your mind if you are offered an opportu­nity. Talks will lead to change, and change will help you finish what’s holding you back. altering your surroundings will do you good and help you establish your direction. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a break; a little pampering and self-indulgence will do you good. self-improvements and socializing with your favorite person will make this a day to remember. keep things simple and enjoy life’s little pleasures. reflect and move forward. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Finish what you start or take a pass. avoid meddling and confrontations. stick to your priorities, not what someone else wants you to do. use your quick wit and intelligence to make improvements and help you build stronger ties. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll learn a lot if you establish your position within your community. participating in events that involve your friends, family or cultural background will open doors of communication that will help you make decisions that can improve your life.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Face emotional issues and deal with matters that have been holding you back or keeping you from doing what you know in your heart is the best thing for you. clear up the past and make a point to secure what you want. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Frustration and anger will lead to setbacks. Think your strategy through and make your decision based on what you know is true and how you want to handle any consequences or turmoil that arise. staying calm and being understanding will help. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): voice your thoughts. you may face some negativity, but that will help you fine-tune what you want to do. put your heart into a personal project that can help benefit you or someone you love. Taking action will make a statement. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): what you offer others will help you out in business and financial concerns, but don’t expect loved ones or someone who counts on you personally to understand your strategy. keep the peace at home but don’t miss out on a good deal. 

Birthday Baby: you are imaginative, prolific and eager to advance. you are strong, dynamic, and beautiful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
UISES  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
GILCO  

JIRUNY FCAETF  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MADLY UNIFY UNPAID PEBBLEYesterday’s 
Answer: How the pushy salesman said hello — “BUY-BUY” 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly introduces VanGorder 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
irish coach brian kelly of­ficially introduced new de­fensive coordinator brian vangorder on Tuesday afternoon. 
vangorder, who originally worked with kelly at grand valley state for three seasons beginning in 1989, served as the linebackers coach of the new york Jets in 2013, his 25th consecutive season coaching in the collegiate or profes­sional ranks. 
between all the years and all the stops vangorder has made, kelly said one factor set the new defensive coordina­tor apart from other potential candidates. 
“The first thing i wanted in this position is a great teach­er,” kelly said. “i think first and foremost when you’re talking about the ability to bring together our defensive players, you need the ability to communicate and to teach, and brian is one of the very best teachers, if not the best teacher, that i’ve ever been around, and i go way back with brian.” 
vangorder was the defen­sive coordinator at auburn in 2012, following five seasons with the atlanta Falcons, the last four as the defensive co­ordinator. he replaces bob diaco as notre dame’s defen­sive coordinator after diaco left earlier in december to become the head coach at connecticut. irish corner-backs coach kerry cooks had been serving as the interim defensive coordinator. 


in hiring vangorder, kelly said other major factors were the new hire’s experience and understanding of the impor­tance of player development. 
“The idea of development, which favors the college play­er, has always been my desire 
see FooTball PAGE 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
brey rallies squad after losses 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
less than two weeks after be­ginning acc play with a marquee win over perennial powerhouse duke, notre dame enters today’s matchup with maryland reeling from consecutive defeats. 
The irish (10-6, 1-2 acc) dropped a home game to north carolina state on Jan. 7 before losing a close one on the road to georgia Tech on saturday. The matchup with maryland (10-7, 2-2) offers a chance for irish coach mike brey’s squad to get back on track with 15 conference games remaining. 
“well we’re pretty darn resil­ient,” brey said. “we’ve had our chances. obviously we won our first one and had our chances in the other two. and i love my group. i love our team. i’m still learning about them. i think we still have a chance to get better because of the new faces we are plugging in with [senior center garrick] sherman, [senior guard eric] atkins and [junior guard/forward pat] connaughton.” 
The Terrapins enter the game off back-to-back losses in conference play, as well. maryland lost to pittsburgh, 79-59, on Jan. 6 and to Florida state, 85-61, on sunday. both losses came on the road, where maryland has com­piled a record of 1-3, compared to its home and neutral-site records, 6-2 and 3-2, respectively. in its only home acc game this season, maryland defeated georgia Tech, 77-61, on Jan. 4. 
maryland is at or below the mid­dle of the conference in most key statistics, with two notable excep­tions. The Terrapins’ 3-point field goal percentage of .360 is good enough for fourth in the acc, as is their rebounding margin of six per game. notre dame has shown itself to be vulnerable in each cat­egory, ranking second-to-last in 3-point field goal defense — al­lowing opponents to shoot .375 from long range — and ninth in rebounding margin with a per-game advantage of 4.6 in the cat­egory. both teams seem set to have success shooting the long ball tonight, as maryland’s league-worst 3-point field goal defense (.381) will go against notre dame’s third-ranked 3-point field goal 
see m baskeTball PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 79, virginia 72 
notre dame holds off virginia 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
virginia kept the contest close sunday, but the no. 2 irish walked away from the John paul Jones arena in charlottesville, va., with a 79-72 win to stay unbeaten through their first 15 games. 
notre dame (15-0, 3-0 acc) won by only single dig­its for the first time this sea­son, despite having a 51-38 lead early in the second half. The cavaliers (8-8, 1-2) out­scored the irish 42-38 in the paint, and virginia’s bench provided 31 points compared to seven from notre dame’s reserves, but the irish fought off an 11-4 second-half run by the cavaliers and held on for the victory. 
irish coach muffet mcgraw said the tough road matchup illustrated the challenges of playing in the talented acc. 
“i think the acc is such a tough conference de­fensively; [it has] good re­bounding, good coaching,” mcgraw said. “it’s important to [keep playing the way we have been.] we’re going to be challenged every night, especially on the road.” 
senior forward natalie achonwa (26 points), senior guard kayla mcbride (23) and sophomore guard Jewell loyd (17) provided most of the scoring for notre dame. 
The other two irish start­ers, senior forward ariel braker and freshman guard 
lindsay  allen,  added  six  
points total.  
although  achonwa,  

mcbride and loyd — the only irish players averag­ing double-digit points per game this season — tend to be the biggest scorers for notre dame, more players usually contribute. notre dame has enjoyed regular scoring from allen, as well as from sophomore guard michaela mabrey and fresh­man forward Taya reimer off the bench. 
see w baskeTball PAGE 16 
HOCKEY | nd 7, alabama-hunTsville 1; nd 5, alabama-hunTsville 0 
Irish secure sweep 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
Thanks to an offensive ex­plosion at compton Family ice arena, led by senior right wing bryan rust and senior center T.J. Tynan, no. 15 notre dame out­scored alabama-huntsville 7-1 Friday night and 5-0 saturday for its first series sweep since october. 
The irish (12-8-1, 3-5­1 hockey east) now have three victories against the chargers (1-23-0, 1-13-0 wcha) this season, with the previous win on nov. 29 during the shillelagh Tournament. notre dame’s offense shone in the match-ups, notching at least five goals in each contest. Friday’s total of seven tied its highest output of the sea­son as rust notched notre dame’s first hat trick of the season. 
saturday’s loss was the eighth in a row for the chargers as irish senior goalie steven summerhays returned to goal for the irish after sitting the previous night. summerhays pro-despite alabama­ceeded to blank the huntsville switching to chargers, stopping 13 shots freshman goalie carmine en route to his fourth shut­out of the season. see hockey PAGE 16 







