TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 48, ISSUE 44 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Students react to narrow defeat over Navy

The Irish come away 7-1 after outscoring the Naval Academy’s Midshipmen 49-39 in Saturday’s game

By PETER DURBIN
News Writer
In a game with a much closer final score than many initially predicted, Notre Dame defeated Navy with a final score of 49-39.
Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson accounted for a school-record six touchdowns – three passing, three rushing – as the Irish improved their re­cord to 7-1.
Senior Connor Stacy said he expected the Midshipmen to play well, but knew the Irish would win.
“Navy always plays us tough,” he said. “I was pretty confident that we would pull it out in the end.”
Senior Blake Prunsky watched the game from the comfort of his own home as he celebrated his birthday with an Irish win.
“I only watched the first, sec­ond and fourth quarters, so from what I saw, the Irish played great.” he said. “Everett played like a Heisman-caliber quarter­back today, and I’m confident we can win out.”
Junior Matt Castellini echoed Prunsky’s sentiment, saying he believed Golson played like a champion yesterday.
“He very much deserves to be in the Heisman conversation,” he said. “Big time players make big time plays. That’s what he does.”
Senior Dolff Hanke said he 


JODI LO | The Observer
Tarean Folston runs the ball down the field at Saturday’s game. The Irish faced off against the 
Midshipmen at FedEx Field in Landover, Maryland.

see NAVY GAME PAGE 5

Snite hosts Day of  the Dead

Student groups prepare for midterm elections

By CLARE KOSSLER
News Writer
As part of the celebration events for Día de los Muertos, organized through the Center for Arts & Culture, visiting artist Sandra Fernández of the University of Texas at Austin gave a talk about her artwork Friday in the Snite Museum of Art.
Fernández said her artwork documents the various journeys and experiences of her life and al­lows her to express her opinions, political, social and otherwise.
“Migratory paths have dominated my existence and are the ones that have defined who I am and what my art is about,” she said. “My life is a story of migrat­ing and immigrating.”
Born in Queens, New York to Ecuadorian immigrants, Fernández said she moved to Ecuador with her mother when she was one year old. She said she left Ecuador for political reasons and returned to the United States in 1987.
In art, Fernández said she discovered a means of coping with her new and unfamiliar environment.
“Trying to understand a dif­ferent culture, I turned to art to handle the conflicted feelings and emotions that I was experi­encing,” she said.  “Some of [my] works at this time also talk about the necessity to find familiar connections in a new culture where I felt completely alone and uprooted.”
Originally, Fernández said she turned to photography to orient herself in alien surroundings. From photography, Fernández segued to bookmaking, which 

By EMILY McCONVILLE
News Writer
As Tuesday’s midterm elections approach, members of the Notre Dame College Democrats and College Republicans are mak­ing phone calls and knocking on doors, helping candidates for lo­cal and national offices campaign and get out the vote.
Senior Mark Gianfalla, presi­dent of the College Republicans, said the group focused primar­ily on campaigning for Jackie Walorski (R-IN), the representa­tive for Indiana’s 2nd district who is running for re-election, and Jeff Sanford, who is running for coun­ty prosecutor. He said the club organized rides to phone banks every Thursday over the past sev­eral months and canvassed neigh­borhoods in the county every weekend.
“It gets you the experience of seeing how much of an effect you can have,” Gianfalla said. “That’s why we’re focusing so much on the prosecutorial race. It’s a small race, smaller office, but in the end, our group could have a huge effect on it. So are some of the county council races we’ve been working on. It’s important to see how you can make a difference.”
Senior Michelle McCarthy, co-president of the College Democrats, said that, although the group does not campaign for candidates directly, several members of the club intern for Joe Bock, a professor at the Eck Center for Global Health who is running against Walorski, and some mem­bers helped county council candi­date Chris Stackowicz’s campaign in the spring. McCarthy, who canvassed and made calls for the Bock campaign, said working in the field allowed her to learn about South Bend politics and the people who vote in local elections.
“I’ve done some research. I’ve talked to local residents about what they want, what they don’t want, knocking on doors,” McCarthy said. “It’s a really great way to see South Bend. By actually talking to people, you figure out what they’re actually interested in and what they actually care about, which might not necessarily be the same things as a Notre Dame 

see ART EXHIBIT PAGE 5

Justice Friday returns to SMC

By KATHRYN MARSHALL
News Writer
Saint Mary’s associate pro­fessor of communicative dis­orders Susan Latham spoke on “Parenting with Disability” Friday afternoon as part of the Justice Education Department’s weekly Justice Friday series.
Latham said parents with dis­ability share the right to raise their own children without interference.
“When we look at the evolution of parenting in the disability com­munity, we know that these indi­viduals have the desire to become parents regardless of cultural and political boundaries,” she said. “This is a desire many people have.”
Despite the desire to be a parent, many people with disabilities face legal, personal and medical resis­tance to being a parent, Latham said, a resistance falsely supported by the disability stigma.
“What happens is people base the ability [to parent] on the dis­ability rather than the behavior itself,” she said.
Latham addressed the disabil­ity stigma through a video about Miles Forma, a young man with cerebral palsy. Doctors, parents and tutors held different perspec­tives on Forma’s ability to function with disability, but Latham said the one perspective that mattered was Forma’s, who gave a speech at his Bar Mitzvah against all odds.
“How would you feel if people thought things like ‘you’ll never do 

Susan Latham
associate professor 
of communicative disorders


see JUSTICE FRIDAY PAGE 5

see ELECTIONS PAGE 3





FOOTBALL INSIDE

VIEWPOINT PAGE 6

SCENE PAGE 9

NEWS PAGE 3

2

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

TODAY

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Ann Marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                Brian Hartnett                         Alex Jirschele
 
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Isaac Lorton
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Kevin Song			Asst. Managing Editor:	Samantha Zuba
	News Editor:	Lesley Stevenson
	Viewpoint Editor:	Gabriela Leskur
	Sports Editor:	Mary Green
	Scene Editor:	Allie Tollaksen
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Kelly Konya
	Photo Editor:	Wei Lin
	Graphics Editor:	Keri O’Mara
	Multimedia Editor:	Brian Lach
	Advertising Manager:	Elaine Yu
	Ad Design Manager:	Jasmine Park
	Controller:	Cristina Gutierrez
	
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu
ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

If you could teach any class, what would it be?



Dan Lopes
sophomore
O’Neill Hall
“Voice acting.”

Maddie Renezeder
junior
McGlinn Hall
“Disney through the ages.”



Greg Eagan
sophomore
St. Edwards Hall
“A class called ‘Is the universe real?’”

Owen Cobb
senior
off-campus
“A class called ‘Notre Dame, the real-life Hogwarts.’”



Rachel Dupont
sophomore
Welsh Family Hall
“Cats through history.”

Liam Chan
junior
Alumni Hall
“Gen Chem.”


JODI LO | The Observer
The Leprechaun, senior John Doran, waves a Notre Dame flag at Saturday’s game against Navy in Landover, Maryland. The Irish        endured the Midshipmen triple option, and Everett Golson had six touchdowns in the 49-39 win.

Today’s Staff

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com

News
Carolyn Hutyra
Margaret Hynds
Katie McCarty
Graphics
Sara Shoemake
Photo
Wei Lin
Sports
Mary Green
Hunter McDaniel
Alex Carson
Scene
Allie Tollaksen
Viewpoint
Tabitha Ricketts

Monday
Lunch Seminar
O’Shaughnessy Hall
12:30 p.m. - 2 p.m.
Journalist Lawrence Sheets will speak.
ACMS Colloquium
Hayes-Healy Center
4:15 p.m. - 5:15 p.m.
“Discriminants of polynomial systems.”
Tuesday
Vespers
Geddes Hall
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m.
All are welcome.
Info Session for CST minor
Geddes Hall
7 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Learn about the Catholic Social minor.
Wednesday
Women’s Basketball
Purcell Pavilion
7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Exhibition game vs. Ferris State.
Grotto Trip
Bond Hall
10 p.m. - 11 p.m.
Open to all.
Thursday
“Fatal Assistance”
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Film about post-eartquake Haiti.
ISI Fellowship
Coleman-Morse Center
10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.
Open to all Christian faith denominations.
Friday
Swimming and Diving
Rolfs Aquatic Center
5 p.m. - 7 p.m.
The Irish face Pittsburgh and Virginia Tech.
Men’s Basketball
Purcell Pavilion
7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Exhibition game vs. Lewis.

Corrections
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

CEO talks workplace culture

college student.”
Senior Iris Schweier, a member of the College Democrats who in­terned for the Bock campaign’s financial wing in the spring and did field work this fall, said meet­ing voters helped prepare her for a career in the political field.
“I think [I’m] getting a more firsthand experience of what poli­tics actually is,” Schweier said. “I had some policy experience be­fore this, with legislation and cer­tain issues, but now I’m figuring out the people aspect of politics, which is so cool. If we’re electing these people to represent us, the people who they’re representing are so important, getting to know how they feel about issues and how they’re affected and whether or not they’re going to vote.”
Sophomore Louis Bertolotti, the College Republicans’ di­rector of political affairs, said canvassing in South Bend and Mishawaka, especially in low-income neighborhoods, helped him understand the issues im­portant to voters.
“We live in the Notre Dame bubble. It’s really easy to just sit back, relax and enjoy the ride, but there are a lot of issues out there,” Bertolotti said. “Going out, get­ting to meet these people and go­ing to see the issues that matter to them really shows what it’s all about. It gives you perspective of what you’re doing it all for, and it gives you motivation to keep working hard, keep doing what you’re doing.”
Bertolotti said the College Republicans will hand out litera­ture on candidates on Election Day and continue to work with the St. Joseph County Republicans after the results come in, collect­ing voter information before the next election cycle.
McCarthy said members of the College Democrats will be at the Bock campaign headquar­ters Tuesday. She said working on campaigns this election cycle helped her make connections in the St. Joseph County Democratic Party, and she said she hopes to continue to foster those relation­ships in the future.
“Now that I have the names and the contacts of local leaders, I definitely let them know that Notre Dame College Democrats is a resource for the people of South Bend,” McCarthy said. “We have people who are very passion­ate about these issues, and it’s a mutually beneficial relationship there, where our club members can really get involved with real politics in a real city, and hope­fully we can provide some man­power to [the Democratic Party] as well.”
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu

Elections
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

By JEREMY CAPPELLO-LEE
News Writer
Chairman and CEO of Baird Capital Paul Purcell spoke Friday morning about strong corporate culture and global competitiveness for the fourth installment of the Boardroom Insights Lecture Series.
Purcell, a Notre Dame alum­nus with an MBA from the University of Chicago, held ex­ecutive management positions at Kidder, Peabody & Co. prior to moving to Baird Capital in 1986. He said Baird’s strong emphasis on work culture ultimately con­vinced him to work there.
“The reason why I [moved] there was because the company was culturally strong,” he said. “It was all about the client and all about integrity.”
Baird has proven itself a suc­cessful mid-market financial firm which Purcell says aims to provide a positive working envi­ronment for its employees.
“Our mission is to provide the best financial service and to be the best place to work,” he said. “We think it is extremely impor­tant ... that all of our associates are very engaged and proud of where they work.”
Purcell said Baird Capital’s growth in recent years is in large part due to strong employ­ee engagement.
“There’s a direct link between engagement and profitability in the corporate world,” he said. “Engaged associates are more productive. Pride increases and voluntary turnover goes down dramatically.”
In addition to promoting a strong workplace culture, Purcell said Baird’s strength is a result of the company’s private ownership.
“From 1998 to 2004, we bought back all but 6 percent of outside shares,” he said. “The other 94 percent is now owned by 2,000 associates.”
Since employees at Baird own company shares, Purcell said there is a much greater incen­tive to work productively.
“People behave differently if they’re shareholders,” he said. “It makes everybody respon­sible and accountable, and when you do that, it empowers people.”
Purcell said privately-owned companies such as Baird also have the ability to be selective in hiring talent and working with clients.
“We can be very careful about who we hire and who we don’t hire,” he said. “We’re not going to hire any ... associates, and we’re not going to do business with clients who don’t view the world similarly.”
In providing an engaging work environment for its associ­ates, Purcell said Baird Capital significantly decreased volun­tary turnover.
“We adamantly believe that turnover is not good for the firm, not good for pride and en­gagement and not good for cli­ents,” he said. “If an [associate] leaves, there is a void that must be filled.”
Baird Capital’s strong poli­cy of retaining existing talent meant the company avoided major layoffs during the 2008 fi­nancial crisis, Purcell said.
“We got our senior leadership to agree that we would do what­ever we needed to do [to retain associates], including 0 bonus­es, for as long as it took,” he said.
While most firms were lay­ing off “thousands every day,” Purcell said Baird saw an op­portunity for long-term growth, and the company grew from 2,400 to nearly 3,100 associates between 2008 and 2014.
“One of the reasons why we’re doing so well is because we hired so much talent,” he said.
Contact Jeremy Cappello-Lee at jcappell@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT



PAID ADVERTISEMENT

5

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

she said was a way for her to tell the story of her past and communicate her heritage to her children.
“By this time, it was evident that for many years to come my home would be in the USA,” she said. “For this reason, I wanted to leave a leg­acy for my children, to teach them where they came from, about their roots, make them feel proud of who they are by knowing their origins.”
Fernández said she continued to draw from the memories of her childhood in subsequent collec­tions, including one which fea­tured skirts in every piece. She said these works discussed gender and the social role of women, and they reflected various techniques she learned in Ecuador, such as sewing and embroidery.
Fernández said her art has be­come more politically oriented recently. Although many of her early pieces incorporated political themes in response to her perse­cution in Ecuador, Fernández said only in the last several years has her art regained its political voice.
Fernández said most of her po­litical art today focuses on issues regarding immigration and un­documented residents. She said she sympathizes with those she terms “the dreamers” or the “un­documented students that have gone through the educational system.”
“I came to admire these kids so much,” she said. “They kind of re­minded me of when I was young, when I was at their age, when I was fighting for all these things that I wanted to change.”
Looking back on her career, Fernández said she believes her art sustained her through the years and allowed her to shed light on the problems she sees in the world today.
“When I started making art, I was confronting my own experiences, and it took me a long time to be able to get out of my shell,” she said. “Now after 22-plus years of making art, I’m trying to bring awareness of other people’s plights.”
Contact Clare Kossler at 
ckossler@nd.edu

wonders if the team’s perfor­mance was based on Navy playing well or the Irish let­ting up against an unranked opponent.
“I’m not sure if we some­times play down to our op­ponents or it’s simply that we struggle with Navy, but we need to realize that we have the potential to beat any team in the country,” he said.
The Irish have a tough schedule ahead, with match­ups against ranked Arizona State and a rivalry game with USC.
Senior Alysa Kane, who watched the game from home, said she believes the Notre Dame defense may be bringing down the team.
“The offense played like a championship-caliber team, but the defense seems to be dragging the team down in recent games,” she said.
Junior Connor Brown said he believes the game was somewhat of a snoozer.
“I fell asleep during the first half after we went up big,” he said. “I woke up, and we’re losing in the third quarter.”
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu

Art Exhibit
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Navy Game
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

much of anything’ or that maybe you don’t have the same life plan as someone else because you have a physical disability, based on the stigma around disability?” Latham said. “We have to step back and think about whose desires are these versus our perceptions. [Forma] wants us to understand that he has the same dreams.”
The Earl family achieved a simi­lar dream, Latham said, the dream to marry and have a family despite disability. The couple met in an assisted living home, married and eventually had a daughter in East Lansing, Michigan, where Latham said they were later faced with legal challenges in raising their daughter.
“There was a quiet effort to take the child away … based on only the premise that they were two individuals with disabilities,” she said.
After fighting a legal battle, Latham said the Earl family was able to keep their daughter.
Although numerous technolo­gies are available for parents like the Earls to raise their children, Latham said programs are neces­sary to train parents with disabil­ity to use these technologies.
“Fairness is not everyone get­ting the same thing,” she said. “Fairness is everyone getting what he or she needs.”
The 20th century eugenics movement, during which more than 65,000 Americans were invol­untarily sterilized due to reasons including mental retardation and disabilities, highlights the signifi­cance of the issue, Latham said.
“Even today, 24 years after the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act, several states still have some form of involuntary sterilization laws on their book,” she said. “Women with disabilities today still contend with corrosive tactics to encourage sterilization, to encourage them to have abor­tions because they are deemed un­fit for motherhood, not based on their capacity to parent but based on their having a disability.
“Despite this harrowing history, many people with disabilities still choose to become parents.”
In her experience working with parents with disability, Latham said she sees numerous examples of success. For many children, having a parent with a disability teaches them to respect those who are different and look past the dis­abilities of classmates, she said.
Parents with disabilities face challenges in social acceptance, education and income, Latham said. These are the arenas that need to become more adaptive in order to assist parents in achieving their goal, she said.
“When we think about the dig­nity of human beings and what people’s desires are, rather than saying you can’t achieve these de­sires, we need to ask ‘How can we help you achieve them?’” Latham said.
The next Justice Friday lecture will take place Nov. 7 at noon.
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu

Justice Friday
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


6

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Get mad and vote

INSIDE COLUMN

For the love of words

In the 2012 Presidential election, 58.1 percent of those el­igible to vote actually voted. Initially, one might think this isn’t half bad, “The majority of us that can vote, did!” one might say. Then one looks back at the number and starts to think, “Oh, wait a second though – less than 60 percent? That’s an F or, if we’re being generous, a D grade.”
The picture grows even dimmer when viewed against the whole. Approximately 66 million people voted to reelect President Obama, which, again on its front, sounds like a lot of people. Realize, however, that there were around 312 million people living in the United States at the time. That means that only about 21 percent of the United States population determined how the other 79 percent would be governed. This is a failure.
Here we are in what many of us would argue is the greatest nation in the world, and we as a populace can’t even make the time to get out and exercise the principle upon which our republic was based. Fifty-eight countries throughout the world have better voter turnout than we do. Some of those countries mandate voting, but even if one were to remove them, there would still be dozens of na­tions ahead of us on civic engagement. Brazil, Iran, Mexico, Ukraine and Russia (yes, even Russia) have greater voter turnout than we do. I won’t even mention the French (all right, I will: they have 71.2 percent participation).
We have among the greatest access to voting of any na­tion in the world. We have multiple polling stations, early polling stations and most counties will mail a ballot to you even if you are temporarily out of state. One doesn’t even need to leave the home to cast a ballot. Are we really the lazy, politically apathetic, and naïve Americans the world makes us out to be?
Admittedly, my own pessimistic nature would be tempted to affirm that claim, but in my deepest thoughts, I hope we are not. Nevertheless, it seems we as a whole are continuing to be content with the world happening to us. In the spirit of the 1976 film “Network,” a personal favorite, this is the situation of things today:
I don’t have to tell you things are bad; everybody knows things are bad. Employment outlooks are still gloomy; banks have gone bust; shootings happen every month in our neighborhoods; there’s nobody anywhere who seems to know what to do, and there’s no end to it. We sit watch­ing the nightly news while some local newscaster tells us that today we had 15 violent crimes and dozens of sexual assaults, as if that’s the way it’s supposed to be. We’re con­tent that gas prices have finally dipped below $3.00 per gal­lon from $4.00 and $5.00 while forgetting that just six years ago we were paying less than $2.00 per gallon.
It’s like everything is beyond our personal knowledge or interest, so we don’t interact anymore. We keep our eyes down, and slowly the world we’re living in is getting smaller, and all we say is, “Please, at least leave us alone. Let me have my Netflix and my iPhone and my Starbucks pumpkin spice latte, and I won’t say anything. Just leave us alone.” Well, I’m not going to leave you alone. I want you to get mad. I don’t want you to riot. I don’t know what to do about the economy and the inflation and the terrorists and the crime in the street. All I know is that first; you’ve got to get mad. Figure out why it is that you feel you have so little say in what is going on around you and get involved in changing it.
The most basic of all possible courses of action is get­ting out to vote. Some argue that voting is a privilege; oth­ers argue that it is a right. I would respond by saying that because we are given the privilege of living in the United States, we are endowed with the right to vote. Voting should be open to every American citizen; I do believe voting is a right of all Americans. This, however, is beside the point. Rather than getting drawn into that old debate, I would simply say that voting is a duty. If you are an American citi­zen eligible to vote, you should do so. It is important that, even if you are of a minority opinion in your state, you vote to let those in power know you don’t support them. I often hear, “I don’t like any of the candidates, so I’m not going to vote at all.” I can understand this sentiment, and because of it, you need to make your “non-vote” count by voting “present/abstain.” Imagine the headlines if results of the Georgia Senate race concluded “Nunn (D) 33 percent, Perdue (R) 33 percent, Present/Abstain 34 percent.” The re­sult of such a populist referendum would be unfathomable.
Republican or Democrat, just get out and vote.
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accoun­tancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Kyle Palmer
Reasonably Right

Margaret Hynds
News Writer

I really like words. No, that’s not strong enough — I love them.
Learning a new word is a wonderful feel­ing; just this week I learned what “antedi­luvian” means, and I’ve been itching ever since for an opportunity to use it.
In March, University of Michigan pro­fessor Anne Curzan gave a TEDx talk on “What makes a word ‘real?’” If I’m being honest, it changed my life. I used to con­sider myself an English purist. I vehemently denounced slang and would correct any­one who used ‘impact’ as a verb or ‘invite’ as a noun.
Allow me to explain my complete rever­sal of opinion. Professor Curzan teaches English, specializing in language, and she sits on the Usage Panel of the American Heritage Dictionaries with 22 winners of the Pulitzer Prize. In her TEDx talk, she questions why dictionaries are treated as infallible while students are taught to question and research nearly all other sources.
Dictionaries are, in fact, authored by real, living, breathing people. They aren’t hand­ed down to us on a stone tablet by some sort of all-knowing language god. So, why is the dictionary the ultimate authority on what is a word and what isn’t? Great question.
Language grows and adapts to what we need, filling gaps as they arise. When a word does not exist to describe something we see or experience, we create one. Over time, we change how we use words that already exist. Even Shakespeare took has been credited with the creation of dozens of words and phrases throughout his career. Of course, plenty of curmudgeonly people see this as the degradation of language as we know it and the end of good taste.
Merriam-Webster actually has a user-submitted dictionary — its “open diction­ary” — filled with new words and slang that haven’t earned official recognition. Among its most recent entries you can find “awesome sauce,” “snackage” and “bougie,” among others. If I’m being honest, I use many of the words in the open dictionary at least weekly.
In her talk, Professor Curzan said the fol­lowing: “Here’s the thing. If you ask diction­ary editors, what they’ll tell you is they’re just trying to keep up with us as we change the language. They’re watching what we say and what we write and trying to figure out what’s going to stick and what’s not go­ing to stick.”
So, what makes a word a word? According to Curzan, we do. What we say and write matters because people speak­ing and writing literally define and create language. Our word usage  dictates what “qualifies” as a word because we collec­tively have chosen to use it.
How awesome sauce is that?
Contact Margaret Hynds at 
mhynds@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

EDITORIAL CARTOON


7

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

The wrong question

Christopher Newton
Stepping Out of the Cave

Studying abroad is about new experiences and stepping out of one’s comfort zone in order to en­gage with new people and cultures. With due defer­ence to such goals, here is how I became acquainted with teargas.
It was nothing short of medieval, some sort of an­cient ritual in which normally suppressed fury and frustration came pouring out. Armored soldiers took their positions on the ramparts in the early after­noon, with more on the hill behind the wall. Before long, chanting, screaming and the blaring of horns brought these sentries to attention. Soon after, small crowds began to gather opposite the wall, flags wav­ing and fists in the air.
They paraded before the soldiers, defiantly com­ing up to the foot of the wall. Stopping in an open expanse of scrub and lonely trees, most of the crowd withdrew to safety, leaving behind young adult and middle-aged males. The chanting quickly turned to taunting, insults and bravado. Slings appeared and hands reached for smooth stones. By hand and sling, stones began clattering against the wall. Scattered and aimed too low at first, the projectiles grew in number and accuracy.
Those manning the wall raised large, rectangular shields in response, stones ricocheting and loudly thunking off of them. After a few minutes, one rock found its intended target, striking a soldier on the side of his helmet. The response was the same as it had been week in and week out for years. The struck soldier tossed the first of what would be dozens of teargas grenades thrown that day. It was soon joined by rifle-fired canisters often aimed at the chests of the men before the wall. These were followed by barrages of smaller canisters launched from tubes attached to the side of an armored jeep on the hill behind the wall.
Thick clouds of white, mace-laced teargas blan­keted the area, engulfing combatant, journalist and bystander alike. Where some wore masks of one kind or another, others had become immune to the point that they stood unmoving within the swirls of gas.
The skirmish continued for over a half hour until the will of those in front of the wall was exhausted for the day. Slingers and stone-throwers returned to their homes and soldiers to their barracks, to rest until the next week.
If you had not already guessed, the soldiers are Israeli, the protesters Palestinian and the location the West Bank. I watched from the Palestinian side, grappling with teargas and trying to comprehend what I had witnessed.
Every Friday, in the small West Bank village of Bil’in, locals gather to protest the Israeli oc­cupation. The village of about 1,800, of “5 Broken Cameras” fame, has refused to accept the placement of the Israeli security wall, even winning an Israeli Supreme Court case to have it moved several hun­dred yards before it became permanent.
Opposite Bil’in is one of the largest Israeli settle­ments, with a population of over 50,000. For every skirmish, a crowd of settlers spectates from a set of bleachers under a tent, cheering every time a stone-thrower is struck by a teargas canister. Relations between the communities are less than amicable.
Let this anecdote serve as a microcosm of Israel and Palestine. Both peoples are not going anywhere, regardless of the suffering and pain they inflict upon one another. It is time to recognize that both populations, Palestinian and Israel, are, absent a new round of brutal ethnic cleansing, permanent residents of the land they currently inhabit. In the words of a Bedouin facing imminent Israeli eviction, “I am like a stone. I will never move.”
Israel has before it several options. It has a population of roughly 8 million, with 6.4 million mostly Jewish Israelis and 1.6 million Arab Israelis. The territories currently militarily occupied or partially occupied by Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, have Arab populations of 1.7 million and 1.8 million respectively (Note: Israel maintains a security buffer encompassing roughly 25 percent of the territory of the Gaza Strip despite the unilat­eral withdrawal in 2005). An additional Palestinian population of roughly 4 million resides in neighbor­ing countries.
That’s 6.4 million non-Arab, but not necessarily entirely Jewish, Israelis and 7.5 million Palestinians. With the state of Israel unlikely to allow Jews to become a minority in their own homeland, a single state with full civil rights for all is out of the ques­tion. One state with Arabs as second-class citizens, as many, particularly Bedouin, currently are in Israel, would be unsustainable if Palestinians were a majority. It would essentially be South African apartheid meets the Levant, unpalatable to the in­ternational community and a recipe for disaster in Israel. There must be two viable states if both peo­ples are to have peace.
Whenever I advocate this two-state solution or share that I studied in Jerusalem, the question is inevitably asked: “So what side are you on, pro-Palestine or pro-Israel?” This question infuriates me beyond description. I have no side, nor should any of us. The goal is to foster the peaceful, prosperous coexistence of two peoples, not a violently divisive dichotomy. If you ask what side someone is on, you’re simply asking the wrong question.
Christopher Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

UWIRE

Shake up movie night with popcorn recipes

Since most of us either just heat up a bag of popcorn in the microwave or only eat it at the movies, it’s easy to forget how much we can do with popcorn besides simply buttering it. Explore other options and add some new flavors into your next batch with these 12 different ideas for salty, spicy, savory and sweet pop­corn recipes.
All these recipes call for popcorn of some sort, so the choice is yours to heat up a bag of microwave pop­corn, or make your own popcorn on a skillet. I suggest using plain popcorn without butter for the following recipes. For an even better experience, play the 1972 classic “Hot Butter” by Popcorn while testing these out.
Salty
Movie Theater Style Popcorn: OK, so I know I made a point to try something new with your popcorn. But let’s be real, it’s hard to beat a classic. Since popcorn at home never tastes the same as at the movies, I had to find a way to replicate it. No surprises here, this recipe calls for a stick of butter. Melt it in a small saucepan on low heat, drizzle over popcorn and sprinkle enough salt to your heart’s desire.
Ranch: Melt 3 tablespoons of butter with a 1 ounce packet of ranch seasoning mix; toss into popcorn with 2 tablespoons of chopped chives. Season with salt.
Salt and Vinegar: Combine 1/4 cup malt vinegar and 2 teaspoons kosher salt in a small spray bottle; shake to dissolve the salt.
Spicy
Sriracha: Mix 4 tablespoons of melted butter with 5 tablespoons of Sriracha sauce; toss into popcorn. For an added bite, squeeze half of a lime over the popcorn and enjoy.
Lemon and Lime: Mix 4 tablespoons of melted but­ter with 2 tablespoons of garlic salt, 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, and 1 tablespoon of lime juice. Drizzle over hot popcorn.
Wasabi: Mix 4 tablespoons of butter with 2 table­spoons of wasabi and 1 teaspoon of sesame oil. Drizzle over hot popcorn and toss in 2 teaspoons of salt.
Savory
BBQ: In a small saucepan melt a stick of butter with 3 tablespoons of your favorite barbecue sauce, con­tinuously stir until sauce becomes thick (about 3 min­utes) remove from heat and drizzle over hot popcorn. Top it off with bleu cheese crumbles.
Cheese: Toss hot popcorn with 1 cup of shredded cheddar cheese, 1 cup of grated parmesan; spread on baking sheets. Bake at 350 degrees for 3 minutes and season with salt.
Sweet
Cinnamon Sugar: Drizzle 3 tablespoons of melted butter over hot popcorn; toss with 4 tablespoons of sugar, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon and 1 teaspoon of kosher salt.
Peanut Butter: Heat 4 tablespoons of honey and 1/4 cup of sugar over medium heat, stirring, until the sugar dissolves. Next, stir in a 1/4 cup of peanut butter and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. Mix until smooth. Pour over hot popcorn. For extra crunch add 1 cup of peanuts and toss.
Chocolate: Melt a stick of butter in saucepan at low heat. Add 1/4 cup of Hershey’s chocolate sauce and stir until smooth. Drizzle over hot popcorn.
S’mores: Follow the above chocolate recipe and add mini marshmallows and crumbled graham crackers.
The Daily Emerald is the official student-run news organization of the University of Oregon, Eugene. Follow columnist Katie Wideman on Twitter 
@KatieWideman
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Katie Wideman
The Daily Emerald

Share your view in a Letter to the Editor.
Submit to viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com

8

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


Editor’s note: This article is part of a weekly column in which a writer introduces an online-streaming film or television show each Thursday, then gives critical analysis the following Monday. 
Imagine you and your friends gathering around the futon late one school night, lamenting the lack of decent horror films on Netflix. You scroll through the browser as the streaming media provider boldly recommends two- or three-star films based off your vague interest in “Scary Movie 3,” which you’re pretty sure you rated a two also. You sigh heavily and say the only thing keeping your hope alive: “Well, at least there’s always ‘The Cabin in the Woods.’”
That’s when your fourth-floor friend, Anne, laughs at you. “That movie was horrible. My friends and I couldn’t finish it.”
You remain calm, steady your breathing. It’s not Anne’s fault after all — her chronic use of the elevator has given her a false sense of entitlement. And, apparently, horrible taste in horror movies.
Unfortunately, fourth-floor Anne is not the first en­counter I’ve had with “Cabin” skeptics. In fact, the film is a member of the select group of features that can claim its critical rating is higher than its audience rating on Rotten Tomatoes. An amazing feat considering critics hate pretty much everything that doesn’t involve Daniel Day Lewis or Martin Scorsese.
What I don’t understand is why audiences didn’t like it. A movie like “Cabin” does not come along very often. It has the ability to be funny and suspenseful all in the same breath while simultaneously breaking down a genre that has become perpetually clichéd. It hasn’t been done since Wes Craven sent us “Scream”-ing, and honestly, “Cabin” wore it better. What can I say, I’m a Whedon girl.
I do admit the movie is initially jarring. You turn it on expecting to see five college kids making their way to their bloody deaths (patience, friend), but instead you see two grown men discussing marital complications and some ambiguous concern about “Stockholm going South.” I understand — you just want to know what it all means. But that’s the point. The cast and crew were sworn to ab­solute secrecy about the genuine plot of the film, so, by the time it premiered, no one actually knew what to expect. They want to keep you guessing, not just about when the next scare will come around the corner, but what exactly this underlying driving scheme entails. It adds suspense and mystery and makes your second watch all the more worthwhile.
Equally jarring but just as beautifully executed is the film’s laugh-out-loud, albeit dark, humor. It’s not easy calling a horror movie funny, but the writers are able to achieve it by turning horror movie banalities on their heads and exploiting the dire situations of the five coeds for the audience’s own grim amusement. It’s hard to forget a scene in which a guy unsuccessfully hits on a girl while the screen behind them streams a live feed of a young woman getting brutally bludgeoned to death. It doesn’t get more humorously dark than that.
Perhaps though, the film’s crowning glory is its ability to deconstruct and reconstruct what we all once knew as the horror genre. It gives us explanations as to why we always see the same archetypal characters, why they always seem to be dropping their weapons rather than holding on to them and why the heck it’s always so foggy. However, the creators also mean to make the movie somewhat of an ode to its predecessors. The finale, a truly life-altering 15-minute display of carnage, pays homage to an unthinkable number of classic horror movie vil­lains, referencing everything from “The Evil Dead” to “Reptilicus.”
“The Cabin in the Woods” will endure as not only a fan­tastic horror movie but also a fantastic movie in general. It’s smart, witty, scary and absolutely worth watching, post-Halloween or not. Just remember this, don’t let the fourth-floor Anne’s get you down.
Contact Alexandra Lowery at alowery1@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Alexandra Lowery
Scene Writer


By BRIDGET DEDELOW
Scene Writer
When it comes to both life and music, Mary Lambert is no stranger to being different.
The redheaded singer, songwriter and spoken word art­ist originally made her start co-starring on Macklemore and Ryan Lewis’ track “Same Love,” whose popularity skyrocketed and earned a Grammy nomination for Song of the Year. However, on her debut full-length album, “Heart on My Sleeve,” she puts all her cards out on the table, and through vulnerable and honest songwriting and lyrics, she shows that she isn’t afraid to take the spot­light on her own.
“Heart On My Sleeve” differs from Lambert’s last EP, “Welcome To The Age of My Body,” which was heavy in spoken word. Instead, “Heart On My Sleeve” features all songs with the exception of “Dear One,” a spoken word piece that works as more of a transition between two mu­sic tracks.
The album opens with “Secrets,” which literally takes Lambert’s secrets and exposes them for the world to see. “I can’t think straight/ I’m so gay/ Sometimes I cry a whole day/ I care a lot/ use an analog clock/ and never know when to stop/ I’m passive-aggressive/ I’m scared of the dark and the dentist/ I love my butt and won’t shut up/ And I never really grew up.”
However, instead of taking a dark turn, “Secrets” is a genuine pop ballad whose dance-y beat and catchy lyr­ics will stay with you long after it’s over. True to Mary Lambert’s devil-may-care attitude, this song is all about loving yourself, down to the blatant “I don’t care if the whole world knows what my secrets are, so what?” and Mary’s honest laugh before her (impressive) operatic skills at the end.
One of overall greatest strengths of “Heart on My Sleeve” is its powerful lyricism. Lambert is a true song­writer, meshing soulful, sad and happy together to create a group of songs that is both powerful and melancholy. They blend together seamlessly, even though “Secrets” is the most upbeat song on the album.
Two songs that really stand out are “Ribcage,” a col­laboration with rappers Angel Haze and K Flay, in which Lambert talks about opening yourself up to the people that come along in life, and “Sum of Our Parts,” which is more about not letting others or past experiences equal who you really are. These songs both have powerful mes­sages, and the break from song to rap in “Ribcage” makes it interesting. Both songs slow you down and make you think.
Another noteworthy song in “Heart on My Sleeve” is Lambert’s cover of “Jessie’s Girl,” the classic Rick Springfield track. It especially stands out upon realiz­ing that — surprise — a girl who likes girls is singing it. Lambert likes to push the boundaries with her songs, and this one certainly does. Instead of being your average amped-up cover, “Jessie’s Girl” is soft and soulful, with a really wishful quality. What if the girl got the girl in the end instead?
There is nothing negative I could say about the album overall, but there is one song that did not resonate with me as much as the others. “Sing to Me” is wholeheartedly a love song, but it didn’t match up to the rest of the album — there was a little too much fluff in there for me.
I’m usually not the one to go out and buy a physical CD anymore, but if I were going to this month, it would be this one. “Secrets” is an album with versatility that will stay with me from writing in my room to dancing in my car — and that alone makes it more than worth it.
 Contact Bridget Dedelow at bdedel01@saintmarys.edu

“Heart On My Sleeve”
Mary Lambert
Label: Captiol Record
Tracks: “Secrets,” “Sum of Our Parts,” and “Monochromatic”
If you like: Sara Bareilles, Fiona Apple, Indigo Girls



SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer

9

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN
Scene Editor
It’s not often that you see Mario and Luigi take the stage in front of a crowd of dancing students, but that the exact scene unfolded at Legends this Halloween as alternative rock band Generationals started their set.
After a solid performance from opener Springtime Carnivore, led by a star-studded frontwoman (literally, she was covered in stars for her “Ms. Universe” Halloween cos­tume), Generationals stepped on stage and picked up their guitars dressed as the fa­mous video game brothers for their Friday night concert hosted by on-campus radio station WVFI.
Hailing from New Orleans, Generationals is a duo made up of guitarists and vocal­ists Grant Widmer and Ted Joyner. The two released their debut album, “Con Law,” in 2009 and have been touring and cranking out three more full-length albums and well-loved EPs in the time it takes many bands to release a sophomore LP. The prolific group just released a fourth album, “Alix,” this September.  
The group is often compared to danceable indie groups like Yellow Ostrich and Born Ruffians or surf rock outfits like Best Coast and Tennis, and the duo certainly lived up to its upbeat and sunny reputation. As stu­dents thawed out from the bout of October snow they’d endured earlier that day, Generationals cranked out a highly dance­able set that got even the less festive students moving.
Last year’s Halloween weekend show at Legends was indie-pop band Grouplove, which drew an almost too-large (and occasionally rowdy) crowd, but there were fewer students this holiday. Perhaps it was because Halloween fell on the day of the concert, but it also may have been that many students have heard Generationals and not known it — their songs have been featured in several commercials, television shows and films. More than once during the show, I found myself in the midst of an “a-ha” mo­ment, recognizing a catchy tune from some­thing I had seen in recent years.
Regardless, those that did gather for Generationals’ performance more than made up for any of those who missed out, en­thusiastically singing, clapping and dancing along to cuts from the group’s new album, in­cluding the unbelievably catchy single “Gold Silver Diamond” as well as favorites from previous albums “Heza” and “ActorCaster.” The only complaint I heard as students left the show was that the band didn’t play “When They Fight, They Fight,” a single from the group’s debut album and arguably the band’s most popular song.
Unfulfilled song requests aside, Generationals lightened up an otherwise cold and dreary Halloween day, and their foot-stomping, hand-clapping performance joined the ranks of those from Bear Hands, PAPA and Grouplove that have graced the Legends stage with worthwhile indie rock and electro-pop. The undeniably happy per­formance may not have been the spookiest pick for a Halloween show, but it was clear the costumed crowd didn’t seem to mind.
Caitlin Doyle and Gordon MacDougall contributed to this article.
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu





KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer

10

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

CLASSIFIEDS

NFL | BROWNS 22, BUCCANEERS 17

SPORTS AUTHORITY

Notice athletes doing good

Browns hold off Bucs, improve to 5-3 

Associated Press
CLEVELAND — The Browns ended the “easy” part of their schedule with anoth­er hard-fought win.
Brian Hoyer threw a 34-yard TD pass to Taylor Gabriel with 8:59 remaining, helping Cleveland complete a favor­able three-game stretch with a 22-17 win over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday.
Cleveland was trailing 17-16 when Hoyer completed his second TD pass. Hoyer fin­ished 21 of 34 for 300 yards, two TDs and two intercep­tions. He improved to 8-3 as Cleveland’s starter.
The Browns (5-3) have their best record at the midway point since 2007, when they won 10 and barely missed the playoffs. Cleveland went 2-1 the past three weeks against Jacksonville, Oakland and Tampa Bay, who entered a combined 2-19.
Tampa Bay’s Mike Glennon threw a pair of 24-yard TDs to rookie Mike Evans for the Buccaneers (1-7), who have lost four in a row and five this season by six points or less.
Billy Cundiff kicked three field goals for the improved Browns, who have won four of five under first-year coach Mike Pettine.
Tampa Bay had a chance in the final two minutes, but couldn’t convert on a 4th-and-11 with 1:45 left. The Bucs appeared to pick up a first down on the previous play, but Evans was called for pass interference.
The Browns didn’t put the Bucs away until late as Cleveland nearly got caught looking ahead to a Thursday night matchup with AFC North rival Cincinnati.
Hoyer’s TD pass to Gabriel was set up by Cleveland line­backer Craig Robertson, who broke through and deflected a Tampa Bay punt to give the Browns the ball at the Bucs 35.
Two plays later, Hoyer dropped back and was about to be hit by Tampa Bay’s Lavonte David on a blitz. But rookie running back Terrance West alertly stepped up and got a piece of the Buccaneers linebacker, giving Hoyer enough time to loft his scor­ing pass to Gabriel and giving the Browns a 22-17 lead.
Glennon went 17 of 33 for 260 yards, and fell to 1-4 while filling in for injured starter Josh McCown.
His second 24-yard scoring pass to Evans put the Bucs ahead 17-16.
Glennon floated a pass to the back shoulder of Evans, who made a twisting catch and was able to get both feet in for the score. As he did after his first score, Evans looked at Cleveland’s sideline and rubbed his fingers together in the “money-making” gesture his former college teammate, Browns rookie quarterback Johnny Manziel, made fa­mous at Texas A&M.
A costly penalty by Tampa Bay star defensive end Gerald McCoy helped the Browns take a 16-10 lead. The Browns were lining up for a go-ahead field goal when McCoy, who signed a six-year, $95.2 mil­lion in October, was whistled for a neutral-zone infraction. Cleveland converted on 4th-and-1 and two plays later, Hoyer hit a wide-open West.
For the first time this sea­son, the Buccaneers led at halftime. They were up 10-9 following a disjointed open­ing 30 minutes in which both teams blew scoring chances and had ugly turn­overs. Tampa Bay had been outscored 126-27 in the first half of its first six games this season.
Glennon’s 24-yard TD strike to Evans capped an 80-yard drive that nearly ended with a fumble. Glennon was stripped and Cleveland recovered, however Browns defensive lineman Desmond Bryant was called for a hands-to-the-face penalty, giving the ball back to the Buccaneers.
They capitalized when Evans got behind corner­back K’Waun Williams on a third-and-11 and hauled in Glennon’s pass. Evans has caught at least four passes in his first seven games.
Cundiff’s 29-yard field goal, set up by safety Donte Whitner’s interception, gave the Browns a 6-0 lead early in the second quarter.
Browns defensive end Billy Winn set up Cleveland’s first score by blocking a 31-yard field-goal attempt by Tampa Bay’s Patrick Murray. Winn put his hands on the shoul­ders of two Bucs lineman and propelled himself over them like he was jumping the turn­stile at an amusement park.

We’re a negativist sports world, and it’s a problem.
O.K., fair enough, I’m a bit of an optimist, to the point that it can be annoying to some.
That being said, I think sports fans and the media tend to focus on the negative public actions of big-name athletes. I don’t have a problem with poor decisions getting attention and publicized. In many ways, by highlighting these mistakes, light can be shined on impor­tant societal issues that are often overlooked.
I think the problem is that there is no equality in publica­tion where the positive actions of athletes are rarely heard.
Everyone has heard of the Ray Rice and Adrian Peterson domestic abuse incidents. Most sports fans have also heard of Joseph Randle’s recent ar­rest for shoplifting cologne and underwear, though that may be more so for comedic reasons. Everyone has heard of the sexual assault allega­tions against Kobe Bryant and Ben Roethlisberger and the legal difficulties of Yasiel Puig. Sometimes, the cases are even more extreme: the murder charges against Oscar Pistorius, for example. Even non-legal issues, like the Tiger Woods scandal, are discussed in great detail. We are inundated by the news of poor decisions from our popular athletes.
We are often told about the influence professional athletes can have as role models and how poorly they are handling such a powerful opportunity. In short, it is easy to fall victim to the assumption that profession­al athletes spend their free time in a reckless and dangerous fashion, often making immoral decisions.
With such a significant in­fluence, athletes can do great things, act as great role models and inspire our society to be even better. When possible, they should embrace this op­portunity. A lot of the time they actually do — we just don’t hear about it as often as we hear about their off-the-field woes.
How many sports fans have heard of the Cornerstone Foundation? It’s a founda­tion run by Chicago Bears cornerback Charles Tillman that provides pediatric hospital patients with iPads, laptops and gaming systems to help chil­dren pass the time during their hospital stays. Oh, and Tillman also helped build a school in Cambodia.
How about Jason Witten’s SCORE Foundation? Witten’s foundation places fulltime male mentors in battered women’s shelters where these mentors can help demonstrate positive behavior to the children living in these shelters. Here, the fo­cus is on breaking the cycle of violence that plagues victims of domestic abuse. In 2010, Witten started an initiative called “Coaching Boys into Men” through SCORE. The initiative trains high school coaches to help teach their players the dan­gers of dating violence and raise awareness about a less publi­cized violent issue in society.
Although widespread soci­etal issues, such as domestic violence, should be given due attention, this attention should not all be negative. It is equally important to highlight the posi­tive and wonderful actions of many professional athletes. It is the players who donate their time and their money to help­ing others who should be in the spotlight. These are the players we want America’s youth and society to hear about. These are the players we should recog­nize, as they live up to the lofty expectations we have for indi­viduals in such powerful social positions.
Those are just two NFL an­ecdotes that I wanted to relay to you. I encourage you to take the time to read up on many of the other initiatives and foun­dations run by professional athletes. Read about the various sports camps run for disadvan­taged youth or the generous fundraising campaigns. Explore some of the unique initiatives pushed forward by professional athletes and turn the spotlight to these players and their ac­tions. I promise you, these good deeds are out there. Look for them, but be warned. The news coverage on them is much harder to find.


Aaron Sant-Miller
Sports Writer

NHL | PREDATORS 3, CANUCKS 1

Forsberg nets two goals, Predators top Canucks

Associated Press
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Filip Forsberg scored twice and added an as­sist, and the Nashville Predators held on for a 3-1 win against the Vancouver Canucks on Sunday night.
Colin Wilson also scored, and Pekka Rinne made 26 saves for the Predators (7-2-2), who won for the second time in three games of their six-game road trip.
Defenseman Alex Edler scored the only goal for the Canucks (8-4), who had a four-game winning streak snapped before they head out on a trip through California and Colorado.
Eddie Lack, making his first start since allowing seven goals at Colorado on Oct. 24, stopped 30 shots. No. 1 goalie Ryan Miller had the night off after earn­ing a 3-2 win at Edmonton on Saturday.
Vancouver took a 1-0 lead with a power-play goal mid­way through the first period. Defenseman Luca Sbisa leveled Predators forward Taylor Beck against the boards, earning the ire of captain Shea Weber, who dropped his gloves and went af­ter Sbisa.

Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Please recycle
The Observer.



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

FOR SALE
HONDA. Alum selling ‘91 SE. Reliable, good cond., 2mi from campus. 574-287-7877
It’s funny how it’s the little things in life that mean the most. Not where you live, what you drive or the price tag on your clothes. There’s no dollar sign on a piece of mine, this I’ve come to know. So if you agree, have a drink with me, raise your glasses for a toast. To a little bit of chicken fried and cold beer on a Friday night, a pair of jeans that fit just right and the radio on.

11

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

Follow us on Twitter.
@ObserverSports



ND CROSS COUNTRY | ACC CHAMPIONSHIPS

Irish ‘much improved’ at ACC Championships

By MANNY DE JESUS
Sports Writer
In the ACC Championships at the Panorama Farms Cross Country course in Charlottesville, Virginia, Notre Dame finished sev­enth on the men’s side and fifth in the women’s race.
On the women’s side of the meet, six ranked teams com­peted. No. 15 North Carolina won the event with 57 points, beating out No. 12 Florida State, the defending nation­al champions, by 42 points. No. 13 Virginia (109), No. 18 North Carolina State (119) and the Irish (132) rounded out the top five.
Leading the Irish was junior Molly Seidel, who finished fifth out of 140 run­ners, completing the six-ki­lometer race in 20:11.2. Last season, Seidel placed 26th in the ACC Championships, but Irish coach Matt Sparks said her finish last year failed to reflect her true potential.
“Molly’s first two years at Notre Dame were marked with various injuries,” Sparks said. “As a result, she was a little hesitant to race aggressive early in the sea­son. Now, Molly’s confidence is growing weekly and it is reflected in her races.”
Along with Seidel, ju­nior Danielle Aragon earned all-ACC honors af­ter finishing in 19th place. Senior Emily Frydrych fol­lowed close behind in 24th. Rounding out Notre Dame’s scoring lineup, senior Karen Lesiewicz placed 38th and senior Katie Moran, Notre Dame’s fifth woman across the line, finished 46th.
Going into the meet, Sparks said he hoped for the women to place in the top five and defeat several ranked teams in the process.
“Both teams were much im­proved from the Wisconsin Invitational two weeks ago,” Sparks said. “The women especially made big strides. The women were able to take down No. 16 Syracuse and No. 30 Boston College.”
The men’s team finished in seventh, led by junior Michael Clevenger, who placed 21st out of 137 run­ners and earned all-ACC honors, improving upon his 27th place finish last season. He completed the eight-ki­lometer race in 23:57. Junior Timothy Ball was close be­hind in 24th.
Senior Jake Kildoo placed 40th, sophomore Jacob Dumford finished 46th and freshman Calvin Kraft, the final scoring Irish runner, placed 72nd.
“This was the first confer­ence experience for six of the nine men competing,” Sparks said. “The young guys are starting to take owner­ship of the program. Michael Clevenger competed well as he battled for an all-confer­ence spot.”
Sparks said he wants the team to carry the success at the ACC Championships over to the Great Lakes Regional meet, where both squads will compete for a berth in the NCAA championship.
“Both teams need to build off the positive momentum we found at the ACC meet,” Sparks said. “Staying confi­dent and believing in them­selves, their teammates and their training are all key in­gredients to championship racing.”
Notre Dame has two weeks away from competi­tion before the team races again, at the same course where the Irish competed in the Wisconsin adidas Invitational, their worst performance of the season. Both squads finished in 30th place, their lowest final standings in any regular sea­son meet since 2004.
The Irish will travel to Madison, Wisconsin to com­pete in the NCAA Great Lakes Regional meet on Nov. 14.
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


SMC SOCCER | ADRIAN 2, SMC 1

Belles succumb to Adrian overtime goal

Observer Staff Report

On senior day at Saint Mary’s, the Belles lost 2-1 in overtime against Adrian on Saturday afternoon.
Saint Mary’s (6-11-2, 4-9-2 MIAA) had some early chances to score — Adrian junior goalkeeper Lexi Lewandowski gathered an early free kick from Belles senior defender Kerry Green before senior Natalie Warner headed over the bar — but it was Adrian (9-8-3, 7-7-2) who was the first on the scoresheet after a pass from senior mid­fielder Sophie Rammal set MIAA-leading goalscorer and senior forward Erin Weide through on goal.
The Belles came close to equalizing when junior de­fender Lindsay Rzepecki hit the crossbar with a header after connecting from a cor­ner taken by freshman mid­fielder Gabby Guerra while holding off multiple Adrian attacks, thanks in part to three saves early in the sec­ond half by senior goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum until they found an equalizer in the 56th minute.
Freshman midfielder Baylee Adams had her first shot from close range saved by Lewandowski, but Adams was the first to pounce on the rebound in a crowded six-yard box and was able to score on the second attempt for her first-ever collegiate goal.
With both teams looking for a winner late on in regula­tion, a pass from Belles senior midfielder Courtney Wright almost found sophomore forward Liza Felix, but the Bulldogs goalkeeper was able to get to the ball first. Adrian then had its chance when sophomore midfielder Sofia Farah shot over the Belles’ crossbar.
The last minutes of regula­tion saw end-to-end action as Felix found the ball in space on the edge of the penalty area only to find her shot pushed away be­fore Adrian counterattacked and drew another save from Rosenbaum before shooting wide with their last opportu­nity of the 90 minutes.
Early in overtime, the Bulldogs had the better of the chances, and with just over a minute left in the first period, Adrian won the game with a powerful 35-yard strike from Rammal.
The Belles gave playing time to all nine seniors on their roster, including three different goalkeepers, who combined to make 10 saves.
Saint Mary’s will now look towards its final game of the season at Trine today at 3 p.m. The Thunder currently sit bottom of MIAA stand­ings and were defeated by the Belles in the teams’ first meeting this year, at Saint Mary’s.

12

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

WOMEN’S SWIMMING | PURDUE 170, ND 128

NHL | JETS 1, BLACKHAWKS 0

Hutchinson, Jets beat Blackhawks

Notre Dame falls to in-state rival Purdue

Associated Press

CHICAGO — Michael Hutchinson stopped 33 shots for his first career shutout, and Michael Frolik scored 20 seconds in on the first shift of the game to lead the Winnipeg Jets to a 1-0 win over the Chicago Blackhawks on Sunday night.
Hutchinson was solid in just his second start, first com­plete game and third appear­ance this season.
The Jets extended their point streak to five games (4-0-1) and recorded their sec­ond shutout in two nights. No. 1 goalie Ondrej Pavelec beat the Rangers 1-0 in New York on Saturday in a shootout.
The 24-year-old Hutchinson entered having played only 40 minutes this season.
Corey Crawford stopped 26 shots in his second start in two nights after he missed six games with an upper-body injury. The Blackhawks lost their second straight and are 2-5 in their last seven.
Chicago was beaten 1-0 for the second consecutive home game.
Both teams played for the third time in four nights. Winnipeg went 3-0-1 on its four-game trip.
The Blackhawks entered leading the NHL with an aver­age of 38.9 shots per game, but were only 21st at 2.46 goals.
They had a hard time against Hutchinson and the scrappy Jets. Chicago was un­able to generate much traffic in front of the net or pounce on rebounds.
The Jets got all the of­fense they needed early as they moved straight into the Chicago zone off the opening faceoff.
Frolik, a former Blackhawks player, skated across the crease, closed in from the left side and lifted the puck past Crawford’s glove as the goalie sprawled trying to stop the shot.
Chicago’s Patrick Sharp broke in alone with 3:40 left in the first and faked Hutchinson to the ice, but his shot clanked off the right post.

By REBECCA ROGALSKI
Sports Writer
After a near two-week-long hiatus over fall break, Notre Dame returned to the pool Saturday night, losing 170-128 against No. 24 Purdue at Rolfs Aquatic Center.
Despite the loss, the Irish (2-4) captured victories in six events, including four indi­vidual races and two relays.
Senior Emma Reaney had an impressive day, claim­ing the top prize in both the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke events. Reaney, alongside sopho­more Catherine Mulquin, senior Courtney Whyte and junior Catherine Galletti, also claimed victory  in the 200-yard medley relay, topping Purdue by over a full second in a time of 1:42.16.
Juniors Genevieve Heidkamp, Genevieve Bradford, Elizabeth House and sophomore Danielle Margheret also captured gold in the 200-yard freestyle relay.
The biggest win of the day, according to Irish interim coach Tim Welsh, came from junior Lindsey Streepey, who took first place in the 3-meter springboard, accumulating 313.28 points.
Welsh said he was excep­tionally proud of Lindsey’s performance in this event.
“Purdue diving has always been excellent,” Welsh said. “So to have [Lindsey] face off against some of their best competitors and come out on top was not only re-energiz­ing for her, but for the whole team.”
In addition to Streepey’s victory, the Irish claimed the runner-up spot in the 1-meter as well, with senior Allison Casareto racking up 301.8 points.
The Irish added several other runner-ups in multiple events. Mulquin captured second in the 50-yard free­style, while Galletti claimed second in the 100-yard free­style. Whyte touched the pad second to claim the run­ner-up spot in the 200-yard backstroke. Margheret also grabbed second in the 100-yard breaststroke. Overall, the Irish went 1-2 in both the 100- and 200-yard backstroke events.
Welsh said he was pleased with the improvements the girls made against Purdue, es­pecially coming off a 1-3 road swing in Atlanta and Auburn, Georgia, on Oct. 17 and 18.
“Although we lost, this meet was a real positive for us,” Welsh said. “It all started with the 200-[yard] medley relay and continued on into the in­dividual competitions. It was exciting to see improvement across the board, and I think it’s a very encouraging sign for us as we continue on with our season.”
Notre Dame returns to ACC action next weekend as it welcomes Virginia Tech and Pittsburgh to Rolfs Aquatic Center for a series of dual meets. The two-day meet starts at 5 p.m. Friday and continues at 10 a.m. Saturday.
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at 
rrogalsk@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


13

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

come to expect from those two throughout the fall. They want­ed to do that. They wanted to be consistent, and that’s the biggest difference in them.”
Senior guard Jerian Grant, re­turning to the court for the Irish for the first time since December after serving an academic sus­pension, was quiet in the first 20 minutes of game play, registering only two points on three attempts from the field. Yet the senior man­aged to shake off the rust in the second half, finishing the game with 12 points while also leading the Irish with nine assists.
“He had 12 points, but you look at it and at halftime, he only had two,” Connaughton said. “You look at the assists, too. He affects the game in so many ways that might not even show up on the stat sheet. Just his presence out there gets guys’ attention, and his ability to pass and defend that we missed last year, we’re excited to have this year.”
“Grant gets everybody clean looks,” Brey said. “When he gets there, he’s finding guys. He just kind of let the game come to him. He’s gotten better, not wacky about, ‘Oh, I didn’t score in a while.’”
Freshman forward Bonzie Colson was a first-half surprise for Notre Dame. The 6-foot-5, 226-pounder from New Bedford, Massachusetts, snagged two offensive rebounds while also registering a steal that lead to a fast-break layup by Grant in only five minutes of play in the first half.
“I’ve got to bring him along,” Brey said. “He’s on the offensive boards. He’s around the ball. We have to groom him; there’s an instinct there that we’re going to need.”
The Irish finished the game shooting 51.6 percent (32-of-62) from the field with a 42.9 percent (9-for-21) 3-point percentage. Poor free-throw shooting hurt them though, as they made only 15 of 27 shots (55.6 percent) from the charity stripe. Brey said the team had usually been shooting in the 70 percent range during practices thus far.
“On the offensive end, I like all of our numbers except from the foul line,” Brey said. “Just from watching us in practice, I feel like we are going to be a better free-throw-shooting team. That’s al­ways been a key weapon for us, but not today.”
Just under three minutes into the second half, Auguste took a pass from Jackson and emphati­cally slammed home a dunk over a Bulldog player that had his teammates jumping off the bench in celebration and gave the Irish a 50-33 lead. As he ran back down the court, he appeared to give a salute in the direction of the Minnesota Duluth player that was called a technical foul.
“We’ll deal with that kind of stuff later,” Brey said. “I was just happy he flushed it.”
Connaughton, who played minor league baseball this sum­mer after being drafted by the Baltimore Orioles, finished with 15 points as the fourth Notre Dame player to tally a double-dig­it point total. He also led the team with 11 rebounds, five of which came off the offensive glass. The Irish finished the game with a 45-33 rebounding advantage, yet Jackson and Connaughton said they were disappointed with the team’s effort on the defensive boards.
“We’d play a solid possession for a whole possession, but we have to finish it with a defensive rebound,” Jackson said. “That’s something we’ll watch on film.”
“We had a chance to put away this team for good tonight, and we weren’t able to do it because we didn’t get defensive rebounds and gave them second-chance points,” Connaughton said.
Senior center Brett Ervin led the Bulldogs with 29 points, and Minnesota Duluth as a whole shot 43.5 percent (10-for-23) from beyond the arc. Brey said after­wards that the team collapsed down on Ervin, who was able to kick balls out to his teammates for wide open 3s.
“[Ervin] is a really good player, and he was hard for us to deal with,” Brey said. “We ended up worrying about him a little bit and helping, and then he’s kick­ing out. … It’s an area we’ve got to address and keep coming back to.”
“There’s a bunch of potential on this team,” Connaughton said. “We played very well, but we still didn’t play as well as we think we can.”
The Irish host Lewis on Friday at Purcell Pavilion in their second and final exhibition game of the year. Tipoff is scheduled for 7 p.m.
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu

pretty easy from there.”
It took just 70 seconds for Notre Dame to double its lead. Coming off a week in which he traveled back to his native Austria to attend his grand­mother’s funeral, senior forward Peter Schneider fed the puck to the team’s leading scorer, junior forward Mario Lucia, to bury in the back of the net. Sophomore center Vince Hinostroza also was credited with an assist on the play, one that extended the Irish advantage with 1:33 to play in the first period.
“We needed [Peter],” Jackson said. “We really needed to have him back. It says a lot about his character — he wanted to be in the lineup. … For him to go all the way to Vienna and back in three days … that’s why he’s a captain.”
Notre Dame, however, found the second period difficult once again and gave up a pair of goals in the middle stanza’s final five minutes. Petersen was unable to find the puck after making his 18th save of the night and with five minutes to play in the peri­od, Vermont freshman forward Jarrid Privitera put the puck past the Irish goalie for his first col­legiate goal. Then, with 1:51 to play, the Catamounts tied the game when senior forward Kyle Reynolds bagged his first goal of the year.
“A two-goal lead’s the worst lead in hockey,” Jackson said. “There’s always a letdown, and the other team always elevates, and [Vermont] did — they had a really good second period, and we didn’t match it. … They were a lot stronger on their forecheck and caused a lot of turnovers.”
Seven and a half minutes into the third period, however, DiPauli produced the game’s final entry on the scoresheet. DiPauli carried the puck in along the boards and got around the defender to the middle of the ice before firing a top-shelf, glove-side wrister past Santaguida to give the Irish a 3-2 lead. Freshman forward Anders Bjork and senior defenseman Robbie Russo had assists on the play, but it was DiPauli who car­ried the puck into the attacking zone himself.
“All of our goals started in our [defensive] zone, so that has a lot to say,” DiPauli said. “Bjorky made a nice play out of the zone, and I just came down and shot it.”
With the Vermont net empty and the Catamounts pushing for a tying goal, Petersen stood strong and finished the evening with a 32-save performance to help the Irish hold on for the win.
“I thought [Petersen] played well,” Jackson said. “He made some big saves for us.”
Saturday saw Notre Dame grab a 2-0 lead for the second consecutive night. After a score­less first period, the Irish did not waste time getting on the board when freshman forward Jake Evans scored an unassisted goal just more than a minute into the period. The goal came after a botched clearance attempt by the Vermont defense that sent the puck straight to Evans.
It was 2-0 just a few minutes later when Lucia stayed hot, scoring his eighth goal in as many games, converting a tic-tac-toe goal into a mostly-open net. Hinostroza was the ‘tic’ along the boards, Schneider the ‘tac’ to the goalie’s right and Lucia the ‘toe’ in front of the net as the Irish doubled their ad­vantage seven minutes into the period.
“[I’m] just getting myself in the right areas,” Lucia said. “Tonight, I was the beneficiary of an incredible play by both Vince and Schneids, and I just had to put it in the back of the net.”
Late in the period, Hinostroza and freshman defenseman Luke Ripley each took penalties that gave the Catamounts a 100-sec­ond-long, 5-on-3 advantage, one that Notre Dame killed to get into the second intermission up 2-0.
However, coming out of the intermission, the ice remained tilted towards Petersen’s net — the Catamounts fired 17 shots on goal in the third period — and eventually, the visitors got a breakthrough. Petersen was drawn out of the crease to make an initial save but could not control the rebound, which al­lowed Catamounts sophomore forward Brady Shaw to poke the puck home and close Vermont’s deficit to 2-1.
Until the Catamounts pulled junior goaltender Brody Hoffman — who made a few key saves down the stretch on Irish odd-man rushes — it appeared Notre Dame would hold on to its lead and secure the series sweep. However, with 41 sec­onds remaining, Petersen’s save left a rebound, and senior for­ward Colin Markison hacked it home to level the scores.
“We went much more ag­gressive on the forecheck at the end of the game, and I think that was really the differ­ence,” Catamounts coach Kevin Sneddon said. “We were able to put ND on the back of their heels a little bit.”
Each goaltender was forced to make a few saves in the ensu­ing overtime period, but neither team could land one more blow, and the teams split the points.
For Notre Dame, it was a three-point weekend to start conference play, an improve­ment on last year’s split series in Burlington.
“It’s frustrating [to lose the lead], but in the grand scheme, we got three out of four points,” Lucia said. “On the bright side, it was a good weekend for our team, and I’m sure we made a lot of strides in the last couple of weeks.”
The Irish will travel to No. 1 Minnesota this weekend for a two-game series. Puck drops are 8 p.m. Friday and 5 p.m. Sunday at Mariucci Arena in Minneapolis.
Contact Alex Carson at
acarson1@nd.edu

M Basketball
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16

Hockey
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


14

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

247Sports’ No. 3 inside lineback­er in the country in the class of 2014. “And that trait shows itself. He made some real, big physical plays for us. He’s gonna be a good player. He’s just a young guy that just needs to continue to grow. And he’s going to get that oppor­tunity because he’s going to be put into that position now.”
The “Mike” linebacker position generally consists of leadership responsibilities, Kelly said, such as understanding all the fronts and adjustments and getting ev­erybody lined up.
“We certainly are going to have to take some of that load away from Nyles and really disperse it to others because we’re not going to heap that all on him,” Kelly said.
Irish sophomore “Will” line­backer Jaylon Smith, the defensive line and the safeties, Kelly said, will be needed for greater respon­sibilities in Schmidt’s absence.
Kelly said, “Yeah, you can make that assumption on both” when asked if it’s safe to assume senior linebacker Jarrett Grace is too far away from being able to help the team this year and if Schmidt will return for a fifth season.
Notre Dame faces Arizona State on Saturday in Tempe, Arizona.
Contact Mike Monaco at
jmonaco@nd.edu

W Soccer
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16

chances, as they faced rain and temperatures in the low 40s.
“Boston College has a nice, new turf field,” Romagnolo said. “So we were able to keep the ball on the floor and move the ball pretty well in the rain. Overall, I was pretty happy with how we were able to play in a downpour all game.”
Overall, the Irish outshot the Eagles, 18-9, and held the ad­vantage in shots on goal as well, 8-3. Early on, however, Notre Dame managed just five shots and converted on none of them.
As the game wore on, the of­fense increased its pressure, recording seven shots in the second half and six total in the 20-minute overtime period. The Irish defense contributed as well, shutting down the Eagles in overtime, not allowing a sin­gle shot and pushing forward towards midfield.
“We kept the ball moving, created a lot of opportunities to score,” Romagnolo said. “We went out to try and win the game [in overtime], and I was really happy with the way we attacked.”
The lone goal for the Irish came in the 63rd minute on one of their 10 corner kicks on the night. Junior defender Brittany Von Rueden served the ball into the six-yard box, where it found the head of junior captain and defender Katie Naughton.
It was Naughton’s fourth goal on the season, all of which have come off corners. It also marked Von Rueden’s fourth assist on the year, good for second on the team.
The Eagles, who rank in the top five for scoring offense in the ACC and feature the confer­ence’s top goal-scorer in sopho­more forward Hayley Dowd, managed just three shots in the first half and none in the overtime period. Dowd had one shot, not on goal, in 105 minutes of play.
“Defensively, we were pret­ty solid,” Romagnolo said. “I thought we performed pretty well.”
In the 79th minute, Irish sophomore goalkeeper Kaela Little surrendered her lone goal of the night, snapping her streak of 706 scoreless minutes in goal. After Little made two consecutive saves, a rebound off the crossbar found the foot of Eagles freshman defender Allyson Swaby, who scored her first collegiate goal from close range.
“It was definitely the sort of goal we can avoid,” Romagnolo said. “We lost our marks for a split second. … I think it was a good opportunity to remind ourselves of taking care of the little details and the things we need to do in order to get a shutout.”
Looking ahead, the Irish have the week off before they travel to Greensboro, North Carolina, for the ACC championship on Friday. There, they will face No. 2 Florida State, who claimed the regular-season conference title.
“At the end of the day, [we] want to be great, every opportunity that we can,” Romagnolo said. “Every game is an opportunity to make a statement about what we can achieve this year.”
The Irish and Seminoles square off at UNCG Soccer Stadium in Greensboro, North Carolina, on Friday.
Contact Greg Hadley at
ghadley@nd.edu

Schmidt
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT



15

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | THE OBSERVER

DAILY

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ

Happy Birthday: Get ready to make positive moves that will help improve your life and your future. Gravitate toward the unusual, creative and spellbinding individuals who think like you and have similar goals. Joining forces will make your journey more fun and your destination fruitful. Love is highlighted and nurturing and sharing common interests will improve your personal relationships. Your numbers are 3, 10, 24, 27, 31, 35, 43.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Unpredictable behavior will lead to setbacks. Plan your day and do your best not to let anything interfere. Problems will arise if you aren’t careful while traveling or discussing touchy subjects. An activity that requires thought and energy will help you avoid trouble. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Partnerships or a closer bond with someone you respect and care about are encouraged. Interacting with people who care about the same things you do will lead to prospects you hadn’t previously considered. Consistency will help you win favors. 




GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your charm will attract attention, but if you promise something you cannot deliver, you will face criticism. Know what you are up against and get your facts straight. It’s better to offer less and end up giving more than vice versa. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Getting out and sharing information and ideas with people you love will bring you closer to formulating what you want to strive for in the future. Insight coupled with dedication equals success. Romance is highlighted.  





LEO (July 23-Aug. 22):Discuss the changes you want to make at home before you start. Someone you care about will show instability and may create a scene if you aren’t accommodating. Take a different approach by using reverse psychology. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Participation will get you in the mood to have fun and might also help expand your friendships or develop a closer relationship with someone special. Put a little muscle behind home improvement projects and you will reap the benefits. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don’t get angry; get moving. Not everyone will be looking out for your best interests, but that doesn’t mean you should waste time arguing about who is right and who isn’t. Do your own thing and ignore anyone trying to cause problems. Plan to conserve, but it’s a good place to start easing your stress. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Express your concerns and plans to improve your personal life. As long as you live within your means, you can make alterations that add to your pleasure and bring you greater opportunity to do the things you enjoy the most. 




SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don’t wait for someone else to take over. Do your part and make a statement. If you take control, you have a much better chance to voice your opinion in the future. A day trip will help you resolve an important matter.   


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your ambitious mood will catch someone by surprise. Don’t be too eager to share your ideas or accommodate others. Iron out all the little problems you foresee before presenting your plans. Love will take an unusual turn. 




AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Refuse to let uncertainty get you down. Look at your choices carefully and don’t feel the need to bend to what someone else wants you to do. The decisions you make should be based on what works for you long-term. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Lay your plans out for all to see and you’ll soon know who is going to contribute and who isn’t. Your dreams are about to take shape and rewards for your efforts are heading in your direction. Romance is favored. 



Birthday Baby: You are creative, sensitive and loving. You are he



JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK

SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER


DOME NUTS | ALEXANDRIA WELLMAN


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

16

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

HOCKEY | ND 3, VERMONT 2; ND 2, VERMONT 2

FOOTBALL

Schmidt out for season

Petersen leads ND to three points

By MIKE MONACO
Senior Sports Writer
Irish senior linebacker and leading tackler Joe Schmidt is out for the season with a frac­tured and dislocated left ankle, Irish head coach Brian Kelly said Sunday.
Schmidt, who handles a bulk of the communication and play-calling responsibilities from the “Mike” linebacker position, suffered the injury in the third quarter of Notre Dame’s 49-39 victory over Navy on Saturday in Landover, Maryland, at FedEx Field.
“Everybody is going to have to pick up the slack for the loss of a guy that really did most of the work,” Kelly said Sunday. “He’s a big loss. But I think our guys un­derstand that it’s a next-man-in, and let’s roll.”
Schmidt came back to the side­line in uniform, on crutches and with a boot on his left foot. Kelly said Schmidt will have surgery Tuesday.
Through eight games, Schmidt leads Notre dame with 65 tackles.
Kelly said freshman lineback­er Nyles Morgan, who replaced Schmidt for the remainder of Saturday’s game, “will be in there for sure” and Notre Dame will further determine the depth later Sunday. Morgan notched four tackles after replacing Schmidt. Irish sophomore linebacker Michael Deeb will be considered as well, Kelly said.
“His strength is physical,” Kelly said of Morgan, who was 


By ALEX CARSON
Sports Writer 
After notching a 3-2 win Friday night, No. 20 Notre Dame was within a minute of securing a weekend sweep of No. 13 Vermont on Saturday. A last-minute goal by Catamounts senior forward Colin Markison, however, meant the Irish had to settle for three points and a 2-2 tie in the series finale.
Freshman goaltender Cal Petersen stopped 34 of 36 shots Friday and 42 of 44 on Saturday in his first career two-start weekend for the Irish (5-2-1, 1-0-1 Hockey East) as they played previously-unbeaten Vermont (4-1-1, 2-1-1) to open their conference slate.
“It’s disappointing [to not get the sweep], but it’s a three-point weekend, so we certainly can’t complain about that,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said.
After laboring through most of the first period Friday against the Catamounts — the Irish had just four shots on goal in the game’s first 17 minutes — Notre Dame struck quickly to build a 2-0 lead before the first intermission.
With fewer than three minutes remaining in the period, junior forward Thomas DiPauli skated in from the point and fired a wrist shot toward Vermont sophomore goaltender Mike Santaguida. The initial shot was saved, but Santaguida was unable to prevent a rebound, and DiPauli scored on the second effort. Irish junior defenseman Andy Ryan tallied an assist on the goal, which was DiPauli’s second of the year.
“You shoot the puck, and you’re just trying to get a shot on net, and it comes out like a juicy re­bound like that, and it’s exactly what you want to see,” DiPauli said. “It lands on my tape, and it’s 

JODI LO | The Observer
Irish senior linebacker Joe Schmidt pursues Navy junior slotback Demond Brown during Notre Dame’s 49-39 win Saturday.

see SCHMIDT PAGE 14

MEN’S SOCCER | ND 4, PITTSBURGH 1

see HOCKEY PAGE 13

ND secures ACC crown

MEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 88, MINNESOTA DULUTH 71

Observer Staff Report
After battling to a hard-fought 1-1 draw against Michigan State earlier in the weekend, the Irish bounced back with a convinc­ing 4-1 victory over Pittsburgh on Saturday at Ambrose Urbanic Field in Pittsburgh.
The victory gave the Irish (10-4-3, 6-1-1 ACC) a clinching of the ACC regular-season champion­ship, the second straight season they have done so after joining the conference last year. The Irish tied Maryland for a share of last year’s title.
Notre Dame finished ACC conference play with 19 points, which was good enough not only to clinch the Coastal Division, but also was good enough to fin­ish in first for the entire confer­ence. Elsewhere, the Atlantic Division was split by Clemson and Syracuse. As a result of their impressive regular season, the Irish will go into the year-end ACC tournament with the top seed.
The Irish struck quickly against the Panthers (4-9-4, 0-6-2 ACC), with a goal coming from gradu­ate student forward Leon Brown in the 10th minute. The goal came off an assist by junior midfielder Evan Panken. Brown would strike again with a goal in the 40th min­ute, off an assist from senior de­fender Luke Mishu. Brown’s two goals tied his career high and give him five on the season.
The Irish also scored in the 30th minute off a shot from junior mid­fielder Patrick Hodan, who got an assist from Panken. Panken him­self would later score in the 89th minute, with freshman forward Jeffrey Farina grabbing an assist. Hodan’s goal gives him eight on the season, which leads the team.
Pittsburgh never really threat­ened throughout the game, with its only goal being an unassisted goal in the 81st minute from se­nior midfielder Michael Tuohy. But that was it, as the Irish de­fense held strong. Throughout the night, Irish graduate student goal­keeper Patrick Wall only had one save opportunity. The Panthers were able to get off five corner kicks to Notre Dame’s mere one, but the Irish outshot the Panthers on goal, 8-2. However, Pittsburgh outranked Notre Dame in total shots, 14-10.
The victory marked the pro­gram’s seventh regular-season conference title. Five of those titles have come under current Irish coach Bobby Clark.
The Irish return to play Sunday in the ACC tournament quar­terfinals at 1 p.m. against either Virginia or Virginia Tech.

Jackson scores 20, Irish beat UMD


By ZACH KLONSINSKI
Sports Writer
Behind strong performances by sophomore guard Demetrius Jackson and junior forward Zach Auguste, Notre Dame cruised past Minnesota Duluth, 88-71, in an exhibition Saturday at Purcell Pavilion.
The Irish began their season looking to move past a disap­pointing 2013-14 campaign dur­ing which they went 15-17 overall and 6-12 in the ACC.
Jackson and Auguste both put up 13 points in the first half as the Irish pulled away to a 44-31 halftime lead. Jackson finished the game with 20 points to lead the team, while Auguste tallied 19 points with eight rebounds. Jackson’s game high from last sea­son was 17, and Auguste previous best was 15 in a game.
“We’ve been waiting for this for a long time,” Jackson said. “In practices, we’re grinding and grinding, and we were just ready to get back on the same bench and play as a team and have fun again.”
Jackson and Auguste made developmental strides while the team played in Italy over the sum­mer, Irish coach Mike Brey said.
“The two guys I think we need­ed to get confident in Italy [during the summer] were [Auguste] and Demetrius,”  Brey said. “And if you watch, they’re feeling like they be­long with those other three guys.”
“[Jackson and Auguste] had huge games,” senior guard/for­ward Pat Connaughton said. “Those are things that we’ve 

KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer
Irish sophomore guard Demetrius Jackson brings the ball up during Saturday’s exhibition win over Minnesota Duluth at Purcell Pavilion.

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 1, BOSTON COLLEGE 1

Naughton tallies, Irish tie BC

By GREG HADLEY
Associate Sports Editor
No. 9 Notre Dame wrapped up its regular season Saturday night with a hard-fought 1-1 tie against Boston College in Newton, Massachusetts.
With the draw, the Irish (12-4-2, 7-2-1 ACC) remain unbeaten on the road this season, with a mark of 6-0-2. The team has not lost a match since its Oct. 5 matchup against Virginia.
Before the opening whistle against the Eagles (10-8-1, 3-6-1), the Irish were already locked in fourth place in the ACC and had clinched a spot in the confer­ence tournament, as well as an almost-guaranteed berth in the NCAA championship.
Despite the low stakes of the game, Irish coach Theresa Romagnolo said her team had no trouble getting motivated to end the regular season strong.
“We have a group that gets up for every game we play. It doesn’t take a lot on my behalf,” she said. “We have great leadership and great motivation for individuals to show up and perform every time they step on the field.”
Over the previous five games, the Irish had been on an offen­sive tear, outscoring their oppo­nents, 11-0. However, conditions Saturday put a limit on both teams’ ability to generate many 

see M BASKETBALL PAGE 13

see W SOCCER PAGE 14



NOTRE DAME 49, NAVY 39 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Navigating choppy waters

Midshipmen give Irish all they can handle before Notre Dame prevails, 49-39, on Saturday

Young Notre Dame defense tested against Navy

Imperfect ND still in national conversation


By BRIAN HARTNETT
Managing Editor
LANDOVER, Md.  — This year’s Notre Dame team contin­ues to redefine what it means to be a veteran football player.
After the No. 10 Irish defeated Navy, 49-39, at FedEx Field on Saturday night to move to 7-1 on the season, Notre Dame head coach Brian Kelly referred to a quartet of sophomores — cor­nerback Cole Luke, safety Max Redfield and linebackers James Onwualu and Jaylon Smith — as his team’s “veterans” on defense.
Just to clarify, Luke and Onwualu have each made eight career starts, though four of Onwualu’s starts came while he was a receiver. Redfield has made nine career starts and Smith, while he’s been a main­stay in the starting rotation from his first days on campus, is still a teenager.
The four players hardly fit the textbook definition of veteran players, yet they’ve built upon their experience to help lead a Notre Dame defense that’s been made younger due to players leaving early, suspensions and injuries.
The latest test to the defense came Saturday night, when se­nior linebacker Joe Schmidt left the game with an ankle injury in the third quarter.
Smith said he realized his re­sponsibility as soon as Schmidt was helped off the field.
“First of all, he goes down, I understand that a young guy is going to come in, and my job is to help lead this team, this defense and rally together and essen­tially play for Joe,” Smith said. “Those young guys, they did a great job; they weren’t scared in the moment.”
Graduate student defensive lineman Justin Utupo, who has had 43 appearances and could actually be called a veteran, said he realized the need to keep poised through the injuries.
“When a guy like Joe Schmidt gets hurt, he’s our leader out there … if [the freshmen] see our seniors with composure, we’re helping them with what they have to do, then it’s just as if Joe was in the game,” he said.
Freshman linebacker Nyles Morgan came into replace Schmidt and recorded four tack­les, including one for a two-yard loss. Given Schmidt’s role in helping align the defense, Kelly said he kept the defensive calls simple once Morgan entered the game.
“We went with one call the rest of the game,” Kelly said. “That was it, one call. Most of the ad­justments were being made on the back end by the safeties. … Nyles just needed to line up.”
Redfield said he was im­pressed with Morgan’s efforts in his first extended appearance.
“He’s a very athletic lineback­er, flies around,” Redfield said of Morgan. “… He definitely shows us promise; he’s obviously a real athletic player, and just getting him to do his job every time and dial in is going to be the main battle for him.”
Although Morgan stepped in at a crucial juncture, he was hardly the only Irish freshman to play significant roles Saturday. Linebacker Greer Martini and safety Drue Tranquill both made their first career starts against the Midshipmen.
Martini led the Irish with nine tackles, while Tranquill made five tackles.
In a statement that perhaps best summarized the current state of the Irish defense, Kelly joked that Martini got the start­ing nod out of absolute necessity.
“Greer is a very smart kid, and his attention, and he’s the only guy we have,” Kelly said. “We don’t have anybody else.”
Morgan, Martini and Tranquill weren’t the only new­comers to the Irish first-team Saturday night. Utupo recorded his first career start, as Kelly said he brought a skillset that would be more beneficial against the option-based Navy offense.
“We felt like Utupo gave us a little bit more ability to get off some blocks,” Kelly said. “[The defensive linemen] are some big, physical kids who control the line of scrimmage, but may­be not get off the blocks the way you need to against an option offense.”
Utupo rewarded his coach’s faith with a fourth-quarter interception.
“I was hoping for a lot more [tackles-for-loss] and sacks, but it was a gift getting that intercep­tion,” he said.
Since Notre Dame allowed 454 total yards, 336 of them on the ground, there was plenty of blame to go around on de­fense, and Kelly said the fresh­men’s confusion compounded the problems already inherent in facing Navy’s triple-option attack.
“They’re running around, and they came off from the side­line, and we were asking them about what they saw, and they were talking about their biology homework, so it was difficult,” he said of the group.
But Kelly added that he was happy with the experienced gained by both his “veterans” and newcomers alike.
“We’re going to be a better football team because of what transpired out there tonight,” he said. “We played a lot of young guys who got a chance to com­pete and find out what it’s really like to have eye discipline, and to be a sure tackler and to know your assignments and do all the little things necessary to be a better football player.”
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu

Samantha Zuba
Assistant Managing Editor


LANDOVER, Md. — Clean. Efficient. Precise.
That was Notre Dame in the first half of its 49-39 win Saturday over Navy.
A 78-yard pass to Irish junior receiver CJ Prosise on Notre Dame’s second play of the game set the tone, and the Irish were clicking as they strode to a 28-17 halftime lead.
But that lead was once 28-7. By the end of the third quarter, Navy had turned it around, taking a 31-28 advantage on the strength of 24 unanswered points.
Not so clean, efficient or precise.
The Irish offense kept up its brisk scoring clip, but the defense faltered as Navy’s triple-option scheme gained traction and the Midshipmen eluded Notre Dame defenders for breakaway plays.
A 54-yard run by Midshipmen senior fullback Noah Copeland late in the third quarter set up the go-ahead score from Notre Dame’s four-yard line.
The Irish didn’t look brilliant.
But the big lesson is simple. The Irish learned (again) that tal­ented teams featuring a mobile quarterback challenge them (see also: North Carolina).
That’s fine because Notre Dame won’t play another such offense this season.
From here on out, the Irish defense can play more to its strengths. Notre Dame has more challenges ahead, but none re­sembles the North Carolina of­fense or the triple option.
The Irish will want to have more consistent and dominant performances moving forward if they hope to catch the eye of the playoff selection committee. The task is becoming more urgent as the schedule winds down, but at least now the Irish have a chance to do so in what look like more fa­vorable matchups scheme-wise.
And perhaps they won’t have junior defensive lineman Jarron Jones nursing a sore ankle that clearly bothered him. Or junior defensive lineman Sheldon Day and sophomore linebacker James Onwualu crashing in a brutal collision with one another.
The injuries forced several young players into the game and new positions against Navy’s unusual offense, so much of the second half wasn’t put together by Irish regulars.
The prognosis for Day and Onwualu looks good, Kelly said at his press conference. But the Irish will be without senior linebacker Joe Schmidt for the remainder of the season with a fractured and dislocated left ankle, Kelly said Sunday.
Although Saturday’s game ended with some defensive un­certainty, it did include positive developments.
Even if the defense wasn’t at the sharpest level this talented group is capable of, the offense marched reliably up and down the field.
Notre Dame didn’t punt until more than halfway through the third quarter. Golson threw for three touchdowns and ran for three, the first time an Irish play­er had ever done so. Sophomore running back Tarean Folston cruised to one touchdown and 149 rushing yards.
With the exception of one blemish, a second-quarter inter­ception snagged by Navy senior safety George Jamison, Irish se­nior quarterback Everett Golson led Notre Dame smoothly.
He completed 18 of 25 passes and threw for 315 yards, a con­vincing sequel to his remarkable performance against Florida State. Although none of the Irish receivers had a banner day sta­tistically, everyone was involved, providing evidence of the reli­ability and depth of the receiv­ing corps.
This offense has a lot of op­tions, and Notre Dame is in­creasingly finding ways to use them effectively.
This had to have been what the Irish coaches wanted to see out of their offense after the psychological blow that was the game against Florida State. The Irish responded with poised efficiency, showing that they are ready to keep charging along and not lose their edge because they lost one unfortunate game.
If the whole game wasn’t clean, efficient and precise, at least 7-1 hits pretty near the mark. It keeps them in the conversation.
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

JODI LO | The Observer
Irish senior quarterback Everett Golson dives forward for a fourth-quarter rushing touchdown to put Notre Dame back ahead en route to its 49-39 win over Navy on Saturday in Landover, Maryland.

By SAMANTHA ZUBA
Assistant Managing Editor
LANDOVER, Md. — Momentum was up for grabs Saturday night at FedEx Field in Landover, Maryland, as Notre Dame defeated Navy, 49-39.
The Irish (7-1) trotted out to a 28-7 lead, but the Midshipmen (4-5) pounded relentlessly with their triple-option offense to score 24 unanswered points and take a 31-28 lead in the third quarter, their first of the game.
All told, Navy rushed for 336 yards, the highest total by far against Notre Dame this season.
“I’ve got some very smart defensive coaches back there,” Irish head coach Kelly said af­ter the game. “It’s hard to de­fend what they do at Navy. My hat goes off to Navy and their coaching staff; they do a great job on offense.”
But Irish senior quarter­back Everett Golson kept Notre Dame’s offense moving, with 315 yards passing and the first three rushing-touchdown, three passing-touchdown per­formance ever for an Irish play­er. Irish sophomore running back Tarean Folston added 149 rushing yards.
Notre Dame had the last word, outscoring Navy in the fourth quarter, 21-8.
“Everything was really click­ing,” Golson said of the offense’s efficiency. “I think the wide re­ceivers are doing a great job get­ting to their spots. I think the O-line did a tremendous job to­night, and I think I did a decent job of just working through my progressions and kind of try­ing to anticipate a little bit more and throwing things on time.”
The Irish jump-started with a touchdown on their second play of the game when Golson connected with Irish junior slot receiver C.J.Prosise for a 78-yard catch-and-run score.
Notre Dame’s offense kept pushing after that. The Irish didn’t punt until the third quarter.
Navy head coach Ken Niumatalolo said he felt confi­dent Navy would score, but the Midshipmen faced a challenge in trying to stop Notre Dame’s offense.
“We find that if we execute, we can move the ball on any­body,” Niumatalolo said. “But we also knew that was a tough offense we had to stop. I did things in this game I never do because we had to find a way to keep their offense off the field.”
Navy scored on its first pos­session as well, evening the score at 7-7 as Reynolds showed off his seldom-used but power­ful arm. Reynolds scrambled out of the pocket and threw on the move to junior receiver Thomas Wilson for a 26-yard touchdown. The drive featured eight different ball carriers.
Reynolds also completed a 42-yard pass to senior slot back Ryan Williams-Jenkins in the third quarter to help set up a 44-yard field goal by junior kicker Austin Grebe, the longest for a Navy kicker since 2011. The 24-second drive came on the heels of Golson throwing an interception to Midshipmen senior safety George Jamison and ended the first half.
A 4-yard touchdown run by Midshipmen sophomore full­back Myles Swain gave Navy its first lead of the game with just over four minutes remaining in the third quarter. To set up the score, senior fullback Noah Copeland broke free for a 54-yard carry, eluding a diving shoe­string tackle attempt before be­ing pushed out of bounds.
Notre Dame secured final con­trol of the game in the last two minutes. Golson put the game out of reach at 49-39 when he scored on an eight-yard rush, his sixth touchdown of the game.
Defensively, Irish freshman linebacker Greer Martini led the way with nine total tackles. Senior linebacker Joe Schmidt followed with eight, and sopho­more linebacker James Onwualu and sophomore safety Max Redfield each tallied seven.
Graduate student defensive lineman Justin Utupo snagged the first interception of his career in his first-ever start.
Schmidt injured his ankle in the third quarter and was re­placed by freshman linebacker Nyles Morgan. Kelly said Sunday that Schmidt is out for the season with a fractured and dislocated left ankle.
Sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith said the defense respond­ed well to losing one of its key leaders.
“He goes down, I understand that a young guy’s going to come in, and my job is to help him, to help lead this team, this defense and rally together and essentially play for Joe,” Smith said.
Irish junior defensive line­man Sheldon Day and Onwualu slammed into each other in the fourth quarter. Onwualu didn’t pass on-field concussion proto­col, so Notre Dame will continue to monitor him, Kelly said. Day hurt his shoulder on the play but returned to the field.
Kelly also noted the contri­butions of Morgan, freshman safety Drue Tranquil and fresh­man defensive lineman Andrew Trumbetti.
“It was difficult, but they perse­vered, hung in there and fought their butts off,” Kelly said.
Notre Dame travels to Arizona State next weekend to square off with the Sun Devils in Tempe, Arizona, on Saturday at 3:30 p.m.
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu

PLAYER OF THE GAME

EVERETT GOLSON
IRISH SENIOR QUARTERBACK

Golson made plays for the Irish from start to finish, connecting with C.J. Prosise on a 78-yard touchdown catch-and-run on the second play from scrimmage — the first of his six touchdowns. With 1:27 remaining in regulation, Golson sealed the victory with an eight-yard touchdown run.

see IMPERFECT PAGE 3

see SURVIVAL PAGE 2

see DEFENSE PAGE 3

2

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

INSIDER


REPORT CARD

A-

QUARTERBACKS
Six touchdowns. Three rushing. Three passing.
Everett Golson turned in a historic performance Saturday, as no other Irish player had ever achieved the three-three combo. Golson was crisp and effective with just one mis­cue, an interception resulting from a route-running and miscommunication miscue.
RUNNING BACKS
Sophomore running back Tarean Folston came through with his third standout performance in a row with 149 yards and one touchdown. He ate up yards and time on the clock, giving the defense more time off the field.
RECEIVERS
Golson threw his three touchdown passes to three differ­ent receivers. Ben Koyack, Will Fuller and C.J. Prosise all got in on the scoring action. No receiver had a dominant day, but they exploited the Midshipmen secondary in a fine ensemble performance.
OFFENSIVE LINE
Golson was largely safe from distress and had plenty of decision-making time as the offensive line overpowered Navy’s smaller defensive line. The one rare Navy sack marred the effort, but the line held together well. The O-line’s blocking also provided room for Folston. It was another solid performance, and this unit looks settled.
DEFENSIVE LINE
The defensive line did a good job closing down the middle against Navy’s formidable rushers. The Midshipmen es­caped around the ends for some big yardage, so the group wasn’t perfect, but the Irish didn’t disappoint.
LINEBACKERS
This group lost vital leader Joe Schmidt to an ankle injury in the third quarter and James Onwualu when he failed concussion protocol. So it was a tough day for this unit. Even before the injuries, things weren’t going particularly well as the linebackers couldn’t stall the Midshipmen’s triple option attack.
DEFENSIVE BACKS
The secondary performed well as Notre Dame’s last line of defense against the triple-option rushers. The corners and safeties couldn’t help it when the rushers had already broken downfield past the D-line and linebackers, but they made some key, last-second, diving stops in these situa­tions.
SPECIAL TEAMS
The kicking unit butchered two field-goal tries, the most glaring missteps committed by the special teams unit. Those blocks drag down what would have been a solid rat­ing for this group.
COACHING
The offensive coaches pulled the right strings for 49 points, while Navy’s triple option pounded one of the better run defenses in the country. Yes, the Irish had injuries, but the coaches didn’t find the answer to the Midshipmen even at full strength. Other than that, the play-calling kept the Irish dynamic.

A-

B+

JODI LO | The Observer
Irish senior tight end Ben Koyack celebrates his first-quarter touchdown reception in Notre Dame’s 49-39 win over Navy on Saturday night at FedEx Field in Landover, Maryland.

B+

Survival
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

B-

C

B-

C-

Golson on record pace

By BRIAN HARTNETT
Managing Editor
LANDOVER, Md. — With the six touchdowns he accounted for Saturday night, senior quar­terback Everett Golson is now re­sponsible for 156 of Notre Dame’s points this season. Golson, who has 22 passing touchdowns and seven rushing touchdowns on the season, is responsible for 19.5 points per game. The school record for points per game for a single season is 18, which was set by Brady Quinn in 2006.
Golson has now thrown for at least two touchdown passes in all eight games this season and in 11 games in his Irish career. He has thrown for at least three touch­downs five times this season and six times while at Notre Dame.

High-scoring showdown
With 88 combined points, Saturday’s game marked the highest-scoring regulation game in the 88-game history of the Notre Dame-Navy series. The highest-scoring game in series history came in 2007, when Navy won 46-44 in triple overtime. Navy’s 39 points are the most the Midshipmen have scored in a regulation game against Notre Dame, and the second-most in series history, trailing only 2007.
Saturday’s offensive outburst came three weeks after Notre Dame and North Carolina combined to score 93 points, the most in a single game in Notre Dame Stadium history.

Folston bolsters ground game
With 149 yards Saturday, sophomore running back Tarean Folston eclipsed the 120-yard rushing mark for the second straight game, as he ran for 120 yards against Florida State on Oct. 18. Folston became the first Irish player to rush for 120 yards in back-to-back games since Darius Walker did it in 2006.
Folston’s 149 rushing yards mark the most by a Notre Dame player in a single game since Cierre Wood totaled 150 yards against Wake Forest on Nov. 17, 2012. It is also the high­est single-game rushing yard­age by a Notre Dame player against Navy since Julius Jones recorded 221 yards in 2003.

Miscellaneous
Graduate student defensive lineman Justin Utupo made his first career interception Saturday and became the eighth Notre Dame player to record an inter­ception this season. The Irish have intercepted a pass in 11 con­secutive games.
Notre Dame has scored at least 40 points against Navy three times in the last four years. The Irish totaled 56 points in 2011, 50 points in 2012 and 38 points against the Midshipmen last season.
Navy became the first team to block a Notre Dame field-goal attempt this season when the Midshipmen blocked senior kicker Kyle Brindza’s attempt with 5:43 left in the game. It was the first blocked kick against Notre Dame since Oct. 26, 2013, when the Irish beat Air Force, 45-10.
Contact Brian Hartnet at bhartnet@nd.edu

B+

OVERALL GPA: 2.93 (B)

There’s a stark difference for the sides of the ball, here, as Notre Dame’s offense rolled while its defense got rolled. Everett Golson and Tarean Folston had their way moving the ball, but a youthful Irish defense had no answers for Keenan Reynolds and the triple option. Still, Navy always seems to be tough, and the Irish are 7-1.

PLAY OF THE GAME

TAREAN FOLSTON’S 25-YARD RUSHING TOUCHDOWN

With the Irish up four in the fourth quarter, Tarean Folston broke free for a 25-yard touchdown run to give Notre Dame some much-needed breathing room in a second half that felt suffocatingly tight throughout. There were no more lead changes as the Irish held on.

3

3

3

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | THE OBSERVER

INSIDER

SCORING SUMMARY


1ST

2ND

TOTAL

3RD

4TH

49

21

14

0

14

39

7

14

8

10

NOTRE DAME 7, NAVY 0
C.J. Prosise 78-yard pass from Golson (Brindza kick)

 14:08 remaining 
Drive: Two plays, 79 yards, 0:52 elapsed

1

NOTRE DAME 7, NAVY 7
Thomas Wilson 26-yard pass from Reynolds (Grebe kick)

 8:00 remaining 
Drive: 11 plays, 75 yards, 6:08 elapsed

NOTRE DAME 14, NAVY 7
Ben Koyack 2-yard pass from Golson (Brindza kick)

 4:53 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 65 yards, 3:07 elapsed

JODI LO | The Observer
Irish senior defensive back Matthias Farley drags down Navy quarterback Keenan Reynolds for one of Farley’s two fourth-quarter sacks in Notre Dame’s 49-39 win over Navy on Saturday night.

NOTRE DAME 21, NAVY 7
Everett Golson five-yard run (Brindza kick)

 14:06 remaining 
Drive: 11 plays, 76 yards, 4:47 elapsed

2

Defense
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

NOTRE DAME 28, NAVY 7
Will Fuller seven-yard pass from Golson (Brindza kick)

 7:15 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 84 yards, 3:34 elapsed

NOTRE DAME 28, NAVY 14
Demond Brown 18-yard run (Grebe kick)

 2:30 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 78 yards, 4:45 elapsed

NOTRE DAME 28, NAVY 17
Austin Grebe 44-yard field goal

 0:00 remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 45 yards, 0:24 elapsed

NOTRE DAME 28, NAVY 24
Geoffrey Whiteside 13-yard run (Grebe kick)

 7:29 remaining 
Drive: 15 plays, 75 yards, 7:31 elapsed

3

NAVY 31, NOTRE DAME 28
Chris Swain 4-yard run (Grebe kick)

 4:09 remaining 
Drive: Six plays, 66 yards, 2:12 elapsed

NOTRE DAME 35, NAVY 31
Everett Golson three-yard run (Brindza kick)

 14:55 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 70 yards, 4:14 elapsed

4

NOTRE DAME 42, NAVY 31
Tarean Folston 25-yard run (Brindza kick)

 12:22 remaining 
Drive: Two plays, 86 yards, 0:23 elapsed

Imperfect
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

NOTRE DAME 42, NAVY 39
Chris Swain 12-yard pass from Reynolds (conversion failed)

 4:18 remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 73 yards, 1:25 elapsed

NOTRE DAME 49, NAVY 39
Everett Golson eight-yard run (Brindza kick)

 1:27 remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 48 yards, 2:51 elapsed

STATISTICS

RUSHING YARDS 

218

336

PASSING YARDS 

315

118

4

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2014 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

INSIDER


JODI LO | The Observer
Irish sophomore running back Tarean Folston tries to elude the Navy defense during Notre Dame’s 49-39 win over the Midshipmen on Saturday at FedEx Field in Landover, 
Maryland. Folston rumbled for a career-high 149 rushing yards and is the first Notre Dame player to rush for 120 yards in consecutive games since 2006.

After Navy tallied 24 unanswered points to grab a 31-28 lead toward the end of the third quarter, Notre Dame used three fourth-quarter touchdowns to survive the Midshipmen, 49-39, on Saturday night at FedEx Field in Landover, Maryland. Everett Golson became the first player in Irish history to pass for three touchdowns and rush for 
another three scores in the same game. Notre Dame improved to 7-1.

NOTRE DAME NIXES NAVY




JODI LO | The Observer
Irish sophomore running back Tarean Folston tries to shimmy free from Navy defenders Saturday.

JODI LO | The Observer
Irish junior defensive lineman Sheldon Day crashes into Navy quarterback Keenan Reynolds on Saturday.


JODI LO | The Observer
Irish sophomore defensive end Isaac Rochell and sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith gang up to bring down a Navy ballcarrier during Notre Dame’s 49-39 win Saturday.

JODI LO | The Observer
Irish senior receiver Amir Carlisle tries to slip upfield during Notre Dame’s 49-39 win Saturday over Navy.



