The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 25 | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Drug czar’ warns against marijuana use 
Former White House official presents dangers of illicit drug legalization, addiction 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 
The former “drug czar” under president george w. bush, John 
p. walters, presented on the dan­gers of illicit drugs and potential solutions to a growing problem Thursday evening. 
walters, the former director of the white house office of national drug control policy from 2001 to 2009, gave a presentation titled “pot: hot or not? The young, american democracy, and the drug problem,” addressing the ef­fects of marijuana and illicit drugs and their potential legalization. 
walters, who now serves as executive vice president of the hudson institute, highlighted how the consumption of most illicit substances decreased during the years 2001-2007. 
he also discussed how drug use among teens is growing, citing a culture that has embraced mari­juana and advertised it as a natural remedy. 
walters stressed the importance of screening programs that accel­erate the process of an addict real­izing he or she has a problem. 
“The use of court-mandated treatment has helped get people the care they need,” walters said. 
see drugs PAGE 5 



gutiérrez promotes pope’s ‘preferential option for poor’ By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
Fr. gustavo gutiérrez, the John cardinal o’hara professor of Theology and the ‘father of liberation theology,’ presented the keynote ad­dress, “pope Francis and the preferential option for the poor,” Thursday afternoon as part of the international conference on archbishop oscar romero, hosted by the Kellogg institute. 
see guTiÉrreZ PAGE 5 




Starbucks opens on Eddy Street 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
The starbucks in laFortune hall has competition -- it is no longer the only one in the im­mediate area for notre dame students after a new starbucks officially opened on eddy street on Thursday morning. 
store manager lindsay egilmez said it is a place for stu­dents to gather and enjoy each other’s company. 
“[The store] is for football games, a great place for student to come enjoy and study and for off-campus students and local guests,” egilmez said. “eddy street commons is a great half­way point intersection for all the above.” 
The new starbucks replaced a romy’s cafe in the eddy street branch of hammes notre dame bookstore, Jim o’connor, vice president of sales and operations for Follett higher education group said. 
“when the cafe originally opened as romy’s cafe, the eddy street commons was 
see sTarbucKs PAGE 5 



SMC celebrates diversity with Italian dinner 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 
saint mary’s student diversity board and italian club held the first annual diversity dinner, fea­turing three speakers and small-group discussions in regina south Thursday. 
senior catherine sullivan, vice president of the italian club and hostess of the event, introduced the event. sullivan’s parents were also in attendance, as guests who were born in italy, and they shared their italian cuisine with students. 
The keynote speaker, saint mary’s italian professor robert morse, shared his experience as a professional european basketball player. morse also discussed his favorite parts of italian culture and cuisine. 
“during my time in italy, i loved being a part of a team and 
see diversiTy PAGE 5 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your favorite study spot on campus? 

Dan Andree 

Ryan Loughran 
sophomore 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
alumni hall 
“rohr’s.” 
“Feve.” 

Brad Tener 

Sarafina Joseph 
sophomore 
freshman 
alumni hall 
pasquerilla west hall 
“badin.” 
“geddes.” 

Anne Chan 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“library study rooms in the basement.” 


Katie Marquart 
sophomore ryan hall 
“my room.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Jack rooney greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kayla mullen renee griffin madison Jaros 

Scene Graphics miko malabute 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
susan Zhu 

Viewpoint Photo mary Kate luft 
Women’s Tennis: ND Women’s Men’s Golf “Candide” Auditions Fighting Irish 
michael yu 

Notre Dame Tennis: Notre Dame Warren Golf Course Washington Hall Gridiron Classsic Invitational Invitational Clubhouse 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Warren Golf Course Eck Tennis Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion All day Sign up at Crowley All Day 


Corrections 

All day All day Gridiron Classic. Hall. Free and open to the 
The observer regards itself as Free and open public. Free to the public. public. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Labor Cafe Saturday Vigil Mass Film: Brave “The Pace of Praise” Men’s Soccer vs. VCU 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Library Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Heart Arts Center 4:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Forum on work and 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Religion & Literature Free with student ID. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
labor issues. Music by Women’s Cost is $4 for lecture, featuring 
we can correct our error. 

Liturgical Choir. students. Robin Kirkpatrick. 




Expert advocates for nonviolence 
By ALEXA DeSANTIS 
news writer 
a crowded hesburgh center auditorium hosted the 16th annual yoder dialogues on nonviolence, religion and peace Thursday, where maria J. stephan, a non-resident senior fellow of the atlantic council and a senior policy fellow of the u.s. institute of peace, gave her view on the power of civil resistance. 
“civil resistance, if there is one message … is not magi­cal,” stephan said. “it does not win by melting hearts and minds. it wins through plan­ning, strategy and effectively applied pressure. all of that can be learned, taught, built on and shared between activists and movements.” 
stephan’s speech addressed much of her work with erica chenoweth, a former yoder dialogues speaker and their 2011 book “why civil resistance works: The strategic logic of nonviolent conflict.” she said during the period from 1900 to 2006, nonviolent campaigns were twice as effective as violent ones when against oppressors. 
“nonviolent campaigns, we found, statistically have a 46 percent success rate against oppressive opponents, whereas armed campaigns have only a 20 percent success rate,” she said. 
although the effectiveness of nonviolent resistance has de­clined since 2011, there is more hope for the future, stephan said. while this is primarily because authoritarian regimes learn from each other, diverse groups of people have the pow­er and desire for civil resistance. 
“more and more people in different countries are engag­ing in nonviolent resistance,” she said. “Just in the period 2010 to 2013, there were more nonviolent campaigns than in the entire decade of the 1990s. what is clear is that people are increasingly learning from each other and are turning to this method of struggle in order to advance rights and fundamen­tal freedoms.” 
stephan said civil resistance, in comparison to armed strug­gle, is a more effective way to achieve peace. 
“The vast majority of atroci­ties globally occur when states are responding to armed insur­gencies,” stephan said. “arms insurgencies win about 24 per­cent of the time, but the level of casualties, notably civilian casualties, are often astro­nomical. most genocide mass atrocities occur in this type of context.” 
The yoder dialogues have been held annually since 1999, and are put on in honor of John howard yoder, a former theolo­gy professor at notre dame. The yoder family supports the event each year, and it consists of a lecture followed by a discus­sion, normally on a topic related to nonviolence and peace. 
“The yoder tradition has been very involved in … internation­al solidarity around peace and justice issues,” stephan said. “[The] Kroc [institute] is a place where you can meet people. you have activists coming together with policy makers coming to­gether with academics, so it is a great place to swap notes about what types of interventions ac­tually work.” 

Contact Alexa DeSantis at adesanti@nd.edu 



Mod Quad hosts third annual ‘Drip n’ Dodge’ 
By CLARA YANG 
news writer 
mod Quad’s third annual “drip n’ dodge” will bring a splash of color to white Field sunday as part of a fundrais­ing effort for camp Kesem, which provides support to children whose parents have cancer. 
The event, which is co-sponsored by Knott, pasquerilla east, pasquerilla west and siegfried halls, features altered games of dodgeball with teams of four to six people hurling paint-covered balls at one another. 
water guns filled with paint are also provided so that people waiting to play can spray them to the teams 
playing,  pasquerilla  east  
president sophomore  mary  
white said.  

event organizers will use soft dodge balls and require participants to wear protec­tive goggles, white said. 
pasquerilla west presi­dent sophomore margaret costello said teams should be able to play in at least two games. 
“we have around 15 teams as it is, right now, but regis­tration closes on Friday, and we are hoping to get more,” costello said. 
Teams must pay a registra­tion fee of $10 and proceeds will go to camp Kesem, a na­tionwide camp notre dame has sponsored and hosted for the past 13 years, white said. 
“[camp Kesem is] a sum­mer camp for kids who just need to sort of get away for a little bit,” costello said, “[camp Kesem] greatly appreciates any donation they can get because they are not a huge organization, so anything helps for them.” 

The first 50 people to sign up will receive free drip n’ dodge t-shirts, and the event will include food, drinks and music. 
“This year, drip n’ dodge will be the best yet,” white said. 
siegfried president sopho­more anthony laguardia said the prizes for the win­ners of the tournament add excitement to the event. 
The third place team will win a papa John’s pizza party up to $100. The second place prize is six all-inclusive tick­ets to the niles haunted house and scream park in niles, michigan. The first 

“[Drip n’ Dodge is] 
like Mod Quad’s 
big chance to let 
people know that 
we exist ... It’ll be 
nice to see some 
teams from the 
other sides of 


campus come.” 
Margaret Costello 

Pasquerilla West Hall president 
place prize is worth $300 dollars but is still a mystery. 
“we got a lot of money left over from the money that we got from hall presidents council,” laguardia said. 
laguardia said they had hoped to donate the extra money to camp Kesem, but due to some sao and hall presidents council pro­cedural regulations, the money can only be used on the event. 
“i think the main reason behind this is because sao not only wants to … put on events that raise a lot of money for charity, but they also wanted to get students involved,” laguardia said. “so i think that they think that the best way to do is to not just donate the mon­ey you receive but spend the money to make a cool event that … [is] part of the charity.” 
white said last year’s weather restricted partici­pation, but she hopes for more students sunday. 
“last year, it was a rainy day, so less than 20 teams ended up playing on the day,” white said, “This year … our goal is at least 30 teams to play and … we ex­pect a fun day out on white Fields.” 
costello said they started planning in august and it has been an effort of the whole hall council. 
“[drip n’ dodge is] like mod Quad’s big chance to let people know that we exist,” costello said, “we’re sort of on the edge of campus. it’ll be nice to see some teams from the other sides of cam­pus come.” 
students can sign up for drip n’ dodge on student shop until 5 p.m. Friday. after that, they can email mary white at mwhite16@ nd.edu with their informa­tion until midnight Friday and pay their fees at the event. 
Contact Clara Yang at syang7@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
SMC SENATE 


senate allocates club funds 
By KATE ZUROVCHAK 
news writer 
The saint mary’s senate met wednesday to discuss this year’s objectives and bud­gets for the college’s student organizations. 
senior student body presi­dent mcKenna schuster chairs the smc senate, which is the only voting body on campus. The senate’s main responsibil­ity is to ensure each club and sports team receives adequate funding. 
senior vice president of fi­nance marissa pie said each of the college’s 54 recognized stu­dent groups begins with a bud­get of $100, and athletic clubs receive $1,000. 
student groups also have the chance to apply for travel grants and sponsorships, schuster said. 
The council of clubs, which is composed of presidents from each student club and group, approves all sponsorship funds, pie said. 
This year, schuster said one of the senate’s main objectives is to keep the student body up­dated about its decisions and actions. 
“in order to be transparent and keep the student body in­formed, we are emphasizing the importance of town-hall style meetings,” she said. 
The senate also aims to sim­plify the budget for recognized clubs and sports teams and make it more comprehensive and available to the student body, schuster said. There were some concerns with the allo­cation of last year’s funds, she said. 

“we formed this year’s budget after carefully analyzing last year’s budget,” shuster said. “a great amount of thought and research was put into this year’s allocations.” 
The senate also hopes to cre­ate incentives for students to participate in school events and spirit weeks, such as the navy dance and love your body week. 
schuster said she would like to see increased attendance at athletic competitions, social events and lectures. 
“students will receive a punch card to record their at­tendance at various events,” she said. “when the punch card is filled out, prizes will be offered. it’s a fun incentive.” 
Contact Kate Zurovchak at kzurovchak01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Three new trustees join Saint Mary’s board 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
Three new saint mary’s alumnae have joined the college board of Trustees, who will host their next round of meetings oct. 9 and 10, direc­tor of media relations gwen o’brien said. 
The board of Trustees is re-
were all re-elected to the board for their third three-year terms, according to a college press release. william w. cushwa, gretchen a. Flicker (class of 1993), patricia wiedner purcell (class of 1969), sister agnes anne roberts (class of 1951) and david l. Taiclet were elect-
Angela McDonald-Fisher 
Trustee 

Kelly Anne Walsh 
Trustee 

Victoria Wilbraham 
Trustee 

sponsible for governing the 
college and consists of no less 
than 26 and no more than 35 
trustees, according to the gov­
ernance 
 manual. members 
meet 
four times a year in 
october, February, april and bringing with them a great va­
riety of ideas, wilbraham said. 
“working with so many pro­
fessional and successful peo­
ple has been really inspiring,” 
she said.  “saint mary’s does a 
great a job of keeping a diverse 
June. 
The board includes college president carol ann mooney, alumnae association president Kelly anne walsh, one faculty member and one student body member, victoria wilbraham, o’brien said. 
during the board’s spring meeting earlier this year, alum­nae angela mcdonald-Fisher, wilbraham and walsh were elected as trustees, o’brien said. 
m. suzanne sherer calandra (class of 1972), elizabeth r. culligan (class of 1972) and notre dame president emeri­tus Fr. edward “monk” malloy ed to second terms. 
serving as president of the alumnae board of directors since 2012, walsh is a 2001 grad­uate, o’brien said. she earned a bachelor’s degree in statistics and actuarial mathematics at saint mary’s and a master’s in business administration from notre dame. walsh is also an executive with cna insurance, where she has worked for her entire career, o’brien said. 
walsh said she is eager to be involved and apply her real-world experiences to the future vision of saint mary’s. 
“i’m excited to work with such an impressive group of Trustees to advance the mis­sion of saint mary’s college,” walsh said. 
mcdonald-Fisher, a 1991 graduate, earned her bach­elor’s degree in communica­tion studies before pursuing a law degree from the indiana 
university school of law­bloomington, according to the college press release. 
an active saint mary’s alum­na, mcdonald-Fisher served on the alumnae association board of directors from 2012 through this past spring, when she va­cated the position in order to join the board of Trustees. she said she looks forward to join­ing the diverse group of both people on the board. 
“i consider it an honor and a privilege to serve the college in this capacity, “ mcdonald-Fisher said. 
wilbraham will graduate this spring with a history and religious studies degree and a minor in gender and women’s studies. she joins the board for a one-year term as a full voting member in addition to serv­ing as the director of commu­nity involvement for The smart girls group, a national girls 
empowerment movement. 
wilbraham said became in­terested in the student position last year when the board appli­cation was available. 
“even though i am currently a student, i hold a full voting position,” wilbraham said. “The board of Trustees makes important decisions that af­fect every person in the saint mary’s community.” 
although wilbraham does not represent current students, she hopes to bring the perspec­tive of a current student to the board, she said. 
“it is quite an honor to have such a position as a senior in college,” she said. “i have been fortunate to have experienced many different aspects of life here at saint mary’s. i thought that my experiences and per­spective would make me a valuable member.” 
The board is a combination of both women and men who work in many different professions, 
board.” 
mooney expressed confi­dence in the board’s newest members, noting their profes­sional experiences and their commitment to saint mary’s, she said. 
“i always look forward to working with our new trust­ees,” mooney said. “The three women joining our board this year are all highly qualified and will add their own life ex­perience and professional ex­pertise to our discussions and decisions.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekafal01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Diversity 
conTinued From page 1 
eating some of the best food in the world,” morse said. “many of my favorite experiences hap­pened in italy.” 
morse also said he was named one of the top 35 basketball players in europe. 
sophomore italian student stephanie bramer said she at­tended the event for great food but got much more. 
“i would’ve never guessed i would also get my professor’s life story tonight too,” bramer said. “i love italian food and i love my professors. i had to come because it was the perfect mix.” 
senior ana martin, president 


Starbucks 
conTinued From page 1 
establishing itself as an off-campus shopping, restaurant and residential supporting the south bend community and notre dame,” o’connor said. “as the development matured and grew, the cafe needed to evolve to meet the consumer expectations of a high quality 
“As the 
development 
matured and 
grew, the cafe 
needed to evolve to 
meet the consumer 
expectations of 
a high quality 
brand.” 
Jim O’Connor 
vice-president of sales 
Follett Higher Education Group 
brand. This would be accom­plished with a partnership with starbucks.” 
egilmez said his mission is to give each costumer a personal one-on-one experience. 
“we will serve through great service and quality starbucks drinks,” egilmez said. “i want to know each guest and engage with them in a way that makes them feel this is ‘their own’ café.” 
egilmez said he wants to the new starbucks to cater to notre dame students. 



Drugs 
conTinued From page 1 
walters presented statistics that showed the the criminal jus­tice system is the largest reason people enter treatment. 
“it would be nice if people could be educated by family members or friends, but ultimately the sin­gle greatest source of intervention and treatment begins with the criminal justice system,” walters said. 
walters said he wanted the au­dience to know how pertinent it was to seek out the necessary re­sources to help a family member or friend who is potentially strug­gling with addiction. 

of the italian club, who is origi­nally from mexico, said she hopes the event will continue and expose students to more di­verse cultures. 
“my hope is that this is only the beginning,” she said. “i want every culture that represents the saint mary’s community to be represented.” 
sullivan said she hoped the event provided an authentic experience. 
“The italian club wanted to host the diversity dinner to in­augurate the club and to give an experience of the italian cul­ture,” she said. “we hope to offer an exquisite dinner, cooked by real italians.” 
sara bauer, a senior italian minor said she attended the dinner to relive her italian study 
“in almost every case if [drug users] get themselves treatment, there’s always someone who has been a source of compulsion to do that,” walters said. “although this usually is initiated by the criminal justice system, friends and family can be a vital resource of help.” 
walters warned against the po­tential dangers of legalizing mari­juana for recreational use, citing evidence that claimed crime rates in denver have increased dramatically since the installa­tion of marijuana dispensaries in the state. 
“denver is becoming the new detroit,” walters said in regards to the growing rate of crime in the abroad experience 
“i spent a year in rome and miss it every day, so i was ex­cited for the opportunity to have some italian food and reconnect with the girls tonight,” she said. “i think that professor morse is a wonderful and interesting person in general. i had to come for the good food and wonderful reminiscing. 
“each year we’re hoping to build, and i think it’s becoming stronger,” sullivan said. “and it’s encouraging that our cam­pus is really uplifting women’s diversity.” 
The chinese cultural club has already signed up to host the next diversity dinner. 
Contact Chelsea Fattal at cfattal01@saintmarys.edu 
city. 
when a student from the denver area challenged this state­ment, walters drew the crowd’s attention to a potential business owner’s point of view, and how marijuana legalization causes ap­prehension in an owner’s mind. 
“who’s going to want to bring a business to a city or region where they can’t get a workforce that is sober?” walters said. 
The center for ethics and culture, potenziani program in constitutional studies and students for child oriented policy sponsored the discussion. 


Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 

“This is a beautiful, brand new starbucks with a notre dame inspired atmosphere and a very large seating area both indoor and outdoor, which is conducive to everyone, wheth­er they are studying, having a good conversation over a latte or meeting with a professor,” egilmez said. 
caitlin Kinser, marketing manager of notre dame retail operations, said the cafe does not offer student discounts, but will find other ways to draw in students. 
“we would love to partner with student musicians to pro­vide them with a place to per­form,” Kinser said. “we are also looking into partnering with academic departments and professors to bring public aca­demic readings to the cafe.” 
Kinser said the cafe will be a full-service starbucks. 
“The full line of drinks, sea­sonal beverages and foods will be available at the cafe,” she said. “all of your starbucks fa­vorites and future new offer­ings will be in-store.” 
Kinser said the cafe is open to hiring student workers. 
“starbucks at eddy street has and will continue to accept ap­plications from all interested individuals,” she said. “we highly encourage any students who are interested in working at this beautiful new cafe to apply.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 


Gutiérrez 
conTinued From page 1 
gutiérrez focused his talk on the christian call to solidarity and social justice for the poor, while emphasizing the need to understand the fundamental connection between christian theology and the eradication of poverty. gutiérrez said “with the teachings of Francis, we are passage of the last supper serves between the kingdom of god going back to our source.” as a memory of christ and his and the poor. This point, i 
“To announce the gospel is message of serving and loving think, when we fulfill this, we this: Jesus is trying to make thy neighbor. This passage, as are really in the center of the present the kingdom of god to-well as others, demonstrated biblical message. The question day, in our history,” gutiérrez the connection between the of the poor is not only a social said. “To speak about the church and the poor, he said. issue … it is above all a biblical church poor means also to “we have to recall a central issue”. recall this link between the point of the christian mes-gutiérrez also highlighted love of god and the love of our sage: we are challenged for this archbishop oscar romero’s neighbor.” memory,” gutiérrez said. “The work with the impover­
gutiérrez said the biblical center point is the relation ished and marginalized in el 
paid adverTisemenT 


salvador and said romero’s leg­acy served as a “witness of the central point of the christian message”. 
gutiérrez read a quote from archbishop romero, which said, “There is a criteria by which to judge if god is near or is far away. everyone concerned about the hungry, the poor, ev­eryone who has vanished in po­lice custody, for those who have been tortured, for prisoners, for old people who have suffered, these have god close at hand.” 
according to gutiérrez, the ability to love and serve thy neighbor is best exemplified by an understanding of spiritual poverty and the ability to en­gage in solidarity and friend­ship with the poor. 
gutiérrez said the correct way to serve the poor is not to imitate a life of poverty, but rather to condemn poverty as a condition that dehumanizes others. he said the church does not condone poverty because it represents the marginaliza­tion and elimination of human identity . 
“poverty is never good. … real poverty is not only eco­nomic, it is political, social”, gutiérrez said. “The poor are [perceived as] insignificant people for several reasons: cul­tural reasons, racial reasons, gender reasons. To be poor is to be nothing.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 


homesick for ireland 
Kiera Johnsen 
news writer 

The best way to describe the end of the study abroad experience is like waking up after a dream which felt so real it made you wonder, “what just happened?” it almost feels like you were in a time warp. south bend seems the same, yet you’ve changed so much in your absence. when i first came to college, the number one thing i wanted to do was study abroad, and i did. now, upon returning to south bend after a total of eight months (including the summer) away, i find myself confused as to what to do next. everyone always tells you what to do in preparation for and during the study abroad experience, but no one explains how to readjust when you return. no one explains to you how to be less homesick for the country you’ve just left. 
wherever a student goes, he or she leaves as a different person, and ireland was no different. Forgive my cheesiness, but this special emerald isle captured my heart. i spent my spring semester in the tiny col­lege town of maynooth, ireland, in county Kildare, home of the national university of ireland at maynooth (now known as maynooth university). in a way, it is exactly what you imagine a cute irish town to be: it has a medieval castle, farms on the out­skirts, several pubs and a church. 
i have been to seven countries, and ireland is the only place i have ever gone where i was awoken by mooing cows out­side my window at eight in the morning after they escaped their farm and paraded around our apartment complex. ireland is the only place i have ever gone where the two hour bus rides across the country to visit galway were never boring because everywhere you looked was pure beauty. ireland is the only place i have ever gone where i would go into a pub with a couple of my friends and come out having made several more. ireland is the only place i have ever gone where a homeless irish sto­rytelling druid boarded my tour bus sing­ing traditional irish music with his guitar and refused to leave. 
being a born and raised southern californian who grew up in a drought, i had never seen so much wide open green space. while standing atop the hill of Tara on a clear evening with the sun just begin­ning to set, the seemingly endless emer­ald fields full of sheep, charming farms and towns boggled my mind. it was so beautiful. 
yet none of this even begins to describe what it is like. it is just insufficient, and to be honest, i don’t know if i will ever be able to describe it in full. returning from studying abroad makes you nostalgic, and i would be lying if i said this was not the most cheesy and nostalgic article i have ever written in my life. yet i do not care because ireland is worth every piece of sappy nos­talgia that is here. 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohnsen02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
it is happening even if we don’t want to admit it: crude sexual harassment on the @undcrushes Twitter account, inappropriate advances by a class­mate on a cab ride back to campus and the aftermath of violence that cannot be forgotten. These are some of the experiences that many of us have encountered. 
as we progress through our college years at notre dame and saint mary’s, it becomes clear that sexual assault is not something that happens to the am­biguous “other.” email reports arrive in our inboxes far too often, notifying us of acts far worse than the words “non-consensual sexual contact” can begin to convey. such words are the facts we are told, but the personal reality of sexual assault is far worse. 
we must acknowledge that a proliferation of rape culture exists nationally. and it is a problem that continues to plague us here at notre dame and saint mary’s. Just this week, we received two email alerts, the first of the year, citing reports of sexual assault and sexual battery on the notre dame campus. The alerts are the formal notification of a particular inci­dent, but hints of the overall culture appear in other ways – sexually explicit posts on anonymous online confession accounts or overheard conversations in the hallways. 
in the last few years, the gender relations committee and student government have worked to make notre dame a community that recognizes the gravity of sexual assault on campus. and a grow­ing number of students are willing to talk about the problem and react compassionately to victims. prayer services bring together a tangible support group with­out singling out the victim or asking the victim to re­live the events of the attack. posters showing support for survivors of sexual assault that hung on our doors last year made it known that even one assault is too many. but often our efforts to support survivors stop there — with kind words and prayers. 

we are called to do more, and we ought to do so. 
while these new initiatives are encouraging, we as a community have a long way to go. each one of us must act to take a stand against sexual assault and violence, before any incident occurs. 
it’s easy to feel that we can have no tangible impact on the situation, that we cannot end the unhealthy sexual culture that exists in our world. but if we truly believe that one is too many, then each of us must act so there will be one less. 
whenever we hear someone speak about a person as if he or she is a sexual object, we are obligated to speak up and speak out — whether it happens on so­cial media, in the dining hall or in the classroom. 
every word that demeans the value of another per­son contributes to and strengthens a culture that tolerates rape and abuse and exploitation. we can­not expect to change how we treat others if we speak about them as sexual targets. 
as the notre dame community prepares to mark its sexual assault awareness month, we are called to be aware. more than that, we are called to be ac­tive. Together, if we demand and foster a community founded on love and respect, we will move one step closer to being the community we aspire to be. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“stop seeing the obstacles you face as reasons why you can’t do something. see them as a reason why you can.” 

Ali Vincent Winner of the fifth season of ‘The Biggest Loser’ 




The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Struggling to ‘see’ success 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

i love those pictures that double as visual illusions. google “visual illusions” and you’ll see examples of what i am talking about. There is, for example, the intricate picture of a woman whose face and outline doubles as a pastoral landscape. her “hair” doubles as a horse, her “eyes” as hooves, her “face” as mountains, her “nose” as a bird. or there’s the much simpler and perhaps most common example of these illusions: the “vase” which, at second glance, becomes two faces which gaze at each other in empty space. 
when i was in junior high, i combined my love of these illusions with science as i devised what was, in my mind, the perfect experiment for my eighth grade science fair. i spent hours upon hours frustrating tele­marketers and family alike as i searched for more of these illusions on the only portal my family had to the world wide web: dial-up internet. 
Just as the ticking time bomb of my parents’ pa­tience was getting ready to explode, i completed a “test” comprised of 20 of these visual illusions. although i don’t remember the contents of the test (or how “scientific” it actually was), i remember the ques­tion i sought to answer: “who recognizes visual illu­sions better, girls or boys?” 
growing up with my brothers had taught me up to that point that every competition had to have a win­ner. so, for me, this experiment was nothing more than an opportunity to have another competition.  i couldn’t wait to see who had “won!” 
i can remember the shock i felt when i discovered there was no winner. after the results were tal­lied, i discovered no significant difference in each group’s ability to recognize the visual illusions i had compiled. 
To make a long story short, i felt like the experiment was a failure. The dichotomy between what i had expected and what i actually saw made these ending results even more of a disappointment. what was even more confusing was the trophy that sat next to me as i rode home with my parents. i had been declared the winner of the science fair! 
The hearty words of “congratulations” were drowned out by the inner emotions that clamored in my head. did i deserve to win? i didn’t think so. although others were telling me i had done a good job, i could not see it. i could not recognize it for myself. 
what i failed to realize was a deeper truth. any visual illusion is an exercise in recognition. but the struggle to recognize our goodness or success is not just relegated to the realm of science. sometimes we struggle to see it in our lives too. sometimes we think we have “failed” when really, we’ve just received an opportunity to see things in a different way, or per­haps, how things really are. 
That choice, however, is always up to us. 
over the course of the past year, i have been given another opportunity to see. it was, however, another situation in which i struggled to make a choice to see the deeper reality. 
This time, the challenge to see presented itself in the form of an office at the high school where i work. rapidly accumulating dust and allergens, a lack of air and circulation and no exposure to natural light made this place a challenge for me. i could not shake the belief that i needed a bigger and more welcoming space for those students i wished to serve. a big desk took up most of its walk-space and made it difficult to maneuver inside, much less invite people in for a con­versation. no one wanted to come in. 

all of a sudden, though, it hit me. i realized that the desk was simply at an odd angle. if i could move it to be flush against the wall, i would have much more room ... just enough room, it seemed, for a couch on the other wall. and, with a little bit of work, i could clean those areas that had accumulated the most dust. it could be a hospitable place after all! 
a little couch shopping and a few rounds of clean­ing later, i have an office that i am proud of. yes, many of same challenges exist, but it doesn’t eliminate the reality that i do have a space that can be welcoming, if i can see and commit to a vision to make it that way. 
in the book of genesis, god tells us that his creation is good. why do we so often tell ourselves and work as if the reality exists otherwise? let’s commit together to see creation more in line with god’s goodness. god’s reality of love can be our reality too, if we take the time to make it that way. 
Scott Boyle graduated in May of 2012 with a degree in Theology and a minor in Medieval Studies.  He cur­rently lives and works as a Campus and Youth Minister in the Archdiocese of Indianapolis as a member of Notre Dame’s Echo Program.  
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
police weapons: a brief history of crime 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

The Ferguson, missouri, shooting of michael brown and the subsequent police crackdown on both violent and nonviolent protests have sparked a national referendum on american law enforcement. The officers’ equipment in particu­lar has become a focus of discussion, with many in the media and the public calling for the “de­militarization” of american police. our officers, so the argument goes, do not need bulletproof vests, body armor or rifles to serve and protect their fellow citizens. 
it’s comforting to create an imaginary america where “weapons of war” aren’t tools of the trade for law enforcement. however, doing so betrays a woeful ignorance of history. For the last century and a half, law enforcement has often been play­ing a deadly game of catchup. 
originally, american police forces did not is­sue service weapons to their officers. members of the force either purchased their own firearms 
— crude single-shot pistols — or went without. it wasn’t until 1857, when a baltimore officer was nearly killed by a mob, that an american city ad­opted a standard-issue revolver. 
naturally, criminals didn’t take this “milita­rization” lying down. with the end of world war i, the Thompson submachine guns that were in­tended to sweep out the trenches of France were instead dumped on the unregulated civilian mar­ket. The Tommy gun became a favorite of gang­sters nationwide; law enforcement agencies were slower on the uptake. not until 1934, when a gang armed with a machine gun murdered four police officers in Kansas city, did the Fbi begin to sup­ply its agents with Thompsons of their own. 
police found themselves behind the times again in 1966, when retired marine charles whitman smuggled an arsenal of six guns into the main building of the university of Texas at austin. after killing several witnesses, whitman barricaded himself on the observation deck of the building’s famous Tower and then opened fire on his fellow students with a remington 700 scoped rifle. his first target was an unborn boy, whom he deliberately killed by shooting eight­months-pregnant claire wilson through the stomach. The carnage went on for an hour and a half. police, armed only with pistols and shot­guns, could not effectively return fire; desperate civilians grabbed hunting rifles from their home collections and tried to fight back. at last, two officers broke through the barricade and killed whitman, but not before 12 people had been killed and another 31 wounded. 
in the wake of the Texas Tower massacre and the growth of violent antigovernment militias like the black panther party, america quickly realized the police were once again ill-equipped for the tasks assigned them. This led to the for­mation of the first special weapons and Tactics 
— swaT — teams. over the next decade, these highly trained units were essential to the de­feat of terrorist groups like the symbionese liberation army. 
yet as always, criminals kept innovating. in 1986, the Fbi chased down serial bank robbers russell matix and michael lee platt in miami, Florida. despite four-to-one numerical superior­ity, the agents found their .38 special revolvers outgunned by platt’s semiautomatic ruger mini­14 rifle. Two agents were slain and two more were wounded. This incident led to the addition of the .40 smith and wesson semiautomatic handgun to the Fbi’s arsenal. 
The consequences of an under-equipped po­lice force were illustrated again in los angeles in 1997. at the time, an average of three armed robberies and two gun homicides occurred in the city every day. police had spent months lobby­ing for better weapons and gear to deal with the threat, but fallout from the rodney King beating five years prior had made such a move politically untenable. The lapd’s requests were denied. 

on Feb. 28, 1997, larry phillips and emil matasareanu robbed bank of america’s north hollywood branch. The pair were armed with four assault rifles illegally converted into ma­chine guns and thousands of rounds of armor-piercing ammunition. phillips was covered from the neck down in aramid body armor, while matasareanu wore a bulletproof vest and a metal trauma plate over his heart. in their 44 minute shootout with the lapd, the pair repeatedly shrugged off pistol and shotgun bullets, while fir­ing back with their own automatic rifles. police officers were forced to commandeer assault rifles from local gun stores to even the odds; with no armored car, lapd swaT borrowed the bank’s own delivery vehicle to rescue the wounded. before the two robbers were killed, they’d man­aged to shoot 18 police and bystanders. 
There are, of course, other methods of ensuring the police will not find themselves outgunned. For instance, the national Firearms act of 1934 was aimed at curtailing civilian access to ma­chine guns, and has sharply reduced their use in crimes since its introduction. but at least for the moment, gun control stands no chance of pass­ing. as a result, we owe it to our police forces to adequately equip them for the dangers they will face on the beat. 
i’ll close with a quote from Theodore roosevelt, former president of the united states and gun violence victim. in his 1913 autobiography, he reflected on his tenure as new york police commissioner, saying “i have not the slightest sympathy with any policy which tends to put the policeman at the mercy of a tough, or which de­prives him of efficient weapons.” 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying Chemical Engineering. He lives in Alumni Hall and can be reached at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer |FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

“Too bright,” the third lp from mike hadreas, who records under the moni­ker perfume genius, is a testament to how the personal is political. his first two records were lo-fi collections of vul­nerable songs backed mostly by piano. They discussed abuse, addiction, sui­cide and his identity as a gay man, with a bracing emotional honesty. 
This album is hadreas’ first proper pop moment, but one that dispenses none of the emotion. he told pitchfork that he “wanted to write music that would be in a commercial — but pull it off with integrity while sounding at least somewhat earnest.” The resulting record is a confident evolution in the vein of annie clark’s emergence as a violet-haired, “near-future cult leader” on st. vincent’s self-titled album ear­lier this year. The cover of “Too bright” suggests a similar stylistic leap forward, 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

although most of us don’t have time/ talent/energy/resources to produce an entire album about them, we all fall victim to the harmless crush from time to time. Karen lee orzolek, or Karen o as her stage name goes, at­tempts to capture the essence of those curious little infatuations in her re­cently released album, appropriately named “crush songs.” o, lead singer of ingenious indie pop group yeah yeah yeahs, will forever be known in the music world for her eccentric per­formances, off-the-wall fashion and all around creativity. comprised of 15 short tracks, “crush songs” were all written between 2006 and 2010, a pe­riod of “crushing” in o’s life. 
most of the tracks on “crush songs” are simple, with o delicately singing accompanied by simple guitar melo­dies and the occasional drum loop. Though simplicity is not inherently SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 
with hadreas sporting slicked-back hair and a gold-sequined tank top. it’s the work of an art-pop auteur who has complete command of his music and imagery. 
The album opener “i decline” falls in line with much of his previous piano-based work. it’s a stark song in which he hauntingly sings, “i can see for miles, the same old line. no thanks, i decline.” That rejection of convention runs as a theme throughout much of “Too bright.” 
it is followed up by the soaring “Queen,” one of the year’s best singles. The chugging david bowie-esque bass is as abrasive as the lyrics, which find him confronting gay panic head on. he spits out the homophobic insults he’s received — “cracked, peeling, riddled with disease” — with a visceral anger. “no family is safe when i sashay,” he defiantly sings on the chorus, as prov­ocation becomes empowerment. The accompanying music video is equal­ly fantastic — a surrealist lynchian 
bad in music — especially with such a gifted singer — most of “crush songs” feels a bit under developed, almost half-heartedly done. Fans excited to hear the fire and passion signature of yeah yeah yeahs may be bit disap­pointed with “crush songs.” The over­whelming sentiment of love and its fleeting nature is constant throughout much of the album, however nothing really sticks as a meaningful takeaway. 
hazy, muffled singing is pretty con­stant throughout the entire album. most tracks are presented with very simple, mildly poetic lyrics. The play­ful nature of the album can be taking as refreshing, however the novelty is short-lived. a perfect example is o’s cover of The doors’ classic “indian summer,” which only hints at what could have been an interesting cover, if only better established. 
don’t be too upset, loyal Karen o fans, there are definitely some gems hidden amongst the overwhelming okay album. “rapt,” released earlier fantasy about gender identity that ex­hibits hadreas’ stunning artistry. 
The first two tracks set the blueprint for the rest of the record: a mix of glam rock and confessional ballads. Thanks to co-production from portishead’s adrian utley, hadreas sounds espe­cially thrilling when expanding into new sonic territory. The sound is a per­fect match for the subject matter, which continues to explore identity politics through personal experience. “grid” is the best example, with its synth bass and primal screams matching his world-weary lyrics. hadreas concludes that life is just “a diamond swallowed and [expletive], then swallowed again.” The industrial “my body” is imbued with a streak of self-loathing, “i wear my body like a rotted peach,” he screams in between blasts of distortion. 
The ballads are just as compelling, and often filled with just as much rage and insecurity. on the tender closer “all along,” hadreas sings, “deep down i 
this summer off the album, can cer­tainly stand on its own up against much of o’s other artistic work. echoing the delightfully heartwarming lyric, “do i really need another habit like you,” “rapt” perfectly captures the essence of a crush. The simplicity and almost flippant production of “crush songs” works just right in “rapt.” For those of you like me who fell in love with o’s “moon song,” and the rest of spike Jonzes’ “her” for that matter, “rapt” will be delightfully reminiscent. unfortunately, it is almost as if the rest of the album is just an imperfect at­tempt at recreating what works so well in “rapt.” 
speaking of Jonze, the filmmaker recently gave his long time friend o a big surprise. while helping to pro­duce a one-act play at the new york metropolitan opera house, Jonze put together an impromptu music vid­eo for “crush songs” opening track “ooo.” proof of o and Jonze’s undeni­able compatibility, the video perfectly never felt right. even now, sometimes that feeling’s a lie.” even with his evo­lution in sound, the emotion that first drew listeners to perfume genius is still there. all 11 songs on “Too bright” pack a punch, revealing new layers to hadreas’ immense talent. 

in an interview with stereogum, hadreas said, “i’m sick of constantly seeking out reassurance and accep­tance whether it’s given to me or not. … i just want to take it and give it to my­self. and i think a lot of this album is me trying to do that, trying to figure out my place that i can make for myself.” That confidence establishes “Too bright” as a step forward for perfume genius, as well as one of the year’s best albums. by not worrying about others’ expecta­tions, hadreas goes a long way toward establishing a place for himself — in the indie rock world and in society at large. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at                  mmunhall@nd.edu 
captures the airy playfulness intrinsic in “crush songs.” actress elle Fanning gracefully strolls through the empty met, stopping for the occasional twirl and giggle, and o’s “ooo” saturates the background. 
The video does one more thing. while watching the short video, i real­ized where “crush songs” could work. Though it’s quite a stretch to say “crush songs” can stand on its own a full fledge album, it certainly works to set a mood. There is a reason for this too: o has yet to shake off the “soundtrack mantra,” which is very understandable as o only recently finished her work in produc­ing the soundtrack for the film “where the wild Things are” and also recently provided material the soundtrack of “her.” almost all o’s work outside of the yeah yeah yeahs has been with soundtracks, and “crush songs” can be taken as a residual effect. 
 Contact Adam Ramos at                            aramos6@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ALLEGRA WALLINGFORD 
scene writer 

as much as i would love to say that “red band society” is this season’s must-watch show, i cannot recommend it. upon see­ing the previews for the show, i was excit­ed to see the premiere last week but was disappointed with what i saw. i wanted to see the second episode before i allowed myself to judge the series, and i can now confidently put it on my skip list. 
The show’s pilot episode introduced several characters, each representing a common stereotype of teens. There’s the snotty cheerleader, the bad boy, the annoyingly smart girl, the funny black friend and the new kid. The characters really aren’t developed more than that, aside from the fact that they are each diagnosed with a serious medical con­dition. The heartless cheerleader, Kara, ironically, has an enlarged heart. emma, the nerdy girl, struggles with anorexia, while the black friend, dash, has cystic fibrosis. The bad boy leo and the new kid 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

hermione granger was the original #girlboss. a heroine who had book-smarts and wasn’t afraid to show them off or con­tribute ideas to her sometimes “dimwitted” male counterparts, she was the empow­ering female figure young girls needed. hermione not only brought us this en­abling fictional character, but she brought out another female role model: the equal­ly smart and driven actress behind her, emma watson. 
watson graduated from brown university last may and now serves as the united nations women goodwill ambassador. she addressed the un saturday to promote the #heForshe campaign, a movement to get men more involved in the issue of gen­der equality. 
“how can we effect change in the world when only half of it is invited to participate in the conversation? men, i would like to take this opportunity to extend your for­mal invitation. gender equality is your is­sue, too.,” she said. “i want men to take up this mantle so their daughters, sisters and mothers can be free from prejudice but also so their sons have permission to be vulnerable and human too and in doing so, be a more true and complete version of Jordi both have potentially terminal can­cer, and the narrator charlie is a young boy in a coma. These conditions do add to the characters’ identities, but i worry that the show will fail to go beyond developing their characters within the scope of their respective conditions. however, while the character development is lacking, the writers do a good job of bringing some humor into the show. leo, who is missing a leg due to osteosarcoma, plays golf us­ing his prosthetic leg as a club. The cheer­leader Kara’s parents are introduced as a worried heterosexual couple in the pilot, but in the second episode they are a les­bian power couple. when her mother dis­covers that Kara needs a heart transplant, she tries to cajole a male nurse to move Kara to the top of the transplant list. The nurse responds that the hospital doesn’t give in to bribery, to which the mother responds, “listen girlfriend, we didn’t become out magazine’s 7th most power­ful lesbian couple in southern california by working our way up a freaking list. now tell me who i have to call to get a 
themselves.” 
she acknowledged the stigma against the word “feminism” and its perceived conno­tation of “man-hating.” 
“why has the word become such an un­comfortable one? i think it is right i am paid the same as my male counterparts. i think it is right that i should make decisions about my own body. i think it is right that women be involved on my behalf in the policies and decisions that will affect my life. i think it is right that socially, i am afforded the same respect as men,” she said. 
watson’s eloquent, empowering speech has attracted lots of news and social me­dia attention this week. one of the first to respond to the #heForshe movement was Joseph gordon-levitt. 
gordon-levitt has addressed the nega­tive associations with feminism before, most notably on the ellen show back in January. 
“i do call myself a feminist. absolutely!” Joseph explained on the show. “it’s worth paying attention to the roles that are sort of dictated to us and that we don’t have to fit into those roles. we can be anybody we wanna be.” 
levitt brought these views back to the forefront on monday, tweeting a video ask­ing people to respond with what feminism means to them. he tweeted the video asking quality ticker around here.” humor aside, the show glorifies serious illness. These kids are supposedly very ill, but they are all beautiful and healthy looking, not to mention having a grand old time. 
now for the biggest issue i have with this show: it’s completely unrealistic. i nor­mally don’t have a problem with shows being impractical; in fact that’s usually what makes a show enjoyable. however, because the show is taking place in a pe­diatric ward of a hospital and addresses very serious medical conditions, the writers need to be careful. This is tough territory to navigate, but it’s definitely do­able, as seen in “The Fault in our stars.” hopefully the show can strike a balance between lighthearted fun and serious is­sues, but until then i’ll discuss the ridicu­lousness of the show’s setting. First of all, the hospital looks nothing like a typical hospital. it is beautifully designed, with lots of windows and spacious, decorated rooms that look like something out of “house beautiful” magazine. next, there is a startling lack of parental units in the 
to get #Feminism trending, as the first au­tofill on Twitter was #Feministsareugly. he plans to use some of the submitted re­sponses in an upcoming feminist-focused episode of his Tv show, “hitrecord: on Tv.” 
with watson and levitt supporting this motion to reform society’s view of “the f-word,” the campaign is sure to continue to receive media attention. let’s just say that when the two stood on stage at the oscars together last year, i may or may not have tweeted, “omg emanaT aaTson and Joseph gordon leviTT TogeTher cryinh omg whaT love power couple,” an unfiltered display of the raw, impassioned emotions these two can produce. 
although watson and levitt are at the front of the topic of gender equality this week, the subject of feminism has been a contentious subject addressed by everyone from beyonce to Tina Fey this year. 
beyonce has been the topic of numerous feminist articles this year – referencing her song “***Flawless” and its incorporation of chimamanda ngozi adichie’s speech “we should all be Feminists,” as well as the illu­minated FeminisT sign incorporated into her vma performance. 
Tina Fey’s autobiography title, “bossypants,” says it all. a woman who is hospital. These kids have serious diag­noses, and none of them seem to have a family that is there to support them. nurse Jackson (octavia spencer) acts as a tough-loving mother to the teens, but even so there is a noticeable lack of su­pervision and support. The patients walk in and out of the hospital like it’s no big deal, taking joy rides in doctors’ cars and attending frat parties in the middle of the day. The narrator, charlie, says “The only thing harder than breaking out of a hos­pital is breaking back in.” yet, once the teens return to the hospital ,they are only given a slap on the wrist and then it’s off to physical therapy! The setting remind­ed me more of “The suite life of Zack and cody” than a pediatric ward of a hospital. 

i’m sad to say that “red band society” does not live up to the hype, but don’t take my word for it -- it’s worth checking out at least the first episode if you’ve got some free time. 
Contact Allegra Wallingford at                  awalling@nd.edu 
direct and effective in communication is considered bossy, whereas a man in that same situation would more likely be con­sidered a powerful leader. Fey recently spoke out against the idea of “grey-faced men with two-dollar haircuts” trying to de­fine “legitimate rape” for women. 
This call to revive and refine feminism and gender equality is especially relevant after the recent nude photo leaks of celeb­rities, all female, on 4chan. unfortunately, after emma watson delivered her address for gender equality, threats were posted on the website warning “emma, you are next.” although this blackmail, thankfully, proved empty – according to cnn, this is exactly the type of demeaning objectifica­tion these movements are working to elim­inate from our culture. 
The movement is being promoted by celebrities, which works to bring it to the attention of the public. however, we must continue where they leave off – we must promote gender equality in our own lives, we must not restrict people’s aspirations due to accepted gender roles and we must support each other in this movement. For, as emma watson so ardently stated, “if not (us), who? if not now, when?” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                          emcaulif@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Burn book for the Ryder Cup 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
if you happened to look at espn or sports illustrated recently, you might have no­ticed that the ryder cup began Tuesday. 
For everyone but the en­thusiast, that’s the biennial golf tournament between the best the u.s. has to offer and europe’s finest, with pride and a giant trophy on the line. 
unfortunately, this year, many of the 24 players that make up both teams are rela­tive unknowns in the sporting world. This makes it hard to cheer wildly for national pride, mostly because you have no idea just who you are cheering for. 
but fear not. i am here to pro­vide you with all you need to know. what’s more, i can speak in a language anyone can un­derstand. allow me to present, for your entertainment and education: players in the ryder cup if they were characters in “mean girls.” 
Phil Mickelson is Cady Heron 
phil mickelson is easy to root for, just like a home-schooled, lonely cady heron. he struggles in the ryder cup, just like cady struggles to de­feat regina. he has his limits, just like cady. when he was asked just before the tourney if the u.s. team had any issues getting along, he took the op­portunity to poke fun at rory mcilroy and graeme mcdowell of the european squad, who are currently involved in a le­gal battle. if that isn’t turning an army against itself in the most cady heron-esque way possible, what is? 
Rory McIlroy is Regina George 
if only one person on the pga did car commercials in Japan, it would be rory mcilroy. you just know his hair’s been insured for $10,000. with an absolutely outstanding 2014 under his belt — includ­ing victories at the open and pga championships in which he personally victimized the field — rory would love to be spring Fling Queen and win that ryder cup once again. 
Rickie Fowler is Aaron Samuels 
Just 25 years old, Fowler earns the distinction of being one of the few golfers in the cup to whom “mean girls” might be culturally relevant. as an added bonus, he’s got a great head of hair, so you know he’ll look good with it pushed back. unfortunately, the cup ends before oct. 3. 
Bubba Watson is Karen Smith 
watson is one of the more colorful personalities in golf, but he has probably never made out with his cousin. but that doesn’t mean he and Karen don’t share any interests. Karen might only wear pink on wednesdays, but bubba will use his trademark pink driver all ryder cup long. 
Hunter Mahan is Gretchen Weiners 
gretchen is a classic follower who just wants to be appreci­ated. she doesn’t want to be the star, but she will not switch po­sitions in the “Jingle bell rock” performance. hunter mahan is part of a pga boy band that in­cludes bigger stars like bubba watson and rickie Fowler. you can bet mahan is looking to get closer to the top in this cup. 
Sergio Garcia is Janis Ian 
garcia is one of the least popular golfers in america. he’s standoffish, whiny and has engaged in a heated feud with golf’s former regina george, Tiger woods. Janis has her moments to be sure, but she’s nothing if not combative. something tells me these two would love to get together and bash on their least favorite people. 
Ian Poulter is Damian 
There is almost undoubt­edly no golfer in the cup that owns a purple tuxedo and a pink shirt — except for poulter. The man has sported some of the most legendary pants in Tour history, including a pair of union Jack trousers that put even rickie Fowler’s burnt orange ones to shame. i also heard he’s a big danny devito fan. 
Tom Watson is Ms. Norbury 
The u.s. team captain will not actually play in the cup, but make no mistake — he is vital to america’s chances. much like a certain mathlete coach, he has to manage a group of volatile personalities in the hopes of pulling off a massive upset. 
Stephen Gallacher is Glenn Coco 
you go, stephen gallacher. you go. 
oh and then there’s Tiger woods. he doesn’t even go here. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Toler breaks through when needed most 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — greg Toler could see everything playing out right in front of him. 
late in last week’s game at Jacksonville, he saw the colts de­fensive line put some pressure on quarterback blake bortles, forc­ing him to scramble. Then Toler’s eye caught a Jaguars receiver cut­ting across the field towards him. 
“bortles kind of just stared him down the whole way just wait­ing for him to get in his throwing lane,” he said. “i kind of just snuck from my man to the guy coming across and just happened to jump into it. From there on, i was just looking for blue jerseys and they led me to the end zone.” 
easy as that. 
Toler’s score put the game away. indy’s first win of the season. 
The sixth year cornerback is starting to find a groove. 
he is tied for second in the nFl for interceptions with two this season. he had one in week 2 against philadelphia, too. 
another takeaway on sunday against Tennessee (1-2) would be the first time in Toler’s career to record an interception in three straight games. 
it’s been hard. he’s dealt with nagging injuries for much of his career. 
“Just staying healthy has al­ways been my biggest thing in my career,” he said. “i feel like if i stay healthy then i can match-up with any guy on the field. i just have to feel good. if my body feels good, the sky’s the limit.” 

in 2011, he suffered a season-ending acl injury. For much of last season he fought through a groin injury before having sur­gery this offseason. 
injury after injury. From his shoulder to his foot to his elbow. his back, hip, and hamstring. 
now, Toler has sore ribs — an injury he suffered in the season-opener at denver. he returned Thursday after sitting out part of wednesday’s practice and the colts (1-2) expect him to play sunday against the Titans. 
Toler is needed. he’s part of a strong trio in the indianapolis secondary. 
like Toler, vontae davis and darius butler have found a groove, too. 
davis had an interception against Jacksonville — a turn­over the colts turned into a touchdown. 
butler was in on the action, too. he recovered a fumble late in the first half of last week’s game. another turnover that indy con­verted into a touchdown. 
“we want to put our finger­print on the game,” butler said. “we want to make plays when we have opportunities to make plays. we’re clicking right now and i think we’ll get better with the more reps we get. as the sea­son continues each week, we’ll get better and better and making more and more plays.” 
like Toler, davis (ankle) and butler (neck) missed some or all of practice on wednesday and returned for full practice on Thursday, and are expected to play this week. 
Things are simply falling in place for indy’s cornerbacks, but it didn’t happen overnight. it’s been something that has come together over time. Toler says it started as the three began build­ing a relationship when they were drafted in the same class back in 2009. 
“it’s a good thing that we all came in at the same time,” he said. “we knew one another com­ing into (the colts) at that point. last season we saw it really form­ing and we knew what we were capable of.” 
Toler saw it despite last season’s injury. The support, communica­tion and involvement he had with davis and butler back then has carried over to this season with the way they prepare, communi­cate and work together, Toler said. 
and the colts are better with butler, davis, and Toler, too. The combination certainly makes it easy for guys like veteran safety mike adams. 
“They have the capabilities of just locking in one-on-one and they don’t need the help over the top like some corners do in the league,” adams said. “The tan­dem we have is one of the best i’ve ever seen.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Big Ten heats up 
Associated Press 
a look at some things to watch as big Ten play begins in earnest: 
Game of the week: 
minnesota at michigan. The little brown Jug is on the line. so, it seems, is brady hoke’s job based on the noise coming out of ann arbor. last week’s 16-point loss to utah at home, following the 31-0 defeat at notre dame two weeks ear­lier, has made this as much a must-win game as there can be in late september. as of mid­week, hoke still was undecid­ed on his quarterback. devin gardner, the starter in 21 of the last 22 games, has thrown six in­terceptions already. one of the things michigan has done well is stop the run, and that will be key this week. gophers work­horse david cobb is running for 135 yards a game and is the only weapon for a minnesota team that ranks 124th national­ly in passing. michigan has won six straight against gophers, all by 14 points or more, and 22 of the last 23 meetings. 

Best matchup: 
maryland at indiana. The Terrapins play their inaugu­ral big Ten game against a hoosiers team that upset then-no. 18 missouri on the road. look for lots of points in this one. indiana’s Tevin coleman is the nation’s leading rusher 
(189.7 ypg), and he’ll be going against a maryland defense that’s worst in the big Ten against the run. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
Fall Break at The beach in Destin FL Call 214-632-2868 www.vrbo. com/71701 www.vrbo.com/582081 BEAT FSU! 
STANFORD -FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/Eddy Street - prime location. Email nd­house@sbcglobal.net 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
There’s a lady who’s sure all that glitters is gold and she’s buying a stairway to heaven. When she gets there she knows, if the stores are all closed with a word she can get what she came for. Ooh, ooh, and she’s buying a stairway to heaven. There’s a sign on the wall but she wants to be sure ‘cause you know sometimes words have two meanings. In a tree by the brook, there’s a songbird who sings, sometimes all of our thoughts are misgiven. Ooh, it makes me wonder. Ooh, it makes me wonder. There’s a feeling I get when I look to the west, and my spirit is crying for leaving. In my thoughts I have seen rings of smoke through the trees, and the voices of those who stand looking. Ooh, it makes me wonder. Ooh, it really makes me wonder. 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame travels to face Miami, Florida State 
Observer Staff Report 
continuing to recover from some early-season struggles, the irish prepare for a difficult inaugural weekend of their 18­game acc schedule when they travel to take on miami and no. 6 Florida state this weekend. 
notre dame will open Friday against the hurricanes (7-4), who have had bright spots as well as rough patches to start the season. They began by hosting the hurricane invita­tional and sweeping seton hall, Florida a&m and Florida gulf coast in nine consecutive win­ning sets. after going 1-2 in both the Tcu nike invitaional and the hotelred invitational, the hurricanes returned home last weekend and beat uncg and missouri to maintain a spotless 5-0 record on their own court. 
hurricanes freshman setter haley Templeton is second in the acc with 373 assists, in part due to her combinations with senior outside hitter savanah leaf, who is also second in the conference with 163 kills. 
after their Friday game against miami, the irish will travel from coral gables to Tallahassee to face off against a daunting sixth-ranked Florida state (11-0) squad sunday. in the preseason coaches poll, Florida state was named the favorite to win the acc. The seminoles have lived up to the hype so far, with a powerful offense and a .272 attack percentage. 
The undefeated seminoles are led by three preseason all­acc honorees, including ju­nior nicole walch, who leads the team with 181 kills. They finished their non-conference schedule this past weekend with 3-0 and 3-1 wins, both against no. 22 Texas a&m. 

notre dame (3-8) wrapped up its non-conference schedule this past weekend in the purdue active ankle challenge, picking up its second and third wins of the season against morehead state and st. louis to finish sec­ond in the tournament. 
notre dame’s success came on the heels of a frustrating 1-7 start to the season, marked by the loss of senior outside hit­ter Toni alugbue to an acl tear in the preseason. when com­pounded with the graduation of last season’s starting setter and libero, there were many holes to fill on the relatively inexperi­enced squad. 
Three freshmen have 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish begin fall season at home 

assumed regular starting roles to fill the vacancies – middle blocker sam Fry, outside hitter sydney Kuhn and libero natalie Johnson. Fry leads the team in blocks with seven and block as­sists with 44. senior Jeni houser and graduate student nicole smith have provided a veteran presence as well, with a team-high 117 kills for houser and 81 for smith. 
as the notre dame squad con­tinues to come together, it will face some of its toughest tests in its first acc games this weekend against two talented teams. 
The irish will face miami at 7 p.m. Friday at the James 
l. Knight complex in coral gables, Florida, followed by Florida state at 1 p.m. sunday at the Tully gym in Tallahassee, Florida. 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
The irish get their fall sea­son underway this week­end with the notre dame invitational at the courtney Tennis center. 
illinois, louisville, purdue, Tulane and akron will all be at the event, which will give every player three singles matches and two doubles contests. irish coach Jay louderback said the team is excited for the tournament and he is looking forward to seeing his team in action. 
“in all the fall tourna­ments, the biggest thing is just match time,” louderback said. “all the players have been practicing and they worked hard over the sum­mer, but there is nothing like getting out there and playing in matches. it will be big for all of them to get back out there.” 
beyond getting the expe­rience, louderback said the irish are focused on figur­ing out doubles parings and finding out how different members of the team play together. 
“another key for me is to see what we look like in doubles,” louderback said. “we don’t really bring back any of last year’s pairings, so the fall is great to be able to get a look at the doubles and watch some different combinations.” 
when asked about specific pairings, louderback said the team is still finalizing its options and will be flexible throughout the weekend. 

“we are still deciding on the exact groups,” louderback said. “we probably won’t re­ally commit until right at the tournament and, again, the big deal is just to see as many combinations as we can and find out what works well.” 
Two players louderback will not see this weekend are sophomore monica robinson and junior Quinn gleason. both will be heading to pacific palisades, california, for the international Tennis association women’s all­american championships. robinson starts play saturday, while gleason is expected to start play wednesday. louderback said he is excited for both of his players’ success. 
“This is a great deal for Quinn and monica,” louderback said. “it’s the first national tournament of the year and for them to get in and face some great play­ers from around the coun­try will be big for them and should end up helping the whole team.” 
despite the absence of gleason and robinson, the irish will have several top players in action this week­end. louderback said he is excited to see each of them, but most of the buzz is around the two highly-recruited freshman brooke broda and allison miller. louderback said he looks for­ward to seeing the freshman in competition, but is more focused on just seeing every­body play matches against quality teams. 
“we just want to see all of them,” louderback said. “each player has things we want to see and we will get to see them against competi­tion. illinois, purdue are big Ten schools and are always tough. ... we haven’t played [louisville] in awhile, but with them moving into the acc this season, it will be good to get a look at them as we get some matches under our belt.” 
louderback said the irish are looking forward to get­ting the season underway, especially on their own campus. 
“it should be great,” louderback said. “we get to play and we get to play at home. we are looking for­ward to it.” 
The notre dame invitational gets underway at 10 a.m. Friday and continues saturday at 10 
a.m. and 9 a.m. sunday. all matches will be at the courtney Tennis center. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 



MLB | naTionals 7, meTs 4 

nationals fall to mets 
Associated Press 
washingTon — ryan Zimmerman tested his heal­ing right hamstring, play­ing seven innings in the playoff-bound washington nationals’ 7-4 loss to the new york mets in the opener of a day-night doubleheader Thursday. 
matt den dekker singled home the go-ahead run off Tyler clippard (7-4) in the eighth inning to help the mets (77-81) avoid clinch­ing a sixth consecutive los­ing season for at least a few hours. wilmer Flores drove den in dekker from second with an infield single, and ruben Tejada singled home another run in the ninth. 
curtis granderson also had three of new york’s 15 hits and drove in three runs to prevent nl east-champion washington from clinching home field throughout the nl playoffs until at least Friday. Flores had three singles. 
carlos Torres (8-5) pitched the seventh, and Jenrry mejia worked the ninth for his 28th save. 
nationals left-hander gio gonzalez (9-10) faced mets righty Zach wheeler (11-10) in the second game Thursday. The nationals also play a home double­header Friday against the miami marlins. 
washington’s blake Treinen allowed four runs on eight hits in 4 1-3 innings, the shortest of his seven spot starts this season, while new york’s dillon gee gave up four runs on nine hits over five. 
Zimmerman went 1 for 4 and played left field in his second start since straining the hamstring in late July. he’s batting .286 with 37 rbi in 56 games as he attempts to get healthy for washington’s postseason. 
Zimmerman scored in the fourth after singling, going first-to-third at 75-percent pace on adam laroche’s single, and running home at a similar speed on ian desmond’s sacrifice fly to center. 
saturday in his first start back, Zimmerman went 2 for 3, tripled and drove in a run, and was also removed after seven. he was slated to play third on Tuesday before residual soreness prompted manager matt williams to reduce him to a pinch hit­ting role. Then rain wiped out his scheduled start in left wednesday. 
Trainer’s Room 
nationals: cF denard span was left out of Thursday’s early game two days af­ter he departed following a tumbling catch in the se­ries opener. manager matt williams said span could be an option in the late game. “if for some reason he doesn’t feel good, then we have other options, too,” williams said. 
mets: after david wright 3b (inflamed left shoul­der) said wednesday he’s in the beginning stages of a six-week rehab program in hopes of avoiding sur­gery, manager Terry collins Thursday said he may be more aggressive in resting wright next season. “what i’ve got to do is forget about the asking and just give him some time off,” collins said. . c Travis d”arnaud (un­specified ailment) will not play at least until he sees mets team doctors Friday, collins said. 
Up Next 
nationals: Taylor hill (0­0, 4.15) will make his first career major league start Friday, though it’s not clear whether he will pitch the day or night game. doug Fister (15-6, 2.55) will make the other start against miami, which is pitching rhp Jared cosart (13-10, 3.70) early and lhp andrew heaney (0­3, 5.33) late. 
mets: lhp Jonathan niese (9-11, 3.50) will attempt to reach the 10-win plateau for the third time in his career in a series opener against houston’s brad peacock (4­9, 4.82). 
NFL 

Rice video sent to NFL in April, law official says 
Associated Press 
aTlanTic ciTy, n.J. — The video of ray rice punching his fiancee inside a casino elevator was sent to nFl headquarters to the attention of league secu­rity chief Jeffrey miller in april, a law enforcement official says. 
The nFl has repeatedly said no one with the league saw the violent images until TmZ sports released the video ear­lier this month. miller said Thursday through an nFl spokesman that he never re­ceived the video. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity be­cause he wasn’t authorized to release details of the case, said he doesn’t know if miller ever saw the dvd or opened the package. his only commu­nication with the nFl was a 12-second voicemail on april 9 from league offices confirming receipt of the package, in which a woman says, “you’re right. it’s terrible.” 
The official told the ap two weeks ago that he sent the video to the nFl, but asked the ap not to report that he had ad­dressed the package to miller. he eliminated that restriction Thursday. 
“since the nFlpa and nFl have launched separate inves­tigations into the league and the ravens’ handling of ray rice’s case, i want to make a few things clear. no one from the nFl ever asked me for the inside-elevator video,” the of­ficial said Thursday. “i mailed it anonymously to Jeff miller because he’s their head of se­curity. i attached a note saying: ‘ray rice elevator video. you have to see it. it’s terrible.’ i provided a number for a dis­posable cellphone and asked for confirmation that it was re­ceived. i knew there was a pos­sibility mr. miller may not get the video, but i hoped it would land in the right hands.” 

miller, in london preparing for the raiders-dolphins game sunday, issued a statement to the ap Thursday night through an nFl spokesman. 
“i unequivocally deny that i received at any time a copy of the video, and i had not watched it until it was made public on september 8,” he said. 
miller joined the league in 2008 as director of strategic security and was promoted to chief security officer in april 2011. before joining the nFl, miller spent nearly six years as the commissioner of the pennsylvania state police. he worked for the state police for 24 years. 

at the nFl, miller’s respon­sibilities include overseeing investigative programs and services. he is also in charge of event security and game integ­rity. when players get arrested, the nFl’s corps of investiga­tors rarely get involved, leaving that to local law enforcement. The league’s security opera­tives gather court documents and police reports available to the public, but don’t ordinarily interview witnesses or gather evidence independently. 
it remains unclear what happened to the video once it arrived at league offices. There are two nFl executives named Jeffrey miller, but the law enforcement official didn’t know that, and intended it to go to the chief of security. nFl spokesman brian mccarthy said the other Jeffrey miller — who is involved in lobbying for the league — did not report re­ceiving the video. 
The law enforcement official said he wanted to make sure the nFl had the video before deciding on rice’s punishment. 
“my intention wasn’t to bring down commissioner goodell or anyone else at the nFl,” he said. 
he said he didn’t know the identity of the woman who left him the voicemail. he said he chose miller because of his law enforcement background, even though he didn’t know him personally. 
rice, a former pro bowl run­ning back for the baltimore ravens, was arrested in atlantic city on an assault charge for hitting Janay palmer in February. a police summons stated that rice had struck palmer with his hand, knock­ing her unconscious. rice has been accepted into new Jersey’s pretrial intervention program, which enabled him to avoid jail time and could result in having the charge ex­punged from his record. 
initially, goodell suspended rice — who has since married palmer — for two games. after criticism, goodell announced new stiffer penalties for future domestic violence cases. after video of the punch in the ca­sino elevator was released, the ravens cut rice and goodell suspended him indefinitely. 




MEN’S INTERHALL 

Otters look to knock off Vermin 

By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
carroll will look to im­prove upon its 1-0 record and take control of the divi­sion sunday when it takes on sorin at riehle Fields at 
3:30p.m. 
despite putting up 21 points against Fisher last weekend, carroll (1-0) soph­omore captain and running back Zachary dodd said his team will make changes on the offensive side of the ball. 
“we are going to add some things on offense this week,” dodd said. “last week we had a good show­ing so we aren’t going to do anything drastic, just build on some things. because we don’t know much about sorin’s offense, our game plan is more to just make adjustments as the game goes on.” 
dodd believes his de­fense, which shutout the green wave (0-1) last week­end, will be a major factor on the outcome of the game. 
“The strongest part of our team is our defense, espe­cially the line,” dodd said. 

This will be the first game of the season for sorin (0­
0) but junior captain John pearl said his team cannot afford to get off to a slow start. 
“we have to be ready right out of the gate,” pearl said. “if we stick to our game plan and stay disciplined, we’ll have a chance. carroll has always put together a good team so we have to be ready for a long, hard-fought game.” 
in order to get past the tough vermin defensive line, pearl said the otters will rely on an ariel attack during sunday’s game. 
“The strongest part of our team is our receivers,” pearl said. “we have a lot of guys that can make plays when the ball is in their hands. The challenge is going to be getting them the ball so they can make those plays.” 
The vermin will look to continue their strong start while the otters will try to get off on the right foot sunday at 3:30 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Pyros attempt to stay perfect against Howard 
By HUNTER MCDANIEL 
sports writer 
The interhall season is now in full swing, as pasquerilla east will square off against howard on the gridiron in each team’s third game sunday afternoon. 
coming off two wins in the first week of the season, the pyros (2-0) look to contin­ue their early-season suc­cess and place themselves in good position for the playoffs. pasquerilla east sophomore captain noelle gooding said the team keeps its perfect record in perspective, however. 
“[we are] going in con­fident, but we still have to keep our heads in the game,” gooding said. “coming off those two wins, we have a lot of confidence as a team, but we just need to keep go­ing strong like it’s a clean sheet.” 
gooding attributed pasquerilla east’s success to a veteran presence and bal­anced approach. 
“[we have] a combination of returning players with a strong offense and defense, [who are] working well with our coaching staff,” gooding said. 
all of those strengths are important to reach the team’s lofty goals, gooding said. 
“[we want to] make it to [notre dame] stadium,” says gooding. “last year, we made it to the semifinals and we look for similar suc­cess this year.” 

while the pyros look to build on past success, the ducks (1-1) will try to get a win streak going against the pyros, after beating badin, 27-6, last week. 
howard fell to ryan by a margin of 34-0 in its open­ing game of the season. 
The ducks have a quick turnaround after the 
sunday  matchup,  meeting  
breen-phillips  on  monday  
afternoon.  The  pyros,  
meanwhile,  have  a  game  

against undefeated ryan looming next sunday. 
pasquerilla east and howard square off this sunday at 4 p.m., at labar Fields. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

ND hosts Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic Sunday 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
notre dame returns home for the Fighting irish gridiron classic this sunday, hoping to replicate its early season suc­cess at warren golf course. 
For senior patrick grahek, the biggest goal for the team this weekend is finishing an entire tournament strongly. 
“as a team we are still try­ing to finish 54 solid holes of competition,” grahek said. “we have been close individ­ually with each of us having good 36 or 45 hole stretches, but this week our big focus is staying in the moment to focus for all 54 holes. if we can do that, we will have a chance to win week-in and week-out.” 
The irish will also benefit from a stable lineup with no new adjustments. 
“The lineup this week has not changed since this last weekend,” grahek said. “our team was only 10 shots out of first after 36 holes last week with half of our guys not per­forming their best. we have home field advantage this week and will definitely gain some confidence and com­fort from playing at home. 
“we do not feel any need or necessity to win this week­end. so as long as we play our games and put together our best rounds individually, the team result will take care of 
itself.”  
at the  windon  memorial  
classic  last  weekend,  
sophomore  matt  rushton  

had the strongest showing of anyone on the team, plac­ing fifth in pars with 38 and finishing 14th overall in the individual field. senior Tyler wingo closed the invitational with lowest final round score on the team for the final day, finishing two-over par on sunday and 41st overall. wingo also led the irish with a team low of 3.25 strokes on par-three holes. grahek and sophomore liam cox tied for 45th place, the third and fourth finishers for the irish in the tourney. 
grahek, in addition to be­ing confident in the team’s steadiness, said he looks for­ward to the advantages the team has playing at home. 
“This weekend is particu­larly nice to be at home so that we can remain in our comfort zones around cam­pus,” grahek said. “[both] at our varsity golf facility and with our families in town to support us. it will be an emotional week for the se­niors as it will be our last chance to compete at our home course.” 

There is also another ele­ment to the irish’s homestand that gives grahek confidence. 
“we are undefeated at home so far this year, indi­vidually and as a team, and we are planning to hold onto that pride,” grahek said. 
The irish opened the season at the notre dame Kickoff challenge, winning the team competition by 19 strokes and placing three golfers in the top five indi­vidually. grahek tied for the top spot, the highest finish in his career. 
The irish take the course for the last time this fall season at the Fighting irish gridiron classic beginning sunday, while play carries through to next Tuesday. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
points [for a win], there are so many other things that can come in to that. … if you start worrying about that, then i think the thing we have to concern ourselves with is ‘can we play well?’” 
The no. 1 ranking for the Tar heels, however short-lived, was no fluke, clark said. The team is extremely talented, featuring two se­nior forwards, Tyler engel and andy craven, who have scored seven goals between them this year. 
“They’ve got very skillful players so we have to defend well in our own half,” clark said. “Their back four [de­fenders don’t] come out too far, so you’ve got to be pa­tient and you’ve got to find ways through them. it’d be nice to not give them an ear­ly goal. … we came into that last year, and they are a hard team to break down when you give them a goal.” 
in addition to the first conference home game, this weekend will also mark the registration deadline for notre dame’s sixth an­nual grassroots soccer Tournament. Founded by clark’s oldest son, dr. Tommy clark, the organization’s pri­mary goal is to help educate people in africa and around the world about hiv. The or­ganization is especially close to this year’s soccer team, who spent part of the sum­mer in Zimbabwe, clark said. 
“i think that was special,” clark said of the trip. “our team joined in all the clin­ics. our guys took part in at 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
“[anna maria and Kaleigh] were very dynamic,” romagnolo said. “They had some great com­binations up front [and] they were threatening the other team from behind. They brought so much quality and unpredictability to the offense.” 
schneider’s and simonian’s as­sists were also their first points of the season, highlighting a com­plete team effort from the irish, romagnolo said. 
“i think our midfield played fantastic,” she said. “and when i say midfield, there were about six players who all played there and they all went in and played fantastic. … To be honest, it was a fantastic team effort and every­one played really well.” 
sophomore goalkeeper Kaela little recorded her fifth shut­out of the year, turning aside 15 hokie shots and collecting five saves. after the irish took a 2-0 lead, virginia Tech began to push forward and recorded four shots in the final 10 minutes of regulation. 
“anytime a team is down at the end of the game, they’re going to throw a lot of numbers at you,” romagnolo said. “i thought we least nine clinics; the last week they were doing two-a­day. and i think they realized you make a big impression on kids who don’t have very much.” 

all the proceeds of the tournament, which consists of three-player squads com­peting for the chance to play for the championship during halftime of a women’s soccer game, will benefit grassroots soccer. 
notre dame hosts north carolina at 7:30 p.m. Friday night at alumni stadium followed by the grassroots soccer Tournament’s reg­istration deadline sunday, with play all next week. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
M Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 

princeton, new Jersey. sophomore eddy covalschi and seniors michael Fredricka and dougie barnard will also travel to the vredevelt invitational to compete in singles matches. 
The final group, which consists of freshmen drew dawson and brendon Kempin and juniors eric schnurrenberger and nicolas montoya, will head to Tuscaloosa, alabama, to compete in the crimson Tide Four in the Fall. This group of notre dame play­ers will go head-to-head against schools including Florida state, princeton, rice, Tulane, samford, dartmouth, south alabama, uab and illinois. 
monaghan said the team has to take advan­tage of these tourna­ments as opportunities to teach the younger, more inexperienced players how to elevate their game in a competitive environment outside of practice. 
“as an upperclassman, you really have to know that you’re responsible for the development of the younger players,” monaghan said. “you don’t always realize it, but the freshman look to you for guidance. it’s really important that you do ev­erything right to set a good example for the younger guys, because they want to learn. we will be a young team this year and we need everyone to contribute. There is no doubt our fresh­man have the talent level, so it is our job to get them ready from a competitive standpoint.” 
all three notre dame squads will begin play at each of their respective tournaments Friday. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 






did a pretty good job of dealing with it but Kaela did have to make some big plays. and that’s some­thing Kaela can do. she’s a fantas­tic goalkeeper.” 
The irish now have an oppor­tunity to complete their first acc road trip of the season with two away wins when they play wake Forest on sunday. 
The demon deacons (3-5-1, 1-1­
0) are part of a six-team logjam for second place in the conference, but are coming off a 5-0 loss to no. 3 virginia. They are 2-1 at home. 
For notre dame, the focus will be on producing another com­plete effort, romagnolo said. 
“in the games we have lost, we haven’t performed a … full 90 minutes,” she said. “For us, getting the result at virginia Tech was im­portant, but we’ve also got to take care of business on sunday.” 
The irish travel to winston­salem, n. c., to take on wake Forest at 1 p.m., sunday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Pick up the slack and refuse to let laziness take over. Change will happen regardless of what you do; however, staying in control will help you manipulate the situations you face. You have a choice this year: You can be a participant or you can let others make decisions for you. Don’t give up your right to choose. Your numbers are 1, 9, 14, 20, 27, 33, 46. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take one step at a time and keep your emotions in check. You can accomplish a lot if you concentrate on what’s important and don’t allow anyone to distract you. A change in an important relationship will lead to greater opportunity.    TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Focus on self-improvement. Do something to help a cause you feel strongly about. Taking an authoritative approach will work as long as you don’t force your will on others or try to do the impossible. Love is on the rise. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Channel your energy wisely. If you aren’t direct, you may mislead someone who will expect more than what you are prepared to deliver. Take care of your health by sticking to a nutritional diet. Follow your gut when dealing with peers. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Review all the events and situations unfolding around you. You are best to refrain from offering your opinions or your services until you feel you have a better handle on what’s happening. Don’t judge or make assump­tions. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take it upon yourself to make a direct connection to someone who can help you reach your goals. High energy, effort and a charismatic approach to whatever you do will draw a crowd and ensure that you reach your destination in style. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look at the open job market and consider what you can do to market your skills and raise your earning potential. A change can be good, but only if you feel it will not cost you in your personal life. LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Strive for perfection. Refuse to let anyone put you down or stop you from believing in who you are and what you are capable of doing. Jeal­ousy and possessiveness is apparent if someone feels threatened by your success. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Tidy up any unfinished business before taking on a 
new project. You will face setbacks if you let an emotional matter get the better of you at work. Look at your options but be practical regarding what’s doable.  SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be rewarded for your efforts and your contributions. Short trips will bring positive changes to the way you live and take care of your emotional and physical wellness. Don’t be fooled by a newfangled diet. Eat nutritiously.  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t count on anyone or anything. Expect the unexpected and be ready to take whatever measure is necessary to protect what you have. A change of location will not be in your best interest. Stick close to home.  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take action. What you do now will pave the way for greater opportunities. You can negotiate and win approval if you present your 
case flawlessly. Know what you want and don’t give up until you get your way.  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look over personal contracts. You will find a way to cut corners and improve your cash flow. Love is in the stars and a commitment 
will lead to a change in the way or where you live. Consider your motives before following through. Birthday Baby: You are persistent, intelligent and creative. You are dynamic and appealing. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

nd comes home to face Tar heels 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame will kick off the home portion of its acc regular season schedule Friday, hosting no. 8 north carolina after spending the last two weekends on the road against conference foes. 
The irish (3-1-2, 1-0-1 acc) faced off against then-no. 20 syracuse two weeks ago and no. 2 virginia last weekend, earning a win and a tie, re­spectively. while some might consider four out of a pos­sible six points a successful road trip, especially against strong competition, the irish may have let two points slip away against the cavaliers (4-2-1, 1-0-1 acc). leading 1-0 and up a man after a virginia red card, the irish were forced to settle for a tie, something that did not sit well with irish coach bobby clark or his team. 
“we were disappointed,” clark said. “i think before the two games you could have said we would have been happy with four points. certainly i think we felt the opportunity to take three points last week and we let it slip. … but i thought there were a lot more positives than negatives that came out of last week’s game. i thought the team did a lot of things well.” 
This weekend, notre dame will look to rebound against north carolina (5-2-0, 1-1­0 acc), who was ranked no. 1 last week before being shocked at unranked rival duke, 2-1. The irish played their inaugural acc match against the Tar heels last year, earning a 1-1 draw at alumni stadium. however, with the result of last week still in clark’s mind, he said he is taking a ‘big picture’ ap­proach to this year’s match. 
“it’s important we play well,” clark said. “The only thing we can really control is playing well. getting three 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
FOOTBALL 

Notre Dame, Texas A&M agree to 2024-2025 series 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame and Texas a&m have agreed to a home-and­home series in 2024 and 2025, the university announced Thursday afternoon. 
The teams will meet aug. 31, 2024, in college station, Texas, and sept. 27, 2025, at notre dame stadium. 
“These two contests between notre dame and Texas a&m fig­ure to be excellent intersection­al attractions,” irish director of athletics Jack swarbrick said in a press release. “we had set a goal of adding representation from the southeastern conference to our future schedules, and we’ve accomplished that with the ad­dition of this series, as well as the one with georgia.” 
in June, notre dame an­nounced a home-and-home series with georgia scheduled for 2017 and 2019. at the time of the announcement, swarbrick noted the importance of adding sec opponents. 
“we had future games slated with top-drawer opponents in virtually all the major con­ferences,” swarbrick said in a statement at the time. “one ex­ception was the southeastern conference, so we are pleased now to be able to check that box.” 

notre dame and Texas a&m have met five times, most recently in 2001. notre dame, which leads the all-time series 3-2, last topped the aggies in 2000. 

notre dame’s previously scheduled matchups with Texas in 2019 and 2020 will not be played, notre dame confirmed to The observer. 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, virginia Tech 0 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Team splits up to 
Irish shut out No. 2 Virginia 
play in 3 tourneys 
Tech in road upset 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
They live for the road. 
Five days after a crushing 3-2 double overtime loss to no. 9 north carolina at home, the no. 20 irish travelled to blacksburg, virginia, and handed no. 2 virginia Tech its first loss of the season, 2-0. 
The win keeps the irish (6-3­1, 1-1-0 acc) undefeated on the road this season at 3-0-1. 
“every game we’ve played in we’ve had a chance to win,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “For some reason, on the road we’ve found a way to get that ‘w.’ For me, the real positive is that we can play just as well on the road as we do at home.” 
The hokies (10-1-0, 1-1-0) en­tered the game having outscored their opponents 38-3 on the sea­son. The 2-0 loss to the irish, was the first time virginia Tech has allowed more than one goal in a game. 
after a scoreless first half, the irish offense received a spark from the bench in junior for­ward anna maria gilbertson. 


gilbertson received a pass from senior forward Karin simonian off of a hokie turnover and scored in the 62nd minute. 
gilbertson is second on the team in shots with 27, but the goal was only her second of the season and her first since the opening game of the year. 
Just over eight minutes later, sophomore Kaleigh olmsted re­ceived a pass from senior defender Taylor schneider and converted for her first score on the year. 
see w soccer PAGE 14 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
Junior Quentin monaghan and the irish will split up and travel this weekend to three different fall tourna­ments after monaghan led the irish in the Fighting illini invitational with his win over no. 6 Jared hiltzik of illinois. 
after monaghan’s big win last weekend, he said he was relieved to see that all of his hard work is paying off in big ways early in the season. 
“my win last weekend was really important for me,” monaghan said. “i have been working very hard with my game and i have contin­ued to stick to the process of getting better. it is really important to back up your foundation with results, be­cause it helps show the im­provement you’re making. i have been getting stron­ger and really working on the quality of ball i am hit­ting. i think my win was a testament to the improved quality of ball i am consis­tently producing, and my willingness to finish points aggressively.” 
This weekend, monaghan will travel with sophomore Josh hagar, juniors Kenneth sabancski and alex lawson and senior billy pecor to Tulsa, oklahoma, to compete in the elite intercollegiate Tennis association all­american championships. monaghan, ranked no. 88 in the nation in singles play, advanced to the quarterfi­nals of the qualifying round last year. 
lawson and pecor are ranked no. 27 in doubles play and will compete in the main draw at the event in the doubles competition af­ter beginning the weekend at Kalamazoo, michigan, to challenge other doubles competitors in the vredevelt invitational. last weekend, the duo also advanced to the semifinals of the Farnsworth ivy plus invitational in 
see m Tennis PAGE 14 







