The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 7 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Construction limits student parking 
Work in D2 parking lots affects students living in Mod, North quads, off-campus 
By LESLEY STEVENSON and ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news editor and editor-in-chief 

construction work on a new research building to the east of the hesburgh library has changed student parking options on campus, and the number of spaces in the d2 lots will continue to fluctuate for the next few months. 
mike seamon, associate vice president for campus safety, said while the university’s growth and expansion is good news, “one of the challenges of this growth is the stress that is put on various roadways and parking lots surrounding the new construction.” 
“we are very sensitive and are aware that the construc­tion around campus, and par­ticularly on the east side, is causing some issues for peo­ple in regards to traffic and parking,” he said. 
in d2, there are now 450 student spots in the north and middle sections. in the nearby library lot and the middle and south sections of d2, there are 900 faculty/ staff spaces.The university constructed a new parking lot near bulla road and north Twyckenham drive to com­pensate for reallocated stu­dent spaces in the three d2 lots, and with the additional bulla lot spaces, seamon said the ratio of faculty/staff to student spaces is “about the same as it was before the construction.” 
The current project is a util­ity construction process that is part of the infrastructure required to serve the new buildings, seamon said. work began in the summer and is scheduled to be completed on the east part of campus by the 
see parKing PAGE 5 

SMC professors embrace theater 
By LESLEY STEVENSON and JACK ROONEY 

news editor and associate news editor 
The irish guard led the band of the Fighting irish onto the new turf of notre dame stadium on saturday for the first time since the band directors replaced the entire group of for­mer guardsmen with band members last april. 
“The irish guard are an integral part of the notre dame band, and the whole band did a fine job on saturday with only a short amount of time to get ready since arriving back on cam­pus this fall,” dr. Kenneth dye, director of bands, said. 
The changes to the struc­ture of the irish guard in­cluded the elimination of the six-foot-two height re­quirement and the addition of one mandatory year of service to the band as a mu­sician or manager. although members of last season’s guard auditioned for this year, none were selected. 
“There is no longer a de­finitive height requirement for guard members, and the selection process empha­sizes stature, citizenship, band service, marching ability, attitude and poise,” dye said. “all of the current guard meet these require­ments and have fulfilled a year of service in the band as either a musician or a manager as is consistent with the selection criteria. 
“eight to 10 members may march on any given saturday based on the pre­cision marching routines,” he said. “The group contin­ues to wear its traditional uniforms, marching 
see irish guard PAGE 5 
local teen donates gear 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
when high school ju­nior anne marie wright witnessed the haiti wom­en’s national soccer team practicing on a south bend soccer complex without fully functional equipment, she could not rectify the team’s lack of supplies with their status as potential world cup contenders. 
“last summer for July through august, i pretty much practiced with them every day and i saw a lot of things that really made me want to help out,” wright said. “basically every day at practice there were al­ways issues with cleats or shin guards or somebody not having equipment … nobody had an extra pair of cleats, which i think is absolutely despicable for a team that’s supposed to be training for the world cup.” 
“you would have to wait and practice with­out cleats or just sit on the sidelines,” she said. “so people would have to go over to the side of the building to get water to drink out of the spigot of a hose. nobody brought water bottles; nobody had bags. 
“… They wore the same clothes every day to come to practice. it was com­munity clothing; they all shared it. They didn’t have their own stuff. so basi­cally that really prompted me to think, ‘i have to do something about this, this team is training for the world cup.’” 
This summer, wright, 17, a south bend native 
see gear PAGE 3 


By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 

saint mary’s associate pro­fessor of history bill svelmoe and associate professor of theater mark abram­copenhaver were busy this summer going beyond the classroom to act and direct at 
see TheaTer PAGE 5 





Campus reacts to new Irish Guard 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 

brian hartnett                             alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite club on campus? 


Brandi Bos 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 

“Timmy global health: notre dame chapter.” 

Elisabeth O’Toole 
senior 
walsh hall 
“notre dame sailing Team” 


Emily Tessitore 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“paws: proponents of animal welfare service.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Jenny Ng 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“unofficially, the underground skydiving club.” 

Merrick Topping 
junior 
stanford hall 

“glee club. They’re pretty good i hear.” 

Samuel Cho 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 
“The dome.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Kelly Konya greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds casey Karnes peter durbin alex carson 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Workshop: “Getting Wellness Wednesday 2nd Annual Fro-Yo ND Band: Trumpets Notre Dame Football 
Jodi lo Tabitha ricketts 
Started in Research” Rockne Memorial Social under the Dome Notre Dame Stadium Brownson Hall 3 p.m. LaFortune Student Main Building 7:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Relax with free yoga. Center 4:10 p.m. - 4:20 p.m. Final matchup 
Corrections 

Formulate a research 1 p.m. Kick off for home between storied rivals. 
The observer regards itself as question. Open to the public. football weekend. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Hearts of the LGBTQ 101 Mindful Mediation Football Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
World” film LaFortune Student Coleman-Morse To Be Announced Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Center Center 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Cheer on the Irish as 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Learn about LGBTQ All faith traditions they prepare to face Mass preceding 
we can correct our error. 

Classic WWI film. issues on campus. welcome. Michigan. football game. 


ND Professor receives Charles Babbage award 
and engineering at notre the babbage award has been Kogge is also well known was a central aspect in my 
By PETER DURBIN 

news writer dame since 1994, was rec-awarded annually since 1989. for his invention of the ability to accomplish what i ognized for “innovations Kogge is perhaps best Kogge-stone adder process. have done in my career, and a notre dame computer in advanced computer ar­according to a press release, this effect is not limited to 
science and engineering chitecture and systems,” as this process is still consid­me,” Kogge said. 

professor has been awarded stated in a press release. his 
one of the most prestigious research areas include mas-
awards in his field. sively parallel processing ar­
dr. peter Kogge was pre-chitectures, advanced vlsi 
sented the charles babbage and nanotechnologies and 
award at the institute of their relationship to comput­
electrical and electronic ing systems architectures, ered the fastest means of add-Kogge was astounded by 
ing numbers in a computer. how many note dame gradu­
while his current endeav­ates held high managerial 
ors require a partial leave and technical roles during 
from campus as he begins his time at ibm, according to 
a startup company, Kogge a press release. 
plans on continuing his notre “interestingly enough, it 
engineers’ 2014 international parallel & distributed processing symposium in phoenix in may, in recogni­tion of his contributions to the field. 
according to a press re­lease, Kogge, a notre dame alumnus, is considered the father of the computer who originated the concept of a programmable computer. 
Kogge, who has served as the Ted. h. mccourtney professor of the depart­ment of computer science non-von neumann models of programming and execution, and parallel algorithms and applications and their impact on computer architecture. 
he has been the recipient of numerous awards in the past, but the babbage award tow­ers over most of his illustri­ous accomplishments. 
“The babbage award ranks with the [seymour cray computer engineering award] as my top awards,” Kogge said. 
according to a press release, known for his development of the space shuttle i/o pro­cessor, the world’s first multi-threaded processor to fly in space. 

“The purpose of the i/o processor was to manage all the communications be­tween all the sensors and actuators on the shuttle and the guidance computers,” Kogge said. “in a sense the iop was thus essentially the first parallel processor to fly in space.” 
dame research, which aims to change the connection be­tween a computer’s memory and processor. 
“a few years ago, Jay brockman, who is also on the notre dame cse faculty, and i started to develop new com­puters that are designed for really big data applications,” Kogge said. 
Kogge said appreciated the opportunities his notre dame education has provid­ed him. 
“my notre dame education wasn’t just the technical ed­ucation at notre dame that was so important, but the development of the ability to communicate with others, especially in both under­standing others real prob­lems and then documenting solutions that are believably correct,” Kogge said. “This is a hallmark of why so many notre dame graduates have done so well.” 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 


them really closely, but they all speak creole, so there’s kind of a language barrier you have to conquer, but through soccer anything is helpful,” wright said. “it was great to see, hey, we have something in common, we’re playing together.” 
Team manager sharon mast said wright found her niche in the team dynamic. 
“i was very impressed with how she held herself together and really participated with our girls,” mast said. “she’s wonderful. i love her to piec­es … she’s not a very outspo­ken person on the field but she’s seemed to develop and come along in that way.” 
wright said her family completely supported her determination “to get [the team] in gear to train with so they could have the best pos­sible chance of qualifying for the world cup.” she said both her brother and sister have spent time practicing with the women as well. 
“my family helped me out a ton; my sister did a ton of organizing for all this stuff,” she said. “i was actually out of town when the sale hap­pened, so i relied on my dad and my sister to get ev­erything for me. i told them what we needed, and it was really great. … it’s kind of become a family affair.” 
wright tried to coordinate with administrators at notre dame to encourage the do­nation of old equipment to the team, but she said she typically faced rejection. she said the end result proved each disappointment was worth her and her family’s effort. 
“The smiles on their faces were so worth all the work, all the emails, all the no’s that i got,” wright said. “everything where i couldn’t get something accomplished and i had to email people and go outside my comfort zone. it was definitely worth it to see them all at practice the one day i gave them all the gear and they saw and they thought, ‘oh my gosh, we get all this.’ They were all so thankful for it.” 
To donate to wright’s fund to support the haitian wom­en’s national soccer team, visit http://www.gofundme. com/bln73s. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
Gear 
conTinued From page 1 
student at culver academies in culver, ind., heard about the notre dame athletic ap­parel clearance sale at the compton Family ice arena held June 12 and realized her opportunity to take action. 
“when i heard that notre dame was switching to under armour, i thought, ‘That’s a great opportunity, they have to get rid of all this adidas stuff, what are they going to do with it?’” she said. “… so i called and i tried to contact a lot of people at notre dame to get the donated equip­ment and it didn’t work out very well. but there was a big 
“When I heard that Notre Dame was switching to Under Armour, I thought, ‘That’s a great opportunity, they have to get rid of all this adidas stuff, what are they going to do with it?’” 
Anne Marie Wright 
high school junior 
Culver Academy 
sale that happened this sum­mer, so we went there and got a ton of gear. 
“we got cleats for every girl on the team, we got t-shirts, spandex, sports bras … we got stuff for every single girl on the team.” 
although wright’s parents purchased the equipment and apparel this summer, wright said she took ultimate responsibility for funding the donation.  For her 17th birthday, she asked friends and family to forgo typical gifts in favor of cash that she could put towards the team. 
“i gave up all my birthday gifts and got my parents and aunts and uncles and my friends to, instead of giving me birthday gifts, to give me money to support the cause,” she said. “… we’ve only raised i think $500, so my parents still paid a lot of money for it. so i’m still rais­ing money.” 
wright first joined forces with the haitian national team in the summer of 2013, when she was practicing with her sister’s team on the indiana invaders Fc field in south bend. The hatian team had been holding prac­tice on the field since early 2013, after the team’s new goshen-based coach, shek borkowski, relocated the team to the united states, she said. 
“The reason that they’re practicing in south bend is the earthquake in haiti in 2010,” wright said. “Their soccer headquarters col­lapsed and their coach was there and he passed away.” 
borkowski initially saw wright practicing with her 13-year-old sister mary Kate wright and approached her to ask if she could play on one of his showcase teams. anne marie wright was al­ready past the age limit, but in the summer months af­ter she first met borkowski, she began to practice more frequently with the haitian team and formed close bonds with the professional athletes despite language barriers and age differences, she said. 
“especially last year when i practiced with them every day, i got to know a couple of 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Club stresses sisterhood, women’s issues 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
a new club aims to create a space for women in the notre dame and saint mary’s college communities to dis­cuss issues in daily college life and beyond. 
senior alison leddy said she started the club, notre dames, after seeing a need to solidify the sisterhood be­tween both campuses and foster a dialogue across stu­dents’ normal social groups. 
“i think sometimes in col­lege it’s easy to stick to your comfort zone and have your dorm friends and have your study buddies and have that be it ... i think we have a lot of really great girls on campus,” leddy said. “in order to meet those girls, i wanted to be able to facilitate those types of discussions and make those connections, or at least create a space where it would be easy to make those connections.” 
leddy said starting sept. 9, notre dames will have weekly two-hour meetings where students can drop in at any time and discuss cur­rent events, popular culture and issues relating to women both in an out of college. 
“This acts as a safe space for people to talk and maybe think a little bit more criti­cally about ... the dorm party scene, or that song that plays on the radio, or the Tv show they just watched, or the role of women in their lives and their female role models and that sort of thing,” she said. “They can have those conver­sations, and they can meet other women on campus and have a little bit more solidar­ity with women on campus.” 
leddy said the club will also have social events and bring in female alumni to 
illustrate  the  diversity  of  
opportunities  available  to  
women after graduation.  

“i want to see more women who have been in my shoes and see what they’ve done after graduation, whether that’s raise a family, do ser­vice opportunities, be the ceo of something, go to graduate school — there’s a whole slew of options out there,” she said. “i think it would be really cool to make those connections, to have networking events with more female alums and make it a priority to extend the sis­terhood across the years. i think that’s a gap that can be filled.” 
leddy said through the club’s discussion ses­sions, she wants to fight the idea that women are one-dimensional. 
“we’ll learn more about the issues themselves, but we’ll also learn more about the women who are discussing them,” she said. “so you’ll and our greatest academ-and garnered support of the hear different perspectives ic strengths can at times gender relations center from a girl who’s a biology be isolating,” palko said. (grc) throughout last spring. major from Kentucky, and “people tend to build strong she said initial interest in then there’s another girl who friendships within dorms the club amongst female stu­is a marketing major from and majors, but there is little dents was encouraging. minnesota. crossing to other dorms/ma-“The first info session i had, 

“There’s all these differ-jors. and it seems to me that i think there was a group of ent backgrounds and inter-students miss out on deep about 20 women who came,” ests and everything, so we’re friendships and challenging leddy said. “They just saw hearing what they have to say conversations that way. an email on the grc listserv, and hear from their experi-“when i think back to my and at the end of the meet­ences, and that can teach you undergraduate years, some ing, i went over the mission, a lot about yourself, i think, of my very best friends nei-... and then i said, ‘meeting along the way.” ther lived in my dorm nor adjourned, you can stay after 
abby palko, the director studied in my college. and if you have any questions or of undergraduate studies of my life today would be im-want to get involved, and if the gender relations program measurably poorer without not, thanks for coming.’ and and the club’s adviser, said their continued presence in i said, ‘meeting adjourned’ the club will bridge some my life.” and pretended to hit a gavel, of these structural divides leddy said she began and no one left. among women on campus. the club approval process “They all lined up to talk 
“in my decade at notre with the student activities to me. i thought that was a dame, i’ve noticed that some office in February and re-really great sign, because i of most rooted traditions cruited student leadership think that they’ll be a really 
paid adverTisemenT 

good group of people who are passionate about this kind of thing and who are really ex­cited about this.” 
leddy said while the focus of the club will be to bring is­sues that many women face to light, anyone would be welcome to contribute to the discussions. 
“[The issues we discuss] also affect men, which is why i think it would be a good idea to have men involved in the discussion,” leddy said. “i am as much of an advocate for maternity rights as i am for paternity rights, so those sorts of things are really in­teresting ... although the pri­mary focus is on women, it’s not limited to just women.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 



Parking 
conTinued From page 1 
end of the fall. 
“upon completion of the utility project, each of the lots along the east side of cam­pus will see a slight increase in parking spaces,” seamon said. “in the short term, how­ever, over the course of the next few months as the utility project continues to unfold, some spaces will be lost on a temporary basis until the project is concluded. 
“once the [utility] project is finished in late fall, the spaces will return in the re­spective areas. at that time, we anticipate the parking set­up to remain in place for the foreseeable future.” 
an email from the parking offices sent to all students this summer said the east campus construction is scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2016. 
seniors and juniors liv­ing in north and mod Quad residence halls are “the pri­ority” for the 450 d2 student spots, seamon said, and an email from parking services said they can purchase pass­es specifically for those lots. sophomores and all other stu­dents living on campus can park in the bulla lot or d6 on the west side of campus. 
although the bulla lot is farther east than d2, some students have found the situ­ation better than they expect­ed after reading the email announcement this summer. 
Junior Jessica Zic, of breen­phillips hall, said the bulla lot path is relatively accessible. 
“The walk from the new bulla lot to [breen-phillips] was long, but it really didn’t feel that much longer than the walk from a far parking spot in the old d2 lot,” she said. 
Kim sammons, another breen-phillips junior, said the bulla lot is “a lot bigger than i expected.” 

“it isn’t as bad of a walk in the warm weather, but i know once it gets cold there could be a bigger issue,” she said. “[all of the lots] are a trek back to bp, but i’ve never felt unsafe. They could be better lit between the parking lots and mod Quad. 
“it’s a straight shot from the [bulla] parking lot through mod Quad, so it isn’t too bad when there’s not snow.” 
seamon said safety was a top priority when construct­ing the bulla lot and its pe­destrian pathways, so the lots and walkways are equipped with closed circuit television cameras, lighting and blue light emergency call boxes. ndsp is “routinely patrolling the lot,” he said, and o’snap and safewalk will also pro­vide services to the area. The area was fenced and cleared to enhance safety, he said. 
a free shuttle will operate weekdays from 7 to 9 a.m., 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 4 to 7 p.m. with stops at the bulla lot, hesburgh library, east gate and the main building. another shuttle will operate on the same hours between the c1 parking lot near the track and field complex and main circle, with stops at eddy street and holy cross drive near legends. 
The second shuttle an­ticipates more parking re­alignment on the south side of campus due to more construction, according to the email from the parking offices. 
some students are interest­ed in the shuttle options, but said the hours are inconve­nient or that they end too ear­ly for the service to be helpful in the dark. 
“i’ve never seen the shut­tle working, so i think they could advertise that better,” sammons said. 
The current setup is based on recommendations from a 14-member committee made up of undergradu­ate and graduate student representatives, Faculty senate and staff advisory council members and staff from relevant departments. seamon said lauren vidal, student body president, and andrew carmona, director of university affairs for student government, represented the undergraduate student body on the committee. The group “placed a premium on pre­serving the pedestrian nature of the notre dame campus and ensuring convenience and safety,” the parking ser­vices email said. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu, contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 


was the same. 
Irish Guard 
Theater 
“i didn’t see much of a dif­
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
ference between the irish 
the local south bend com-

before games as well as guard this year and last,” 
munity theater. 

during pre-game, halftime walsh said. “it’s hard to tell 
director of media rela­

and post-game, and contin-as a student in the student 
tions gwen o’brien said 

ues to assist with the pre-section that the members 
svelmoe first began his ca-

game flag ceremony.” are different … i saw them 
reer in acting once abram-

The changes met resis-at halftime and remembered 
copenhaver recruited him 

tance, particularly from the that they had switched the 
for a non-speaking role as 

ousted guardsmen as well policy, so i noted they were 
King louis in the college’s 

as alumni who served in the different only at halftime. 
2002 production of “learned 

guard. The group has been i’m also no marching expert 
ladies.” 

in existence since 1949, ac-but they seemed like they 
“he put me in tights and 

cording to the notre dame were doing a pretty good 
said i’d have to do a little 

band website. job.” 
dance at intermission,” 

after saturday’s opening current and former mem­
svelmoe said. “so i did a 

game against rice, current bers of the irish guard did 
dance in tights and it was 

students noticed changes in not respond to requests for 
utterly humiliating. but as 

the guard. Junior Kim mai comment. 
i was sitting there watching 

said the new members did last spring, dye said he 
mark work with the actors, i 

not project the same force and the band staff, with 
was just fascinated by it.” 

they have in years past. the approval of the office 
svelmoe said he enjoys 

“The irish guard … have of student affairs, changed 
the differences between 

a way that they hold them-the requirements for new 
the academic realm and the 

selves, and they’re supposed guardsmen in hopes of in-
performing arts. 

to be tall and stoic and creasing the leadership po­
“a lot of what we do in that writing fiction does, students are working on the 
poised,” she said. “That’s tential of the group and the 
academics is solitary ... the because when i am writ-south bend civic Theatre’s 
the tone that they set on the commitment of its members. 
research and the writing ing i can feel the emotions fall production of an original 
field, and now you don’t re-“we’re trying to elevate 
and all that,” svelmoe said. of the different characters,” adaptation of mark shelley’s 
ally get that. it’s kind of like the responsibility of the 
“Theater is such a collabora-svelmoe said. “Frankenstein,” and both 
the end of an era.” guard so that they exemplify 
tive art. i love the rehearsal o’brien said svelmoe will have taken part in commu-
Junior connor Quigley said the best qualities of a notre 
process almost more than finish a play and his second nity workshops with a local 
he disagreed with the direc-dame student,” dye said in 
the shows themselves.” novel while on sabbatical playwright and have written 
tors’ decision to change the may. “… if we pick from the 
svelmoe soon found him-during this academic year. their own adaptations. 
composition of the guard membership of the [2013] 
self in numerous theater The community theatre abram-copenhaver said 
and considered it a needless guard rather than from an 
productions throughout has also enriched abram-his position at the south 
break from a noteworthy auditioning membership 
greater michiana, and the copenhaver’s life in many bend civic Theatre allows 
tradition. at the beginning of the fall, 
community has greatly ap-ways, o’brien said. he him to assure theater re­
“at a university that then we know what their 
preciated his critically-spent his most recent sab-mains a fundamental part 
stands so much on tradition, record and habits and citi­
why change such a big one?” zenship are, and it gives us 
acclaimed performances, batical year as executive of the college’s and local 
o’brien said. in the past director of the south bend community’s life. 
Quigley said. “The irish a stronger pool of applicants 
year alone, he has starred civic Theatre, where he has “i have the very lucky po­
guard is something that and participants to really 
is very recognizable with put the best people that we 
in “The great gatsby” served since 2000 in various sition at the civic Theatre of 
notre dame football and is a have in front of the band.” 
and “acting: The First roles. being able to help a region 
big part of game days. i don’t dye said sunday he ex-
six lessons”  (The acting “now i’m back (on cam-regard theater as a power-
like that they would change pects the tradition of the 
ensemble), “The Fox on pus) and one of the most ful, vital part of what’s go-
the Fairway” (elkhart civic interesting opportunities is ing on in the community 
it … i would rather see the irish guard to continue as it 
Theatre), “radium girls” to keep looking for all the life,” abram-copenhaver 
irish guard completely has for the last 65 years. 
(saint mary’s college), and ways that having this the-said. “my great opportunity 
removed.” “The irish guard is cer­
other students, however, tainly a valued and unique 
“leading ladies” and “The ater nearby is a resource at saint mary’s is to have in-
did not perceive any dras-tradition at notre dame, and 
clean house” (south bend to our students,” abram-tense involvement in the fu­
tic changes in the guard on the university hopes that 
civi Theatre). copenhaver said. ture of individual students 
the field saturday compared its presence will endure for 
svelmoe said that theater o’brien said two of abram-and help them to grow their 
to the groups of years past. years to come,” he said. 
has been a major influence copenhaver’s students are skills, excitement and vision 
on another one of his other in the midst of conduct-of what theater can be.” 
Junior Kerry walsh said al­

hobbies: writing fiction. ing an independent study 
though the new guardsmen Contact Lesley Stevenson at 
“i think theater taps into called the “Frankenstein Contact Kelly Konya at 
appeared shorter than their lsteven1@nd.edu, contact Jack 
that same area of my brain adaptation project.” The kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
predecessors, their presence Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 

a room of possibilities 

Jack Rooney 
associate news editor 

i get weirdly excited for activities night. i don’t know if it’s all the talented and dedicated people offering their pas­sions to the university or the abundance of free candy and t-shirts, but there’s nothing quite like it. 
There’s no doubt it’s an overwhelming experience, too. The fluorescent lights high in the rafters of the Joyce center and the sea of people weaving through much-too-small rows of tables can be disorienting. maybe that’s what makes us believe we have the time to sign up for and actually participate in ten differ­ent clubs. 
i find it funny that all of the clubs i signed up for at activities nights past are now emailing me on their listserv seeking volunteers to work their table tonight. i guess you can call it the circle of overly-ambitious, poorly-managed­time life. but that’s also the beauty of activities night. Tonight, you don’t have a million different commitments, just a room full of possibilities. 
activities night is the freshmen’s first foray into truly everything notre dame has to offer. For upperclassmen, it marks the beginning of a new year and an op­portunity to re-commit to old interests, and the even more precious chance to chart a new course. 
as a junior, it appears as if my days of wandering the rows at activities night are over. i have moved behind the table and now represent the clubs i am a part of (i’ll be working the observer’s table, so you should all stop by and sign up to write news). i chose to heavily invest myself in one particular activity rather than mirror my high school self and join everything i could think of, but that’s just how i decided to live my college life. 
i wish i had the time to be an active member of Quiz bowl or volunteer for a campaign with college democrats, but i don’t. That’s fine, i made that choice a while ago. i still like being on the listserv to see all the incredible things these clubs are doing. 
ultimately, whether you sign up for 12 clubs or none, activities night is still one of the rarest moments of the year. For a few hours, you get to decide what is going to matter to you this year (or at least, what you hope you have time for this year). inevitably, life gets in the way and good intentions fall by the wayside. check your email inbox, though. Those good intentions are still there, and they’re inviting you back to activities night. 
Contact Jack Rooney at  jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 
How to make friends 

Erin Thomassen 
columnist 

you are sitting nervously and sweating profusely. The room is silent, but you are not alone. you are too scared to let your eyes scan the room, for you might make eye contact with another human being. 
you may not know this human being, and locking eyes with them would create an awkward, horrify­ing experience. or would it? 
you start to think it is silly to fear eye contact so much. would it really be so bad? maybe you’d make a friend. 
you let your eyes slide to the right. you can’t make out much. darn those weak peripherals; you should have eaten more carrots in your youth. 
with enough concentration, you realize that tan blob over there is a leg — a hairy leg. is it yours? did you forget to shave this morning? you reach down to check the stubble status of your legs: silky smooth. you let out a sigh of relief. all is right in the world. 
your sigh was a bit too loud, and now everyone is looking your way. or, you think they are, at least. you’re not sure, since you’re too scared to look up. you might make eye contact with someone, which is to be avoided at all costs, remember? 
but hey — your legs are silky smooth. you are a confident individual. more than that, you are an accomplished member of society. you read homer at home. you understand the theory of relativity relatively well. you are licensed to oper­ate a four-wheeled motor vehicle by the state of massachusetts. you are invincible. 
you look up, enlightened and empowered, but no one is looking at you. maybe they never were, but you can’t give up now, not once you decided to be­come the social animal you were created to be. 
you must start a conversation with someone, and you must do it now. your social hormones are rag­ing, if humans even have those (you can’t remember 
— you passed notes during freshman bio.) 
you could talk to pencil-tapper in back of you or compulsive snapchatter in front of you, but you settle on hairy-leg, since seeing his limb led (indi­rectly) to your social rebirth. 
you decide commenting on his leg hair may not be the best way to initiate a friendship. you are a 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
socially aware individual who knows that the accu­mulation of dead skin cells can be a touchy subject. 
impressed with your social acumen (thanks seventeen magazine for the conversation tips!), you scan the floor for potential conversation starters. you find a broken pen and a speck of goldfish. not exactly what you were hoping for. 
Then you strike real gold. you spot hairy-leg’s athlete backpack and can even read his nametag. maybe you did eat enough carrots in your youth. you better say something to him before you decide not to. 
he’s a little surprised that you know his first and last name, but once you explain how you just learned his name from his backpack tag, he realizes you are not a stalker and it is not necessary for him to change classes. not yet, anyway. 
he finds your boldness intriguing, if a bit bizarre, and the students around you seem to enjoy your ex­change. pencil-tapper stops tapping her pencil and asks if hairy-leg knows her friend on the track team. he does. what a small world. 
snapchatter stops staring at her own face and starts talking to the ones around her. The formerly dead room has come back to life. it pulled a Jesus christ in three minutes instead of three days. 
For the rest of the semester, you’re thankful you ventured out on a limb after seeing that hairy limb. if you hadn’t said anything, you would have en­dured a semester of awkward silences before and after class. even more, you would have missed out on making friends with Joe, emily and ashley (hairy-leg, pencil-tapper and snapchatter’s real names). 
you learned two valuable lessons before class even started: 
one: never be scared to start taking to students you don’t know in an awkward, silent room. They may be too scared to start a conversation and will probably be glad you were brave enough to do it. 
Two: always have silky legs. They’re an undeni­able confidence booster. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechani­cal engineering, because everything is interesting. She lives in the better Pasquerilla (East of course). Email her with comments, column ideas or awkward family photos at ethomass@nd.edu 

an american underclass 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

The immigration debate took the national stage again this summer, with thousands of central americans arriving on the u.s. border. as 2014 congressional races have begun in ear­nest, the dread word “amnesty” is central. 
president barack obama, whose administra­tion has overseen the removal and expulsion of some 2 million immigrants, is now considering plans to delay further deportations through use of an executive order. when and how he will act is in question, given concerns by members of his party that such an order would endanger their upcoming election campaigns. 
The estimated 12 million undocumented im­migrants in the united states are unlikely to win any lasting dignity from politicians, whose own interests are radically different. 
The key figures of the present debate, from president obama to speaker of the house John boehner to senators harry reid and Ted cruz, are members of the economic elite. Their inter­est in the votes and legacy that immigration reform might bring is real, but their lives are completely divorced from the conditions of un­documented workers. 
undocumented immigrants in the united states make up an underclass with function­ally few to no rights. abuses in the workplace or serious bodily harm often go unreported as vic­tims fear they will be deported if they contact the authorities. 
while the u.s. government cannot deport all those living and working illegally in the country, it consistently does so to enough im­migrants that the rest need live in constant fear as they dutifully labor to enrich a country in 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

which they’re not ensured even basic rights. 
The u.s. and mexican governments in large part built the modern immigration landscape by signing the naFTa, which ensures the free movement of capital but not of labor. when the economic conditions turn against you, but you cannot legally move to where the work is, you’re trapped between becoming destitute or becom­ing criminal. 
“amnesty” is blasted in the political arena, but what is the alternative? mass deportation is unrealistic. putting aside the logistical and hu­manitarian nightmare of rounding up an esti­mated 12 million undesirable persons, a policy of deporting all undocumented workers would cause a major economic disaster. 
of the country’s 3 million migrant and sea­sonal farmworkers, nearly three quarters are foreign-born and roughly half are working in the united states illegally. They are largely alienated from american society, and yet they are some of its most essential parts. 
expelling these workers would cripple the agricultural industry. produce supplies would drop and prices would spike as farm owners scrambled to fill jobs generally considered un­desirable by american workers. The country’s ability to feed itself would be greatly damaged. This is to say nothing of the major blows to oth­er immigrant-dense industries. 
The united states needs these workers, there can be no question about that. The only ques­tion is whether the government should continue to terrorize them by breaking up families and keeping them in a state of virtual rightlessness. 
This state of affairs is advantageous for employers, but when it comes to working americans, the old labor motto that “an injury to one is an injury to all” holds. 
working-class citizens find their wages driven down when they have to compete with a labor force that is unable to stand up for de­cent conditions or wages. by fighting for the rights of the undocumented workers who are already a major part of the economy, working people everywhere will find themselves in bet­ter positions. 
so far, the solutions offered to the immigrant issue have been half-measures at best. 
activists and politicians have tried time and again to pass the dream act, which favors the young, educated demographic that plays a dis­proportionately large role in organizing cam­paigns and demonstrations. it would effectively cut the head off of the snake of the immigrants’ rights movement by satisfying the most vocal group and leaving the rest behind. 
opponents of general legal status argue such a measure would provide an incentive for fur­ther illegal immigration. obviously, the whole world can’t live in the united states, and fur­ther immigration would have to be built around terms that actually work. 
but the question of the undocumented work­ers presently living in the country is hardly one of immigration any longer, as they are now nec­essary elements of u.s. society. don’t those who labor to feed our society have at least as much right to this land as anyone else? 
it is a choice between legal status for undocu­mented workers and their families or a system of terror and exploitation that hurts all working people. The byword, then, must be “no one left behind.” 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

“we did not change as we grew older; we just became more clearly ourselves.” 
Lynn Hall 
author 



By CHRISTIAN KAMM 
scene writer 

richard linklater’s epic 12-year project “boyhood” finally arrived this summer. it is still in theaters and is screening at the browning cinema in the debartolo performing arts center from september 19-21. if you haven’t seen it yet, you’ve probably heard only good things about it. critics and fans are declaring the film one of the greatest ever made, groundbreaking for cinema and an instant classic that managed to capture life itself. 
The unanimous praise is well-deserved and necessary for expanding the audience of an independent film (only screened in select theaters, “boyhood” was never going to come close to the blockbusters in the summer box of­fice). all the same, the hype has perhaps gotten to the point where we are failing to acknowledge that certain el­ements of “boyhood” simply can’t be compared to those of other great films because they’ve never been done be­fore. maybe, at least for now, lets just enjoy “boyhood” as art in its own category. 
imagine the planning and foresight needed. it was surprising that the film company iFc productions was still around after 12 years and that producer Jonathan sehring kept the same job. The cast could not sign con­tracts because making exclusive personal services con­tracts in excess of seven years is illegal. linklater used 35mm film to make sure the look of the film stayed the same over all 12 years. 
when shooting started, linklater explained he had a sort of “structural blueprint” but not the dialogue. The four principal actors, ellar coltrane as mason evans, Jr., patricia arquette as his mother olivia, lorelei linklater as his sister samantha and ethan hawke as his father mason sr., were involved each year of filming and all con­tributed to the writing process. linklater’s daughter once asked if her character could die and be written out so she could leave. while the scenes are not improvised, certain parts were written the night before filming. 
although incredible, this spontaneity makes sense. The actors had to get back into character for only a few weeks each year. but they also have to acknowledge that outside of their characters they have changed as people. Just as linklater’s life influenced many elements of the film, so did the lives of the main actors, both prior to film­ing and during the 12 year filming process. The film is an experiment that hasn’t quite been tried before. 
why was “boyhood” so well received? it is a story about growing up and parenting. every member of the audience can relate in some way. linklater also aims to keep an entertaining pace. he does this better than fel­low austin director Terrence malick, whose “The Tree of life” is also a semi-autobiographical epic about family and growing up, but was more experimental and isolated some of its audience. 
linklater shows immense skill in anticipating cer­tain cultural phenomena from the 2000s decade. mason grows up in Texas, so americans generally but especially Texans will better understand certain experiences or recognize specific film locations. when the kids say the Texas pledge in school it is surreal, one of those things you say everyday in elementary school but never really think about and then completely forget when you are older. linklater captures the magic and excitement of austin, a city of music, students and late-night queso as if he knew all along that many viewers would go through the same things his characters do. 
nevertheless, linklater thinks about what is going to define the decade. The soundtrack is appropriate — songs that fit the characters’ personalities but were also on the radio, played at parties or school dances enough for us to remember them. often the songs open with the new scene and an older mason, which helps to drive the transition to a new year within the film. we might re­member discussing “star wars” or “harry potter,” our sisters singing britney spears or “high school musical,” the afghanistan/iraq war, the presidential elections and new technology. we remember being told it’s too difficult to be a photographer, musician or dancer. we remember our parents fighting or getting divorced and navigating the waters of relationships or bullying in school. 
and then we start to see our own lives in “boyhood” and it is nostalgic and powerful. The film is a time cap­sule and a way to watch ourselves grow up again. maybe “boyhood” was so special to people that they felt a sort of desperate impulse to respond to their post-viewing emo­tions and explain how linklater and his crew could ac­curately depict their generation so well (and thus came the wave of praise). nevertheless the film also owes its success to honest acting, great contrasts of humor and intense drama and a realistic story. 
Typical of linklater, the plot is not always the driving force of “boyhood.” some supporting characters or con­flicts disappear suddenly as the main characters move on with their lives. but in the end the lack of structure works because “boyhood” is a collection of moments for us to share with the director and actors. linklater didn’t try too hard to figure out whether “people seize moments or if moments seize them.” he didn’t force any scenes, he let them come naturally over 12 years, neither impro­vised nor constrained. in that sense, “boyhood” stands alone as a unique and intimate understanding between director and audience. 
Contact Christian Kamm at ckamm@nd.edu 
“Boyhood” Director: Richard Linklater Production Company: IFC Productions Principle Actors: Ellar Coltrane, Patricia Arquette, Ethan 
Hawke, Lorelei Linklater 


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

if you’re a “simpsons” fan like me, you’ve probably al­ready heard of the marathon to end all marathons, oth­erwise known as “every simpsons ever,” the non-stop showing of every episode of the show’s 25 seasons. hosted by cable station FXX, the 12-day marathon just ended on sept. 1, and viewers got to experience all 24 “Treehouse of horror” iterations, say goodbye to maude Flanders all over again and watch the cartoon family meet celebri­ties from The smashing pumpkins to alex Trebek. now that the FXX special has ended, i’m picking just a few of my favorite episodes from the longest running sitcom on television. 
Season 5, Episode 14 – “Lisa vs. Malibu Stacy” 
lisa stands up against company responsible for the barbie doll-inspired malibu stacy after hearing her spout sexist lines, inspired by the real-life “Teen Talk barbie” controversy. while the malibu stacy doll’s prepro­grammed lines (including “i wish they taught shopping KERI O’MARA | The Observer 
in school!”) are great, grandpa abe simpson makes the show as he discusses his age. 
Season 7, Episode 4 – “Bart Sells His Soul” 
when i first saw this episode as a small child, i was both entertained and slightly terrified. when bart sells his soul (in the form of a piece of paper reading “bart simpson’s soul”) to his best friend milhouse for $5, strange things start to happen — automatic doors no longer open for him, he loses his laugh and his pets won’t come near. after the crisis, bart finally gets his soul back, but in classic bart fashion, fails to learn his lesson. 
Season 7, Episode 3 – “Home Sweet Homediddly-Dum-Doodily” 
easily one of the most quotable episodes of “The simpsons,” “home sweet homediddly-dum-doodily” gives fans an inside look at the Flanders family, the simpsons’ cheery, super-religious neighbors. after a characteristically chaotic series of events, the simpsons children end up in custody of the Flanders family, and bart, lisa and maggie all react differently to their new life of early bedtimes and “Flanders-style” nachos, which are cucumbers with cottage cheese. 
Season 12, Episode 9 – “HOMR” 
after homer discovers one of the crayons he shoved up his nose during childhood has been lodged in his brain for years, he decides to get an operation to remove the crayon. suddenly, homer is intelligent, curious and friendless. while homer’s unexpected intelligence is plenty entertaining, dr. hibbert steals the show, as usual. 
Season 8, Episode 6 – “A Milhouse Divided” 
it’s impossible to make a “simpsons” episode list with­out including “a milhouse divided.” The episode follows the milhouse van houten’s family as his parents get a di­vorce. while the plot may seem sad, the episode packs in some of the best and most memorable jokes in the show’s history. From an awkward game of pictionary to luann van houten’s absurd rebound relationship, the episode is dynamic, dark and undeniably hilarious. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

my puns can no longer resist the temptation: it sucks to suck when you’re a vampire in the movies. 
a supernatural substance combined with the science fiction genre have enthroned the mystery of the vam­pire into our fascination and artistic experimentation. i use the word “enthroned” to suggest a surreal majesty about these “creatures of the night.” The more recent pop culture format in which we’ve viewed the pale un­dead drains this fright and lets the bloodsuckers bring sexy back (nothing screams sensuality like biting necks). ordinary humans are complex, so why shouldn’t vam­pires be even more multidimensional, being immortal? 
i examined all of this in hindsight following my en­counter with the superbly told and soundtracked british­german vampire flick, “only lovers left alive.” had i not been consistently daydreaming of Tom hiddleston this summer, this cinematic collage of visual and audio beau­ty would have easily slipped my attention on amazon prime. it lured me in with its poetic and cultural balance, arousing my literary senses in a satisfactory cinematic experience so delicious, i rewatched it the next day. 
The timeline of the film’s journey from production to finished product is interesting given that its worldwide release has been a slow and steady process. critical ac­claim first came at the 2013 cannes Film Festival and then again during its recent cinematic spring release in the states. with yak and human hair draped in shades of black and white-blonde on their british brains, hiddleston and Tilda swinton are the captivating vam­pire couple, our “creatures of the night.” Their love and individuality make edward and bella’s dynamic pale in comparison. hiddleston and swinton are joined by an ensemble of brooding romantics, a bohemian’s dream of hipster characters, including mia wasikowska, John hurt, Jeffrey wright and anton yelchin. 
audiences are given a vip seating for the private lives of lovers adam (hiddleston) and eve (swinton), names which immediately establish their relationship as one that surpasses all temporary trust and faithfulness. she is the yin to his yang. because they have lived and loved each other for hundreds of years, they are comfortable spending anywhere from twenty to thirty years apart for the sake of their own space and reflection. 
Their souls are not suffocated within their immortal bodies nor are they tortured watching hundreds of years of man’s progress change their wilderness. They have endured as individuals and as lovers through the middle ages, the plagues and the renaissance while interacting with some of the most influential names in art, music and science along the way. 
The film opens with the vampires miles apart with adam in detroit and eve in Tangier. director Jim Jarmusch displays his vampires as cool, cultured and sur­prisingly human creatures who have tamed their wild­ness and craving for blood. This element of adam and eve’s survival appears more human than savage once Jarmusch shows audiences how they forgo their typical role as predators. grabbing random people off the street is so fifteenth century. our lovers adapt to their chang­ing world, getting their blood through black market-style dealings and connections. 
eve buys from her fellow vampire and dear friend, charles marlowe (yes, that charles marlowe played by hurt), who gets “the good stuff” from a French doctor. adam lives off blood donations he buys from a dr. watson at the local detroit hospital. The vampires drink their blood out of shot glasses for breakfast and dinner. Their days are our nights, beginning at sundown and ending at sunrise. many of Jarmusch’s films take place at night, but the darkness under which adam and eve live provides them with a life secluded from the day’s intrusions. 
The melodic flavor of the film’s presentation evokes a poetic viewing, thanks to adam’s role as the dark and brooding seasoned-musician-vampire. he is a genius in his own right having lived and learned from writers such as lord byron, musicians such as Franz schubert and sci­entists such as nikola Tesla. 
eve is the sunlight he needs in order to live and not just exist. he reunites with her after a brief yet passionate phone call during which she senses his frustration and struggle with the human race, whom he continually re­fers to as “zombies.” what follows is their secluded way of life, first in detroit and then in Tangier following eve’s sister’s, ava (wasikowska), unwelcomed and untamed stay. 
surviving amidst a humanistic uncertainty, the story of adam and eve develops through the haunting chords of Jarmusch’s band, sQÜrl. The mesmerizing soundtrack projects beautifully against a shakespearean wilderness of loneliness, will and eternal life. 
i could write an in-depth analysis identifying the lit­erary devices i appreciated in the romantic and dry-humored script, but i am not immortal. however, after savoring “only lovers left alive,” i feel as though i could be with adam and eve as “creatures of the night.” 
i urge you to become hypnotized by the bloody beauty of this true vampire romance while also enjoying a re­freshing o-negative blood popsicle. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
“Only Lovers Left Alive” 
Director: Jim Jarmusch Production Company: Recorded Picture Company Principle Actors: Tilda Swinton, Tom Hiddleston 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

living in an all-girls dorm is great, most of the time. There is almost always someone around ready and will­ing to give me outfit advice, the hallways are decorated with all sorts of celebrity heartthrobs, and someone is al­most always baking something. it also means that there is always a space for any one of us to sit and analyze (and re-analyze and overanalyze) every aspect of our love lives. 
it means in the last year, i’ve had more conversations about boys i don’t know than ever before in my life. it’s fine. it’s even great sometimes. it’s also a little worrying. as i sit and listen to my friends stress, dissect and over think every interaction they have with the opposite sex, i begin to question my own relationships (or lack thereof). 
i begin to wonder if not having a boyfriend and not be­lieving that “ring by spring” is really for me are problems that will cause me to be alone forever. it was in this state of mind that i picked up Katie heaney’s “never have i ever: my life (so Far) without a date.” 
heaney is a 25-year-old from st. paul, minnesota, who has never had a boyfriend. in the introduction, she calls herself a “bermuda Triangle.” she tells her readers it’s not just a lack of a long-term boyfriend; she’s never had any­thing resembling a real relationship. 
The book reads like one of those late night conversa­tions you have with your best friends, where they tell you about every single significant interaction with a boy they’ve ever had. surprisingly (or maybe not), most of these “interactions” are minuscule in reality. but, in the course of thinking and re-thinking, heaney has made them all into long, extended stories — even though, in most cases, she never even spoke to the boy in question. 
i think heaney wants her relationship with her col­lege best friend, rylee, to be the center of the book but she never quite achieves this. it is not until the end that the reader is really given an insight into what rylee’s relationships look like, and she reads as more of a back­ground character to most of heaney’s adventures. still, the sentiment is sweet and something i can wholeheart­edly support. 
The book is silly, light and even insightful at times. we follow heaney as she floats through elementary, middle and high school without a date. we watch as she stumbles through her first attempts at college dating. she tells us about the perils of online dating and the different types of messages one might (read: will definitely) receive. 
most girls, i think, can see a little bit of themselves in heaney’s antics. whether it’s obsessing over the cute guy who sits in front of you in history or worrying because you aren’t crushing back on your best guy friend, heaney has a story that relates. maybe she doesn’t get through it as gracefully as she could but i think her point is that maybe that isn’t necessary. 
This isn’t a book that impresses passersby when they notice you reading it. when i was reading it in the air­port on my way back to notre dame, i think my waiter decided i was a little sad and alone (based entirely on my reading material — and, quite possibly, the fact that i was traveling alone). 
still, when i waiting in the minneapolis/st. paul airport for four hours, Katie heaney’s company kept me laughing and entertained as i received constant notifica­tion about my friends’ arrivals back on campus. it was ex­actly like a conversation with my dorm mates at school, except i wasn’t nearly so stressed at the end. after all, if she can be 25, still single and still happy, i probably can do it too. . 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Sunday will cap a big week for RG3 
Josh Dulany 
sports writer 
This has the makings of a big week for robert griffin iii. 
it began sunday with the unveiling of a statue in his like­ness at baylor, where he is the school’s lone heisman win­ner. it will end this upcoming sunday when he takes the field for the washington redskins in houston. griffin will be hoping this coming sunday will feel as good as the last, but there are no shortage of doubters. 
a little more than a year ago, griffin could do no wrong. at the time, the last two seasons he had spent on a football field had won him a heisman trophy and the nFl’s offensive rookie of the year. he was a league leader in jersey sales and was adored all across the country. 
a year later, griffin suddenly cannot do anything right. The lauding of his mature, charis­matic personality has turned to criticism of his being distracted by social media or too quick to make everything all about him. his electric athleticism has turned from an enthralling as­set to a cringe-worthy liability. gimmicks, such as his eccen­tric socks, have changed from something fun about a super­star to distractions for a young quarterback. he’s uncomfort­able in the pocket. he came back from injury too quickly. he can’t slide. The chorus of cri­tiques goes on and on. 
To make matters worse, griffin has Kirk cousins breath­ing down his neck. cousins has been griffin’s unshakeable shadow since they entered the league in the same draft. cousins won a game in 2012 when griffin was hurt and cousins lost the final three games in 2013 when griffin was benched. now, cousins has washington redskins legend Joe Theismann saying that “cousins has played much bet­ter at quarterback than robert griffin iii has.” The cousins vs. griffin debate has become an actual topic of discussion on panels all across sports net­works. granted, Theismann has since reversed his course, but still, how things have changed. 
now, griffin is certainly not blameless here. he probably did rush back from his acl injury. he seems to want so bad to be his team’s savior that he put himself at risk before he was fully ready. his Twitter account does appear very active and very reactionary to the public and the media for someone who should probably give the appearance of having football as his only focus. Furthermore, when things went bad for griffin last season he did pass the blame a little too often to his coach. 
in the public eye, griffin has presented an almost insatiable need to be liked. he has prob­ably been well respected and adored by fans for as long as he can remember. he was a star in high school. he resurrected a baylor program to the point that he will never have to buy a drink in waco, Texas, ever again. his rookie season had washington feeling like a super bowl was not a matter of if, but when. perhaps this past year has been the first real adver­sity griffin has faced in terms of public opinion and he just wants to get back to being liked again. 
yet, there is no easy way to get it back. bottom line — the nFl is about winning and losing. griffin had far less critics when he was winning the nFc east in 2012. if griffin wins again, his critics’ voices will fade. if not, the grumbling and mumblings for cousins will only grow louder. 
he is out of excuses. he has two athletically imposing re­ceivers in desean Jackson and pierre garcon. he has a prom­ising tight end in Jordan reed and a productive running back in alfred morris. he is healthy and in his third year in the league, which is typically the year young quarterbacks make the biggest jump. it’s now or never. 
i am rooting for now. i am rooting for griffin. i think his play will return to its former electric level. i think he can stay healthy. cousins ranked dead last in passer rating of any quar­terbacks who attempted 150 passes last season and griffin would probably look good to Theismann if he were playing against other team’s reserves. i think griffin is a 24-year-old and that if people are patient we will once again see the fruit of his incredible talent. 
part of what makes the nFl great is the unknown. it could work out just like i think or cousins could be starting by mid-season. regardless, griffin has to be feeling the pressure and it will be exciting to see if he can deliver amidst the most uncertainty he has faced in his career. 
griffin kicked off his week surrounded by adoring fans and amongst fond memories of his exploits on the football field. sunday, we’ll find out if he can remind everyone of all he can be. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those 

MLB | deTroiT 12, cleveland 1 
Price, Cabrera lead Tigers to rout of Indians 
Associated Press 
cleveland — david price bounced back from an alarm­ing start and miguel cabrera homered twice, hitting one of detroit’s three homers off cleveland’s corey Kluber, as the Tigers rolled to a 12-1 win on monday to slow the indians’ climb in the standings. 
price (13-10) gave up one run and eight hits in seven innings. The left-hander was coming off a troubling loss to new york in which he allowed nine consecutive hits in one inning and eight runs over two. price called it “probably the worst game i’ve ever had in my life.” 
but he was more like himself against the sleepy indians, who had won six of seven to get within 3½ games of first in the al central. 
cabrera hit a two-run homer in the first inning off Kluber (13-9) and victor martinez and 
J.d. martinez connected for consecutive shots in the third. 
cabrera homered again in the eighth off rookie bryan price. he went 4 for 5 with three runs and three rbis. 
Tigers rookie Tyler collins hit his first major league homer, a three-run shot in the ninth. 
The indians didn’t arrive home until 3:15 a.m. after their sunday night game in Kansas city was suspended in the 10th inning because of storms. 
price improved to 2-2 since joining the Tigers, who ac­quired him from Tampa bay on July 31 and plugged him into their stable of strong starters. 
cabrera gave the Tigers a 2-0 with his 18th homer — and first since aug. 2. ian Kinsler led off with a soft liner down the right-field line that out­fielder mike aviles missed with a poorly timed dive, play­ing what should have been a single into a triple. 
one out later, cabrera drilled his homer over the left-field wall to give price some early padding. 
cabrera has worn out Kluber during his career, batting .567 with four homers and nine rbis against the right-hander. 
The indians responded with a run in their first at-bat as michael brantley singled with two outs and scored on carlos santana’s double. 
Kluber induced inning-ending double plays to end the first and second, but wasn’t so fortunate in the third when aviles couldn’t help him again. 
cabrera hit a sinking lin­er with two outs that aviles didn’t see initially and had go off his glove. victor martinez followed by a hitting on 0-2 pitch over the wall in right-center for his 28th homer. J.d. martinez then hit his 18th, giving the Tigers a 5-1 lead. 
Kluber was pulled one bat­ter later, going just 2 2-3 in­nings, his shortest outing this season. he’s lost three straight starts after going 6-0 over eight starts. 

MLB | oaKland 6, seaTTle 1 
dunn homers in first at-bat as a’s top mariners 
Associated Press 
oaKland, calif. — adam dunn is in a pennant race at last, and what an impression he made on his new team as the september stretch run began. 
dunn provided instant pop for the struggling athletics, hitting a towering, two-run homer in his debut at-bat for oakland to highlight a 6-1 win over the seattle mariners on monday in a matchup of play­off contenders. 
“i can speak pretty passion­ately about it, these chances don’t come around very often, especially for some of us,” said the 34-year-old dunn, who has never played in the post­season. “we’re going to take full advantage.” 
acquired a day earlier in a trade with the chicago white sox, the 6-foot-6, 285-pound dunn immediately became an imposing presence in the 

WANTED 
Paid High School Boys Lacrosse Coaches Needed: St Joseph HS 
middle of oakland’s order. dunn is the 12th player in oakland history to homer in his first at-bat with the team. 
a 14th-year major leaguer, dunn homered during a five-run first inning. his drive was a welcome sight for a team that just got swept in a four-game series by the al west-leading los angeles angels and was shut out for 29 straight innings. 
“That’s the most excited, anxious, probably call it a lit­tle nervous, than i’ve been in a long time,” said dunn, who was thrown off by the celebra­tory tunnel formed by team­mates in the dugout. 
The a’s broke loose a day after manager bob melvin let them have it in a closed-door team meeting. he called his team’s play “embarrassing and “pathetic” after the a’s totaled just four runs in the sweep at anaheim. 
“They ran the opening kickoff back for a touchdown and the game was over,” mariners manager lloyd mcclendon said. “it wasn’t our day.” 
dunn went 2 for 3 batting cleanup as the designated hit­ter. he provided a nice lift for an oakland offense that has struggled since dealing yoenis cespedes to boston for Jon lester on July 31. 
with 461 career home runs, dunn tied red sox star david ortiz for 35th place on the all-time list. 
dunn quickly staked Jason hammel (2-5) to a lead. hammel also started the sea­son in chicago, and was trad­ed by the cubs in July. 
“it had a little bit of a story-book-type theme,” melvin said of dunn’s debut. “we’ve re­ally been lacking early energy, runs, he comes up to the plate and you’re thinking to your­self, ‘boy, wouldn’t it be great?’ and he delivers.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
(1 mile from campus) is looking for lacrosse coaches for the 2015 sea­son. All coaches are paid as well as reimbursed for travel expenses.  Season runs from March to May. Please contact Head Coach Mike Williams at mwilliams@saintjoela­crosse.com  



MLB | philadelphia 7, aTlanTa 0 
Four Phillies combined for no-hitter 
what he started. clayton Kershaw and Josh already had impressive ac-season. 
Associated Press 

“i think having a combined beckett of the dodgers and complishments on his re-hamels factored in the 
aTlanTa — on labor no-hitter is very difficult Tim lincecum of the giants sume — in 2008, he was the phillies’ first two runs. he day, cole hamels and the because guys have to come threw no-hitters earlier this mvp of the world series and sacrificed a runner to third philadelphia bullpen spread right in and get the guys out, year. the nl championship se-in the third inning, and led the workload on a no-hitter. no matter what the situation right fielder marlon byrd ries, and he’s a three-time off the sixth with a single 
hamels and three phillies is,” hamels said. “it’s a little foiled the braves’ best bid for all-star. and scored from second on relievers combined on the more dramatic to be able to a hit. with runners on second now, the lefty can claim rollins’ triple. season’s fourth no-hitter, see that you’re trying to play and third in the third inning, part of a no-no, too. atlanta, which had won blanking the atlanta braves the cards as best you can byrd raced in and toward the diekman struck out two 11 of 15, began the day 1½ 7-0 monday and giving a against the lineup.” line to make a diving catch and giles fanned three be-games back in the nl wild-last-place team a rare reason manager ryne sandberg on chris Johnson’s slicing fore papelbon took over. card race. Jason heyward to celebrate. knew hamels was tired and liner to end the inning. Kevin millwood and five drew two walks and stole 
it was all the more unusual ready to come out of the “it happened at a perfect seattle relievers teamed up three bases. The struggling in that hamels left the game game. Their discussion was time, making that catch,” to pitch the previous com-braves’ offense has scored with his bid intact after six a quick one. byrd said. “Keeping him in bined no-hitter, against the one run in the last three innings. he was fine with the “it didn’t take long,” the game, keeping us in the dodgers in 2012. The first games. decision, too, having already sandberg said. “he was pret-lead, the whole nine. it was combined no-hitter came in “The game of baseball’s thrown 108 pitches at a hot ty well spent there. The early nice.” 1917 when babe ruth walked kind of funny,” atlanta man-afternoon at Turner Field. innings had something to Johnson came close again the first washington batter ager Fredi gonzalez said. 
“Just understanding the do with it. The stressful in-in the ninth with a ground-of the game and was ejected, “you feel like you’ve hit a situation, every time i went nings, stranding the runners er up the middle. shortstop and boston red sox reliever good stride and all of a sud-out there i was battling con-at second and third a couple Jimmy rollins ranged be-ernie shore didn’t allow an-den you go through a stretch trol issues,” hamels said. “i of times, but he wasn’t going hind the bag to make the other runner. where you score one run in wasn’t getting ahead of guys. to go nine. and he ran the play. roy halladay pitched the 27 innings, and you’re lucky walking the leadoff hitter bases the inning before.” phil gosselin then lined previous two phillies no-enough to win one of those will put you in a lot of trou-papelbon was in the mid-out to first baseman darin hitters — he threw a perfect games.” ble, and it does. it builds up dle of the hugs and hand-ruf, who had taken over in game against the marlins in Julio Teheran (13-10) gave your pitch count.” shakes on the mound when it the ninth for ryan howard, 2010, then threw a no-hitter up five hits and five runs 
hamels (8-6) struck out was over. to end the game. the same year in the playoffs — two earned — with four seven, matched a season “i think it’s a cool experi-hamels singled and scored against cincinnati. walks in 6 2-3 innings. he left high with five walks and hit ence,” papelbon said. “it’s in the sixth inning, and it was 12th no-hitter in after revere’s bases-loaded a batter. definitely been a rough go at got pats of congratulations phillies history, and the first triple made it 5-0 in the sev­
relievers Jake diekman, it this year for our ballclub. in the dugout after pitch-combined effort. The last enth. shortstop andrelton Ken giles and Jonathan something to kind of hang ing the bottom half. he was pitcher to no-hit the braves simmons’ error set up the papelbon each pitched a per-our hat on for the year. cole on deck in the seventh, but was ubaldo Jimenez of runs. fect inning to close out the has been our bona fide ace sandberg’s decision already colorado in 2010. philadelphia has won 11th combined no-hitter in for the entire the season, and was made when hamels was ben revere tripled and hamels’ last five starts big league history. a smiling it’s good to preserve those pulled for pinch-hitter grady drove in a career-high five against the braves. he owns hamels watched from the wins for our starters. Today it sizemore. runs. The leadoff man start-an 0.97 era and four victo­bench as they finished off was preserving a no-hitter.” The 30-year-old hamels ed the day with 15 rbis this ries in that span. 
WNBA | chicago 86, indiana 84 
sky win in double overtime, even up series with indiana 
Associated Press 
rosemonT, ill. — courtney vandersloot and her chicago sky teammates would prefer to take the lead early on. instead, they have been rallying from big defi­cits in the wnba playoffs. 
in their latest game, sylvia Fowles scored 27 points to help the sky overcome a 14-point defi­cit to outlast the indiana Fever 86-84 in double-overtime on monday, evening the best-of-3 eastern conference finals. 
The sky rallied from 14 points down in game 1 before falling to the Fever 77-70. chicago also beat atlanta in the decisive game 3 of the first round after trailing by 20 points. 
“we would all love to be the team that pushes out to the lead,” vandersloot said. “but at this point, when it happens, this is playoffs. That’s an experienced basketball team over there. we just need to know we’ve been in this position before and that’s one thing that keeps us together. we’ve done it before and we’re just going to keep pushing.” 
game 3 is wednesday in indianapolis. The winner will face either defending champion minnesota or phoenix in the finals. 
vandersloot had 18 points and allie Quigley added 16 for the fourth-seeded sky, who earned their first home playoff victory. both of chicago’s victories in the first round against atlanta came on the road. 
all-star elena delle donne had just nine points on 4-for-11 shoot­ing but her layup gave the sky a four-point lead with 1:41 left in the second overtime. chatman said delle donne dealt with tightness in her back. 
shavonte Zellous scored 20 points, Tamika catchings had 16 and erlana larkins added 15 for the second-seeded Fever. 
Though Fowles overcame early foul trouble and was domi­nant against a smaller team, backcourt play proved the dif­ference for chicago. while the Fever’s guards won the matchup in game 1, the sky’s guards tri­umphed in game 2. 
indiana’s briann January had eight points after scoring 19 in game 1. For chicago, Quigley and vandersloot combined for 34 points on 11-for-25 shooting and 10 assists. 

“They’ve got to be shooting over us, not going by us,” dunn said. “it’ll be a battle of the back-courts, and everybody else will be on sylvia. and then who’s got delle donne?” 
The sky dropped to 9-33 all-time against the Fever, including a sweep by indiana in the first round last year. 
“They know this means noth­ing if they don’t complete the deal in a couple days,” chatman said. 
delle donne’s jumper rattled in and out with under 4 seconds left in regulation, but Tamera young rebounded and scored to tie it with 1 second left. 
in the first overtime, catchings’ jumper tied it at 79 with 58.1 sec­onds left. Fowles was called for an offensive foul about 9 seconds lat­er. after a miss by catchings, she stole the ball, but January missed a jumper before the buzzer. 
in the second overtime, January made two free throws with 12.2 remaining to cut the lead to one before Fowles hit a free throw for the final margin with 8.8 seconds left. Zellous missed a jumper before time expired. 
Dodgers fall at home to Nats 
Associated Press 

los angeles — gio gonzalez picked a good time to earn his first victory for washington in the second half, coming against a talented dodgers lineup the nationals could see in the postseason. 
backed by four homers, in­cluding two from denard span, gonzalez snapped his five-game skid with a 6-4 victory on monday night in a matchup of division leaders. 
gonzalez (7-9) allowed three runs and three hits in six-plus innings. The left-hander hadn’t won since beating the cubs on July 5. 
“my velocity was where i wanted it to be,” gonzalez said. “i was attacking the strike zone, fastball, curveball, changeup, it was all working.” 
The east-leading nationals (78-58) own the nl’s best record while the dodgers (77-61) are atop the west and close behind in pursuit of the top seed, de­spite losing for the third time in four games. 
rafael soriano pitched a shaky ninth to earn his 31st save. he yielded an rbi single to Juan uribe, after the ball skipped by the mound and car­omed off second base, allowing yasiel puig to score. 
roberto hernandez (2-2) gave up five runs and five hits 
— including a career-high four homers — in 4 1-3 innings. The right-hander came in 2-0 against the nationals, having allowed just an unearned run in 15 1-3 innings in two starts against them while pitching for philadelphia before being acquired by the dodgers last month. 
The nationals ended august with 40 homers, second-best in the major leagues behind baltimore. They picked up where they left off to start the final month of the regular sea­son, with Jayson werth and asdrubal cabrera adding solo shots. 
span’s second homer, a two-run shot on the first pitch he faced in the fifth, extended washington’s lead to 5-2. That 
chased  hernandez,  who  had  
walked  cabrera to start the  
inning  before  striking  out  

gonzalez. 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

PGA TOUR | deuTsche banK championship 
Kirk wins Deutsche Bank Championship 
Associated Press 
norTon, mass. — chris Kirk made three big putts and cap­tured the biggest win of his career monday in the deutsche bank championship. whether that was enough for u.s. captain Tom watson to add him to the ryder cup team was the least of his concerns. 
Kirk won for the second time this season. he went the last 37 holes at the Tpc boston without a bogey. he played the final two rounds with rory mcilroy and outplayed the no. 1 player in the world. and he closed with a 5-un­der 66 for a two-shot victory in a Fedex cup playoff event. 
was it enough to convince watson that he was worthy of a captain’s pick? 
“i certainly don’t feel entitled, or feel like i’m a shoe-in to get a pick,” Kirk said. “i’ve obviously really put myself into consideration, and it’s something that i would love to do. but like i’ve said before, the nine guys that made it are automatic. Those are the guys on the team. The other three? if you get in, it’s a bonus.” 

Then he looked at the blue tro­phy next to him and considered what he had just achieved. 
“winning the deutsche bank and going to no. 1 in the Fedex cup, and $1.4 million, that’s plen­ty for me for one day,” he said with a smile. 
watson announces his selec­tions Tuesday evening in new york. 
Kirk made three big putts on the back nine — two of them for birdie 
— but what pleased him the most was his 15-foot putt for par on the 15th hole that kept him in the lead. 
billy horschel had a chance to at least force a playoff — and pos­sibly win — when he stood in the fairway on the par-5 18th hole with a 6-iron in his hand. horschel chunked the shot so badly that it barely reached the hazard, and he made bogey for a 69. 
horschel tied for second with 54-hole leader russell henley (70) and geoff ogilvy, who extended his unlikely run through these Fedex cup playoffs. ogilvy was the last of the 100 qualifiers for the deutsche bank championship. 
he went 65-65 on the weekend without a bogey. 
The top 70 in the Fedex cup ad­vance to the bmw championship in denver later this week. ogilvy went from no. 100 to no. 24, and now stands a reasonable chance of getting to the Tour championship for the top 30. 
Kirk won for the third time in his career, though never against a field this strong, and never with this much riding on it. 
he was no. 14 in the ryder cup standings, five spots away from being an automatic qualifier. This victory could go a long way toward watson using one of his three selections on the 29-year-old from georgia. last week, hunter mahan bolstered his ryder cup case by winning The barclays. 
Kirk took the outright lead for the first time with a 25-foot birdie putt on the 13th hole. and right when it looked as if he was strug­gling with his swing, he saved par from a bunker with a 15-foot putt on the 15th. on the next hole, he made a birdie putt from just over 12 feet that gave him a two-shot lead. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY | wabash hoKum Karem 
belles capture second place 
Observer Staff Report 
in its season opener saturday, saint mary’s placed second out of three teams at the wabash hokum Karem in crawfordsville, ind. 
a hokum karem is a com­bination of a relay race and a standard cross-country race where two runners alternate running legs of a six-mile race. The first three pairs for each team count towards the overall score, with each subsequent pair competing individually. 
depauw took the first three spots in the race before the belles got their first pair of runners across as sophomore brittany beeler and freshman reilly pieri crossed the line with a time of 36:54.6. The belles got their other scoring pairings across the finish line in 10th and 11th — freshmen natalie hawkes and caitlin blum posted a time of 38:26.1, while juniors allie danhof and Katelyn dunn finished in 38:34.9, but they counted as fifth and sixth in the team standings because every pair in front of them competed as individuals. 
other pairings for the belles 
were  sophomores  Kaitlyn  
alessi and Kathryn  marshall  
(38:55.4),  seniors  samee  

chittenden and erin Knauf (39:12.9), freshmen alyssa Furman and anna mcclowry (40:39.3), sophomore colleen ogren and junior colleen burke (41:32.8) and fresh­man anna riddle and maggie pacana (41:50.8). 
danville area also attended the meet, although the squad failed to record a team score with only two pairs racing. The meet was hosted by the all-male wabash university in crawfordsville, ind. The little giants took home the victory in the men’s race, sweeping the top three spots. 
The belles have this week­end off before returning to ac­tion on sept. 13 at the calvin Knight invitational in grand rapids, mich. race time is scheduled to start at 10:45 a.m. 

paid adverTisemenT 



Football 
conTinued From page 16 
sunday. 
eilers will take over many of the duties performed by grad­uate assistant Kyle mccarthy, who has taken a leave of ab­sence from the program while he undergoes chemotherapy treatments. 
“we were granted a special exemption from the ncaa while Kyle mccarthy was fall­en ill with his battle,” Kelly said in his sunday teleconfer­ence. “so pat reached out an has been able to take a sab­batical from his work.” 
eilers has taken a sabbati­cal from his role as managing director of madison dearborn partners, llc, a private equi­ty firm in chicago. 
while eilers has never coached at the college level, he is no stranger to notre dame. he appeared in 34 games and made 18 starts for the irish between 1987 and 1989, spending time at flanker, split end and defen­sive back. after graduating from notre dame in 1990, he played in the nFl for six years, appearing in 61 games with minnesota, washington and chicago. 
“he’s got great knowledge of the game, obviously play­ing here, playing on a cham­pionship team,” Kelly said of eilers. “… he’ll be helping us a lot this week with those young safeties, too.” 
Michigan week begins 
saturday’s game against michigan marks the last meet­ing between the irish and the wolverines for the fore­seeable future. while there might be much off-the-field hype surrounding the game, Kelly said his players are fo­cused on improving their in­dividual performances. 
“we really keep our focus on what our technique and our own individual work needs to get better at,” he said. “For example, shumate and max redfield, they can’t be thinking about michigan because they have to learn how to communicate better, really focus on that. [Junior receiver] chris brown has to do a better job of getting in and out of his breaks. we’re really focusing on the indi­vidual and what they have to get better at this week.” 

Kelly also mentioned that there would be no repeat of “The chicken dance,” which was played over the loud­speakers at michigan stadium after michigan’s 41-30 win over the irish last season. The song was an apparent refer­ence to michigan head coach brady hoke’s comments in may 2013 that notre dame was “chickening out” of its se­ries with the wolverines. 
“yeah, i mean, that’s [michigan’s] prerogative,” Kelly said. “They won the game. They can play whatever they want. we’re going to play the alma mater.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


ND Vball 
conTinued From page 16 
notre dame faces its daunting acc schedule, which features four top-25 teams, including a sept. 28 showdown with no. 8 Florida state on the road. 
To that end, 13 of notre dame’s 14 players appeared in matches over the weekend, get­ting game experience against high quality opponents, an asset brown said would be invaluable as they seek to grow as a team in the early days of their season. 
brown said she believes her team is growing closer as a squad, a process that began at the start of summer practices, when she challenged them with The program, a conditioning program designed to build team­work and leadership through intense group workouts. 
The irish will have a chance to bounce back from their week­end and regroup in front of their home crowd in the golden dome invitational this week­end, sept. 5-7, at the purcell pavilion. notre dame is slated to play washington state on Friday, iupui on saturday and western michigan on sunday. 
“The good crowd and atmo­sphere means we always love playing at home,” brown said. “There is definitely some excite­ment about playing here this weekend.” 
The first matchup against the cougars is scheduled for Friday at 7:30 p.m., followed by 3:30 and 2 p.m. start times saturday and sunday, respectively. 
Contact Henry Hilliard rhillia1@nd.edu 





SMC SOCCER 

confident belles prepare for battle against Titans 
SMC VOLLEYBALL | mounT union classic 
smc struggles in first weekend 

By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
after battling back to beat mount st. Joseph in overtime for its first win of the season sunday, saint mary’s will look to build their first win streak of the year tonight when the belles take on illinois wesleyan at 7:30 p.m., in bloomington, ill. 
The belles (1-1) scored twice in the second half and extra period against the lions (0-2), but before that had surrendered four unanswered scores in their previous two games. with that in mind, belles coach michael Joyce said he knew major improvements were needed on both sides of the ball, but he had faith in the squad’s developing midfield. 
“i’m looking forward to seeing our midfield per­form … Tuesday,” Joyce said. “They started devel­oping some great chemistry against mount st. Joseph and i’d definitely like to see that continue into our next game.” 

The Titans (1-1) were ranked 20th in the ncaa div. iii preseason poll and are coming off a 3-1 win against birmingham­southern on saturday. with the benefit of home field advantage, Joyce said that the Titans will be an espe­cially tough test for saint mary’s. 
“illinois wesleyan is a top team this season, so Tuesday’s game will be a good test for us to see where we are,” Joyce said. “playing and dealing with high pressure will be im­portant early to settle us in on the road and give us some confidence. we should have no problem competing with these top teams in the country but starting off well and play­ing confident is essential.” 
Junior midfielder maggie mclaughlin scored the game-winning goal for the belles on sunday and also contributed the cross which eventually led to the game-tying score earlier in the second half. her goal ties her for the team lead with midfielder erin mishu and defender mary Kate hussey, both seniors. 
despite the challenge of playing a Titan team that advanced to the ncaa tour­nament last year, the belles are confident they will be successful in Tuesday’s matchup against illinois wesleyan, Joyce said. 
“we’re still not as sharp as we could be, but that’s expected early in the year,” Joyce said. “we definitely need to keep moving in the right direction, and as long as we continue to do so, i believe that we will put up a strong fight against illinois wesleyan.” 
saint  mary’s  takes  on  
illinois  wesleyan  on  
Tuesday  at  7  p.m.,  in  

bloomington, ill. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski  at  rrogalsk@nd.edu 

By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s opened its season by going 1-3 over the weekend at the mount union classic in alliance, ohio. The belles closed their weekend by defeating lawrence 3-2 after dropping three hard-fought contests to bethany, mount union and John carroll. 
The tournament’s opening match got off to a strong start for the belles as they took the first set from bethany 25-21. however, the bison stormed back and won the next three sets to take the match and kick off saint mary’s season with a loss. 
next for the belles was a mount union ranked tenth in the nation. saint mary’s failed to win a set in drop­ping the match 3-0, but each set was a close affair. The purple raiders squeaked by the belles 25-23 in the first game and saint mary’s kept it even tighter in the sec­ond set before losing 28-26. mount union closed out the match with another taut vic­tory at 25-22. even in the loss, belles’ senior Kati schneider led all players with 15 kills and 12 digs, while becoming just the sixth player in saint mary’s history to tally 1,000 career kills. 
coach Toni elyea said she was happy for her senior as well as with the way her team fought against a top-flight opponent. 
“it was great to see Kati have some individual suc­cess,” elyea said. “it was es­pecially great as a part of our team rising to the occa­sion. we were playing a phe­nomenal team and we really stepped up. we just took a few plays off and weren’t quite as consistent as you need to be to beat a team like mount union, but we took a lot of positives from the match. 
after their 0-2 showing on Friday, the belles began saturday with another tense match against John carroll. The blue streaks took the first set 25-23 as they mount­ed a rally from down 23-19 to take the last six points of the set. up 12-6 in the second set, the belles again failed to stay in front and John carroll ultimately took a 2-0 lead with a 25-20 victory. The belles bounced back to take the third set, 25-21, but fell apart in the fourth set, 25-11. 
elyea said she was disap­pointed with the opportuni­ties the belles let get away. 
“we had a lot of things not go our way,” elyea said. “we were having some difficulties with a new rotation and we really just seemed to lack mental focus and let some points get away.” 
looking to avoid a win­less tournament, the belles faced another 0-3 team in lawrence. The vikings kept the belles at bay to win the first set, 25-20, but the belles dominated the next set 25-9 to knot the match at 1-1. in the third set, saint mary’s had leads of 24-22, 25-24, 26­25 and 27-26, but lawrence staved off each of the set points and eventually took a 29-27 win. 
The belles responded with another commanding vic­tory at 25-14 to force a fifth and decisive set. The belles took the lead early and held off the vikings down the stretch to get a 15-12 win and improve to 1-3 on the season. Junior Katie hecklinski led the belles with 13 kills, while schneider led the team with 21 digs. 
“we were finally able to kind of play the way we wanted,” elyea said. “we had changed up the rotation again and we hit much bet­ter in the last three sets. we ran the offense the way we wanted and that helped us be much more consistent.” 
schneider’s play over the course of the weekend earned her all-tournament team honors. 
“That’s a great honor for Kati to be one of the top six players in a tournament like that,” elyea said. “she was great for us, especially on defense where she averaged around 3.75 digs per set and was just extremely vital to our success, particularly in the last game.” 
The belles now move in to their conference schedule, which begins Tuesday when they visit alma. after facing the scots, saint mary’s has five consecutive home con­ference matches and elyea said she hopes her squad can get off to a quality start amid the challenges of miaa play. 
“we have a tough week,” elyea said. “it’s going to be about getting better. we have to be more consistent, es­pecially on our hitting – we have to do better than nine percent on hitting. it’s about eliminating unforced errors and just staying focused. we can do it and it will be good to get out there and get started.” 
The belles play alma on Tuesday in alma, mich. The match is scheduled to get un­derway at 7 p.m. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 



SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 

234 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

8/28/12 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: put your experience, wisdom and dedication to the test this year. Talk about your thoughts and ideas with passion and be ready to defend your position and make a difference. problems with authority figures are likely to manifest, and choosing your battles wisely can lead to making an important difference to you and the people and things you value. your numbers are 7, 10, 21, 28, 34, 47, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): impulsiveness will lead to all sorts of problems. protect against insult or injury. Focus on personal challenges and being the best that you can be. love is on the rise and an important decision coupled with romance will improve your future. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): listen and exhibit tolerance and patience. size up what’s going on and give a practical, detailed assessment and look at viable solutions. refuse to let a personal matter turn into a costly venture. don’t give in to emotional blackmail. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look for opportunities that allow you to advance your creative endeavors, but not at the expense of finishing jobs that pay the bills. gauge your time wisely and keep your plans a secret to avoid interference until your presentation is flawless. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): look for practical ways to increase the value of your assets, property or possessions. Think emotional matters through and deal with each issue separately. someone may not share your opinion, but that doesn’t mean you should compromise your beliefs or plans. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep your head down and stay focused on the tasks you’ve been given. don’t be daunted by a challenge when all that’s required is a little thought, coupled with compassion, to come up with a workable solution. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): do whatever it takes to help others. investigate your options and bring about change that will benefit others as well. get involved in your community if it will help you make a difference to your environment or the services offered. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): being taken for granted or doing too much for others will leave you feeling uncertain and emotional regarding your relationships. change may be required in order to bring greater equality to any partnership you are involved in. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a step back and re-evaluate your options before letting things get blown out of proportion. nothing is as bad as it seems, and remaining even-keeled and taking a practical approach to whatever happens will benefit you in the end. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): sudden changes in your financial situation are likely, but make sure you know exactly where you stand before you go on a spending spree. love is on the rise and changes in the way you live look positive. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will attract the interest of people as determined as you are to get things done. look for unusual ways to multiply your assets and financial intake, but don’t be tempted by someone pressuring you to take part in a risky venture. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t share your secrets. look for opportunities that will allow you to use your skills in order to earn more money. a partnership will undergo a positive change. protect against minor mishaps and injury. romance is in the stars. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): rethink what you have experienced in the past and you will find a way to integrate what worked for you in the past into a plan you want to pursue in the future. put your ideas on paper and research the possibilities. 


Birthday Baby: you are loyal, trustworthy and helpful. you are anxious and unwavering. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 

Kelly challenges young secondary 
Redfield, Shumate will remain starters against Michigan, Collinsworth not expected to play 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
after mentioning commu­nication in the secondary as an occasional problem in his post-game press conference after notre dame’s 48-17 win over rice on saturday, irish head coach brian Kelly further addressed concerns at the safety position in his sunday afternoon teleconference. 
Junior safety elijah shumate got a last-minute start saturday after graduate student safety and captain austin collinsworth sprained his mcl on Thursday. rice passed for 226 yards against the irish defense and had four pass plays of more than 25 yards. 
“Then with elijah and [soph­omore safety] max [redfield], we needed somebody to pick it up,” Kelly said in the tele­conference. “neither one of those guys picked up the slack. need to be better.” 
Kelly did attribute some of the secondary’s struggles to the late starting lineup change. Kelly said saturday that collinsworth is not ex­pected to return against michigan this weekend. 
“again, we got into a very unique situation where we had 24 hours really to get them communicating more effectively,” he said. “… we can get that corrected. both [shumate and redfield] are the kind of skill players we want back there.” 
notre dame is slated to face michigan graduate student quarterback devin gardner on saturday. gardner was 13-of-14 passing for 173 yards and three touchdowns in michigan’s 52-14 win over appalachian state last weekend. 
Eilers joins coaching staff 
pat eilers, a former irish football player and member of the 1988 national champi­onship team, has joined the notre dame coaching staff as a defensive quality control as­sistant, Kelly announced 
see FooTball PAGE 13 


EMILY MCCONVILLE| The Observer 

Irish sophomore safety Max Redfield prepares to tackle Rice’s redshirt junior quaterback Driphus Jackson in Notre Dame’s 48-17 victory over the Owls on Saturday. Redfield made his second career start in the game. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish find silver linings despite rough start 

By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
after a rough 13-18 cam­paign in 2013 and falling to two top-10 teams in the acc/ big Ten challenge on august 29-31 to open its 2014 season, notre dame and coach debbie brown could have easily been discouraged. 
instead, the irish (0-2) re­turn to practice this week fo­cused on fielding a competitive team capable of handling their brutal acc schedule. 
“every chance we get to play next to each other is an as­set and i was really pleased so many on the team got the op­portunity with each other. it definitely helps us grow as a team and play better as a unit,” brown said. 
The irish, fielding nine re­turning monogram winners and six freshmen, fell to no. 18 minnesota, 3-0, on Friday, but pushed the gophers to set point in the first two frames. The squad, however, was un­able to capitalize and lost all three frames. The irish hit .106 in the match but bested the gophers with 15 more digs and one more assist in front of 3,000 fans at minnesota’s sports pavilion. 
“we opened with two strong sets and felt really good about our ability to go point for point with such a strong team,” brown said. “our performance on Friday was definitely our bright spot on the weekend; considering we kept our com­posure in difficult environ­ment on the road.” 
notre dame’s match against no. 4 wisconsin, last year’s national runner-up, proved to be not nearly as competitive, as the irish fell to the badgers, 3-0, on sunday afternoon. The badgers earned eight aces and held notre dame to a .100 at­tack percentage. wisconsin also earned 41 kills and 31 digs, compared to 24 and 25, respec­tively for the irish. 
“in the wisconsin game we really got into trouble with serves. as a team we did not handle the first contact and did not make good use of the middle take,” brown said. 
despite the losses, the irish were able to gain valuable ex­perience against some of the best teams in the country, something brown said would make a big difference when 
see nd vball PAGE 13 




