The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 28 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
GRC hosts Sexual Violence Awareness Month 
Events focus on bystander intervention, violence on college campuses, support for survivors 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
october’s sexual violence awareness month — a series of programs and events includ­ing giveaways, awareness cam­paigns, a panel discussion and a workshop — will focus on by­stander intervention and taking action to prevent sexual violence on campus, gender relations center (grc) director christine caron gebhardt said. 
gebhardt said the grc planned the month’s pro­grams based on what it saw as an increase in awareness and discussion surrounding sexual violence issues. 

“we are beginning to break the silence around sexual violence,” she said. “what that does is help people who are impacted by sex­ual violence not to be afraid to come forward and receive help, but it also puts a responsibil­ity on us as a community to not merely acknowledge that ... we know how to care for them and that we also think about, ‘how do we prevent this from happen­ing again?’” 
unlike in previous years, when 

see svam PAGE 6 EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


panelists analyze relationships in light of catholic teaching 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news writer 
Tuesday afternoon, a group of notre dame students and fac­ulty met with three panelists at sister Jean’s roundtable, hosted by the gender relations center (grc). The panel discussed dif­ferent ways catholic teaching can be supportive in helping un­derstand all relationships — in­cluding friendships — thinking 
see panel PAGE 5 





Graduate student attends global math forum 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
a notre dame gradu­ate student traveled to heidelberg, germany as part of the first-ever american delegation to the heidelberg laureate forum (hlf), which unites mathematics and computer science stu­dents and researchers with world-renowned laureates. 
renato ghini bettiol joined with 19 other students and postdoctoral researchers from the united states in the forum, which took place sept. 21-26. bettiol received his bachelor and masters of science from the university of são paulo in 2008 and 2010, 
see forum PAGE 7 


lecture links water privatization, unified protests 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
news writer 
Tuesday afternoon at 
the  hesburgh  center  for  
international  studies,  
university  of  wisconsin­ 

madison assistant pro­fessor of political science erica simmons analyzed the social dynamics of protests over water priva­tization in a lecture en­titled “water, community and privatization in cochabamba, bolivia” 
“starting in January of 2000, thousands of pro­testers from every class, occupation, age and eth­nicity spoke out against the privatization of water in cochabamba,” simmons said. “This includes people not directly hurt by rising water bills.” 
simmons quoted a com­mander of a cochabamba army unit assigned to moni­tor the protestors who noted the diversity of the demon­strators: “my wife, my child, my empleada [employee] — they were all in the streets.” 
”water is not just a bio­physical commodity, but a 
see waTer PAGE 6 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
The University of Wisconsin’s Erica Simmons explains her research on the role of water in demonstrations in Cochabamba, Bolivia in 2000.The Kellogg Institute for International Studies sponsored the lecture. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 men’s soccer PAGE 20 fooTball PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                          alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you miss most about summer? 

Jack Cahill 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“The beach.” 
Frances Neunuebel 
freshman 
badin hall 
“summer clothing.” 
Emily Meyer 
freshman 
badin hall 
“being tan.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Maloney Foster 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“swimming in the lakes.” 
Lamara Parnell 
freshman 
badin hall 
“The sun.” 
Jonathan Fitzgerald 
freshman 
Keough hall 
“The beach.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
emily mcconville manny dejesus alex winegar 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Graphics Scene 
emily danaher maddie daly 

Vespers Lilly Scholarship Cross Country Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica 
Photo Viewpoint 

Jodi lo bianca almada Geddes Hall Information Session Notre Dame Golf Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred 
5:15 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Brownson Hall Course 3:30 p.m. - 7  p.m. Heart 
Faith and reflection. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 2 p.m. - 6 p.m. Top- 15 matchup 11:45 a.m.- 12:45 p.m. Email fellows@nd.edu Annual Notre Dame versus Stanford. Music by the Notre 
Corrections 
with questions. Invitational. Dame Folk Choir. 
The observer regards itself as a 

ISSLP Information ND Theatre NOW Pep Rally Saturday Vigil Mass ND Hockey 
professional publication and strives for 
Session DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Compton Family Ice 
the highest standards of journalism at 
Geddes Hall Arts Center Arena Heart Arena 
all times. we do, however, recognize that 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 5:05 p.m.- 7:05 p.m. 
we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-Learn about Open to the public. Pep rally for ND before Music by the Women’s Exhibition game 4541 so we can correct our error. international service. it faces Stanford. Liturgical Choir. against University of Waterloo. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | The observer 


South Bend official explains sustainability plan 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
Krista bailey, sustain­ability coordinator for south bend’s office of sustainability, spoke to saint mary’s students Tuesday evening about environmen­talism and innovation in the city. 
her lecture, entitled, “how students can create success,” aimed to educate students and faculty about how they can join forces with various eco-initiatives in the greater south bend commu­nity, assistant professor of political science and wom­en’s studies sonalini sapra said. 
bailey studied at indiana university bloomington and 
indiana  university  south  
bend,  sapra  said.  prior  
to her work for the  office  
of  sustainability,  bailey  

worked as an environmen­tal educator for more than 10 years. 
bailey opened her discus­sion by addressing the topic of sustainability and the methodology of choosing to act on possible environ­mental, economic and social intitiatives both within city government and in the larger south bend community. 
“our approach to projects and the city is to look at them across the triple bottom line,” bailey said. “so, [we don’t] just look at saving the trees, but to balance that economic need between cul­tures here in south bend.” 
The office of sustainability looks to create a community in south bend which fosters sustainability, strengthens its economy, has the capac­ity to bounce back from en­vironmental stress and is inclusive to everyone, bailey said. 
“one thing i realized is that the city is committed to sustainability,” bailey said. “sustainable communities are more inclusive, because people love where they live, and south bend wants to be more of that kind of place. it’s not that south bend has been doing that kind of sus­tainability before. it’s not just saving the quality of the river, but really having fun in the city we’re in and lov­ing the city we’re in.” 
a sustainable program helps strengthen the com­munity and helps the city government directly by reducing its operating expenses and improving re­lationships between the city and the diverse regions and residents within south bend, bailey said. she encouraged students and faculty to ex­plore and discover what south bend offers in terms of environmentalism. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“[There are] lots of amaz­ing things happening in the city,” bailey said. “There’s a huge variety of nonprofits in the area. There’s a lot go­ing on with sustainable food systems in the downtown. There’s a lot of great things happening in town but also energy efficiency endeavors as well.” 
The office of sustainability is currently overseeing sev­eral initiatives, including cutting its costs by enacting sustainable approaches, she said. 
“There’s a couple differ­ent things we’ve focused on already that people don’t re­alize are happening here,” she said. “… we’ve devel­oped a whole new section on our website. it’s finding a hub for all these things that are happening in all the city departments.” 
“we have a yard waste composting program, a great service,” bailey said. “it’s been in place for about 15 years. we have a community garden program. you can ac­tually apply to use [a] piece of land as a garden. it’s a very easy process.” 
another project currently in the works is the smart streets initiative which will allow for more traffic to flow throughout downtown south bend, bailey said. 
“maybe you have seen that the roads are chang­ing in south bend,” she said. “you’re not rushing through downtown, so you actu­ally know what’s going on. To make it more of a down-town-feeling downtown, it’s adding social and cultural amenities. people are actu­ally stopping and enjoying the businesses.” 

bailey said receiving input and involvement from indi­viduals and organizations will be essential to success­ful programs. 
“we work together both internally and with mem­bers of the community to find creative and innovative approaches to preserving our natural resources, en­suring social equity and cut­ting costs,” she said. 
collecting and using government and commu­nity-wide data will be the cornerstone of the office of sustainability programs, she said. 
“when i first started the position, i didn’t think this was a big deal,” she said. “it’s been a really fun eye-opener … [to improve] on what we have and using our assets as a city to move forward.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | The observer 




Theology professor wins award for service to church 
former student of mine, so was founded, as i under-the drive there, as the fall 
By KATIE McCARTY 

that may explain how they stand, by a group of profes­colors are just starting, was 
news writer 

found me. i also got an sors about 50 years ago, who really beautiful,” daley 
The fellowship of catholic award from the vatican — included the late professor said. “i really enjoyed meet-
scholars awarded the the ratzinger prize — two ralph mcinerny from notre ing all the members of the 


cardinal wright prize to pro-years ago, so they may have dame.” 
fessor of theology fr. brian e. heard of that.” daley, a Jesuit priest who 
daley on saturday at its annu-The fellowship gives the has taught both undergrad-fellowship, who were very 
hospitable.” 
This semester, daley is on 
al meeting in pittsburgh, ac­cording to a university press release. daley said receiving the award came as a surprise. 
“i really don’t know why they singled me out for the award,” daley said. “i just do my thing and don’t think of myself as a public figure. The current president of the fellowship, fr. Joseph Koterski from fordham [university], is a friend and 
Panel 
conTinued from page 1 
about the dignity of each person and being in the right relationship with an empha­sis on justice, reverence and compassion. 
The program featured stacey noem, director of human and spiritual for­mation for lay students in the masters of divinity pro­gram; bree haler, campus ministry’s assistant direc­tor of evangelization and leonard delorenzo, direc­tor of notre dame vision. noem opened the panel by initiating discussion about how using a lens of justice can help build the right relationships. 
“Justice means render­ing each person their due,” noem said. “every external act, every element of how we interact with other people is either just or unjust — there is no in between.” 
overall, noem emphasized in the early church’s un­derstanding of god, of the person of christ, of mary, of our hope as christians and of how to interpret the scriptures.” 
daley said he enjoyed his time in pittsburgh during his trip to receive the award last weekend. 
“pittsburgh is one of my favorite cities, anyway, and sabbatical in washington, d.c., but while on campus he stays busy with courses, re­search and involvement with notre dame students. 
“i do a good bit of priestly work and for fun also help coach the men and women in our boxing club,” daley said. 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmc­car16@nd.edu 
wright prize for outstand­ing scholarly service to the church in a wide range of fields, daley said. 
“The fellowship is an or­ganization of catholic schol­ars in many fields — not just theology, but philosophy, literature and the social sci­ences — and also of others interested in the catholic tradition of learning and thought,” daley said. “it uate and graduate students at notre dame for 18 years, said his academic area of expertise includes early church writings. 
“my field of research and writing is really the theology of the early church writers 
— in greek, latin and other ancient languages — from the second through about the ninth centuries,” he said. “i’m especially interested 
the importance of recogniz­ing that every person has in­alienable rights and that it is each person’s responsibility to recognize those unalien­able rights in others. she also explored the concept of circles of intimacy and the relationship attachment model. 
“in our lives, we have dif­ferent levels of intimacy and different needs based on this level of intimacy,” noem said. “however, all of these needs are not always being fulfilled at any given time.” 
haler said humans have a tendency to idealize situa­tions and people. 
“our great desire for con­nections makes us project desirable qualities on rela­tionships and people, but this can result in us reduc­ing them rather than see­ing them as what they are,” haler said. “when we stop seeing others as a creation of god, our posture is not re­ally reverent.” 

in order to foster strong relationships. 
“The spiritual discipline of learning to care about what other people care about — truly understand­ing them and their prefer­ences, is essential in the 
most  intimate  and  deep  
relationships,”  delorenzo  
said.  

Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 
haler said this idea of rev­erence relates to the virtue of chastity, saying that chas­tity represents the utmost form of reverence. 
“unfortunately, chastity is most often associated with being a prude, and this is a huge social stigma that we need to work to overcome” she said. 
delorenzo emphasized how much interactions with other people can affect individuals. 
“you are never yourself by yourself,” delorenzo said. “we never just exist all alone.” 
delorenzo said indi­viduals should recognize and honor the dependable people that influence their lives from the beginning, calling them “advanced gifts.” he said it is impor­tant to learn to care about what is important to others 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

being afraid to ask some-country.’ in order to start protests,” simmons said. 
SVAM Water 

one, ‘hey, are you okay?’” this kind of culture shift, simmons said within quo­
conTinued from page 1 conTinued from page 1 

harrington said. we need to start with post­
tidian communities, water oct. 8, the grc will host er campaigns, something 
access was a vital part of sexual violence awareness a panel discussion, “Know simple that might remind 
material and ideational re-daily society and order. month emphasized atten-your iX: resources for care someone or get the conver­
source,” simmons said. “… “water structured social tion to sexual violence and and support.” referencing sation started . . . [and] keep 
water’s ideational meaning interactions in local commu­its impact on the communi-the federal policy Title iX, it going.” 
is seen in both imagined and nities,” she said. “… water ty, this year’s events will be which mandates gender regina gesicki, the grc’s 
quotidian communities.” councils formed by local gov-more action-focused, in ad-equality in schools and pro-assistant director for edu­
simmons said imagined ernments and regular meet­dition to raising awareness vides recourse for student cational initiatives, said 
communities refer to the in-ings at water wells formed a and providing support to victims of sexual violence, students could participate 
visible groups people form sense of community.” survivors of sexual violence, the panel will “discuss the in the month’s events re-
based on “regional, national simmons said the city of gebhardt said. most effective ways to care gardless of their level of 
and ethnic identifications,” cochabamba was significant “after the [crime alert] — physically, emotionally, awareness or involvement in 
while quotidian commu-to the water protests across emails come out, people and spiritually — for those sexual violence prevention 
nities form as a result of brazil because of its pres-say, ‘what are we going to who are impacted by sexual initiatives. 
“face-to-face interactions ence as a large, well-known do about this?’ and there’s violence,” according to the “we want to promote the 
and everyday relationships.” city. multiple answers to that event poster. The panel will idea that we are a commu-
The imagined communities “cochabamba is the question,” she said. “one of include representatives from nity that really cares about 
demonstrated heightened breadbasket of the country the most important things notre dame, the family each other,” gesicki said. 
patriotism and allegiance to and gained economic im­is just not to ignore it. That’s Justice center of st. Joseph’s “from t-shirts with brothers 
the country, she said. portance from silver and tin one of the basic things that county and st. Joseph and sisters keepers, all the 
“flags were everywhere mining booms,” simmons we can do is not to delete the regional medical center. way to learning how to be a 
at the protests representing said. “it has also been a email, but to say, ‘what is it The annual mass of bystander, to resources, it’s 
patira or ‘the homeland,’” hotbed for mobilization … that i can do?’ — not what healing, which includes in-wherever you can be a part. 
simmons said. people [in cochabamba] notre dame can do, but what tentions for those impact-maybe you’re only at the 
simmons said many locals valued independence from i can do. if we all take an in-ed by sexual violence, will point where you can wear a 
she interviewed emphasized federal state intervention in dividual commitment to act, take place oct. 13 in the log t-shirt. That’s fine. but may-
the importance of uso y cos-local government.” then we can ... change our chapel. The grc will hand be you’re ready to be certi­
tumbres, or customs and ultimately, the water pro-community where we not out prayer cards throughout fied as an active bystander. 
traditions that relate to in-tests became a uniting factor only say we don’t tolerate the week. There’s a lot of different 
digenous customary law in for residents of cochabamba, sexual violence, but we act to The same week, men ways to get involved, and the 
latin america. she said in-simmons said. change our culture so that it against violence, a grc idea is that this is offering a 
terviewees also stressed the “water serves as a con­can’t occur on our campus.” group which works to raise lot of opportunities. 
need to maintain a “connec-nection to community,” she To kick off the month, awareness about and pre-“you don’t have to do all 
tion to the past.” said. fire starters, the grc’s vent sexual violence, will the things, but do some­
“This helps to explain the peer educators on gen-hold a pledge drive and thing, and realize that it’s 
puzzle of middle and upper Contact J.P. Gschwind at der issues, will hand out white ribbon campaign. part of a larger effort not 
class participation in the jgschwin@nd.edu. free t-shirts wednesday in according to the event post-only to raise awareness but lafortune student center er, the white ribbon is an to raise the investment in and north and south dining international movement the fact that our commu­halls. senior fire starter which arose after an anti-nity is built by every single deirdre harrington said the feminist killed 14 women at person.” t-shirts, which feature the a canadian university. text “i am my brothers’ and sexual violence awareness Contact Emily McConville at sisters’ keepers,” are a way month will conclude oct. 30 emcconv1@nd.edu of connecting the national with the grc’s annual “Time issue of sexual violence to To heal dinner” in the press the university’s catholic box of notre dame stadium. character. gebhardt said the month 
grc staff will also host offers a way to look at the a bystander intervention notre dame community’s workshop wednesday at 7 level of awareness and plan 
p.m. in the notre dame room for future action against sex-of lafortune. gebhardt said ual violence. the workshop, which takes “after we plan, we step back place earlier in the semester and listen and see, what are than it has in previous years, the remaining questions?” was a response to students she said. “as we do program-asking how to take action on ming in the future, what are preventing sexual violence. the things that we need to 
“what campuses across continue to talk about, what the country are realizing is are the dialogues that people that it’s not enough to say, need to participate in, what ‘we need to intervene,’” are the concepts that are dif­gebhardt said. “The reason ficult as we talk about it? we why we do bystander inter-live in it, so it’s on our minds vention is to show students all the time, so for us, when how to intervene, and i think we talk about it, it’s painful, that’s the biggest thing. The but it something that we can question becomes ‘what can do.” we do for students to follow harrington said the month through?’” would be a way for students 
gebhardt said workshop to understand how to get participants will examine involved in the movement different scenarios in which against sexual violence. they might need to be an ac-“in order to get campus tive bystander, brainstorm culture to shift surround-obstacles to effective inter-ing sexual violence, we need vention and learn how to to start with baby steps,” overcome them. harrington said. “… we’re 
harrington said fire building up so we can have starters will hand out cups events like Take back the reading “are you okay?” on night and the Time to heal Tuesday in lafortune. dinner, where we’ll have 
“This question has a dou-larger attendance because ble meaning — ‘are you the campus as a community okay’ is a way to ask for con-says, ‘we’re going to actively sent. [it’s] also to encourage stop sexual violence on our bystander intervention, not campus and throughout the 





ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | The observer 


the hlf and was later accept-remarkable record already science can be used to help for university professors try-
Forum 

ed. The application process and a most promising fu-developing countries. ing to increase their scientific 
conTinued from page 1 

selected 200 young research-ture,” grove said. “aside from “we had participants from levels. i was very happy to 
ers to attend, 100 from com-strength and talent, he has an niger, ecuador, bangladesh learn about this and contrib­respectively, and his second puter science and 100 from open mind and communicates and india share their experi-ute my views on how brazil, masters of science from notre mathematics, from an initial very well with others. i cannot ences, and then a lot of inter-in particular, can profit from dame in 2012. he is currently poll of about 2000 applicants think of anyone more fitting action between the audience such opportunities.” working towards his doctor-worldwide.” and deserving of this honor.” and panelists, which also in-participants in the forum ate, which he is slated to re-because the hlf brings oak ridge associated cluded as moderators ingrid benefitted immensely from ceive in the spring of 2015. together established profes-universities (orau) and the daubechies, president of the the professional development 
“i work in differential geom-sionals who are well-respect-national science foundation international mathematical and personal interaction the etry,” bettiol said. “my work ed and well-known in their sponsored the american union, and vint cerf, cur-forum provided them, bettiol mainly focuses on how cur-fields, students and postdoc-delegation, according to an rently working at google and said. vature — especially positive toral participants have an orau press release. rettiol one of the inventors of the “interacting with laureates curvature, like that of spheres unmatched opportunity to said professional participants internet. coming from brazil, that are world references in 
— interacts with the glob-speak with the people whose included famous mathemati-where mathematics is now my area was a profound and al shape of an object. i also research they study, bettiol cians whose work has greatly growing at an amazingly fast transformative experience, work on geometric variation-said. impacted modern society. pace, … i value very much this and i am sure that i speak for al problems, which involve “This is the second time this “The hlf was an amazing interest of distinguished sci-most of the participants at optimizing certain geomet-event [has been] held, and i experience, all of the partici-entists and organizations in the hlf,” bettiol said. “i have ric quantities with certain got very excited about it when pants felt like we were some helping the development of strong hopes that this meet-constraints.” reading about the first one sort of celebrity, which is a nations through science and ing, though still in its second 
bettiol, a native of brazil, last year,” bettiol said. “some rare phenomenon for those of education.” edition, will become a tradi­said he came across the hlf of the most brilliant minds of us working in basic sciences,” bettiol said his experience tion and help develop interest through two avenues, both our times gather to meet new rettiol said. “it was a very as student from brazil con-for mathematics and comput­here in the u.s. and back in generations of researchers exclusive event, with body tributed to the discussion on er science as well as increase his home country. and pass their experience. my guards with ear pieces and mathematics in an interna-its appreciation by society as 
“i initially heard about hope was to drink from their all, not the standard sight in a tional context. he said dis-a whole. the hlf via the brazilian fountain of knowledge, not math conference. cussions also focused on new “we mathematicians don’t mathematical society,” only on the scientific side, but “in the morning there were ways to use math to improve always have the ‘cool factor’ bettiol said. “…  after i heard also on their personal impres-talks by the laureates, and in global society. that many other scientists … about the hlf from them, i sions about mathematics and the afternoon we had oppor-“i do believe that this is a enjoy from society and the was also contacted by the di-their general world view.” tunities for informal interac-fundamental way in which all media, but there are plenty rector of graduate studies at Karsten grove, bettiol’s ad-tions with the laureates and of us in scientific fields can of reasons to tell the world the mathematics department, visor and a professor of math-among ourselves, including help build a better and more about the astonishing beauty professor Julia Knight, who ematics, said, bettiol stands a boat trip on the neckar riv-rational world together, based of mathematics, which can — mentioned that nd could sug-out among math students at er, and various other activi-in science and knowledge,” and should — be appreciated gest a name to be part of the notre dame. ties. we also had some panel bettiol said. “many of the lau-by all of us.” american delegation to the “renato bettiol is indeed discussions and workshops, reates at the event visit de­forum. by then, i had already an exceptional and bril-in which we discussed how veloping nations on a regular Contact Andrea Vale at submitted my application to liant student of mine with a mathematics and computer basis where they hold courses avale@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

never upon a time  
Emilie Kefalas 
news writer 

They say that when you die, your life flashes before your eyes. you’re supposed to see every­thing you were and everything you could have been. 
Tiffany died when i was in high school. it’s a personal reflex of mine to “see” people’s lives. Thus, i constructed my mental narration of Tiffany. 
in a flash, i can see that Tiffany lived. she was 81 when she wore a hat that said, “i’m a survivor,” though she refused to be defined by chemotherapy.’ her grandkids loved her almost as much as her doting daughter, charlotte. 
she was 50 when she won her district’s con­gressional seat, one that she would go on to hold for five terms until her health forced her to retire. 
she was 45 when she performed cpr on her friend’s husband, a technique she had been itch­ing to use since her days in girl scouts. 
she was 33 when she met the man she would marry and have four children with. 
at 29, she wrote her first book in a series of adult sci-fi novels that would evolve into a suc­cessful film franchise. she played the lead. 
at 22, she graduated from notre dame with a degree in film, television and theatre with hopes of becoming an actress or a producer. 
she was 20 when she studied abroad in athens. when she returned to the u.s., she de­cided to minor in art to channel her newfound perspective. 
she was 19 when she took care of a  classmate after a house party. That night, she promised herself she would never get drunk. 
at 18, she played the most important vol­leyball game of her high school  career . The university of illinois offered her a full scholar­ship. she was forced to decline it after a car ac­cident took her left leg. 
she was 16 when she got her wisdom teeth removed. while she recovered, she started entering short stories in high school writing contests. she won one. with a  story about a woman cyborg. 
she was 14 when she saw her first broadway show, “The phantom of the opera.” she began to coach herself to sing like christine, which eventually cost her parts of her vocal chords. 
at 13, she saw her first crush kiss another girl, molly, who had publicly mocked her speech impediment during a spelling bee. 
she was eight when she  had her first kiss on a tire swing while sucking on ring pops. he said she puckered too much. 
she was seven when she befriended the short­est girl in her first grade class. 
she was two when her mother noticed her speech slurred with “s” words. 
she was 11 months old when she took her first steps. 
she was two months old when she was baptized. 
she was two minutes old when her mother first held her. 
she was born. 
she was aborted. 
Tiffany was conceived. 

Contact Emilie Kefalas      ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
An immaculate complexion 
Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 
Ingredients: 

•	 
1 strained relationship 

•	 
Recipe calls for a cooling rack 


The relationships we maintain with others are like an epidermis. yes, this is a bizarre introductory statement and unique choice of metaphor, but i can think of no bet­ter parallel for the ways in which we foster bonds and friendships than the largest human organ—the skin. 
i’m no science major, but from my basic understanding, the skin plays a vital role on both external and internal levels. The organ defines our exterior experience, as our unique complexion allows us to be identified by others. similarly, the relationships we have with others define our unique experience in the outside world.  The people we choose to identify with characterize our participation within society. 
The skin guards our insides, protecting us from getting hurt or sick. it holds everything together. Through our re­lationships, we build a safeguard of sorts; our friends and family save us from facing our greatest fears and troubles alone. our relationships provide a place where internal love and compassion can prosper. it is through our rela­tions with others that we become whole. 
but what i’m really trying to get at here is the fact that so much goes into maintaining both healthy skin and healthy relationships. first, think about how many features we must consider in keeping a semi-flawless complexion: pores, wrinkles, moisture, oil, facial hair, the list goes on. we strive for perfection in these areas, yet the wear and tear of everyday life denies us of a com­pletely unblemished face. factors such as aging and stress can completely alter the appearance of one’s skin. analogously, these factors can also entirely change the dynamics of a relationship. Just as there are features we consider when nourishing our epidermis, there are mul­tiple facets of a relationship we must attend to as well. luckily, we aren’t alone in our pursuits for an immacu­late complexion. 
picture the cosmetic aisles of your nearest drugstore, brimming with different colored bottles and tubes. here, variations upon variations of anti-aging creams, cleansers, sunscreens, moisturizers, and concealers, associated with claims to purify the skin, are at our dis­posal. nevertheless, as a fair-skinned female who has had her fair share of sunburns, acne, and under eye circles that permanently darken with every all-nighter, i can attest to the fact that some of these products just don’t do the trick. 
a week before my high school graduation, i decided to go on a run through my neighborhood. while jogging, i fell face first on pavement and scraped the bottom of my chin. The resulting blemish, an elevated gash encom­passed by a purple-ish bruise, was horrific. mortified, i ran to the nearest cvs, and scanned the cosmetic aisle for any and every product that could potentially reduce its immense discoloration and size. i tried multiple oint­ments, antibacterial creams and foundations of two dif­ferent shades. none of these did the trick. if anything, my multiple applications of lotions and makeup only aggravated the state of my wound. yet i put all my faith in these remedies, hoping they would be the solution to miraculously speed up the healing process just in time for graduation. 
what i really needed to do was stop touching the thing and let it heal on its own. 
what does this have to do with our relationships? well, it’s inevitable that the connections we make with other people won’t always be flawless. over time, we’re bound to run into an inevitable blemish. we’re guaranteed to face unavoidable tensions, nasty falling outs and petty arguments. and sure, there are things we can do to speed up recovery, as we strive to maintain healthy ties with those closest to us. we can have a conversation; some­times, a simple apology does the trick. but just like cvs remedies, these things aren’t always the solution. 
in situations where multiple conversations and at­tempted apologies only seem to aggravate a situation, sometimes it’s best to just let things be. Keep a distance. don’t touch. Just like the skin, relationships often heal themselves over time. 
Paige Affinito is junior accounting and English major. This is her first semester as a Viewpoint columnist and she has found humor is much easier to capture in 140 characters than in 700 words. Contact her at paffinit@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A plea for dining hall transparency 
my iphone sounds in the wee hours of the morning, and i automatically snatch my phone to disarm the 7:35 a.m. wakeup alarm before bush’s early-2000s grunge hit “glycerine” can reach the vocals.  i rise slowly out of my bunk bed and come to grips with the unreasonable expectations the day demands of somebody who still sleeps in a bunk bed.  despite the sun­shine and fresh autumnal aromas greeting my senses, the youthful enthusiasm of our campus serves only to remind me of an innocence lost and a bygone time of carelessness i once expe­rienced but never appreciated. 
i finish the cursory burdens of my life as a student—attending lectures, going to work, working out with a body worthy of a father of at least three—only to return to fisher in my semi-regular early evening malaise.  To save time, i access the internet to inquire into south’s best attempt at remedying my belea­guered existence.  my eyes scan the page with­out note, my brainwaves churning at lower frequencies than those of cbs live studio audiences, but then wait.  what is this: “sdh pizza…pepperoni calzone.” 
dear fellow seniors, 

many of us are very disappointed in our lady’s university and her decision to move our graduation from the notre dame stadium, as we had all originally hoped and planned, to the Jacc- a disappointingly small location for the great number of people many of us invited, our friends and family members. 
The complaints that many of my classmates make about this move are about the great tra­ditions that this university professes as so im­portant to her. i love these traditions as much 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

by golson, is this the night?  is this the day i rebel against the accelerating disintegration of my mental health with the golden ratio of pep­peroni and tomato (or at least tomato-y) sauce? i jollily inform my roommates of the victual situation, and they dance like greek school­boys celebrating the feast of Thetis and peleus. i eagerly swipe into south and lead my troop of merry-goers to the pizza bar.  what met my eyes?  pepperoni pizza, no calzones, along with sundry “italian” appetizers.  surely, i loudly assure my followers, there must be a mistake. i ask the woman behind the bar, a delightful woman who shall remain nameless, when the nascent dough, meat and sauce would emerge from their promising cocoon as beautifully ma­ture calzones, and she just stares at me.  “i’m sorry sweetie, but the powers must have delib­erately deceived you for their own sadistic plea­sure.  would you like some bosco sticks?” 
i apologize if i must collect myself at this point, but the rest of my evening is mostly a blur.  i black out for what must have been four hours and wake up in my dorm room reeking of chicken patties and man-tears.  needless to say, i have not been the same since the incident. 
if my story does nothing to move the pity of my fellow students, let it not fall in vain upon the eyes of those powers in the administration responsible for the nourishment of our frail vessels of thought.  i ask you, as a voice crying out in the wilderness, for an increase in civil and transparent discourse with the student body. 
you can impose martial law on my dorm with a completely unnecessary police presence on random weekends.  you can rob my fellow tail­gaters and me of reasonable seats at football games.  you can even use the nickels and dimes my parents scraped together for my education to build a monstrosity of a stadium expansion in the name of academic progress. 
but please, never lie to my face about calzone night again. 
David O’Connor 
junior fisher hall sept. 30 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

an unpopular graduation opinion 
as any of you. 
graduation in the notre dame stadium is not one of those traditions. The first graduation in the stadium was only four years ago. it was and is a great idea and clearly the right decision for the future of the student body and their families. but we needn’t be so offended by this change that will affect our graduating class. The change will affect not only us, but also the classes after ours. 
graduation from the stadium would have been nice, sure, but the Jacc is a fine loca­tion for the ceremony. stop complaining that certain family members won’t get to go be­cause that is happening to all of us,  and has happened to those before us, and will happen to those after us. it isn’t the greatest thing ever to happen, but it isn’t that bad. 
Michael Shakour 
senior off campus sept. 30 


“my constant prayer for myself is to be used in the service for the greater good.” 
Oprah Winfrey 
media mogul, philanthropist 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

Editor’s note: This article is part of a weekly col­umn in which a writer introduces an online-stream­ing film or television show each Wednesday, then gives critical analysis each Monday. Be sure to check out the film and check back on Monday for a closer look. 
when it comes to watching and discussing impor­tant films, a 1998 kid’s comedy isn’t exactly the first movie that should come to mind. but here i am, trying to convince you to tune into netflix this week to watch “The parent Trap” for this edition of weekly watch. i’m not making any claims that “The parent Trap” was robbed of any awards, and it certainly saw plenty of suc­cess in the box office (it reached #2 the week it debuted, according to the international movie database), but i will argue that it’s a criminally under-appreciated movie across all audiences. 
ask any 20-25 year-old woman about “The parent Trap,” and it’s likely she will tell you her memories of seeing the 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

for years, comedy duo Tim heidecker and eric wareheim, known simply as Tim and eric, have been filling adult swim’s programming with bizarre hilar­ity. heidecker and wareheim’s signature zany anthol­ogy programs are likely to both completely confuse you and make you laugh uncomfortably hard. if you have yet to see something from the duo’s “Tim and eric, awesome show, great Job!” i would highly rec­ommend it. 
by abandoning almost all comedic precepts prac­ticed today, Tim and eric have pioneered a new and unusual art form. satire, anti-humor, comedic timing and kitsch editing have all become major tools for Tim and eric in crafting their oddball yet refreshing humor. however, as the beginning of the duo’s new adult swim series, “Tim and eric’s bedtime stories” premiers, style shifts have become a pivotal topic of focus. 
only two episodes into the new series, it has already become evident “Tim and eric’s bedtime stories” is not simply a spin off of previous work. with a much more linear story line in the 15-minute running time and production quality to boot, loyal Tim and eric fans will movie in theaters with her friends, sisters and mom. her face might light up, recounting her favorite parts of the film, which lohan “twin” was her favorite or how she practiced her british accent after seeing the movie. but there’s much, much more than nostalgia at play when i, like many others my age, look back fondly at the film. i sin­cerely and honestly insist that the lindsay lohan version of “The parent Trap” was a nearly flawless children’s com­edy, and it remains genuinely entertaining and adorably charming to this day. 
released in July of 1998, “The parent Trap” had a cast fairly evenly split between recognizable names (dennis Quaid, natasha richardson) and relatively unknown ac­tors like lisa ann walter and, remarkably, lindsay lohan in her first motion picture role. at only 11-years-old, lohan made her big-screen debut playing not just one character, but two, acting both parts in the remake of the 1961 origi­nal about twins separated at birth who try to reunite their divorced parents. 
it’s hard to think of “parent Trap”-era lindsay lohan now, after the actress’ recent scandals, arrests and movie flops, but there once was a time when fans of her first film 
be in for a pleasant surprise. by taking the comedic style of “Tim and eric, awesome show, great Job!” and dropping it on their version of the “Twilight Zone,” Tim and eric have produced a new show equal parts amus­ing and creepy. The duality inherent in the new show is refreshing — one minute you are laughing and the next, you can’t stop cringing. 
The season premiere, entitled “holes,” focuses on the story of the murphy family and their move the quintessential american cul-de-sac. The father of the family, played by wareheim, begins being terrorized by the wacky neighbor, played by heidecker, when the father misses the weekly cul-de-sac game night. capitalizing on classic horror-story staples, “holes” sheds some light on just how creepy we can expect the rest of the series to be, yet also secures that much of the duo’s comedy will not be lost. The short story ends with the father reluctantly giving in to his persistent neighbor, allowing himself to be buried alive as his new neighbor commandeers his beloved family. The underlying theme of the "trapped" nature of suburban life coupled with the bizarre humor intrinsic with Tim and eric, provides yet another duality that brightens up the show. 
guest starring bob odenkirk, with an appearance had a difficult time believing she wasn’t a twin. Truly — little lohan does a remarkable job in both roles, and it shows when watching the movie even today. 
but lohan was just one small part of what made the film great. The casting choices for lohan’s parents were spot-on, with Quaid as the quintessential cool late-90s dad and natasha richardson as the stylish, british mom every girl wanted. supporting characters and the plot’s impressively rapid action — separated at birth twins go from strangers to enemies to tight-knit, matchmaking sisters in under two hours — all add to this absurd but de­ceivingly brilliant film. 
while the story of “The parent Trap” was obviously nothing new (it was a remake, after all), its writing, cast and movement make it transcend the 1961 original and stand head and shoulders above most live-action disney films. The movie is smart, sweet and, most importantly, deliciously entertaining, and it deserves a closer look at what makes a generation of moviegoers look so fondly back at this movie of their childhood. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
from “community’s” gillian Jacobs, the series’ sec­ond episode “Toes” was very impressive. bob odenkirk portrays the shady “dr. stork,” a toe-removing surgeon with a dark secret. gory and disturbing yet tastefully done, “Toes” contrasts heavily with the first episode, as neither Tim nor eric have a role in the episode. again though, the episode is not just nonsense for 15 minutes; instead, there is a powerful takeaway. society’s idea of beauty is satarized throughout the episode, epito­mized with dr. stork’s son innocently asking "dad, if we don't need our toes, why are we born with them?” “Toes” highlights the flexibility Tim and eric will have this season in crafting their episodes, toying with dif­ferent actors and visual effects throughout. 
There is never telling what is to come from Tim and eric, but almost all possibilities are promising. by straying away from their normal, unadulterated mad­cap comedy and moving towards a more refined and complex series, Tim and eric production capabilities will certainly be put to the test. Though if the first two episodes are any indication, the duo is more then ready to take on such an endeavor, and as seasoned fan, i could not be anymore excited for the rest of the season. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 

in our politically-charged world, it is nearly impos­sible to flip through the channels on Tv without seeing either a news broadcast about the white house, a repli­ca of it in a series or a talk show host referencing politics in their segment.  every network has at least one show that mimics american politics, and recently there have been more and more shows with female leads in politi­cal environments.  This fall, cbs aired the newest white house series, "madam secretary," starring Tea leoni as elizabeth faulkner mccord.  in the pilot episode, elizabeth, currently a history professor at the university of virginia, wife and mother of three, receives a person­al visit from the president of the united states (Keith carradine) asking her to take on the role of secretary of state.  although it means taking time and energy away from her family and quitting her job, mccord accepts. she is immediately whisked into the drama of interna­tional affairs, specifically dealing with two american teenagers imprisoned in syria for espionage, as she is 
By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

it’s been 21 long months since the release of foxygen’s debut full-length album, “we are the 21st century ambassadors of peace and magic.” The album, released in January 2013, brought the california-based band un­der the spotlight of many an indie rock listener — the al­bum was dressed to impress from top to bottom with the band’s strange and engaging lyrical style, broad range of instruments and deeply experimental composition style. The duo, consisting of singer sam france and multi-instrumentalist Jonathan rado, has been playing to­gether for nearly 10 years (according to an interview with pitchfork) and became a definite “band to watch” last year, performing shows at both pitchfork music festival and sXsw as part of their tour. metacritic, a site that aver­ages the reviews of albums from all over the web, desig­nated the album an 8.0, and it won spot number eleven on The observer’s “Top 50 albums of 2013.” 
This summer, the duo announced its second album, entitled “…and star power.” The album is to be re­leased via Jagjaguwar records. on the album page, it taking over for the previous secretary who was killed in a plane crash.  The show attempts to take a look into the day-to-day role of the secretary of state doubling as wife and mother. 
leoni perfectly portrays mccord as an intelligent, strong woman with political connections, ready to take on the enormous task of becoming one of the president’s most important advisors.  she receives some glares and negativity from others in the white house, as they ac­cuse her of taking advantage of her friendship with the president to get this position.  however, as you will see in the show, she was named secretary due to her hones­ty, integrity and historical knowledge, not from any sort of corruption. during her first hectic days in the white house, she proves herself by using her connections to save the american hostages from being executed.  she proceeds to go out among the public, making herself accessible to the people and opening up to the media about her life.  mccord seems to be a perfectly well-rounded woman, keeping up with her new job as well as her family life – until the two worlds collide with a shocking revelation at the end of the first episode. 
is described as “cinematic auditory adventure for the speedy freaks, skull krunchers, abductees and misfits” 
— a promise that won’t come as a shock to anyone fa­miliar with the foxygen modus operandi. along with the album announcement, the band released the single “how can you really,” a song that sets a high bar for the rest of the album. The song, brought in by a forlorn and very catchy keyboard riff, leads france’s falsetto vocals, musing over a relationship in the past-perfect tense. he ends his chorus with “how ‘bout you go find somebody who can love you?” The song sounds like a bonus track from fleetwood mac’s “rumours” — both the lyrics and the use of instruments portray the callused ability to face the reality of lost love. 
how fitting it is, then, that just as “rumours” was the creative collateral of the tension and unrest caused by the end of several relationship breakups within the band, the brilliance of “how can you really” and, perhaps, the rest of “…and star power” comes from a band like foxygen. The band has become almost as famous for its hiccups as an act as for its success as a songwriting team. france, known for his over-the-top onstage presence (climb­ing on sound and structural equipment while on stage, 
while watching the show, i couldn’t help but see hillary clinton in mccord’s character.  most obviously, leoni is a determined blond woman in pantsuits chal­lenging the heavily masculine white house dynamic – just like hillary.  The show may even be a subtle piece of propaganda for clinton’s supposed 2016 presidential campaign. 
overall, the new series seems to be a bit too close to reality to be an enjoyable and addictive series.  it lacks dramatization and becomes boring and predictable, with decent acting that is overshadowed by basically every other political drama.  it seems as though the major networks have run out of ideas and are recycling and combining previous ideas to create new shows; however, it comes across as overplayed and dull. unlike "scandal" and "house of cards," two political dramas that have caught my attention with their intense drama and complex plot lines, madam secretary has yet to im­press me.  The third episode is scheduled to air oct. 5 at 8 p.m. on cbs. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
hitting himself with the microphone) ended up falling of stage a breaking his leg at a show in minneapolis last summer.  additionally, france made ripples in the on-line music community due to an outburst at sXsw 2013, in which he yelled and cussed out audience members for heckling him, challenging the heckler to “come up on the stage and talk to me.” additionally, according to pitchfork, the band has had some internal issues as well, with rado and france fighting over members’ indepen­dent projects. according to a Tumblr post by france’s girlfriend (which has since been taken down), rado had france take his solo project off the internet, although he has since released his own. 
The name of france’s solo project? “star power.” in recent updates, the band has told multiple interviewers that they are happy and argument free, and as the name of their new album suggests, grudges have not been held and both members of the duo are bringing in material. hopefully the new album will bring as much happiness and harmony as the band is experiencing, and as much peace and magic as their debut brought us. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Get into hockey before it’s cool 

Isaac Lorton 
assisting managing editor 
with the season starting tonight, let’s talk hockey. 
coming off a season with six outdoor games, the winter olympics and an exciting playoff run to the stanley cup, hockey is poised to continue growing in popularity. 
since the 2005 nhl lock­out, hockey has had a steady and strong viewership, both on air and in person. all signs point to this fanbase growing. each year in the harris poll, which annually identifies americans’ favor­ite sport, from 2005 from 2014, five percent said hock­ey was their favorite sport. even in the 2011 partial-lock­out season, the number was at 5 percent. This is just one percentage point below the nba. professional football received the highest percent­age, 35 percent. 
There have been recent debates about whether the nhl is now more popular than the nba, with the nhl beating the nba in ticket sales. in 2014, 13 nhl teams were at or above full capacity for every one of their home games. The nba had only eight such teams. This is not meant to be a popularity contest of sports but rather a comparison in order to show the growth of hockey relative to a firmly established sport. 
Two of these teams, the san Jose sharks and the los angeles Kings, are not in traditional hockey regions of the country. hockey has expanded beyond the fro­zen tundras of the northern states and canada to places such as california, arizona, Texas, florida, Tennessee and north carolina. Teams like the Kings, who garnered popularity by winning two of the last three stanley cups, led this charge. 
Television coverage has been a huge factor in expanding the hockey fan-base. 
The nhl and nbc have a television deal through 2021, which includes around 100 regular-season games, a number of special games, like the winter classic, and the stanley cup. 
outdoor events like the winter classic allow hockey to get back to its outdoor roots and in front of larger crowds. The 2014 winter classic between the detroit red wings and the Toronto maple leafs was held at michigan’s big house in front of 105,000 fans and was viewed by 4.4 million people in the united states. other outdoor games, part of the nhl stadium series, were held at yankee stadium, dodger stadium and soldier field. These too increased the exposure of the nhl to new fans and younger generations. 
The improvement of televi­sions themselves also have helped make hockey more watchable. before, it looked as if you were watching people skate back and forth randomly, but with high-def­inition televisions, you can see the puck whizz across the screen. 
now that you know the nhl is on the rise, hop on the bandwagon before you become a bandwagon fan. do it while it’s still cool. if you need more convincing, here are a few reasons why. 
Hockey is exciting. 
it is fast-paced and high-octane. There is never a boring moment in hockey. with constant line changes, hockey is a continuous game, with few stoppages in play and no break in the action. 
Hockey is a true contact sport. 
some might say football is a true contact sport, but with all of the rules about quarterbacks and receivers and tackling correctly, it re­ally isn’t. in hockey there is all kinds of hitting, checking and not much flopping. it is refreshing to see people take hits and give hits because it is part of the game. 
Hockey has the coolest uniforms. 
overall, the nhl easily has the best jerseys in sports. The sweaters are colorful and unique and often incor­porate throwback themes. There is still creativity in nhl uniforms, and that’s something lacking in other leagues. 
Hockey is easy to get into. 
hockey is the easiest sport, behind curling, to yell at while watching on Tv. it is engrossing. and although it is on the rise, there are still so many teams out there in the nhl with small, loyal fan-bases who need your voice added to the mix. please, just don’t become a blackhawks fan. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Oberver. 
SWIMMING 
Phelps’ comeback interrupted by DUI arrest 
Associated Press 
balTimore — michael phelps’ comeback has been sidetracked by more trouble away from the pool. 
The olympic champion was arrested for the second time on dui charges early Tuesday in his hometown of baltimore, another embarrassment for a swimmer who came out of retirement this year with his sights set on competing at the rio games. 
phelps issued an apology that sounded very familiar to the ones he made after a drunken-driving arrest a decade ago, as well as when a british tabloid published a photograph in 2009 that showed him using a marijua­na pipe. 
“i understand the severity of my actions and take full responsibility,” phelps said in a statement. “i know these words may not mean much right now but i am deeply sorry to everyone i have let down.” 
maryland Transportation authority police charged the 18-time gold medalist after officers said he was caught speeding and failed field so­briety tests. 
The arrest came about a month after the 29-year-old phelps won three golds and two silvers at the pan pacific championships in australia, setting himself up to compete at next summer’s world cham­pionships and at rio in 2016. 
it’s too early to say if phelps might face sanctions from usa swimming, which took no action after his 2004 ar­rest but suspended him from competition for three months over the pot picture. 
“The news regarding michael phelps and his ac­tions are disappointing and unquestionably serious,” the national governing body said in a statement. “we expect our athletes to conduct them­selves responsibly in and out of the pool.” 
The u.s. olympic committee had a similar re­action. ceo scott blackmun said the organization was “surprised” by phelps’ arrest and “disappointed on a num­ber of fronts.” 
phelps was charged with driving under the influence, excessive speed and crossing double lane lines in the fort mchenry Tunnel on interstate 95 in baltimore, according to the maryland Transportation agency. 
if convicted on the dui charge, he would face a maxi­mum penalty of a year in jail, a $1,000 fine and the loss of his driver’s license for six months. under maryland law, the latest case is not consid­ered a second offense because his first dui conviction oc­curred more than five years ago. 
phelps could face the wrath of his sponsors, though there was no immediate word of any company planning to drop him. 
“it’s too early to tell,” said don rockwell, the ceo of phelps’ new swimsuit spon­sor, california-based aqua sphere. “for the most part, we’re supportive. we just need to wait and see what happens. This is not a deal-breaker for us, unless we find out some­thing else that happened.” 
phelps also has deals with subway, under armour, omega and master spas. 
in early august, phelps an­nounced he was ending his long relationship with speedo to sign the deal with aqua sphere. Just last week, ac­cording to rockwell, compa­ny officials were in baltimore working with phelps on the sizing of his new suit, which he can begin wearing at meets starting Jan. 1. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Purdue continues to struggle offensively 
Associated Press 
wesT lafayeTTe, ind. — The purdue boilermakers are searching for answers and try­ing to find solutions for their struggling offense. 
what’s so hard? move the foot­ball. make plays. put together drives. and score touchdowns. 
but coming up with the an­swers isn’t as easy as easy as it may seem. 
“They are simple, but they’re not simple,” coach darrell hazell said. “i mean, you see the areas (that need) improve­ment, but we still have to take those steps. we can see that, but you still have to do it. it’s a physical component you must overcome.” 
it’s been tough for the boilers (2-3, 0-1 big Ten), who are last in the big Ten in total offense. 
pursue has struggled to get much going. They generated only 56 yards of offense and had four first downs in the sec­ond half of a loss to iowa last weekend. 
now the boilermakers expect to see major improvements as they look for their first big Ten win since 2012 this weekend at illinois (3-2, 0-1). but first, hazell instructed his team to do some soul searching between games. 
“i’m saying, let’s look at our­selves and figure out what we can all do better from the head coach down to the last guy on the roster,” he said. “what are those things that we can im­prove upon to make ourselves better as a football team?” 
he made it clear the boilers need to be a better third down team and it’s been a point of em­phasis all week. purdue has con­verted 35 of 84 third downs this season and converted just 6 of 17 against the hawkeyes last week. 
That’s not hazell’s only con­cern. he acknowledged purdue has “too many empty drives” that end too early because of lack of execution, especially when it’s needed most. 
some may point the finger at sophomore quarterback danny etling, but hazell is looking for others to step up and make plays, too. That’s the next step, hazell said, and purdue is al­ready moving players around to make sure it happens. 
hazell wouldn’t say if he plans to stick with etling as quarter­back this week or if he would go with backup austin appleby, who has thrown passes in just two games this season. 
but purdue plans to throw more to receiver b.J Knauf, who has caught just seven passes this season, but who can be a play-maker. They also plan to include running back raheem mostert more. 
but through soul search­ing, hazell hopes that players individual improvements will carry over to the bigger pic­ture — strong offensive drives, big plays, and, ultimately, touchdowns. 
“They understand,” hazell said. “if you give them factual information and tell them, ‘This is where we have to improve,’ they get it. it’s sincere and that’s why you go back to work and you work hard. you don’t look for excuses, you look for solutions. That’s kind of our motto.” 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




MLB | royals 9, aThleTics 8 

Royals walk-off over Athletics 
Associated Press 
Kansas ciTy, mo. — The Kansas city royals had waited 29 years to reach the postsea­son. They weren’t going down without a fight. 
salvador perez singled down the left-field line with two outs in the 12th inning, allowing christian colon to score from second base and giving the long-suffering royals a 9-8 vic­tory over the oakland athletics in a wild al wild-card game Tuesday night. 
Quite a start to october base­ball — even if this one appeared to be over in september with plenty of time to spare. 
The a’s raced out to a 7-3 lead by the sixth inning, but the royals countered with three runs in the eighth. nori aoki’s sacrifice fly off sean doolittle in the ninth forced extra innings. 
The teams kept trading blows over the next couple innings, as midnight came and went on the east coast and the tension continued to build. brandon finnegan finally cracked after tossing two scoreless innings, but the royals were there to pick up their pitching one last time. 
eric hosmer hit a rocket to the wall in left field off dan otero for a leadoff triple in the 12th, and colon hit an infield chopper that he beat out for a tying sin­gle. That set the stage for perez, who lined a pitch from Jason hammel just inside the third-base line to send the royals pouring out of their dugout in a mad celebration. 
The long-suffering franchise hadn’t played in the postseason since beating st. louis in the 1985 world series, and the ex­citement the permeated the city might best be summed up by a statement posted by the Kansas city police on Twitter in about the 10th inning: “we really need everyone to not commit crimes and drive safely right now. we’d like to hear the royals clinch.” 
They finally did it in a thrill­ing start to baseball’s playoffs. 
for the oakland, it was one final collapse in a season full of them. The club that once had the best record in baseball wilt­ed over the second half of the season, and needed a victory on the final day of the regular season just to squeeze into the playoffs. 
They had chances to put all that in the past. instead, it will be dragged up for years. 
a much-anticipated pitching showdown between oakland ace Jon lester and Kansas city counterpart James shields in­stead turned into a high-scoring game and a battle of attrition between their bullpens. 
brandon moss helped the a’s strike first, belting a two-run homer in the first inning and a three-run shot in the fifth. The royals countered by playing small ball, stealing seven bases to tie a postseason record previ­ously shared by the 1907 chicago cubs and 1975 cincinnati reds, according to sTaTs. 
Kansas city clawed back from a four-run deficit over the final two innings. 
The impassioned play by a scrappy bunch of royals that have rarely tasted success en­ergized a sellout crowd that had been pining for postseason baseball since the 1985 world series. 
Then again, maybe it was the crowd that energized the royals. 
oakland had built a big lead after the fifth inning, and lester 
— long a thorn in the side of Kansas city — had started to hit his stride. but a’s manager bob melvin opted to send him out for the eighth inning, and the royals finally got lester into a real jam. 
luke gregerson entered in re­lief but failed to provide much. by the time he struck out perez and omar infante to leave run­ners on second and third, the a’s four-run lead had become one. 
doolittle tried to finish the game off in the ninth, but he served up a leadoff single to pinch-hitter Josh willingham. pinch-runner Jarrod dyson was sacrificed to second, and then brashly stole third base, allow­ing him to score on aoki’s sacri­fice fly to right field. 
it was the third time in the last three seasons doolittle has blown a postseason save. 
by that point, a series of blun­ders by the royals and manager ned yost had become moot. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
big Ten west impresses 
Associated Press 
des moines, iowa — one of the prevailing notions heading into the season was that the big Ten east division could end up being a lot better than the west. 
it didn’t look that way last weekend. 
northwestern buried penn state as road underdogs. minnesota did the same to reeling michigan in ann arbor. nebraska continued its unbeaten start with a rout of illinois and iowa won its sec­ond straight road game. 
Though it was a small sam­ple size, saturday’s perfor­mances were encouraging for the teams in the west. 
“They won some big games on the road, some big games at home on our side. it’s go­ing to be a very interesting next eight or nine weeks as we go through this season to see who comes out of that side on top,” wisconsin coach gary andersen said. 
The biggest shocker from last week’s results came out of state college. 
northwestern (2-2, 1-0) opened the year with losses to california and northern illinois and an under­whelming win over fcs school western illinois. but the wildcats defense held nittany lions star christian hackenberg to just 216 yards passing on 45 tries, and anthony walker’s 49-yard in­terception return broke open a game the wildcats won 29-6. 
wildcats coach pat fitzgerald has tried to temper enthusiasm for his still-devel­oping team, which hosts no. 17 wisconsin (3-1) on saturday in the badgers’ league opener. 
wisconsin overcame a slug­gish start to beat south florida 27-10 last weekend. 
“we’re gaining. we’re get­ting toward (turning) the cor­ner but we’re not quite there yet,” fitzgerald said. 
lost amid the uproar over michigan’s many issues was the performance of the gophers. for the second week in a row, minnesota’s defense was the difference. 
The gophers (4-1, 1-0) held san Jose state scoreless for the final three quarters of a 24-7 win on sept. 20, and they held michigan to just 171 yards. minnesota has a bye this week before hosting northwestern. 
“They’re playing well right now and doing it with a lot of different people that are per­forming well. certainly our secondary,” minnesota coach Jerry Kill said. 
nebraska is the only un­beaten team left in the big Ten. if the huskers are still undefeated after this week­end, they just might be the new league favorites regard­less of division. 
no. 19 nebraska (5-0, 1-0) travels to 10th-ranked michigan state in a matchup of the league’s top two offens­es. The huskers will head to east lansing on a roll, having dispatched the illini 45-14 be­hind 208 yards from star back ameer abdullah. 
nebraska is in a much bet­ter spot now than it was at the end of big Ten play a year ago, when it got drilled by the hawkeyes at home. 
“we’re happy with where we are right now, 5-0 and starting big Ten play the way we did,” nebraska coach bo pelini said. 
iowa has yet to play like a contender. yet the hawkeyes are 4-1, and they’re still in po­sition to control the west title race. 
iowa fell behind 10-0 against the boilermakers before scor­ing 24 unanswered points to close out their league opener. The hawkeyes get a bye this week before hosting indiana and traveling to maryland, who could be a surprise con­tender in the east at 4-1 and 1-0 in the league. 
The key for iowa will be to try to keep up with wisconsin and nebraska until the mid­dle of november, when it hosts both on back-to-back weeks to close out the regular season. The hawkeyes have held two of their last four op­ponents without an offensive touchdown. 
“one thing we knew this season coming in, that we were counting on was that we’d have good play up front, and we’ve seen that from all four starters,” iowa coach Kirk ferentz said. “That’s an area of strength for us.” 
as the calendar turns to october, two things have be­come clear about the big Ten west. 
it could be a lot more com­petitive than originally thought — and defense will be the key in deciding who wins the division crown and subse­quent trip to the big Ten title game. 
five west schools — wisconsin, northwestern, iowa, minnesota and nebraska — are allowing few­er than 20 points a game. it’s no coincidence that those are the five schools with the best shots at the west title. 
penn state is only east team that can say the same. 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | The observer 



CLUB SPORTS 

Women’s soccer collects two wins 
Special to The Observer 
notre dame women’s club soccer team had its first home game of the season saturday against bradley, rolling to a 6-1 victory. 
The irish went down early against bradley, committing a foul in the penalty area in just the second minute of play that gave bradley a pen­alty kick. Junior goalkeeper caroline corsones made a diving attempt, but bradley put it away to go ahead, 1-0. 
The irish quickly rebound­ed, going on the offensive and tying up the game a min­ute later. sophomore forward destiny anamege found se­nior forward mary wickert through the middle with a pass and wickert scored to tie the game, 1-1. 
not long after the goal, sophomore midfielder maggie blaha played a ball through to anamege, who fol­lowed through with the fin­ish, putting the irish up 2-1 in the ninth minute. anamege and blaha connected again in the 10th minute to give the irish a two-goal lead. 
up 3-1, the irish were si­lent for the rest of the half but added to their lead in the second stanza. in the 62nd minute, sophomore mid­fielder rachel staud played a through ball to sophomore forward rosie biehl who scored her first goal of the game, putting the irish up 4-1. 
Two minutes later, senior defender erin doone played a ball over bradley’s defen­sive line and wickert chased it down to score her second goal of the game. 

To finish off the scoring, sophomore midfielder Kimi luttrell scored off of a corner from sophomore midfielder maddie mccormick in the 80th minute, securing the 6-1 win. 
fresh off the win against bradley, the irish traveled to northwestern on sunday. The first half of play was marked by strong irish pos­session and defense, but the team was unable to convert any of its chances for the first 20 minutes. 
finally in the 25th minute, junior forward Jess smetana connected with sophomore defender blessing atanmo on a corner to put the irish up 1-0. 
in the second half, the irish scored two goals quickly in the 51st and 54th minutes, both coming from anamege. The first goal started when freshman midfielder sasha meyer split the defense to find the open anamege. shortly after, anamege com­bined with wickert for her fourth goal of the weekend. 
The wildcats finally man­aged a goal in the 89th minute from the top of the 18-yard box that was placed just be­yond the reach of corsones, but the game ended 3-1 in fa­vor of the irish. 
overall, notre dame came out of the weekend with two wins, outscoring their oppo­nents 9-2. 
SMC SOCCER | smc 1, adrian 1 (2oT) 
Belles, Bulldogs draw after two overtimes 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
after a late saint mary’s goal sent Tuesday night’s hard-fought contest against adrian into over­time, neither team was able to produce a decisive blow in the extra time, and the game ended in a 1-1 tie. 
The belles (3-7-1) and the bulldogs (4-5-2) each entered the contest on three-game losing streaks, trying to battle back into miaa contention. 
The teams went back and forth in the first half, exchanging of­fensive opportunities but both were unable to score before the midway point. each side had four shots, but none resulted in goals. 
The bulldogs, however, came out strong in the second half and took a 1-0 lead in the 51st minute on a goal from bulldog senior for­ward erin weide. weide dribbled into the box and took a shot from 15 yards out that made past the belles defense and senior goal­keeper chanler rosenbaum into the top-right corner for her team-leading fifth goal of the year. 
The belles responded imme­diately with back-to-back shots from senior midfielder erin mishu and junior midfielder maggie mclaughlin, but neither was able to convert the chances into goals. 
saint mary’s broke through in the 73rd minute when a cor­ner kick sent in by freshman midfielder gabby guerra found senior defender Kerry green six yard out, whose header snuck in­side the right goalpost. 
The game remained knotted 
SMC GOLF | miaa Jamboree 
at 1-1 until the end of regulation, sending the game into overtime. 
in the overtime period, green had three more shots but was unable to put in another goal. neither side was able to convert its last-minute chances, and the game ended in a 1-1 draw. 
“we really played fantastic tonight,” belles coach michael Joyce said. “[we made] one mis­take and gave up a goal, but we controlled the game ... and were disappointed not to get a victory.” 
saint mary’s has played sev­eral close games recently, losing its previous three games by one goal each, bringing their total of one-goal losses on the season to seven. 
“we are a little frustrated not getting over that hump, but very satisfied with our play,” Joyce said. “it was one of our best per­formances on the year.” 
The belles play next saturday against Trine, a game which will mark the halfway point in their 16-game miaa schedule. They are currently at the bottom of the nine-team league. 

“we’re in a tough spot in the conference,” Joyce said. “but there’s still a lot of games to play, and the parity in the conference will give us a chance to catch up if we can rattle off a few wins.” 
The Thunder (4-4-1), after winning their first two confer­ence games, have struggled of­fensively in the past four games, scoring just one goal and posting an 0-3-1 record over that stretch. 
saint mary’s has a good track record facing Trine – last year, the belles were able to pull off a 1-0 victory in double overtime against the Thunder, followed by a lopsided 5-0 victory in their second meeting. 
saint mary’s will conclude its first half of conference play when it faces Trine on saturday at 12 p.m., at the saint mary’s soccer field. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 



heffernan takes top spot 
Observer Staff Report 
despite a first-place individual finish from Janice heffernan, saint mary’s placed fourth Tuesday af­ternoon in the miaa Jamboree at the ravines golf club in saugatuck, michigan, with a team score of 353. The result put the belles in third place overall in the conference after three league meets. 
The senior heffernan narrowly bested hope sophomore britni gielow for individual honors, shooting a 78, compared to gielow’s 
79. however, the flying dutch took the team title by 22 strokes, rely­ing heavily on their depth. They placed all five of their golfers inside the top 10, and had three players tie for fourth place. in compari­son, the belles’ highest finisher be­hind heffernan was sophomore ali mahoney, who tied for 14th. sophomore courtney carlson was close behind mahoney in 16th place with a score of 91. 
with the win, hope maintained its top spot in the miaa, earning its second-best finish of the 2014 campaign with a score of 319. olivet and Trine also beat the belles on Tuesday, earning second and third place with scores of 341 and 351, re­spectively. adrian and calvin tied to round out the top five, finishing at 374. 
in terms of the season, hope’s performance Tuesday brought its season score total to 967, further solidifying its first-place position with just three matches remaining in miaa play. 
heading into the round, the belles were in a position to over­take second place after a success­ful Jamboree at alma on saturday. however, they slipped into third place after Tuesday. Their 1015 stroke total is two strokes behind now-second-place olivet and 48 strokes behind first-place hope. 
The miaa Jamboree is a six-match tournament between the nine conference members to deter­mine the fall season’s conference champion. whichever team has the lowest stroke count earns the conference crown. 
The belles posted their best mark of the season saturday, finishing second in the miaa Jamboree with a team score of 324 at pine river country club in alma, michigan. 
carlson finished in second place overall in the alma leg of the miaa Jamboree with a score of 78. 
rounding out the belles lineup, freshmen Kelsey conkright and Kaitlyn cartone placed in the top 
40. conkright earned a score of 94 and sole possession of 26th place. four strokes behind her, catrone scored a 99, which was good enough to tie for 37th place. 
The belles are back in miaa conference action this week­end, when they travel to lenawee country club in adrian, michigan on saturday, as they seek to regain possession of second place. 




M Soccer 
conTinued from page 20 
16th minute when notre dame graduate student forward vince cicciarelli headed a long corner from Klekota back into the box where sophomore defender brandon aubrey headed the ball on net but was denied by redshirt junior goalkeeper garrett cyprus. 
“The first half, there wasn’t actually a lot in it,” clark said. “i thought it was a fairly even game. They’re a very talent­ed team, but i think they ran out legs a little bit after that. … we were still running. we were the team that wanted to 
win the game.”  
vcu  (3-6-1)  had  a  few  
loose-ball  chances  in  the  
notre  dame  penalty  box  

about midway through the second half, but the rams’ at­tempts either missed the net or were blocked by defend­ers. The irish’s first offensive opportunity of the second half came when cicciarelli had his shot from 10 yards out blocked and junior mid­fielder evan panken’s follow­up from 18 yards slid wide of the right post. 
in the 84th minute, the irish began to increase their of­fensive pressure. freshman forward Jon gallagher was able to gain a step on the man marking him, forcing the de­fender to foul him hard just outside the penalty box and setting the irish up with a high-quality scoring chance. Klekota’s free kick attempt was blocked, though, and the game remained score­less. minutes later, aubrey headed a shot on goal that was blocked on the goal line by a vcu defender, and then hodan had a long shot turned away by cyprus with two minutes remaining in regulation. 
even with all the missed chances, clark said he thought his team managed its frustration well and kept its composure. 
“i think this is a very positive team,” clark said. “They’ve been through these things before, but i think the hard thing was even the sec­ond half, you’re dominating.” 
clark also pointed out the resemblance of this game to the Kentucky heart-breaker the irish lost a few weeks ago after controlling much of the game. 
“[vcu] had a scramble there in the last minute,” clark said. “i said, ‘oh, no. not again.’” 
Just over two minutes into the first of two 10-min­ute overtime periods, notre dame was awarded a penal­ty kick for a handball in the penalty box. hodan had a hard shot, but cyprus made a diving save to his right to keep the rams alive. 
“poor patrick,” clark said. “well he got the corner over there [on the goal] so i think he gets some reward at the end of the day.” 
notre dame continued to put pressure on the vcu de­fense, though. graduate stu­dent defender luke mishu sent a cross into the box where freshman forward Jeffrey farina’s shot hit the post before deflecting back to the foot of graduate stu­dent senior leon brown. brown got the shot off, but again cyprus had an answer, deflecting the shot inches over the top bar, preserving the clean sheet through the first overtime period. 
with just over three min­utes remaining in the game, hodan sent a corner towards the front of the net. farina was the first player to get a touch on it before the ball found besler standing nearly on the goal line. his goal sent the irish team into a jubilant celebration. 
“Tonight we had some good chances,” besler said. “i know [in] the first overtime [farina] hit the post [and] aubrey had a good header, so we kinda had a really strong belief that eventually we were going to get one.” 
The irish waste no time in returning to the pitch, returning friday to pick up acc play again against rival boston college. with such a short turnaround time, clark was asked how he planned to prepare his players. 
“a lot of rest,” clark said. “They put a fair shift in there. we worked very hard. … it’ll be a tough game because i don’t think [boston college] had a midweek game.” 
The irish host the eagles on friday at 7:30 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL | hope 3, smc 0 
Squad’s road win streak snapped 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s could not ex­tend its winning streak to six matches as the belles fell to top-ranked hope in straight sets Tuesday night. 
The belles (7-7, 4-4 miaa) were attempting to win their fourth straight road match, but failed to go into holland, michigan and spoil the per­fect record of hope (16-0, 8-0). 
belles coach Toni elyea said she knew the match would be challenging, but was still frustrated with the way her offense performed. The belles got off to slow starts in each set and failed to get closer than nine points in any of the sets, as they lost 25-16, 25-14, 25-15. 
“we just couldn’t get our offense going,” elyea said. “we’d finally do something well and then we’d miss a serve. hope is obviously a great team and we just didn’t do what we needed to in order to go in and get a win.” 
despite the loss, elyea said that there were some positives the team could take out of the match, such as standout per­formances from junior Katie hecklinski and freshman rachel bonek. hecklinski tal­lied 10 digs and six kills and bonek assisted on four blocks. 
“we did some good things individually and as a team,” elyea said. “hecklinski was strong for us all over the place. i thought she did a great job defensively and also came through for us when she had opportunities to hit. we also blocked very well. bonek has been great blocking for us all year and she was good for us again.” 
The flying dutch were led by the play of senior Jenna grasmeyer, who recorded 10 kills and five digs. her hitting was set up primarily by junior lauren hazekamp, who tal­lied 27 assists on the night. 
elyea gave full credit to the efforts of the top-ranked hope squad and said that nei­ther the mid-week travel nor four straight road games had any effect on the result of the match. 
“i don’t think the travel was a factor,” elyea said. “we came in, we’d won four straight and we have a lot of confidence and we just didn’t get it done. obviously, we were playing a great team, but we have confidence in our offense and we know we are capable of more than the level we were at tonight.” 
elyea said she was confi­dent that saint mary’s could return to winning form quickly and continue to chase its goal of a top-four finish in the miaa and a berth in the conference championship tournament. 
“we just keep doing what we were doing,” elyea said. “we still have a lot of goals in front of us and we’ve just got to keep getting better and more consistent.” 
The belles will look to bounce back this weekend when alma visits on friday before they travel to olivet, michigan to face olivet on saturday. saint mary’s and alma start at 6:00p.m. friday, and the belles play olivet at noon saturday. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 






Football 
conTinued from page 20 
Kelly declined to reveal if any of the five players have asked him to appear on their behalf this week. 
“i’d rather not get into the specifics,” Kelly said. “i think that’s between me and the players.” 
if players were to be rein­stated to the team, Kelly did not rule out their availability for saturday’s game against stanford. 
“certainly they wouldn’t be able to play 40, 50 plays, but i think it would be more about picking up the game plan now,” Kelly said. 
Injury updates 
irish senior receiver amir carlisle, who suffered an mcl injury against purdue and missed the syracuse game, was slated to practice Tuesday, Kelly said. 
“i think we’re all very sur­prised where he is today,” Kelly said. 
carlisle is cleared for “ev­erything,” and Kelly said he’ll only hold the senior out of one-on-work at Tuesday’s practice. 
Kelly said carlisle, who is listed again as the starting slot receiver on this week’s depth chart, will receive 50 percent of his normal reps Tuesday. 
“Then i’ll have a good sense after today where we are with him,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said he expects irish graduate student safety and captain austin collinsworth (mcl) “could help us this weekend.” collinsworth was in uniform saturday at metlife stadium but did not play. 
irish senior linebacker Jarrett grace (leg) is a “day­to-day” situation, Kelly said, and the head coach doesn’t believe the trainers could pinpoint the day during which he’ll break through. 
Stanford’s stonewall 
stanford ranks first na­tionally in scoring defense, total defense and passing defense despite losing de­fensive coordinator derek mason (now the head coach at vanderbilt) and defen­sive stalwarts Trent murphy, shayne skov and ed reynolds to the professional ranks. 
“[stanford head coach] david shaw has obviously maintained that kind of con­tinuity in terms of scheme,” Kelly said. “They’re playing with veteran players. They know how to win. it’s a win­ning program.” 
The cardinal defense has pitched two shutouts and al­lowed just 13 points in each of its other two games this season. stanford has only al­lowed two offensive touch­downs to its opponents. 
“[it’s] just a really good de­fense across the board, and i think it starts with the cor­ners,” Kelly said. 
powered on the perimeter by junior cornerback alex carter and senior corner­back wayne lyons, stanford has surrendered just four plays of 20 or more yards this season, the second-fewest in the fbs. 
“we won’t win if we don’t get big chunk plays,” Kelly said. “we’re not gonna go five, seven and 10 yards and score enough points to win.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
M Golf 
conTinued from page 20 
“he didn’t run from a tough finish there. he went to work, the result of which was finishing as one of only two players in the red this week. even after making triple [bogey] on [the third hole] today, a time when a lot of young players might allow their emotions get away from them, cory fin­ished off his round with five pars and a birdie. he’s ma­turing as a player, which is fun to watch.” 
another player that Kubinski said he was im­pressed with was freshman Thomas steve, who finished eighth individually with a total score of 216 strokes, three-over-par. 
“i walked most every hole with Thomas and continue to be impressed by his great attitude, thoughtful ap­proach and his gifted short game,” Kubinski said. “he hit some great shots out there too. earning his first top-10 finish this week, as a [fresh­man], should only be a con­fidence boost. i think he is realizing he not only belongs out there but that he can beat top players. mccormick is not only one of the top col­legiate players but a veteran of our warren golf course. he edged Thomas by a shot today. That says a lot about our young guy.” 
for now, Kubinski and the irish turn their attention to their next tournament. 
“we’re going to work very hard at putting a lineup to­gether that sees all five play­ers staying in the mix and showing the type of golf we’re capable of,” Kubinski said. “our good golf, as evi­denced by our 36 holes on aug. 31st, a 36-hole stretch at northwestern and our first round here on sunday, is good enough to beat qual­ity teams. it’s a matter of de­veloping a deeper lineup and more consistency through­out 54 holes for us right now. i believe in our guys. i think we’ll see those things.” 
The irish resume play on saturday, oct. 11, at the rod myers invitational in durham, north carolina. The tournament goes through sunday. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 41 Amalgam, e.g. 2 Tour ride 1 Insect segment 42 Musical combo 3 Hosp. figures 
8 With 68- or designs 4 In-your-face69-Across, what experiments? 
5 Bowlful at 16-, 32-, 42- and 45 Elevs. 
a Japanese60-Across each 46 Cartoon “devil,” restaurantconsists of for short 6 Runner from a13 Get by 47 Hairy sitcom bomb scare, e.g.

14 Big name in cousin 7 Super Mario diamonds 48 Puccini’s Bros. letters16 Fools evaluate Cio-Cio-___ 8 “Lopez Tonight” bodies of water? 51 Barber, at times channel18 Flier of legend 54 Figs. in 9 The Crystals’ 19 “___ bin ein company reports “___ Rebel”Berliner” 55 “Prik khing” 10 Moves like a20 Opposite of baja cuisine tosspot21 Dump, so to 57 “Superman ___” 11 Lyre-holding speak 58 ___ Dhabi Muse 24 “Rabbit, Run” 60 More 12 Nora Ephronwriter embarrassed work27 ___ milk forest creature 14 Metric system

screwed up?
28 Ocean State prefixsch. 66 Short operaticpiece 15 Ben-Gurion29 Competition of successor

sorts 67 Is exhausted 17 Funny Caesar
30 Scrap for Fido 68 See 8-Across 21 Cartoonist32 Renter finds a 69 See 8-Across Feiffer buyer for fish? 
22 “Me, Myself &39 Sign up DOWN ___” (200040 Oospheres, say 1 Smart ___ whip 
comedy) 23 Isn’t upright
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
25 Change in Chile 26 Like chicoryvis-à-vis coffee 29 Guardian Angels’ toppers 31 Intro to marketing? 33 MacFarlane of 
“Ted” 34 Palindromic time 35 It might be
served with a cinnamon stick 
36 Girl’s name that sounds like two letters of the alphabet 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  17  
18  19  20  
21  22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  
68  69  

Puzzle by Daniel Raymon  
37 There’s a drawing of it onTV 38 Ways of operating: Abbr. 43 Gymwear item 44 “Less Than Perfect” actress,2002-06  49 “Don’t try to be___” 50 Rock bottom 52 Opera thatpremiered inCairo 53 Go (for) 54 Subjected to ahex  59 Wacky, as humor 61 “V” visitors,briefly 62 Schubert’s “The ___ King” 63 ___ v. Wade 64 Home of Ukr.  
48 What a sucker may have  56 Carded at a club, say  65 Tosspot’s affliction  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Level: 
DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 
1  2  3  4  



Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: communication, education and transportation are highlighted. Trips that encourage learning or adventure will spark your imagination, but being realistic about the choices you make will be the determining factor when it comes to getting the results you want. don’t let uncertainty cloud your vision or slow you down. putting the pieces of your life puzzle together should not be too complicated. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 23, 29, 36, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): communication will lead to solutions, earning more money or developing a closer bond to someone you have a future with. Travel plans can be made, but be reasonable regarding your destination. a safe, secure location is essential. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a fast-talker will try to get between you and your cash. refrain from taking on any more responsibilities until you take care of the ones you already have. picking up knowledge or taking short and informative trips is advised. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): emotional matters will surface. stick to the truth even if it causes a scene. express your opinions so you can move on without delay or regret. greater opportunities await you. love is highlighted. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Troubles at home are best avoided if possible. wait for a better time to find workable solutions. put your energy into expanding your horizons, making new contacts and sharing your thoughts with like-minded people. Trust your intuition. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get out and experience life. idle time will work against you. Take care of your chores and responsibilities to avoid complaints before you go on vacation. back away from joint financial ventures. you will not be given accurate figures and are likely to encounter loss. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t let your emotions lead you down a precarious path. focus on trust, honesty and hard work. a practical approach will help you avoid a costly error. impulse is the enemy, so slow down. refuse to give in to emotional blackmail. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take part in community or family events. share your thoughts and expand your interests. a creative idea you have can lead to good fortune. pleasure trips are highlighted along with romance and updating your appearance and image. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a guarded approach to what you are doing will help you avoid interference. follow your gut feeling when dealing with personal matters. emotional deception is apparent, making it essential to trust in you and you alone. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make changes that will improve your standard of living. apply for a better position or make a residential move that will help you build your assets. Take a passionate approach to relationships. let go of the past and initiate positive change. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): emotional disillusionment will lead you down the wrong path. you cannot save everyone and must refrain from giving too much in an attempt to make an impression. an unexpected change in your relationship with a friend, colleague or relative will be costly. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can get what you want if you approach your goals with integrity and innovation and are able to offer something that is impossible to refuse. use your intelligence, and you will come up with the perfect plan to get ahead. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): pay close attention to what’s going on around you. a creative idea you have will pay off financially. be careful when dealing with sensitive issues. someone is likely to start an argument if you take sides or voice your opinion. 

Birthday Baby: you are inventive, unique and resourceful. you are quick, sensitive and generous. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 



8/21/12 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Playing the waiting game 
Kelly gives updates on injured players, offers no new details on investigation, discusses Stanford’s stout defense 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
irish head coach brian Kelly said he does not know the specifics and timeframe of the hearings and decision process for the five players withheld from practice and competition. 
“i think my wife asked me. she did. i really don’t know,” Kelly said at his weekly Tuesday teleconference.“i have no idea what the pro­cess is, other than what a couple players have in­formed me of relative to the hearing taking place this week.” 
Kelly said he has no knowl­edge of when a decision will be levied. 
irish junior cornerback Keivarae russell, senior re­ceiver davaris daniels, se­nior defensive end ishaq williams, graduate student linebacker Kendall moore and senior safety eilar hardy have been held out of prac­tice and competition during the probe into “suspected academic dishonesty.” 
notre dame announced its investigation aug. 15. The university said “evidence that students had submitted papers and homework that had been written for them by others” was initially detect­ed at the end of the summer session and referred to the compliance office in ath­letics July 29. notre dame said the office of general counsel then initiated “an immediate investigation.” 
as outlined in the honor code, students “under sus­picion” of possible viola­tions shall be informed they can bring members of the university community to the hearing for support and/or to serve as witnesses. 
see fooTball PAGE 18 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, vcu 0 

Irish top Rams in overtime behind Besler’s first goal 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
There was a definite chill in the air Tuesday night as the recently re-crowned no. 1 irish claimed a 1-0, double overtime victory in their first ever match-up with non-conference opponent 
virginia  commonwealth  
(vcu).  
senior captain  and  mid­ 

fielder nick besler headed in the overtime winner with 
3:22 remaining in the extra period off a corner kick to clinch the game for the irish (5-1-2, 2-0-1 acc). 
“we’d been getting really good service all night from [junior midfielder connor Klekota] and [junior mid­fielder patrick] hodan,” besler said. “i think it was [freshman forward Jeffrey] farina this time who got the initial header and put it right across the box. i was basically standing right on the goal line. The job was really easy for me.” 
“we played very well the second half,” irish coach bobby clark said. “we had some excellent chances and we should have taken care of it. Their goalkeeper was fantastic tonight, had sev­eral  great saves. 

“even the goal seemed to racket around, it wasn’t one that went straight in.” 

MEN’S GOLF | fighTing irish gridiron golf classic 
nd drops to seventh at home 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
after a strong start to the weekend, the irish were not able to hang onto the top spot at the annual fighting irish gridiron golf classic. notre dame finished seventh in the tournament after posting a team score of 300 on monday. 
irish coach James Kubinski said the team was slightly off in the last two rounds which affected the overall outcome in a big way. 
“we just didn’t get anything good going the last two days,” Kubinski said. “we started out playing well, leading after the first day, and confidence was high. The last two days saw too many of us that little bit off. we finished 10 shots out of second place, which is less than one shot per player each round from posting a 6-1 record. Those are often the margins in golf though, so we need to find those one or two shots per player.” 
Kubinski was quick to point out that the team will not dwell on its disappointing finish. 
“There’s no value in lament­ing losses,” Kubinski said. “we have to get right back onto the horse and start riding again. in each tournament we’ve had players playing well. we simply cannot have a player or two at each event falling off to the point where there’s no chance of counting. The top teams keep all five in the mix. we are working to do that.” 
Kubinski said one bright spot for the irish over the weekend was the play of ju­nior cory sciupider, who fin­ished second overall in the 50-man field with a total of 211 strokes, 2-under-par for the weekend, just two strokes back from ball state senior mccormick clouser for the title. sciupider and clouser were the only golfers in the tourney to finish under par. 
“i can’t say enough about the work cory has done the last several months and particularly over the three weeks since the gopher invitational,” Kubinski said. 
see m golf PAGE 18 

while the game began at a slow pace, notre dame came alive in the last 10 minutes of the second half and in the overtime periods. 
The first real chance of the game came in the 
see m soccer PAGE 16 





