The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 124 | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘a more qualified pool than ever before’ 
Office of Undergraduate Admissions announces record-breaking number of applicants, increased selectivity 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
a record number of high-achiev­ing applicants fought for admission to the university this year, illustrat­ing notre dame’s increasing selec­tivity and marking this particular class as “a more qualified pool than ever before,” don bishop, associate vice president for undergraduate enrollment, said. 
“we had 17,897 [applications], and what was more interesting than just that number was there was about a 15 percent increase in the highest ability applicants, and by highest ability they would rate in the top two percent of the nation in ac­complishment by national testing standards, by class performance,” bishop said. 



physics professor publishes research 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
notre dame professor of physics boldizsár Jankó’s work with quan­tum properties of a nanoscale superconductor-ferromagnet system was recently published in “nature scientific reports.” 
“it’s an example of taking two 

materials that are very different . superconductors have zero resis­tance, they expel magnetic fields, [and] they get weaker,” Jankó said. “Ferromagnets are anything but that . they have strong magnetic fields. so the question was, ‘what happens when you take some sub­strate and you put a nanometer-sized magnet on it?’” 
The basic design of the sys­tem Jankó’s team investigated involved a superconductor laid out like flat film with a pancake-shaped nanomagnet disk on top of this substrate, with the north and south poles of the nanomagnet corresponding to the top and bot­tom of the disk, he said. given the antagonistic nature of these two materials, the team was curious to see what the result of this clash would be at such a small scale. 
“what the superconductor does [is] shield this magnetic field, so you basically induce a current in the superconductor,” Jankó said. “so the total magnetic field is al­most zero in the superconductor, but there is a spontaneously gen­erated current.” 
The result of this induced cur­rent is a weakened state in the su­perconductor wherever it flows, and a plot of the strength of the superconductor over different re­gions revealed a “mexican hat”­shaped potential, Jankó said. The geometry of this potential is characterized by a peak signal directly under the nanomagnet, surrounded by a valley of weaker strength that gives way to a strong signal on the circular boundary. 
“when i looked at this ‘mexican hat’ potential i said, ‘That’s just amazing, i haven’t seen anything like this,’” Jankó said. “so my first thought was that this ‘mexican 
see physicisT paGe 3 



ND launches mobile app 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
notre dame students will soon be able to check din­ner menus, find the nearest aTm, look up their account­ing grades, confirm what time the basketball team is playing and even check if washing ma­chines are free to use in their dorm with notre dame’s offi­cial app, mobilend, available for download now. 
The main goal of the app was to bring users what they needed quickly and easily, matt willmore, mobilend pro­gram manager for the office of information Technology (oiT), said. 
“we know that students have their smartphones with them 24/7 and want informa­tion quickly and often, and we have worked to deliver that to students,” willmore said. “we also know that if the app isn’t useful, students won’t use it. everything we build into the app is driven by the same ques­tion: how useful will this be?” 
notre dame partnered with modo labs, which has built similar apps for harvard university and princeton university, to design the app, which launched april 11. 
“working with them allowed us to focus on the content and to bring this to campus much faster than building it from scratch,” willmore said. “it also meant we could deliver the same experience for ios, android and to m.nd.edu 
see app paGe 4 


SMC volunteers repair homes 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
on saturday, saint mary’s stu­dents woke up bright and early to volunteer for rebuilding Together of st. Joseph county, a non-profit community-driven organization that repairs local homes. 
chris dressel, “house captain” for the laborers at the home, said the city looks for homes and quali­fied persons of low to moderate income, the elderly or disabled that 
see rebuilding paGe 3 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who is your superhero crush? 

Andrew Scruggs 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“scarlett Johansson as black widow.” 
Audrey Vu 
sophomore 
pasquerilla west hall 
“robert downey, Jr. as iron man.” 
Chris Weber 
junior 
st. edward’s hall 
“wiccan from the young avengers.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Clayton Conroy 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“invisible woman from the Fantastic Four.” 
Eric Gebeke 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“anne hathaway as cat woman.” 
Steven Fisher 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“black widow.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie mccarty mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Jack rooney aaron sant-miller henry gens brian plamondon 
Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 

erin rice erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 
Blood Drive Pill Drop Morning Prayer Morning Prayer Morning Prayer 

caroline genco gabriela leskur 
Rolfs Sports Stepan Center Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Recreation Center 3 p.m.-4 p.m. Heart Heart Heart 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Bring any unused pills 9 a.m. 9 a.m. 9 a.m. 
Corrections 
Sign up online at to be disposed of. Service to celebrate Service to celebrate Service to celebrate givebloodnow.com Holy Thursday. Good Friday. Holy Saturday. 

in the april 14 edition of The observer, Jacob schrimpf’s name was misspelled 
Stations of the Cross Panel Debate Zen Meditation Stations of the Cross Paschal Vigil Mass 

in the article “‘blood wedding’ a 
Grotto of Our Lady of DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Grotto of Our Lady of Basilica of the Sacred 

memorable occasion.” The observer 
Lourdes Arts Center Center Lourdes Heart 
regrets this error. 
8 p.m.-10 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7:15 p.m. 9 p.m. Part of Holy Week. Debate on sports at Open to all. In celebration of Good The Easter Vigil. big-time universities. Friday. 


ndsmcobserver.com | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | The observer 


NDSP pill drop promotes safety 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
The notre dame security police (ndsp) will sponsor its second an­nual pill drop on wednesday. 
The pill drop is an opportunity for students, faculty, staff and the greater south bend community to “dispose of expired and unwanted prescription drugs in an environ­mentally safe manner,” ndsp ser­geant Tracy skibins said. 
The event is part of national prescription drug Take-back day, a program run through the drug enforcement administration of the united states department of Justice. 
“This is our second medica­tion collection event, and ndsp hopes to make it an annual event,” skibins said. “ndsp assisted with the mishawaka medication col­lection events in the past, and we thought it was such a great service, and knew this was something we wanted to offer our community.” 
university spokesman and as­sistant vice president dennis brown said last year’s drive col­lected approximately 760 pounds of medication. 
ndsp officers will be on hand wednesday from 7:30 a.m. until 
5:30 p.m. at stepan center and between 7:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. in coleman-morse center to collect unwanted or expired drugs. 
skibins said the event required a great deal of coordination. 
“although this is an ndsp­sponsored and organized event, the office of sustainability, risk management [& safety department], Transportation services and central receiving have all assisted with the event, and without them, it wouldn’t be possible to host it,” skibins said. 
in conjunction with the pill drop, there will be a blood drive on wednesday between 11 a.m. and 5 
p.m. outside the coleman-morse center, junior and student co-chair of relay for life andrea romeros said. The drive will also raise funds to support awareness and cancer research. 
“we often partner with south bend medical Foundation, and they are very supportive of our event,” romeros said. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
spirituality monday reflects on business, faith 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
new writer 
saint mary’s hosted another installment of its faith-based discussion series, spirituality monday, with guest speaker Jill vihtelic, professor of busi­ness and economics and chair of the department of global studies at saint mary’s, direc­tor of the center for spirituality elizabeth groppe said. 
“[This series is] an oppor­tunity for us to gather as a community to learn from the wisdom that our faculty, staff and students have about the relationship between spiritu­ality and different academic disciplines,” groppe said. 
This is vihtelic’s 27th year at saint mary’s and her second year as chair of the department of global studies, a new in­terdisciplinary program that saint mary’s launched in august of 2012, vihtelic said. 
The conversation focused on the intersection of global busi­ness and faith, vihtelic said. 
over the past decade, vihtelic has gradually switched from teaching upper-level business courses to teaching the re­quired introductory course in finance ethics, she said. she challenges her students in this class to list their top three or four personal values, and she did the same for those in atten­dance at spirituality monday, she said. 
attendees responded with answers such as family, faith, social justice and care for cre­ation, groppe said. 
vihtelic then asked par­ticipants to think about their three or four top priorities in the workplace, groppe said. 
students need to understand which values they hope to find in a workplace and get their priorities aligned before they graduate and start working, vihtelic said. 
“standard business texts teach students to make deci­sions from different perspec­tives but do little to incorporate religious perspectives, so when i started teaching, i thought i should start teaching with an intersection between faith and business,” vihtelic said. 
vihtelic said she likes to fo­cus on how ethics and moral principles apply to business, and she hopes to apply this approach to other courses. 
“sometime in the fu­ture, i hope to teach global studies 101, which is a new critical-thinking seminar, and it’s also certified for so­cial teaching,” vihtelic said. “students will investigate people, planet and profit and explain sustainable busi­ness property and demon­strate their role in all of those aspects.” 
“so where do my students find intersection between values and business? They understand faith influences those values. many don’t un­derstand what it means to be a professional with integrity. when they begin to under­stand that they can’t sepa­rate their personal lives from their professional lives, they must prioritize their values they first assessed.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
rebuilding 
conTinued From page 1 
do not have the means to carry out projects by themselves. 
“we look for a pride in ownership in the house, someone that tries to do the best they can with their house,” dressel said. 
director of the office for civic and social engagement (ocse) erika buhring said the ocse do­nated $3,500 to sponsor a house. buhring said this event provides saint mary’s students with the op­portunity to invest in the commu­nity and see what is developing in “you are working together to better this house and also the neighbor­hood this house resides in. if you consider that rebuilding Together has worked in almost every neigh­borhood in the city in the last 27 years, you’re talking dozens of homes that have been fixed.” 
homeowner lynn-Joyce dolson, whose home the volunteers re­paired, said she is a firm supporter of saint mary’s because the college empowers women. dolson said she was thankful for all of the help with her home. 
“There are a whole lot of things [the volunteers] could have done 
physicist 
conTinued From page 1 
hat’ potential is going to trap ex­otic particles, and that’s what we saw.” 
The striking part of the micro­scopic materials medley inves­tigated by Jankó’s team is that it behaves as a quantum analog to the classical rotor model, which is equivalent to tying a string to a rock and swinging it around in a circle, Jankó said. 
“The other thing we noticed is that you can put a supercurrent on to the superconductor, and [it] results in tilting of the ‘mexican hat,’” Jankó said. “it weakens the superconductor on one side so that you have a deeper well and strengthens it on the other.” 
Jankó said this happens be­cause the current flowing through the superconductor induces its own magnetic field, which chang­es the existing field around the nanomagnet. 
“That’s the classical view. what we found, quantum-mechanically, with [their] weekend,” dolson said. “There are no words that i can ever form in my brain to tell you how much i appreciate [them] being here.” 
volunteer grace pingel said her experience was great, and she en­joyed getting to know dolson. 
“my experience has been awe­some,” pingel said. “The thing i like most about volunteer projects is get­ting to know the people i’m actually helping. so it was really nice talking to Joyce and getting to know her.” 
dressel said his favorite part of rebuilding Together is seeing the excitement and surprise in owners’ 
is that is true . but there are also more particles on the other side as well,” Jankó said. “it turns out that you are basically breaking the left-right symmetry, and these states are an equal superposition of left-rotating and right-rotating parti­cles. so the quantum mechanical rotor goes in both directions.” 
The classical analog in this situation would be that of a bil­liard ball rolling back and forth in the groove of the tilted side of the mexican hat . but now also rolling back and forth on the other side as well, similar to two oscillating pendulums instead of the single rotor, Jankó said. This dual-pen­dulum model prompted Jankó’s team to explore possible relations to chaos in the system. 
“we immediately thought of a connection to chaos because a kicked pendulum is chaotic,” Jankó said. “its motion is ex­tremely sensitive to a kick. luckily, quantum mechanics makes things a lot simpler in this case. For a quantum mechanical parti­cle that’s spread all over the place, eyes when they see their home. 
“i had a case one of my first years where the husband was at work on a saturday, and he came home, and he actually drove past the house because he didn’t recognize it any­more,” dressel said. “it looked like a completely different house. it’s nice to see everyone come together. i’ve always had a positive experi­ence with the volunteers, especially the student volunteers, who come in with a great attitude and to get things done.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
it couldn’t care less about being chaotic. There are no initial condi­tions; it just has maybe a slightly different structure of the wave function.” 
in general, it is possible to go from a chaotic classical system to a quantum mechanical analog, but going back the other way is a far more difficult question, he said. 
“here what we are saying is that we discover rotor states, pendu­lum states, and the pendulum can be made chaotic if you put impuls­es into the current to start driving the system,” Jankó said. “and in fact, we managed to describe the quantum-mechanical analog of this inverted pendulum . basically you have a rod and an object at the end of this rod, and you can stabi­lize this otherwise classically un­stable inverted position. so if you perform the drive of this hinge, you can stabilize this state and have a stable inverted pendulum, called the Kapitza pendulum.” 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 
the south bend. 
“i think [students] can see that it’s good to get out into the community beyond saint mary’s and see such a big change so quickly,” buhring said. “it also gives you a chance to work together for kind of a common goal.” 
dressel said this was his 11th year working as a house captain. he said he has helped with a lot of projects, and it is rewarding each time to see the results. 
“it’s great how people that may be strangers to each other at the begin­ning of the day come together and make a difference,” dressel said. 

paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

directly as we review the appli-Factors admissions counselors 
events like back-to-school just 
admissions 
app 
cants,” he said. might consider beyond test scores 
when they’re relevant.” 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
bishop said admissions coun-include extraordinary talents, 
although there is a large ar­

selective this year,” bishop said. selors focused on four main goals dedication to extracurricular ac-
simultaneously.” ray of options, willmore said 

“… we had 6,300 applicants out of throughout the process: to increase tivities and motivation to succeed 
willmore said usability was he hopes everyone on campus 

that 17,897 … that were in the top socioeconomic, cultural, racial and in a particular field or with chal­
the priority when designing will make use of at least one 

one percent in the nation in either intellectual diversity, to expand out-lenging coursework, mundy said. 
the app. feature within the app, es-

their high school class performance reach to international students, to he said more than 40 application 
“Things like how many taps pecially since people’s needs 

and/or their national testing, many enhance the quality of the applica-readers try to project how a student 
it takes to get some informa-vary over time. 

of them both. tion pool and to foster creative se-would enhance the notre dame 
tion are really important for much of this information 

“less than half of those students lections by considering an “eQ,” or community and continue to fur-
us, as well as how the app is is now scattered across web-

gained admission. so when you “emotional quotient.” ther the university’s mission after 
arranged,” he said. pages, but willmore said he 

have that sort of talent, you have to “The emotional quotient, the graduation. 
at the bottom of the screen, envisioned aggregating the 

look at other factors.” potential for leadership and service “i think what the staff’s been able 
app users can select their “edi-information in one place that 

The “higher profile” of the ap-to others, maintains notre dame’s to do is find the students [about] 
tion,” and there is an edition is “built for convenience.” 

plicant pool not only permitted but focus on what sort of students will who they say, ‘The way this student 
designed specifically for stu-“i can say from personal ex-

also forced admissions counselors have the most impact in the world is currently living [his or her] life 
dents, willmore said. perience that an app like this 

to consider factors beyond a stu-if they use their notre dame degree really seems to mesh well with the 
The app opens to a menu would have been amazing 

dent’s test scores to create the most properly for impactful values that values that we feel make this place 
page that links students to when i was in college,” he said. 

“well-rounded” class, bishop said. notre dame believes in,” bishop so special,’” he said. 
campus maps, dining hall willmore said any cell 

“we are using the test scores less,” said. “This desire for notre dame to mundy said the staff members 
menus and hours, news sourc-phone with internet capabili­

he said. “if you look at four years ago be one of the major forces for good in the office of undergraduate 
es on campus, information ties can access the content on 

compared to today, there’s a signifi-in the world is what we want.” admissions look forward to wel­
about every athletic team, a mobilend. while the app is 

cant increase in our willingness to bishop said notre dame’s “core coming admitted students to cam-
campus directory, weather mostly geared towards stu­

look beyond , and the reason being mission value” of selecting stu-pus this month. 
updates, a campus calendar dents, he said notre dame 

is we’re getting so many high num-dents who will be impacted by the “This time of year we literally 
and more. anticipates people using the 

bers that they’re now so high … to university and then in turn im-come off this real grinding selection 
willmore said the app will app when they visit campus. 

distinguish between this score and pact the world makes notre dame period or evaluation period, and 
help improve the lives of To accommodate those in-

that score is not very meaningful.” unique among the nation’s top 20 there’s always just this immediate 
students by helping to an-terests, the app includes a 

The expanding applicant pool private institutions. burst of excitement as you start to 
swer questions that come up visitor-parking map. he said 

and its strong qualifications also “at other universities, there are a meet some of these admitted stu­
throughout the day, such as mobilend plans to add con-

offers the office of undergraduate lot of students that believe in those dents,” he said. “These are the stu­
“where can i go study right tent to enhance campus visits 

admissions a “growing opportu-things, but there’s not necessar-dents who are going to shape this 
now?” or “what’s happening in the future. 

nity” to partner with faculty and ily considered core to that univer-place for the coming years. 
on campus tonight?” visit the appstore to down-

administrators to recruit a class sity experience,” he said. “it’s not a “you just meet one or two of these 
“The most exciting feature load mobilend. Feedback 

of students that will serve the transformational goal of the other students, and you just feel good 
to me, though, is the flex-about improvements and con-

university and ultimately the world, universities, whereas here, we’re again. i’m really excited about this 
ibility of the app’s platform,” tent can be mailed to mobile@ 

bishop said. looking to transform students to be class in so many ways.” 
willmore said. “as the needs nd.edu 

“with our selection process, highly energetic, not only towards 
of campus change, the app 

with this elevated pool, we’re able the intellectual but what impact are Contact Lesley Stevenson at 
can change with it. we can Contact Meg Handelman at 

to make those distinctions more they going to have?” lsteven1@nd.edu 
add modules for campus mhandelm@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 



inside Column 

Memories in music 
Alex Carson 
sports writer 

i’ve now learned that when you accept the task of writing an inside column at 8 p.m., the night before it prints, it’s natural to panic. it apparently doesn’t take long to go from saying, “sure, i’ll take it!” to thinking, “i have no idea what i’m going to write about”— just about 60 seconds in my experience. 
so, naturally i started pulling out old observers i have stored in my room, look­ing for inspiration for the column — don’t worry, there are plenty that i keep around, and i’m pretty sure i drive my roommate crazy. once i got done looking through a few previous columns, i gave up and returned to my perch in the middle of my messy room and flipped on some music. 
i shuffled the playlist, and all of the sud­den, i had it. Though the average person’s reaction to hearing a track by The Killers might be, “awesome! i love The Killers,” mine happens to be a little different. 
you see, i had a really good friend in middle school who absolutely loved The Killers. she’s the reason i started listen­ing to them, and whenever i hear one of their tracks, i think back to our friendship. it doesn’t matter that we went to differ­ent high schools and ended up going our separate ways — i’ll always associate my Killers fandom with her because, well, she’s the one that got me into them. 
as i continue to flip through my digital music library, i find more and more artists who remind me of friends of ages past. be it a song by pete Townshend, miKa or The head and The heart, odds are i’ll be able to think of someone who was the reason i enjoy that band or artist’s music. 
when i was in high school, i read about something known as the normalization process, which is the establishment of unwritten rules or the creation of socially-constructed norms. socially-constructed norms occur throughout cultures but can perhaps be best understood through example, as norms guide fan loyalties and how and where religious practices take shape. 
i grew up in indianapolis, but i was born in youngstown, ohio — where my dad had lived his entire life. i was indoc­trinated as a cleveland sports fan by him but at the same time, grew up a butler basketball fan due to living in the area and having friends that were also fans of the team. 
To be fair, we typically find our moral compass through the process when we’re young, but the effect the process has on us as we get older shouldn’t be forgotten. 
This process is perhaps the most pecu­liar thing about interpersonal relation­ships. i’m not an expert on the subject by any means — i’m a statistics major 
— but i think it’s cool that i fairly regu­larly ask myself if i’m human or dancer just because of a friend i had when i was thirteen. 
Contact Alex  Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 
it’s harder and harder to be a conservative these days. Just ask Jeb bush. 
The former governor of Florida and po­tential 2016 presidential candidate remarked in an interview april 6 that immigrants who come to america illegally may be breaking the law, but that doing so is an “act of love,” not a felony. when this was mentioned by donald Trump at a national gathering of Tea party conservatives in new hampshire on saturday, bush’s name was booed, and Trump mocked his comments. 
whatever your stance on immigration reform, think about that for a moment: bush wasn’t criticized for proposing any specific policy solution. he wasn’t booed for any laws enacted when he was governor of Florida. rather, he was jeered for simply saying that undocumented immigrants love their families. 
some will say the episode is proof bush is not conservative enough for today’s gop. The truth of the matter, though, is that his comments had nothing to do with conser­vative politics and everything to do with a common-sense outlook on a difficult situation. 
have we really reached the point where a political figure is derided for using the term “love” as it relates to undocumented immi­grants? has the entire political environment become so vitriolic that those who mock the idea of loving one’s family are considered part of the mainstream? do the family val­ues promoted by many republicans, love chief among them, not apply to those who come across the border illegally? 
Too many self-proclaimed conservatives are intent on making a splash in the day’s news cycle or flirting with the most zealous, far-right-wing voters instead of articulating to centrist voters why conservative solu­tions to the nation’s troubles will benefit all americans. it’s as if some in the party have forgotten why they became conservatives in the first place — presumably, to promote a government that will best serve the com­mon good. 
To make matters worse for the gop, this is all happening at a time when republican candidates should be making gains among the voters, as a liberal president struggles to promote the same unconvincing policies he has pushed since he took office more than six years ago. 
still, amid all the donald Trumps out there intent on hijacking the republican platform, hope remains in those figures who still speak the language of common sense. senator rand paul of Kentucky was also in new hampshire over the weekend and was asked about bush on abc’s This week. 
“i think he might have been more artful in the way he presented this,” paul said about bush’s comments. “but i don’t want to say, ‘oh, he’s terrible for saying this.’ if it were me, what i would have said is, ‘people who seek the american dream are not bad people. 
however, we can’t invite the whole world.’” 
you don’t have to agree with paul’s of­ficial stance on immigration. but it’s hard not to respect a guy who recognizes there is nothing wrong with someone urging com­passion for those who seek better lives in america. 
There was a time not too long ago when “compassionate conservatism” was pro­moted by the leaders of the republican party. part of me wonders if we’ll ever get that back… 
as for the politics of today, i like Jeb bush. i wish there were more like him running for office in 2014. i hope he runs for president in 2016. but i doubt he will. with the backlash he received in the past week from those on the far right, it’s hard to blame him if he decides not to run. 
rand paul, however, will run for president. There’s no doubt about that. i don’t know yet whether i will support him or a different republican candidate when that time comes. but i do know the gop and the country are better off when he and his con­servative peers speak not just the self-indul­gent, extreme language of the far right, but the language of all people — compassion and, equally important, common sense. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Don’t forget to laugh 
Mike Miklavic 
The maine idea 
“student sometimes misunderstands his role in class.” That’s not really the greatest thing to have under the “comments” sec­tion of your eighth grade report card, but i suppose it’s better than “student sometimes wets his pants.” while i personally viewed it as something of an accomplishment — my friends all thought it was pretty badass — my parents were somewhat less amused. all in all, the little “chat” we had with my teacher and a couple of my other friends about what he called disruptions (we called it entertainment) could’ve been worse. even though we got in trouble, i look back at that class and don’t regret pretending we were each other and being otherwise ridiculous. i look back and wouldn’t change much, not only because we made $5 via a bet by sleeping in between desks in class, but because our true compensation came in the laughter we elicited, both our own and, more importantly, our classmates’. 
There’s this prevailing belief that people in general, especially students, can’t both be serious about their work and make a fool of themselves at the same time. There’s the class clown and there’s the bookworm. There’s the kid with the binder of detention slips and the kid with the 2400 saT. The one with a weekly chat with reslife, and the one with a 4.0 gpa. in reality, that’s not the case. my high school and i had more than my fair share of post-school “meetings”, and i … okay well maybe i’m not the best example here. The point is just because you’re willing to be ridiculous or go out on a limb doesn’t mean you can’t care. Just because you laugh doesn’t mean you don’t have heart. 
a few people have said it might be wise to take life a bit more seriously. it’s come in a few different forms. “pay attention.” “don’t be an idiot, matt.” “you’re still being an idiot.” “you’re fired.” “i don’t think i can love you anymore.” That last one was particu­larly hurtful — what the heck, mom? but i think what they’re trying to say is that there are important things to do in this world and if you’re not careful, you might miss out on your chance to do something incredible. They’re trying to say that each of us has the power to change something, and our time is better spent on that than on a laugh or a joke. i think that’s a false choice. 
i think that laughter is a gift we use far too seldomly. 
when i think of people i want to spend time with, it’s those who not only make me think but make me smile; those that not only make me better, but also make me laugh. i refuse to believe we can’t laugh and care. i’ve seen far too many friends ac­complish far too much all while laughing to believe otherwise. it may sometimes make other things a little bit tougher. There are late nights at the library that could’ve been shortened by an hour or three had we spent more time working and less time laughing. some may argue laughter gets in the way. i would argue that sleep is good, but laugh­ing with your friends is always better. 
when he took over the Tonight show, Jimmy Fallon told his audience, “my goal is just to make you laugh so that you go to sleep with a smile on your face.” i can think of a whole lot of people trying to do a whole lot of things who can’t say they do some­thing quite that worthwhile. laughter is an essential part of a journey to anywhere, but it can also be a destination unto itself. 
you won’t always make someone laugh. sometimes you will, but sometimes they’ll meet your joke with the trademark chuckle of a pity laugh. sometimes they’ll stare back with the same confused, frazzled and mystified look i have when i’m trying to say something in spanish or order anything at starbucks. go for it anyway. 
it’s worth it to try. it’s worth being ridicu­lous for those times it does make people laugh. it’s worth it because few things can top the moments spent laughing uncon­trollably with friends. Few sounds or re­wards or feelings are greater than the true, genuine laughter of those around you. 
people have big dreams and big hopes for this world. each and every one of us should be no different. but don’t be afraid to take a few chances. chase down your dreams, and don’t ever forget to reach for them. but don’t be afraid to enjoy the pursuit on your way there.  in the words of andrew carnegie, “There is little success where there is little laughter.” don’t laugh because people expect you to. but don’t be afraid to laugh even when the expectation is you shouldn’t. life’s too fleeting to stifle laughter, skip shenanigans or cut an adven­ture short. ultimately, go forth and do great things. but don’t forget to laugh. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior from Cape Elizabeth, Maine, studying political sci­ence and finance. He’s always confused by the “skills” portion of job applications. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
leTTer To The ediTor 

Open letter from Fr. Jenkins 
abraham lincoln worked tirelessly and ultimately gave his life to preserve a divided union and end the blight of slavery in the united states. Thus it is most unfortunate that a recent event on campus bearing his name divided our community. 
i have been asked to condemn the speaker, but i will not do that. we have at notre dame an open speakers’ policy that allows recognized student groups to “invite and hear any person of their own choosing,” and states that sponsoring such speakers “does not imply” — either by the group or the university — “ap­proval or endorsement of their views.” we strive to create a forum in which many voices can be heard, and the merit of what any speaker says can be judged by members of the community based upon the presentation and subsequent discussion. it would be a bad precedent for the president, speaking on behalf of the institution, to either support or con­demn particular presentations of indi­vidual speakers. 
it is the responsibility of the president, however, to uphold the values of the in­stitution, and among notre dame’s most central values is “to create a community that honors the human dignity of each member and that is characterized by a love of truth, active care and concern for the common good, and service toward others” (du lac, community standards preface). an email was sent to members of the event’s sponsoring club that used language and made assumptions that could have reasonably been perceived as demeaning to members of our com­munity and vulnerable groups in our society. while perhaps unintended, this communication has caused pain to individuals and groups on campus and has harmed our aspiration to create an environment where all feel welcome. we must therefore use this opportunity to remind ourselves of the values our com­munity espouses and to re-commit our­selves to those values. 
as members of a community that strives to seek the truth and to honor the dignity of all, we should state our views forthrightly and argue and advocate for them as passionately as we wish, but we must never express ourselves in ways that, intentionally or unintentionally, de­mean others. at a university, our work is reasoned inquiry and discussion and our object in arguing for our views should be to persuade others. language that demeans others closes rather than opens conversations, prevents understanding and deepens division. 
whenever we find ourselves the tar­get of demeaning statements, whether at notre dame or elsewhere, let us not return insults with insults. a more pow­erful response is to offer your perspec­tive with conviction, but to present your views with respect and thus rise above those who demean. 
last december, we mourned the death of nelson mandela. he spent 27 years in prison and was often forced, in incarcer­ation, to endure a regimen designed to humiliate and break him.  he had every reason to respond with hatred and anger, but his remarkable accomplishments came because he didn’t try to humili­ate or defeat others; he showed them respect and won them over. in fact, when his lawyer first came to visit him two months into his imprisonment, mandela was surrounded by eight guards. after a brief greeting, mandela said to his attor­ney: “i’m sorry, i have not introduced you to my guard of honor.” he then intro­duced his guards, identifying each one by name. mandela’s greatness was evi­dent in the fact that he could rise above attempts to humiliate him and treat even his captors with dignity. That quality was no doubt part of what enabled him to unite a divided people and come to be recognized as the father of his nation. we can learn from his example. 
let us continue to embrace vigorous dialogue on our campus and renew our commitment to treat one another with respect even in our most passionate disagreements. let us be attentive to the impact of our words on all, and espe­cially on those who may feel vulnerable or marginalized. let us reject polarizing rhetoric and instead strive to make our community a model for civil discourse. 
we are all notre dame. let us treat one another in a manner worthy of the name.  
Fr. John Jenkins, c.s.c. president university of notre dame april 14 
deceptive gender wage gap 
JC Sullivan 
prologue to a Farce 

last week, president obama an­nounced an executive order and a presidential memorandum aimed at addressing the gender wage gap that persists in the united states workforce. president obama also encouraged congress to pass the paycheck Fairness act, a bill he feels is crucial for efforts to close the wage gap. 
president obama cites u.s. census statistics that demonstrate, “on aver­age full-time working women still earn 77 cents to every dollar earned by men.” The white house attributes this differ­ence to gender discrimination, and thus, the paycheck Fairness act will attempt to recognize and attack discrimination and thereby ensure “equal pay for equal work.” 
however, evidence clearly demon­strates the basis for the president’s ac­tions is inherently flawed and therefore has provoked a response from the white house that, at best, demonstrates mis­guided policy, and, at worst, reflects pol­icy that will work contrary to its stated goals. 
The claim that full-time female em­ployees make 77 cents to every dollar earned by full-time working males, at­tributable to only gender discrimination is false. First, the statistic does not accu­rately define “full time.” men are almost twice as likely as women to work more than 40 hours a week, and women are almost twice as likely to work between 35 and 39 hours a week. when controlling for hours per week, female employees earn 88 cents to every dollar a male em­ployee earns. 
while a fair definition of “full time” closes 11 cents of the gender pay gap, it obviously does not eliminate it. however, further evidence suggests that a number of others factors are most likely the cause of the additional 12-cent pay gap. 
These factors can be grouped in two categories: career choices and family considerations. This first can help to ex­plain why young women make less than men when first entering the work force (93 cents to every dollar, according to the pew research center), and the second can explain why the overall pay gap rests at the 88 cent figure described above. 
on average, women tailor their educa­tion to fields that are less prosperous in the market than men. women are more likely to major in a field with lower start­ing salary prospects, like education or liberal arts studies. in contrast, men are more likely to major in fields with higher starting salary prospects, like law or finance. men are also much more likely to enter into dangerous occupa­tions, which, by nature of the added risk, raises salary earnings. These two fac­tors present a logical basis for the initial seven-cent differential in earnings when women enter the workforce. 
marriage and family considerations can then help explain the remaining in­come gap between men and women over the course of their careers. women are much more likely than men to interrupt their career for family considerations, including reductions in work hours and significant time off. Further, women are more likely to turn down a promotion in order to care for their families. These in­terruptions, on average, limit a woman’s earning potential and career advance­ment. The fact that single women with­out children — the best way to “control” for family or marriage considerations . earn 96 percent of men’s earnings helps exemplify this notion. 
despite the evidence above, gender discrimination most likely contributes to this pay gap as well. however, most evidence indicates that the difference is very small and difficult to attribute to a general societal trend of discrimination. Though i agree that this form of dis­crimination is unacceptable, it does not warrant new legislative action, as both the equal employment opportunity commission and the office of Federal contract compliance are tasked with fighting labor market discrimination. while a gender wage gap does exist, it seems clear that it is primarily attribut­able to factors other than gender dis­crimination and more likely reflects a woman’s individual choice in education, career path and family considerations. 
This recent attempt by the white house to “attack” gender discrimination in the workforce is both misguided and potentially even harmful to securing a better work environment for women. many experts have pointed to the det­rimental components of the paycheck Fairness act, as it limits an employer’s ability to respond to the demands and needs of employees. These demands include merit pay considerations and flexibility for working mothers. 
women still face a number of hurdles and challenges in the workforce that should be addressed, but the paycheck Fairness act does not appropriately ad­dress these challenges. attacking a prob­lem that is based on misleading statistics and is already being addressed by two federal agencies is a poor allocation of government resources and more impor­tantly, does not promote a more equal workforce for female employees. 
JC Sullivan is a sophomore living in Keenan Hall. He can be contacted at     jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





The observer | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAITLIN DOYLE 
scene writer 

when new york magazine published the article “normcore: For Those who realize They’re one in 7 billion” this past February, it unleashed a whirlwind of controversy and debate within the fashion world. “normcore,” as the fashion trend was dubbed, is characterized by its adoption of severely normal fashion 
— to the extent that it almost can’t be called “fashion” in the traditional sense anymore. new york magazine describes it best as “stylized blandness.” named for the character norm from “cheers,” the look focuses on unexceptional clothing choices that, honestly, look like something a dad from a 90s sitcom would wear. birkenstock sandals, grey sweatshirts, white new balance sneakers and light-wash levi’s dad-jeans all bring to mind the image of Jerry seinfeld or chessy from “The parent Trap.” The sitcom-dad trope of the late 90s has turned fashion icon; bob saget’s sartorial style is finally covetable and cutting edge. 
This isn’t the first time that ny mag has been ahead of the curve when it comes to fashion and lifestyle trends. in 2010, they published an article about the death of the “hipster” as a sociocultural trend. in the article “what was the hipster?”, ny mag asserted the “hipster” ideal had been “over” for years, while the rest of the world thought it was still very “in.” since it has been almost four years since the ny mag obituary featured a pbr can on display in a museum, the trendy and forward-think­ing youth culture hasn’t had something this intriguing to glom onto and make its own. 
on its surface, normcore seems like the obvious choice to inherit the void left in the fashion and life­style world by hipster-dom’s demise. both are broader ideological concepts that manifest themselves most obviously as fashion choices. while hipster-culture em­braced counterculture to the extreme and clothed itself in the outrageous, normcore does the exact opposite by embracing our non-individuality and dressing in the most unobtrusive, unremarkable way possible. hipster style was full of irony, but normcore doesn’t take itself that seriously. 
The fashion world has been showing signs of moving toward a normcore-inspired aesthetic for the past few seasons, before the term normcore was ever thought up. in 2012, birkenstocks re-emerged on the runways as part of celine and giambattista valli’s spring collections, and that year’s fall runways were awash with graphic sweat­shirts straight out of an episode of “boy meets world.” 
in 2012, the style mavens tended to pair these overtly-normal, drab items with very high-end, fashion-forward pieces, with the mix of high-end and low-end providing an interesting contrast. now, this type of outfit is being eschewed for a completely normcore look. instead of birkenstocks peaking out from under a stella mccartney dress, birkenstocks are being worn with a graphic sweat­shirt and high-waisted, stonewashed denim jeans. 
and in a way, the idea behind normcore is incred­ibly liberating. by embracing conformity when it comes to your clothes, you’re saying that you’re interesting and important without displaying that on your person. you don’t need to dress individualistically to be a fully-formed, interesting and valuable individual. in the face of fashion trends that have embraced individuality over the past decade — take marc Jacobs’s skirts or miroslava duma’s fashion week ensembles, for example — em­bracing the unremarkable is somehow the most daring fashion trend of all. normcore is about putting yourself out there without the mask of fashion as a defining char­acteristic of you as a person, and in that way, it is much more than just a fashion trend — it’s a lifestyle ideology that we should all embrace. 
Contact Caitlin Doyle at cdoyle1@nd.edu 


By KEVIN NOONAN 
senior scene writer 

sad pop-balladeer lana del rey released “west coast” yesterday, the first single from her upcoming al­bum, “ultraviolence.” 
First listen — meh. 

There are some scene writers, past and present, who would call for my head at that kind of blasphemy, but truth is an absolute defense. 
look, it’s not a bad song. like most lana del rey songs, i enjoyed it fine, and maybe someday when i feel like feeling some feelings, i’ll throw it on my “Turn down” playlist, but it’s not a summer anthem, and any­body who tells you otherwise is wrong. 
it’s moody, it’s slow, it’s all ironic about things that most people like — it’s a lana del rey song. it’s got a little black Keys twang to it, which is a nice twist on her normal sound, but it’s not a club banger; it’s not an in­stant pop smash, and it’s not the summer’s hottest track. 
“west coast” is a downer, and a good one. it’s really good at being a sad-sounding song, but the problem is that people will probably point right away to her 2012 single, “summertime sadness,” and say this is the second coming of that song. in some ways, they’re prob­ably right. That is to say, “summertime sadness” didn’t exactly light the charts on fire and definitely wasn’t the anthem of summer 2012. 
it was only after cedric gervais released his remix of the song in the summer of 2013 that it began to garner widespread attention outside of her devoted fan base, amazing as it is. 
which leads me to my ultimate point — this is a fine song, a very well-done lana del rey song, but please, spare me blasting it on the radio and at parties all sum­mer long, no matter who tells you it’s the definitive track of the year. 
what might be, though, is the eventual remix. lana del rey has reached, for me at least, the same sort of cultural status as nicolas cage movies, newspapers and andy samberg’s film career — i’ll wait until it’s on Tv. For ldr, i’ll wait for the remix. 
That’s not to say i don’t enjoy her music in its origi­nal form, especially when i want to feel like the world doesn’t understand me and nobody’s cool except for me — i just enjoy it so much more in upbeat, electronic dance remixes. 
does that make me a dolt, a product of the machine, a musical sellout, a part of the problem, an eventual un­cool dad or uncle and a terrible scene writer? yes. but the fact remains. i like “summertime sadness” a lot, but the remix is way more fun. same goes for “young and beautiful” and “once upon a dream” — well, no actu­ally, that one’s perfect just the way it is. 
it’s more than likely that i’m talking in circles to de­fend my indefensible position because even as i’m writ­ing it i’m finding myself saying: “yeah, but she’s so good. she makes real, original music, and it’s good. what have you done? you’d be a terrible Fbi informant against the mafia because you couldn’t sing to save your life. That’s a terrible joke. you’re not funny, you’re an idiot.” and now that i’m in that sort of mood, i’m ready to go listen to some pure, original lana del rey. 
all i’m saying is that when i’m out at the expansive beaches of suburban Kansas this summer, i want to lis­ten to something that doesn’t make me feel like i should be sadder than i am. and that’s why “west coast” is not your summer anthem, unless it’s raining, and you just got fired, and your cat hates you, in which case i apologize. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 



The observer | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

“we have found ourselves rich in goods, but ragged in spirit,” former president richard nixon said in his inaugural address in 1969. “reaching with magnifi­cent precision for the moon, but falling into raucous discord on earth.” 
The seventh and final season of “mad men” picks up in January 1969, as nixon is being inaugurated — a sure sign the optimism of the 1960s is coming to an end. “Time Zones,” sunday night’s fantastic and foreboding premiere, followed the continuing “raucuous discord” that belies the immaculately-maintained facades of the show’s characters. in an interview with rolling stone, the show’s creator, matthew weiner, outlined his vision for this season: “what i was in­terested in this season was the sort of contrast between the material and the immaterial world.” although weiner is notoriously ambiguous when it comes to the show’s future, it’s a theme that has encompassed the show’s entire run: material objects seek to create the illusion of happiness, masking the void in­side all of us. 
The episode opens with Freddy rumsen, the copywriter once fired for drunk­enly urinating and passing out before a meeting with a client, giving a pitch for accutron watches. “are you ready? because i want you to pay attention,” Freddy asks directly into the camera. “This is the beginning of something.” weiner — who wrote the premiere — is knowingly addressing the audience: it’s the be­ginning of the end for “mad men,” and of course we’re paying attention. 
rumsen’s brilliant monologue feels reminiscent of the advertising genius of a young don draper. as he delivers the slogan — “it’s not a time piece, it’s a conversation piece” — the camera reveals peggy olson, who is just as stunned as the audience. and as it turns out, peggy is right to be surprised. The episode’s final moments reveal that don, who was put on an indefinite leave of absence in the season six finale, has been feeding ideas to Freddy. don’s sense of fulfill­ment is so wrapped up in his career that he constructs this ruse to give his life purpose, even lying to his wife megan that he’s still working. 
we get our first glimpse of don in this episode as he is arriving at laX to meet megan, who has moved to los angeles to pursue acting. in the “mad men” universe, california has served as a golden beacon of opportunity, a paradise worlds away from frigid new york. yet, on this weekend trip, don remains deeply unhappy lounging around megan’s new pad in the hollywood hills. in contrast, both megan and pete have embraced the allure of the year-round sun­shine and spacious housing the state offers. 
on his flight back to new york, don opens up to a widowed brunette wom­an (played by neve campbell), whose late husband wanted his ashes spread at pebble beach but had to settle for Tom sawyer island at disneyland. even disneyland – where don first fell in love with megan — is a fantasy that pales in comparison to the real thing. don shares a transatlantic flight’s worth of emotional intimacy with the woman, opening up about his marriage to megan and asking, “i keep wondering, have i broken the vessel?” Throughout the show’s run, don has continually proven an empty vessel inside, which he tries to fill up with women and alcohol. so when the widow offers him a lift home from the airport, it’s surprising that he declines her invitation. don is, for once, seemingly turning down the fantasy he constantly lusts after. 
roger continues his own hedonistic descent, as his apartment becomes a hippie commune teeming with orgies and psychedelics. This hippie idealism has apparently consumed the entire sterling family, as his daughter margaret meets him for brunch to forgive him for all his past transgressions. “anger can be vanquished by love,” margaret tells him. he returns home to a woman, in bed with a sleeping man, who tells him, “you know anyone’s welcome in this bed.” roger moodily replies, “i just want to get some sleep,” as he stares up at the ceiling. hedonism has its limits, and when that fantasy is finally punctured, you’re still stuck with your own misery. 
meanwhile, peggy is restless under new sc&p creative director lou avery, who lacks don’s visionary outlook on advertising. when avery fails to be overly excited about her reworked accutron pitch, she complains to stan, “i’m tired of fighting for everything to be better. nobody cares about anything.” when she collapses on the floor of her apartment in tears at the end of the episode, it’s a wrenching act of desperation. like don, peggy depends so heavily on her career for fulfillment, that when she is miserable at work her life seems empty. 
Joan, too, struggles professionally, as Ken asks her to have dinner with a client who is considering moving advertising in-house. even though she’s a partner at sc&p, the executive condescendingly sneers, “This conversation is best for Ken,” and brags about his business degree. Joan meets with a business professor for advice, and when he asks for repayment, she immediately recalls when the firm pimped her out to Jaguar. “This is a business school,” she snaps. “doesn’t money work here?” no matter how successful she is, Joan is constantly reminded of the glass ceiling for women at every turn. 
in the episode’s final shot, don sits on his apartment’s balcony, freezing and alone against the new york skyline, as vanilla Fudge’s cover of “you Keep me hangin’ on” plays. is don finally turning over a new leaf? “why don’t cha get out of my life and let me make a brand new start?” the song asks. but in “mad men,” there are no true reinventions, only the cynical truth that humans make the same mistakes time and time again. you can change your name, you can move to california, you can meet your dream woman, but ultimately the bit­ter January wind hits you with the harsh reality of your own emptiness. as the show enters its final stretch, its characters are very much “ragged in spirit.” man may land on the moon later in 1969, but for now the characters are firmly stuck on earth, and that might be the most miserable reality of all. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 


sporTs auThoriTy 

Sox-Yankees rivalry rekindles 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
it’s always sad to see the spark go out. 
baseball is best enjoyed when emotions run high and tension fills the ball­park air. 
but lately, it has seemed like the red sox and yankees, those most cele­brated of rivals, just haven’t been able to muster the same level of revulsion for each other. Frankly, the two teams have become dan­gerously cordial, as if they woke up one morning to find the “evil empire” had turned into just another al east opponent. 
david ortiz called alex rodriguez a “friend” and claimed the two went out to dinner after games . then again, maybe samsung just wanted a selfie with both of them in the frame. dustin pedroia, the sox second baseman whose Jack russell Terrier-like person­ality would seem perfectly suited to generating con­flict, instead worships the ground derek Jeter walks on. The red sox, long fueled by jealousy and a wicked inferiority complex, have now won three world series titles in 10 years, two more than their neighbors to the south. 
For fans like me who still celebrate the anniversary of the pedro martinez-don Zimmer throw-down, the situation has become rather dire. 
but ladies and gentle­men, i have a morsel of good news: controversy has returned to the red sox­yankees series! sort of. 
The first new wrin­kle came back in early december, when the some-times-beloved sox cen­terfielder Jacoby ellsbury jumped ship and signed with the yankees for a seven-year, $153-million deal. it’s hard to find any­one in baseball who really blames ellsbury for pulling a Johnny damon, but red sox fans aren’t known for being particularly reason­able, and i think it’s safe to expect a fair amount of hostility from the Fenway Faithful when the yankees pay their first visit to boston next week. let’s just hope sign-wielding sox fans don’t repeat the mistakes of their compatriots, many of whom reacted to the sign­ing by declaring ellsbury a “trader” on Twitter. after all, nothing says rivalry quite like personal attacks with amusing grammatical errors. 
but the action isn’t lim­ited to the free-agent mar­ket. The yankees took three of four against the red sox last weekend but not with­out incident. yankees pitch­er michael pineda threw some filthy stuff in a 4-1 win Thursday night because his hand possibly was, in­deed, filthy. The sox did not blow the whistle on what could very well have been a pine-tar stain . they have pitchers of their own, after all . but that didn’t keep it from becoming the main topic of conversation for sports fans on the eastern seaboard. 
and though his anger was directed towards the offi­ciating crew, not the bronx bombers, boston manager John Farrell lost his cool and was thrown out of sunday’s game in the fourth inning after a replay deci­sion went against the red sox for the second straight day. after the game, Farrell told reporters, “it’s difficult to have any faith” in the new replay system, add­ing, “as much as they’re trying to help the human element inside the system, it seems like it’s added the human element at a dif­ferent level.” other critics have noted that the replay center, which is located in new york, has yet to make a call that went against the yankees. The fact that the season is not even two weeks old yet is usually ne­glected in this argument. 
These developments hardly compare to the epic incidents of the early 2000s. remember when Jason varitek stuck his catcher’s mitt in a-rod’s mouth? i don’t see anything like that happening anytime soon, as amusing as it would be. but we know that small in­cidents have a way of build­ing on each other over the course of a 162-game sea­son. so here’s to hoping the century-plus-long feud has been rekindled, at least in a small way. after all, if these two teams can’t find a way to fight, what rivalry stands a chance? 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nba | wiZards 114, heaT 93 
 Heat lose, Pacers get top seed 
Associated Press 
washingTon, d.c. — The miami heat opted for rest for lebron James and chris bosh over the pursuit of the eastern conference’s top seed, and the washington wizards capi­talized in a 114-93 breeze of a game monday night that clinched the no. 1 seed for the indiana pacers. 
Trevor ariza scored 25 points for the wizards, who shot 59 percent and made 14 3-pointers and re­mained one game ahead of the charlotte bobcats in the race for the east’s no. 6 seed. washington is trying to avoid dropping to sev­enth so that it can avoid the heat in the first round of the playoffs — when lebron and co. will be back. 
michael beasley scored 18 points for the heat, and Toney douglas had 14 for the two-time defending champs, who will be the no. 2 seed when the playoffs begin this weekend. 
The heat began the day still in contention for the top spot, but they would have needed to win their last two games and have indiana lose to orlando on wednesday because the pacers hold the head-to­head tiebreaker. Figuring it would be better to be fresh for the postseason, heat coach erik spoelstra sat James and bosh, saying they were dealing with “the residual of a long season.” 
“Just where we are right now, (James is) dealing with some minor ailments,” spoelstra said. “nothing that’s significant enough that will keep him out. same thing with chris. we made this decision and ev­eryone else is ready to go. everything is day by day.” 
James has made it part of his annual routine to rest before the playoffs. he missed the final game in 2011 and sat out the last two in both 2012 and 2013. 
The heat went with their 20th starting lineup this season and trailed by as many as 36 in the second half. dwyane wade, who needs the work after re­turning sunday from a sore right hamstring that cost him nine games, started and scored nine points in 18 minutes. 
The heat have lost four of five. miami is just 11-13 since march 4, including 3-9 on the road. 
marcin gortat had 10 points and 13 rebounds, and John wall added 13 as­sists for the wizards, who have been hot and cold down the stretch but at least have found a way to escape their 3-point shoot­ing slump. after going 6 for 50 from long range over a three-game span, they’ve since made 22 of 51 in their last two games. ariza, whose shooting was ham­pered by a bout with the flu, made 5 of 8 3-pointers monday night. 
also, nene, who sat out the wizards’ previous game after feeling some stiffness in his recently sprained left knee, looked more like his energetic old self as he scored 18 points off the bench. 
nene converted back-to-back three-point plays in the second quarter to give the wizards their first 10-point lead, overpower­ing chris anderson with a baseline move on the first one and taking a nice feed from andre miller to set up the second. 
miller supplied the game’s biggest highlight, making an overhand paint­to-paint pass to beal that would make an nFl quar­terback jealous. miller hit beal in stride as if it were a post pattern, and beal made the layup in one fluid mo­tion while drawing a foul to get a three-point play. 
noTes: The heat were also without c greg oden, who did not make the trip to d.c. because of a stom­ach virus. ... The wizards sold out for the fourth time this season. 
nba | rapTors 110, bucKs 100 
vasquez leads raptors 
Associated Press 
ToronTo — greivis vasquez scored 25 points, Kyle lowry had 24 and the Toronto raptors set a franchise record with their 48th win, beating the milwaukee bucks 110-100 on monday night. 
Jonas valanciunas had 14 points and 13 rebounds and Tyler hansbrough had 12 points and 11 rebounds as the raptors won for the sixth time in seven games and completed the first season sweep of milwaukee in franchise history. 
Toronto had dropped 11 con­secutive games against the bucks coming into this season, but has since won four straight. 

FOR RENT 
3 Bed house for rent $850, 574-302-5312 
ramon sessions scored 21 points, Jeff adrien had 19 points and brandon Knight 18 as the bucks lost their 14th straight road game, matching a record for futility set in the 2004-05 season. 
milwaukee has not won away from home since beating philadelphia on Feb. 24. 
The loss guaranteed that the bucks (15-66) will finish with the worst record in the nba. milwaukee came in trailing philadelphia by two games in the standings. 
Knight, milwaukee’s leading scorer, returned to the lineup after sitting out saturday’s loss at washington with a sore right hip. 
The short-handed bucks, who have five players injured and another suspended (center larry sanders), had just nine healthy bodies available against Toronto. 
sessions and Knight both hit 3-pointers as milwaukee used a 12-1 run to cut its deficit to six points, 92-86, with 6:53 remaining. 
That was as close as milwaukee got, however. vasquez made a free throw after sessions was called for a techni­cal, lowry added a driving layup and valanciunas added a pair from the free throw line, putting Toronto up 99-88 at 5:51. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Randy Houser, “Runnin’ Outta Moonlight”: Don’t you worry ‘bout get-tin’ fixed up; When you wake up, you’re pretty enough; Look out your window at the cloud of dust; That’s my headlights, that’s my truck; Come on baby, don’t you keep me waitin’; I gotta go, I’ve got a reservation; Tailgate for two under­neath the stars; Whoa; Girl, every now and then you get a night like this 


ndsmcobserver.com | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | The observer 


smC laCrosse | adrian 20, smc 5 
Bulldogs dominate Belles 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s struggled to score early and found itself unable to contain the offensive firepower of adrian in a 20-5 loss saturday at the saint mary’s college lacrosse field. 
The 2013 conference champion bulldogs (6-5, 4-0 miaa) erupted for nine unanswered goals in the first 11 minutes, four coming from senior midfield hannah early, who finished the game with six. adrian’s high-powered offense has netted 77 goals in the bulldogs’ last four games to maintain a per­fect conference record. 
“adrian is a very strong team, es­pecially offensively,” belles coach amy long said. “we played against some very tough competition.” 
The bulldogs bolstered their lead to 12-0 until a goal by belles freshman defense Jackie loesch put the belles (1-9, 0-3) on the scoreboard. sophomore defense sarah neeser added a second belles score in the closing minutes of the first half, but the bulldogs led, 15-2, at the break. 
adrian continued to find the back of the net while saint mary’s struggled to do so, and the bulldogs expanded their lead to 20-2 with 10 minutes to play. 
belles freshman midfield aubrey golembieski, who has a team-high 26 goals on the season, netted a shot with 5:11 left and then assisted on a goal scored by sophomore at­tack Tess guerrero. loesch scored her second goal of the day in the fi­nal minutes, and the game ended, 20-5, in favor of adrian. 
despite the final score, long said she remained upbeat about her team’s performance. 
“our players continued to get better and had fun during a very demanding game,” she said. “we implemented a new zone defense, and i am very proud of the way our players executed it.” 
on the offensive end, long said she has been especially impressed with loesch, who has scored multiple goals in six consecutive games and has 14 goals on the season. 
golembieski has been another standout for the belles’ offense. in addition to her team high in goals, she leads the belles with 33 ground balls, 48 draw controls and 49 shots. 
“we continue to improve in the offensive end,” long said. “we are taking smart shots and striving to increase the amount of shots we take per game.” 
she also pointed to neeser and freshman defenseman Katlynn dee as strong members of the de­fensive squad that will continue to help the team going forward after the loss. 
saint mary’s now turns to a road game wednesday against olivet, which long said she thinks will be a good matchup for the belles. 
“i am excited for wednesday’s game,” she said. “we have a great chance of winning our first con­ference game.” 
The comets (2-10, 1-3) are led by junior midfields mackenzie inman and Taylor guarnaccia, who have 31 and 26 goals on the season, respectively. 
however, olivet has fallen short in its past three games in losses to conference opponents calvin, hope and albion. like saint mary’s, olivet has struggled with turnovers and has 200 on the season. 
The belles will take on the comets at 6 p.m. wednesday at the cutler athletic complex in olivet, mich. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
smC Tennis | smc 9, alma 0 
smc sweeps alma 
By CORNELIUS McGRATH 
sports writer 
saint mary’s was victorious over alma on saturday with a 9-0 win to mark senior day. 
The belles (8-5, 3-1 miaa) said goodbye to lone senior mary catherine Faller, who had a hand in two victories on the afternoon over the scots (3-13, 1-7). not only was Faller part of an 8-0 win in the no. 1 doubles match with junior Kayle sexton, but she also overcame a 4-3 deficit in the first set of her singles match to win in straight sets, 6-4, 6-4, in the last home competition of her career. 
The rest of the saint mary’s squad followed in similar fash­ion with sophomores margaret Faller and andrea Fetters claiming an 8-0 victory in the no. 3 doubles match. in the last doubles match, juniors audrey Kiefer and shannon elliott were equally dominant, brushing aside their opponents with an 8-1 win. 
when it came to singles, the belles kept their momentum going. elliott quickly set the tone with a 6-0, 6-0 win at no. 4 singles, and this was quickly followed by Kiefer, who won her no. 6 singles matchup, 6-1, 6-0. Fetters continued the win­ning streak with a 6-2, 6-1 vic­tory, while both junior Jackie Kjolhede and sexton wrapped up the match with 6-0, 6-2 and 6-4, 6-1 wins, respectively. 
saint mary’s will face adrian on Tuesday, and belles coach dale campbell said he was op­timistic about the match against the bulldogs (9-8, 2-5). 
“we hope to have a good, solid match against adrian,” campbell said. “we are getting better and did a good job of clos­ing out a lot of close matches against both bethel and alma.” 
however, campbell said, the real focus is on the belles’ second match of the week. 
“we also have a huge match against hope on Thursday, who is typically one of the stron­gest teams in the conference,” campbell said. “right now, we have to take one match and one practice at a time and come ready to play every day.” 
The belles and the bulldogs meet Tuesday at 4 p.m. at msFc auxiliary gym in adrian, mich. 
Contact Cornelius McGrath at cmcgrat2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




The observer | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
smC sofTball | oliveT 5, smc 2; oliveT 11, smc 0 
olivet sweeps smc 
nd sofTball 
acc matchup canceled 
Observer Staff Report 
The rubber match of no. 23 notre dame’s three-game se­ries with no. 7 Florida state was canceled monday be­cause of inclement weather. due to a steep drop in tem­perature . the teams played two games sunday in pleas­ant, mid-60-degree weather . the acc’s cold-weather policy kicked in. 
a makeup game will not be scheduled, but the irish could face the seminoles again in early may at the acc championship. 
The game, which was set to air on espnu, would have decided the outcome of notre dame’s first home acc series after a number of cancella­tions. in sunday’s first game, senior pitcher laura winter (16-4) threw a complete game as notre dame (25-9, 6-4 acc) earned its 22nd win in program history over a top-10 opponent, 8-5. 
The win also signified a number of milestones. The seminoles (39-6, 16-3) were the highest-ranked opponent that the irish have beaten since they took down no. 4 nebraska in 2002. The win also marked irish coach deanna gumpf’s 533rd vic­tory, tying her for second with longtime baseball coach paul mainieri among irish baseball and softball coaches all-time. Finally, the win was the 99th of winter’s career, as she looks to become the first pitcher in program history to record 100 victories. 
The irish fell in the second game, 9-7, in nine innings. Junior third baseman Katey haus hit a sixth-inning grand slam to break a 3-3 tie, but the seminoles stormed back in the top of the seventh inning after senior catcher celeste gomez completed a four-run rally of Florida state’s own with a two-run single. in the ninth inning, Florida state redshirt freshman alex powers pinch-hit another two-run single off sopho­more pitcher allie rhodes (5­
4) to salvage the day for the seminoles. 
still, the irish have won four of their last five in the acc after a 2-3 start to con­ference play. 
notre dame is back in ac­tion wednesday as it takes on Toledo, who has struggled in five straight losses and has also dropped seven of its last nine. The game will be played at melissa cook stadium, and first pitch is scheduled for 6 p.m. 
smC Golf | ohio wesleyan inviTaTional, 4Th 
belles shoot 332 
Observer Staff Report 
after a long weekend at the ohio wesleyan laura bump invitational at mill creek golf club in ostrander, ohio, saint mary’s captured fourth place with a 332 sunday to bring the team’s two-day score to 673. 
Junior Janice heffernan led the belles with a ninth-place finish individually. she broke into the 70s on day two for saint mary’s, shooting a 78 for a two-day score of 162. 
sophomore sammie averill had a consistent tournament by matching saturday’s round of 82 on sunday. averill finished tied for 11th place with a score of 164. senior captain alexi bown also matched her score from saturday by turning in an 86 for a final score of 172, tying for 28th place. 
sophomore claire boyle cut three strokes off saturday’s score with an 86 to finish with a 175 and a share of 39th place. Freshman courtney carlson was the fifth-scoring golfer for the belles in the team competition and shot a 94 on sunday to finish 80th with a score of 192. 
Freshman ali mahoney com­peted as an individual in the tour­nament this weekend. mahoney shot an 85 in the second round to finish tied for 46th with a 177. 
The belles will host the first of three miaa ncaa Qualifiers on wednesday at blackthorn golf club in south bend starting at 1 
p.m. after three rounds, the team with the lowest overall score will receive the miaa’s automatic qualifying bid to the 2014 ncaa division iii championship, which takes place in may. 
Observer Staff Report 
after starting 2-0 in confer­ence play, the belles extended their miaa losing streak to four games in a pair of losses to olivet on saturday in olivet, mich. 
in the first game of the double­header, the comets (17-8, 5-5 miaa) bested the belles (10-10, 2-4), by a score of 5-2. olivet scored its five runs in the first three innings, while saint mary’s was not able to cross the plate until the sixth inning. 
Junior first baseman cecily reyes recorded a double to drive two runners home, but that was the last of the belles’ offense as the game ended on a pair of groundouts. 
senior pitcher and captain callie selner suffered her sec­ond loss in a row, giving up four earned runs in two innings. sophomore pitcher sarah burke was able to limit the comets’ offense to zero runs, and she recorded five strikeouts after selner’s exit, but the belles’ of­fense could not take advantage of its defense in the final four innings. 
in the second matchup against olivet, saint mary’s was held to a single hit, recorded by sopho­more designated hitter moranda hegedus. burke faced more trou­ble against olivet’s offense in the second game than in her first, taking the 11-0 loss while giving up nine earned runs on 13 hits in five innings of shortened play. 
The belles look to stop their four-game skid Tuesday as they face off against calvin at 3:30 
p.m. at the saint mary’s college softball field. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | The observer 




nd Women’s Golf 

Ferreira exceeds expectations 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
as notre dame prepares for its first acc championship, it needs all the experience it can get, and the irish squad is getting it from an unexpected place — a freshman. 
Jordan Ferreira flashed poten­tial during her first-ever college tournament, placing eighth at the indiana university Fall Kickoff in september. however, her mind has been on division i college golf since her freshman year of high school,. 
“i didn’t get serious until my freshman year, but by the end of it, i thought i had a good chance of playing in college,” Ferreira said. 
after visits to notre dame, wake Forest, northwestern, virginia, north carolina and the university of california-berkeley, Ferreira said she did not have to think twice about her college choice. 
“notre dame was definitely the dream school,” Ferreira said. “i came on my visit and immedi­ately loved it here. The communi­ty is great, and they have a strong academic institution. and i really liked the team and the coaches.” 
even after being ranked as the 24th recruit in her class by Junior golf scoreboard and being named a two-time washington state golf association girls player of the year, it would not have been sur­prising for Ferreira to take time in her transition to the college game. This was not the case, however, as right from her first college round, she showed that she could com­pete with the best. 
“i’ve really liked the transition from high school golf to college golf,” Ferreira said. “The acc es­pecially has really good competi­tion, and the courses are tougher. with the players a lot better too, i think the challenge is really fun.” 
with her success, which also includes two rounds of 71 and another top-20 finish, Ferreira has experienced the typical chal­lenges that every college kid faces . with added commitments. 
“The biggest adjustment over­all has been time management,” Ferreira said. “it’s a lot to balance with golf, traveling and school.” 
Ferreira said she has found that the tight-knit team aspect has helped her in her freshman year, especially the leadership of the upperclassmen. 
“The team is great . we are all very supportive of one another,” Ferreira said. “we are all fierce competitors but want everyone to do very well. and it’s good to have someone in my class [Janie Fineis], so i’m not the only freshman.” 
Team chemistry is so strong that Ferreira said her favorite mo­ment from the season had noth­ing do with her own play . it was when junior ashley armstrong fired a final-round 69 to place second at the mary Fossum invitational at michigan state in september, and the whole team rallied behind her. 
although quick to shift the fo­cus to her teammates, Ferreira has had a stellar rookie campaign. her 
74.95 stroke average is already the best career average on the team. Furthermore, Ferreira has im­proved her score every day over the course of a tournament in all but two of her nine starts. 
“you get to know a course better, and each day it gets a little easier,” Ferreira said. “you also want to learn from your mistakes and work on them the next day.” 
Just a freshman, Ferreira is play­ing like a veteran at just the right time for the irish as they head into the acc championships. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
batting average, the best in the big Ten. 
They will send redshirt senior right-hander chase rihtarchik (0-2) to the mound for Tuesday’s game. rihtarchik has put to­gether a 5.62 era in six appear­ances this season. 
The irish batters seem to have emerged from a collec­tive slump that marred much of the early conference season and have finished with 10 or more hits in eight of their last 10 games. 
“obviously, you’d like to get some of those hits at times that are a little bit more timely, but i think overall, i think that we’ve been making progress,” irish coach mik aoki said. “i think we have been getting better. starting out in the league at whatever it was, 1-14, it would’ve been easy for our guys to sort of say, ‘ah, to heck with it, we’re going to mail this in,’ and they haven’t, to their credit.” 
although the irish (14-21, 3-15 acc) struggled in the acc be­fore taking two of three from boston college in chicago last weekend, notre dame has yet to lose a midweek game, most of which are played against lo­cal rivals. 
Today, sophomore righty nick mccarty (2-6) will start for the irish. mccarty has a 3.91 era in eight starts. 
“our midweek pitching has been really good and has given our offense an opportu­nity to not feel like they’ve play­ing from behind and achieve a little comfort,” aoki said. “we’ve been able to scratch out a little bit of a lead. in particu­lar, [sophomore left-hander] michael hearne and [junior right-hander] scott Kerrigan and nick mccarty have done a really good job of solidifying the midweek [pitching].” 
The irish, who are now hit­ting .249 as a team, are led at the plate by junior first baseman blaise lezynski, who is hitting .338 this season. lezynski had five hits, three rbi and a run scored in saturday’s double­header against boston college. 
although the spartans lead the all-time series between notre dame and michigan state, 78-54, the irish have won four of the last five, including a 7-3 win when the teams last met april 24. 
The irish look to stretch their winning streak to three when they face the spartans at mclane baseball stadium in east lansing, mich., at 3:05 p.m. Tuesday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Former Irish forward Natalie Achonwa looks to distribute the ball during Notre Dame’s 88-69 win over Baylor on March 31. Achonwa was 
drafted by the Indiana Fever with the ninth overall pick in this year’s WNBA draft. 
basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
dame in the national champion­ship in nashville, Tenn., the irish and huskies were evenly repre­sented in the first round. center stefanie dolson and guard bria hartley were drafted back-to­back with the sixth and seventh picks by the washington mystics and seattle storm, respectively. The storm then traded hartley and second-year forward Tianna hawkins to washington in ex­change for all-star forward/cen­ter crystal langhorne. 
mcbride joins former team­mates skylar diggins and devereaux peters as the high-est-selected players in program history. in 2012, peters was se­lected by the minnesota lynx, and diggins was taken by the Tulsa shock last year as part of one of the deepest draft classes in wnba history. peters won a wnba championship in 2013 with the lynx, and diggins was named to the wnba all-rookie 
team  following  her  first-year  
campaign.  
stanford  forward  chiney  

ogwumike was selected first overall in this year’s draft by the connecticut sun, followed by baylor guard odyssey sims in the second spot to the Tulsa shock, where she will join diggins in the backcourt. 
Former forward ariel braker was the only irish senior who went undrafted on the night. The three seniors leave notre dame after making four straight Final Fours and posting a 138-15 career record. 
lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
pressure on them, but in a way that they cannot leverage any benefit. we don’t want to create offense for them, so we will plan to be very calculated in our defensive efforts. each of these comes back to patience.” 
one aspect of the game that could prove challenging is one neither team has any control over 
— the location. ohio state has won a program-record eight home games at Jesse owens memorial stadium this season, and notre dame has not been on the road since it beat villanova on march 
23. That said, gargan said she has faith the bus trip to columbus, ohio, isn’t anything her team can’t handle. 
“it will be a good change of pace for us,” gargan said. “The home stand was nice after having so many away games in a very short period of time, but we enjoy travel­ing together and typically fare well away from arlotta. 
“The routine of an away game is a bit different, but at this point in the season, with so many away games already played, we’ll han­dle this fine and look forward to the game.” 
gargan said she is equally unconcerned with any worries of team fatigue. including last weekend’s game against duke, Tuesday’s game at ohio state and this weekend’s game against syracuse, the irish will play three games in eight days. gargan said the team was well aware of this happening and has trained itself to be ready for it. 
“Fatigue isn’t something we’re worried about right now,” gargan said. “while we may feel more tired just due to circumstance, between school, travel and the fi­nal games, but it shouldn’t affect our play because we have trained ourselves knowing this situation would arise. The workouts all year have been oriented toward com­bating fatigue in the end, which will allow us to continue to play our best.” 
after Friday’s win over duke, and with a date looming with new no. 1 syracuse to close out the reg­ular season, Tuesday’s game may seem to have all the earmarks of a trap game, but team discipline will ensure the irish do not over­look ohio state, gargan said. 
“our focus all year has been one game at a time,” gargan said. “we’ve been disciplined so far in not overlooking games. at this point we have no energy to devote to syracuse because we have ohio state to beat first. after we do that, then we will begin to prepare for syracuse.” 
notre dame will take on ohio state at 6 p.m. at Jesse owens memorial stadium in columbus, ohio. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | Tuesday, april 15 2014 | The observer 



CrossWord | will shorTZ 


hiGhly punlikely | chrisTopher brucKer 
sudoku | The mepham group 


ConTrolled Chaos | hillary mangiaForTe 

horosCope | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you will have to pick and choose wisely this year. There will be too many options and not enough time to take on everything and do it well. it’s oK to be selfish and to put your needs first for a change. don’t let guilt stand between you and the success you deserve. it’s time to take what’s yours. your numbers are 6, 14, 21, 28, 32, 35, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you may have to stretch your time in order to take care of business and not neglect important relationships. spreading yourself successfully between personal and professional demands will encourage confidence as well as emotional and monetary gains. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): secrets must be kept if you want to avoid backlash. a lack of trust will ensue if you are suggestive or misleading. stick to the facts and do the best job possible. call in a favor and do extra research. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get physical and see how much you accomplish. Take the initiative to make things happen and offer help unconditionally. concentrate on what you can do, not on the obstacles that stand in your way. love without motive or possessiveness. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you can expect to face opposition. don’t waste your time arguing or fighting a losing battle. use your intuition to guide you in a direction that will bring you greater stability and encourage solid partnerships. put love first. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): making a move or a change to the way you live will have its benefits. opportunities will arise, but so will obstacles. stick close to home or to those you love, trust and want to do business with. Follow your dreams. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): your desire to help others is admirable, but make sure that your recipients are worthy of your hard work, dedication and sacrifice. partnerships appear to be abundant but questionable. do your research and check for hidden motives. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) discipline will be required. a tendency to overdo it mentally, physically, emotionally and financially will lead to setbacks. change can and should be initiated that will separate you from any poor influences you have. a force play will develop if you procrastinate. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a tug-of-war will take place if you go up against authority figures or oppose someone in charge. let body language and intuition guide you to make the right choice. avoid trouble and you will be able to explore interesting possibilities. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): use your head, your knowledge and know­how to reap the benefits you deserve. an emotional situation will be based on false information. don’t get trapped in a melodrama that leads to regret. put self-improvement ahead of trying to improve others. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): listen attentively, but don’t take action. hold your thoughts and refrain from trying to control an unpredictable situation. let things unfold naturally and when the dust settles, you can make your move. use past experience to guide you. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look into investments and set up meetings that can lead to a higher income or better money management. a settlement or package deal may be tempting, but should be considered carefully. you are in the driver’s seat, so take your time. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): be open and receptive to new people, places and opportunities. don’t let anyone sway you or push you in a direction that isn’t in your best interest. be smart and work to get the best deal and ensure your future success. 

Birthday Baby: you are outgoing and competitive. you are free-spirited and a leader. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | Tuesday, april 15, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd Women’s baskeTball 

McBride, Achonwa both selected in top 10 
Observer Staff Report 
Two former notre dame stars had a short wait before they heard their names called monday night, as Kayla mcbride and natalie achonwa were both among the top 10 players select­ed in the wnba draft, held in uncasville, conn. 
mcbride, an all-american guard and national player of the year candidate, was taken with the third overall pick by the san antonio stars. achonwa, a forward and third-team all­american, was taken ninth by the indiana Fever, who advanced to the eastern conference semi­finals in 2013. mcbride and achonwa are the fourth and fifth irish players to be selected in the first round in the past three years. 
mcbride was projected by most experts to be a top-five pick but came off the board earlier than expected and ahead of maryland forward alyssa Thomas, who beat out mcbride for acc player of the year this season, as voted by the media. acc coaches se­lected mcbride for their player of the year award. 
The stars finished 2013 with a 12-22 record and ranked 10th 
baseball 
irish head to msu 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
after winning their first con­ference series as a member of the acc this weekend, the irish look to maintain their perfect record in midweek contests as they trav­el to east lansing, mich., to take on michigan state on Tuesday. 
The spartans (20-13, 5-4 big Ten), who took two of three from purdue over the weekend, have won 10 of their last 13 games. Three of those wins were shut­outs, and in nine of the 10, the michigan state pitching staff held its opponents to three runs or fewer. The spartan hurlers sport a 2.93 era and .244 opponent 
see baseball paGe 13 
out of 12 teams in field-goal per­centage, hitting 40 percent of their shots. mcbride leaves notre dame with a career field-goal percentage of 47.5 percent. she also averaged 16.75 points per game in her final two seasons for the irish. The stars were led in scoring last season by forward danielle adams, who averaged 
14.4 points per game. 
achonwa’s pre-draft stock was up in the air after she tore her left acl during notre dame’s elite eight win over baylor on march 31, but the Fever, who acquired the ninth pick from the phoenix mercury, selected the six-foot­three forward anyway. achonwa, a captain for the irish, led notre dame in rebounding and was third in points this season. 
indiana also held the fifth pick in the draft and chose Florida state forward natasha howard, bolstering its frontcourt after ranking second-to-last in the league in points and rebounds per game last season. howard and achonwa were both all-acc selections. 
less than a week after connecticut defeated notre 
see basKeTball paGe 14 

nd Women’s laCrosse 
ND looks to build off win over Duke 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
The irish hit the road for the final time of the regular sea­son for a top-20 contest against no. 16 ohio state, winner of five straight games. 
no. 9 notre dame (9-5, 2-4 acc) is coming off its big, top­10 win over no. 7 duke on Friday night. after dropping two straight games to stanford and virginia prior to knocking off the blue devils, senior midfielder caitlin gargan said the victory was just as important for the team’s mental state as it was in its record. 
“The win over duke has defi­nitely helped us restore our confidence, which is important for this final stretch of the regu­lar season and into the confer­ence tournament,” gargan said. “The game itself was close, but we were able to control most aspects of the game helping to prove to ourselves again that we are capable of competing against tough teams.” 
The buckeyes, meanwhile, are on a streak of their own. They have won their last five games and nine of their last 10. 
“They are a skilled team with speed, but one characteristic that distinguishes them is their hustle,” gargan said. “They’re relentless and pesky all over the field. it always seems that no matter the margin, they’re always in the game. They’re go­ing to force us to work very hard Tuesday night, but we gladly ac­cept the challenge.” 
The key to the game, accord­ing to gargan, is patience. 
“we need to be patient on both sides of the ball,” gargan said. “on offense, we will likely see a few different defenses, but we are prepared for them, so we just have to remind ourselves of that so we don’t get out of sorts. 
“on defense, we want to put 
see lacrosse paGe 14 



SMC Tennis vs. Alma  W 9-0  Baseball vs. Michigan State  Today, 3:05 p.m.  Track and Field, ACC Championships  Thursday, All Day  
SMC Lacrosse vs. Adrian  L 20-5  ND W Lacrosse vs. Ohio State  Today, 6 p.m.  Track and Field, ACC Championships  Friday, All Day  
SMC Golf, Ohio Wesleyan Invite  4th  Softball vs. Toledo  Wednesday, 6 p.m.  ND Women’s Golf, ACC Championships  Friday, All Day  
ND Softball vs. Florida State  Cancelled  Baseball vs. Toledo  Wednesday, 7 p.m.  Softball at Virginia, Doubleheader  Friday, 4 p.m. and 6 p.m.  





