The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 33 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
New dean discusses global affairs school 
Keough School to house master’s program, Kroc, Kellogg, Nanovic, Keough-Naughton Institutues 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
last week, the university an­nounced the creation of the donald r. Keough school of global affairs and the appoint­ment of history professor r. scott appleby as the marilyn Keough dean of the school. 
appleby said the Keough school will unite the university’s international institutes, in­cluding the Kroc institute for international peace studies, the Kellogg institute for international studies, the nanovic institute for european studies and the Keough-naughton institute for irish studies, and allow them to collaborate and accomplish larg­er goals. 
“notre dame has some very impressive international insti­tutes, and it is time for those institutes to become one unit of collaboration in research, teaching and public service,” he said. “The goal will be to de­velop programs and curricula that enhance each of these in­ternational institutes and help them deepen their respective intellectual missions precisely by working on their larger, more sustainable projects that they 
see Keough PAGE 4 



smc alumna reflects on catholic worker experience 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
rosalie riegle, an author and alumna of the saint mary’s class of 1959, spoke Tuesday about her life and journey with the catholic worker for the collegiate speaker series spon­sored by the career crossings office, the department of communication studies and the cushwa-leighton library. 
riegle said meeting dorothy day while working as a peace activist during the vietnam war changed her life and initiated her activism in the catholic worker. she has written several oral his­tories of the catholic worker and one on dorothy day. she has also helped opened two catholic worker houses of hospitality. 
studying theology and church history at saint mary’s college planted the seed which sparked her decision later in life to join the catholic worker, riegle said. 
“The theology and church history just fascinated me be­cause i just knew nothing about catholicism,” she said. “my dai­ly life and education has been secular, i had attended a pub­lic school as a teenager where i could always skip catechism. for many in my class, theology was 
see worKer PAGE 5 


game day attendance high despite rain and cold 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
approximately 100,000 people braved the inclement weather for saturday’s nail-biter against stanford, according to mike seamon, associate vice presi­dent for campus safety. 
“overall the weekend was a huge success for the university, both on and off the field,” seamon said. “as anticipated, 
see game PAGE 3 





Withdrawal offers chance to address mental illness 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
Editor’s Note: This is the third installment in a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in recog­nition of Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
during the spring semester of 2014, 29 undergraduate students withdrew from the university. 
some left because of illness, some because of personal mat­ters and some left to seek treat­ment for mental health-related concerns. 
in the fall 2013 semester, 42 undergraduates withdrew. seventeen more students decided between semesters not to return to notre dame after winter break last year. 
among graduate and profes­sional students, 17 withdrew last spring, and 29 withdrew in the fall. 
associate vice president for student services bill stackman said in his experience, many stu­dents on campus are aware of mental health concerns and are interested in taking care of them­selves and their peers. when he meets with someone contemplat­ing withdrawal for any reason, he said his goal is to make sure the student knows his or her options, to make sure they don’t feel like they’ve done something wrong and to make sure when the time comes, they’re “in a good place to come back and hit the ground running.” 
“i sent a card to every single student who left last year, when they were home,” he said. “They’d get a card from me, and basically it was a spirit of ‘good for you for recognizing the need to take care of yourself and get the help you need.’” 
The office of student affairs tries to make the withdrawal and readmissions process as simple as possible and flexible enough to meet the needs of each stu­dent, stackman said. students can voluntarily withdraw at any point in the semester after meet­ing with the dean of their college and a case manager from student affairs. 
The requirements for read­mission depend somewhat on a student’s reasons for leaving, stackman said. everyone needs 
see wiThdrawal PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



Did you stay for the whole Stanford game and why? 


Miguel Ribas 
junior 
Keough hall 
“i did not because it was unbearable and so i met up with my parents.” 

Annie Kinman 
graduate student 
off-campus 
“no, it was too cold and i’d rather be home watching it under a blanket.” 

Michael Longenecker 
graduate student 
off-campus 
“no i didn’t get tickets this year because i would rather watch from the comfort of my home.” 


Ryan Grzyb 
junior 
alumni hall 
“yes because i always stay for the whole game. i paid for the tickets so why leave.” 

Greg Kline 
graduate student 
off-campus 
“no, i wish i could have but i had to meet up with friends and family.” 

Kathryn Tiehg 
freshman 
lewis hall 
“i did because i was already there so why bother leaving.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 





Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: emily mcconville renee griffin alex winegar henry hilliard 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Notre Dame Power 14th Annual Blue Mass Pep Rally Notre Dame Football Mass at the Basilica 
emmet farnan bianca almada 
Plant Tours Basilica of the Sacred Location TBA Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Power Plant Heart 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart 3 p.m. - 4 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Pep Rally for UNC Undefeated Irish take 11:45 p.m.- 12:45 p.m. 
Corrections 

Free tours of the plant. Mass for those who football game. on the North Carolina Music by the Notre 
The observer regards itself as work in public safety. Tar Heels. Dame Folk Choir. a professional publication and 
Science Week: Talk “A Streetcar Named MSA Eid Festival Saturday Vigil Mass ND Women’s Soccer 
strives for the highest standards 

Science Desire” Dinner Basilica of the Sacred Alumni Stadium 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Jordan Hall of Science DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Heart 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Arts Center Student Lounge 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Cheer on the Notre 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Sciencia club hosts 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Music by the Women’s Dame women’s soccer 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
discussion. Classic film. Featuring Dean Hugh Liturgical Choir. team as they play 
we can correct our error. 

Page. Miami. 


Bookstore partners with Center for the Homeless 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
The hammes notre dame bookstore and the south bend center for the homeless have joined forces to raise funds and awareness for the center through the newly implement­ed socK out homelessness campaign. 
The campaign, which began oct. 3, receives a portion of the proceeds from each pair of notre dame under armour socks sold at the hammes notre dame bookstore, hammes bookstore and cafe on eddy street, leep varsity shop, delleice irish hockey shop, stadiums shops, notre dame bookstore of chicago and ndcatalog.com, accord­ing to a press release from the bookstore. 
“for every pair of socks sold before the end of football sea­son, a dollar will be donated to the south bend center for the homeless,” david werda, di­rector of notre dame retail op­erations, said.  “so right now we’re holding out hope that this campaign lasts until Jan. 12, when notre dame is play­ing in the championship.” 
customers have the addi­tional option to donate pur­chased socks directly to the center for the homeless in bins located inside the bookstore. 

“you sometimes take a pair of socks for granted,” Taya groover, chief developmen­tal officer at the south bend center for the homeless, said. “however, a lot of our guests come in and may not have a pair or are in desperate need 
“We’re really excited about this opportunity because it allows the entire Notre Dame community to get involved.” 
Caitlin Kinser 
marketing manager 
Notre Dame retail operations 

of a replacement. it all helps.” 
saturday, the bookstore hosted The ultimate Tailgate, featuring a wide variety of games and contests, to help raise awareness about the socK out homelessness campaign. over the course of the weekend, 319 pairs of socks were purchased and donated to the center. 
caitlin Kinser, marketing manager for notre dame re­tail operations, said the socK out homelessness campaign 
paid adverTisemenT 

helps to unify the campus community. 
“we’re really excited about this opportunity because it allows the entire notre dame community to get involved,” she said. “each individual who purchases a single pair of socks is contributing to the effort.” 
werda said the main goal of the campaign is to bring aid and awareness to the south bend center for the homeless. 
“The bookstore and the center for the homeless have a longstanding relationship,” he said. “we have the desire to give back to the campus com­munity. This seemed like a great way to draw attention to a great cause.” 
The south bend center for the homeless is in its 25th year of service. groover said as the weather gets colder, the center increases its number of residents. 
“ultimately, we’re just thankful for everyone who is coming together to help sock out homelessness,” groover said.  “it’s incredible to see the positive relationship notre dame has not just with the center, but with the commu­nity as a whole.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
Game 
conTinued from page 1 
we had quite a large number of visitors on campus friday and saturday. on friday, we had over 1,200 people attend the football luncheon, 3,525 people visit the stadium tunnel and over 7,500 people attend the pep rally, which was held in the compton family ice arena.” 
across the board, the num­ber of fans touring the stadium remains consistent with previ­ous estimates from the rice and michigan games, for which the total amounted to 3,600 and 3,500, respectively. attendance at the luncheon has continued increasing from 850 before the rice game and 1,110 during the michigan weekend, according to seamon. 
with so many thousands of fans arriving for the game, the drizzly weather impacted traffic conditions by causing more ve­hicle congestion, seamon said. 
“not surprisingly, our biggest challenge this past weekend was the inclement weather,” he said. “given the cold, wind and rain, it was a later arriving crowd than usual to both campus and the stadium. The lateness of the crowd put some added pressure on incoming traffic and the last minute rush into the stadium, but overall things ran very smoothly.” 
notre dame security police (ndsp) chief phil Johnson said fans leaving campus also faced difficulties due to the weather. 
“Traffic ran smoothly before and after the game although rains during the outbound slowed traffic a bit resulting in some delays on area streets,” he said. “police assisted motorists on streets and roads surrounding campus and facilitated traffic de­parting campus.” 
Johnson said ndsp made seven arrests saturday, mark­ing a decrease from the 16 ar­rests made sept. 6, the day of the michigan game. 
“one ticket was issued [saturday] for minor consump­tion of alcohol,” he said. “Two ar­rests were for public intoxication or public order related offenses. five people were arrested for shoplifting.” 
seamon said the university used the stanford game as an opportunity to celebrate the re­cent successes of other notre dame teams, “including the 2013 ncaa men’s soccer national champions, the 2014 ncaa run­ner-up men’s lacrosse team and the 2004 ncaa women’s soccer champions. 
“we also had former foot­ball monogram winners form the tunnel at the beginning of the game,” he said. “This week­end was the notre dame band alumni weekend where over 800 band alumni members joined the current nd band for the on-field pre-game and halftime performances.” 
“even with the bad weather, it was a great weekend for the university capped off by a huge win over stanford,” seamon said. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu. 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

school aims to bring the that will be available to under-perhaps in the other colleges as to the post-9/11 world.” 
Keough 

university’s influence as an in-graduates through the Keough well.” appleby said the Keough 
conTinued from page 1 

stitution of academic excellence school are still under discussion. The core academic program of school has an advantage in its 
with a concern for social change “colleagues across campus the Keough school will be a mas-ability to set a direction that can could not attempt alone.” to the field of global affairs. will be deliberating this ques-ter’s program in global affairs, best address contemporary and 
The Keough school will also “we need to be appropriately tion during the coming months, appleby said, and the faculty of future needs. work with the current col-modest because we’re just start-so nothing is yet fully resolved,” the school will be comprised of “we’re brand new, and we’re leges and schools within the ing, but we still need to be bold he said. “however, we know that current university faculty and in many ways just starting,” he university as well as notre enough as a university to believe our undergraduates will be liv-new hires. said. “but we’re going to build it dame international on research that notre dame offers some-ing and working in a fully glo-“we already have several fac-in a way that reflects the world projects, appleby said. thing distinctive and necessary balized world and that they are ulty working in areas related to as it is today, not as it was during 
“one reason for [creating] the to the field of international stud-eager to integrate the experi-global affairs, many of whom are the cold war, not as it was after school is to leverage the remark-ies and global affairs,” he said. ences and histories and profes-affiliated with these internation-the cold war but before 9/11.” able strength we already have in The Keough school’s mission sional perspectives of people al institutes like Kroc, nanovic, one of the specializations of international and global affairs,” is founded on the theme of “in-all over the world into their own and Keough-naughton,” he said. the Keough school will be the he said. “another way to do that tegral human development,” study. “we hope to hire 15 or more new study of religion’s influence on is to see the Keough school and appleby said. “we’re all aware that our un-faculty over the next number global affairs, an area which has position the Keough school as a “like the other basic concepts dergraduates are savvier than of years who will help us plug not been adequately addressed catalyst for research that brings of catholic social teaching, this they’ve ever been about what some gaps in our regional ex-by other universities’ programs, units across campus, beyond idea is rooted in the gospel, but it means to live in a globalized pertise and in policy studies and appleby said. the school, into collaboration, speaks to and engages all people world, in a globalized setting, in various forms of professional “religion has become increas­such as mendoza college of of any and every faith tradition,” where they will be relating to practice related to development, ingly important in global affairs business, the college of science, he said. “it’s also a quite practi-others not only on a local or na-human rights, peace building in so many respects,” he said. the college of arts and letters, cal vision, in that the mission of tional level, but through many and governing.” “from figuring out how to deal the law school and the college advancing integral human de-transnational platforms.” with the addition of the with isis, on the troubling side of engineering into certain proj-velopment is in response to half particularly, the college of Keough school, notre dame will of things, to how to position ter­ects that draw on many disci-a century of efforts to eradicate arts and letters will be in close join several other prestigious rific faith-based organizations plines and methods of research. poverty, resolve deadly con-collaboration with the Keough universities in establishing a like catholic relief service even 
“another goal for the school flicts, provide adequate health-school in designing programs school for global affairs, appleby more prominently, on the posi­is to more fully globalize notre care and defend human rights. of study for notre dame under-said. tive side.” dame’s campus, to increase “half a century of efforts — graduates, appleby said. “There are 10 to 12 good or “princeton, columbia, harvard the number of international but efforts that have failed, to “i know that all of the deans very good schools of this sort, [and] stanford, still don’t really students and faculty, language greater or lesser degrees because are thinking of ways to bet-and some of the leading ones provide a first-rate education in training, research that en-they ignore the fact that people ter prepare our undergrads for are much bigger and certainly the role of religion in global af­gages countries far from the come from a particular place this exciting new world,” he older than the Keough school,” fairs, and notre dame will do united states. The Keough and must participate in their said. “There’s no doubt that the he said. “in fact some have such that,” appleby said. “and it’s school’s close partner in this own development by drawing Keough school of global affairs a long history and have commit-more important now than ever initiative will be notre dame on their spiritual, religious, ethi-will play a part in the under-ted themselves to certain kinds to do so.” international and especially its cal and cultural as well as their graduate course offerings and of programs that they are still array of global gateways.” material resources.” programs in the college of arts attempting to adapt their faculty Contact Catherine Owers at 
appleby said the Keough appleby said the opportunities and letters in the future, and and programs and placements cowers@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Withdrawal 
conTinued from page 1 
a letter, an application form and an essay discussing their reasons for leaving, what they did while they were away to take care of them­selves and how they’re prepared to come back. 
each case is different, though, and for some the process is eas­ier than for others. senior Travis marshall-roth planned to gradu­ate in may 2014 but withdrew for the spring 2013 and fall 2013 semes­ters to address his depression. he’s now on track to graduate in may 2015, but said the withdrawal pro­cess was “the worst notre dame experience i’ve ever had.” 
“having to decide okay, do iwant to withdraw or not — that’s not a trivial thing,” marshall-roth said. 
marshall-roth has struggled with depression for more than 10 years, he said, and “things started going really downhill” when he was taking more than 20 cred­its per semester as a sophomore chemistry major in 2011. he went to class, worked in a research lab and studied around the clock and slept “maybe three hours per night.” 
“That’s not really a good way to live,” he said. “i chalk it up to the extreme stress that i’d partially put myself into, partially not. … i was feeling more and more isolated. 
“and it was sort of like a massive downward spiral.” 
he began cutting himself in the fall semester of 2012 for the first time and experienced suicidal thoughts, he said. 
“i was just completely depleted,” he said. “and i was like, i can’t do this anymore.” 
marshall-roth met with a coun­selor at the university counseling center (ucc) and began “a medication roulette,” he said. he was eventually hospitalized the weekend before final exams began after telling a friend he had thought about suicide. 

he was told he could come back and take the exams at the beginning of the next semester, he said, because his grades overall were good. 
“so i came back and was basi­cally in the same situation all over again within two weeks,” marshall­roth said. “i took the exams, then i was put in the hospital again, and this time it was 10 days.” 
he withdrew formally in the sec­ond week of the semester, he said. 
“i just didn’t want to be here. i went home and for the first four months i sat in my room and looked at my wall because that’s all i could do,” he said. “Just like a blank page, nothing going on. because i was so depleted and depressed i couldn’t do anything else. i was sleeping 16 hours a day.” 
eventually, he started intensive therapy, he said, and began taking a couple classes at a local univer­sity. he contacted student affairs in april and the next deadline for readmission was oct. 1, he said. 
stackman said currently, there isn’t a set requirement that with­drawn students take two full se­mesters off. however, the time frame often depends on what point he or she left in the semester — to be readmitted in the spring semes­ter, students must turn in applica­tion materials by oct. 1. To be back for the fall semester, the deadline is march 1. 
“[if you withdraw in october or november], let’s say, your applica­tion deadline is going to be march 1,” stackman said. “so you won’t be looking at the spring to come back, you’ll be looking at the [next] fall even though you left in the fall. 
“we’re trying to say to students, sometimes if you’re leaving, to go for two weeks and have a break and come back may not be enough. but what we do, rather than having a hard-and-fast, one-size-fits-all approach to this, is allow the stu­dent to go home, get the care they need and then apply to come back. because in some cases, they are ready to come back, and we don’t want to hurt them just because of a hard-and-fast rule.” 
when considering withdrawal, stackman said students may con­sider practical matters as well – anyone who withdraws before nov. 1, for example, does not have a “w” mark on his or her transcript. The earlier in the semester someone withdraws, the more tuition mon­ey he or she receives back. 
“i will plant the seeds early,” stackman said. “even back in august and september, when i see a student struggling and not go­ing to class, i’ll say ‘just know that withdrawal is a possibility and this is what it would look like.’ … part of our job is to inform a student about the withdrawal process and the times to make that decision.” 
marshall-roth said he was frus­trated by tests required by the ucc and the lack of correspondence from the university while he was away. at the time, student affairs only had one case manager han­dling all students, and stackman said “it was just grabbing on to students and trying to get them through that immediate crisis that we were in.” 
now, the university is trying to make a point to reach out to with­drawn students more, stackman said. erica Kelsey is one of two case managers now, and she said she meets with each of her students be­fore he or she leaves to understand their story and then keeps in touch with each while they’re away. 
“now, we’re also doing readmission support groups on campus for students that are back,” she said. “it could be students re­admitted for any reason at all, not specific to mental health, but the first meeting [this year] was an op­portunity for students to give me feedback on what the withdrawal and readmission process was like for them. 

“The best way to improve a sys­tem is to hear from the people who have been through it. … i know a lot of students feel like when they leave, they’re the only one that left, and seeing other people that may­be left for similar reasons really might help them feel more com­fortable and get integrated into the university faster.” 
marshall-roth said his readmis­sion process was stressful because it came down to the last week of the fall 2013 semester, in the days before the university closed for winter break. 
“it was a big mess,” he said. “There are people that have an easier time, though. i think my situation was a little weird and ex­traordinary but it’s an interesting case study. pretty much every part of the process was sub-optimal, i thought.” 
marshall-roth said he worked out his class schedule two days be­fore the semester began and when he arrived back to campus, he had no idea where he would live. 
“i’d been offered a place in a tri­ple in sorin, but i didn’t really want to be there with other people, shar­ing a room with two other guys who were quite a bit younger than me,” he said. 
he ended up moving off campus and became involved with notre dame’s chapter of the national alliance on mental illness. he cur­rently serves as the group’s vice president and is looking at applying to graduate school for chemistry. 
stackman said they are currently reviewing the readmission process “not because it’s out of whack, but … because we always know there are opportunities to improve and make things better.” 
“we feel pretty good about the work that we do, we feel pretty good about our services, our pro­grams, our systems,” he said. “but we’re getting useful feedback from students too, so we’re saying okay, how can we improve it? how can we improve it as you walk out the door and how can we improve it as you’re going through the process and making your decision?” 
The office of continuous improvement is overseeing the re­view, stackman said, and they have already added a second case man­ager to expand their ability to meet student needs. 
after his year away, marshall-roth said he was “so ready” to be back. 
“it’s kind of weird, though, be­cause i have a very different opin­ion of this place now, having been through all of this,” he said. “some friends, after they found out what was going on with me, they didn’t want to talk to me anymore, that kind of thing. 
“i guess i’ve been sort of dis­appointed in the caliber of a lot of the students here in terms of their compassion and their abil­ity to actually look after other people, but i’ve been impressed with other people. i’ve made oth­er friends. 
“depression is the kind of thing you never really get rid of. you al­ways have it. but you learn to real­ize that it’s a gift, instead of a curse. … everybody has their own chal­lenges, and you can make it. … i’m doing just fine now.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu. 



Worker 
conTinued from page 1 
same old same old; they had had 12 years of parish education. i just lapped it up.” 
after graduation, riegle mar­ried, had children and began teaching as an english professor, but although her life seemed to be flourishing, her heart lay else­where, she said. 
“i was conflicted,” riegle said. “my insides and outsides didn’t match and frankly sometimes at a parties i would feel really lonely. lonely for community, to be with people who thought like i did, loneliness for likeminded souls.” 
her husband’s disapproval of her activism in the catholic worker caused her to throw her­self into other work, to keep her mind off of the movement and save her marriage she said. 
“for the next 15 or so years i buried my attraction deep inside a love of busyness, rais­ing our four daughters, helping my husband become a judge, moving to a beautiful georgian home in the suburbs and completing a doctorate at the university of michigan,” riegle said. 
she said she got the idea to write a book on the catholic worker one day when interview­ing students; however, with her marriage breaking, she strug­gled with how she could become more involved in the movement she loved. 

“i found i had written myself into the movement, but i didn’t get it out of my head,” she said. “it became an increasingly uncom­fortable ball in my throat, and i was pushed this way and that … The catholic worker became hot for me and my other interests be­came colder and colder. so when sister leona [sullivan, a catholic worker based in saginaw, mich.] asked me to discuss forming a community, i jumped at the chance. we would provide hos­pitality to homeless women and children, i could do that.” 
riegle said becoming a catholic worker and opening a hospitality house was god giving her what she needed. 
“catholic workers are not so­cial workers, and they don’t need any training, in fact true catholic workers don’t work about chang­ing people, we worry about changing ourselves,” riegle said. “we named our community the mustard seeds … after much community preparation and sprucing up the house we moved in … for 10 years i lived with women from many different cul­tures, many of them suffering from addiction and neglect, all of them needed solace, food and shelter.” 
The catholic worker is where riegle said she feels most at home. 
“The catholic worker is where my insides and outsides match, where i can live authentically,” riegle said. “it’s definitely some­thing i need and definitely some­thing i didn’t know i needed when i was at saint mary’s or years later. 
“when i say matching insides and outsides, i mean its where my souls and my actions are the most in sync; notice i didn’t say perfectly in sync. i have always felt a bundle of contradictions, but i finally learned to be happy with those ambiguities, particu­larly the ones i can’t minimize or make disappear.” 
riegle said it took her years discover her calling to the catholic worker and her advice to students was to discover their passions. 
“don’t do what is expected; do what you like,” she said. if you want to do something, i hope you have the courage to do it.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

forever a domer 

Renee Griffin 
sports writer 

notre dame alumni love to tell us current students that the experiences in our four years here will last us a life­time. i think this cliché might actually be an understatement, in one case in particular. 
brigadier general James smith, notre dame law school graduate class of 1989, passed away last week from cancer complications at the age of 54. he exemplified all the best principles that notre dame stands for and passed on those values, and his love for this university, to the many others who survive him. 
smith was a classmate of my dad’s and they remained close friends for 28 years. about 40 members of the 1989 law school class were present at his funeral. i can only hope the friendships i develop here are as powerful and long lasting. 
further evidence that smith was about as irish as you can get: he met his wife, Jenny, while they were both law students here. he proposed to her at the grotto. They were married in the basilica. his retirement ceremony from the air force, held just over a week be­fore his death, was in the courtroom at the eck school of law. 
smith’s passion for notre dame sports also surpassed that of the aver­age crazed alumnus. his presence at the “orange van” tailgate was all but guaranteed for every home game and his sons – luke, 17, matt, 11, and Joe, 10 - definitely know more about the football team than the vast majority of actual notre dame students. 
i’m confident that few are able to stick to the motto of “god, country, notre dame” as well as smith did. he began his service in the air force in 1982 after four years an roTc stu­dent at the university of virginia, and steadily rose through the ranks, receiv­ing praise from prominent military figures the whole way up. 
he was promoted to brigadier general in 2010, and the awards and decorations he received wouldn’t all fit into a column this size. he received letters from four different presidents thanking him for his contributions to this country. he served in places like bosnia and herzegovina and spent sub­stantial time at the pentagon, probably doing things too important for us to know about. 
as great a mark as this school left on smith, he left perhaps an even stronger impression on countless notre dame students in the past, present and fu­ture. myself included. 
rest in peace, mr. smith, and go irish. 
Contact Renee Griffin at      rgriffi6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Nights on duty 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

“how’s the r.a. life treating you?” 
it’s a question i’ve received a lot in recent weeks. apparently it’s the senior year version of vaunted notre dame ice break­ers such as “what’s your major?,” “where are you from?” and “yeah, but where outside chicago?” it comes from professors and acquaintances as well as friends and parents. i tell them that all in all that it has been a great time, and then the conver­sation invariably turns to “what is duty like?” 
and so this week i’ve decided to give you a little sample of what a saturday on duty might look like. all instances in the following article are fictitious and any resemblance to real events, people or places is purely coincidental. 
especially siegfried hall. 
7:45 p.m. prepare for duty by donning my finest pair of sweatpants and the badge. check on the “duty” spotify playlist because nothing says dulac like sean Kingston and Ke$ha. 
7:48 p.m. evaluate uniform in mirror. i look good. 
7:55 p.m. unsatisfied with current position in r.a. power rankings. arrive five minutes early for start of duty. 
8:00 p.m. game time. start duty off right by cranking “another saturday night” and ordering domino’s. 
8:03 p.m. review previous night’s hallway security camera footage. That’s right, guys. you’re busted. 
8:19 p.m. inform group of sophomores why “ceos and office … ladies” is not an acceptable party theme to advertise on the dorm white board. 
8:25 p.m. inform same group that “our r.a. banned our party name, but we still have alcohol” is also not going to be okay. 
8:30 p.m. hold section meeting to discuss recent epidemic of not-knocking-on-doors-before-entering-them-itis. for a sec­tion in which about half the residents have girlfriends, you’d have thought this wasn’t a meeting we needed to have twice. 
8:43 p.m. convene weekly section kangaroo court. suspend the elevator privileges of two juniors, citing failure to throw away trash from section lounge. grant leniency to freshman who inexplicably got Taco bell for lunch. 
9:00 p.m. wonder where domino’s is. 
9:04 p.m. duty phone rings, portending a crisis. 
9:07 p.m. crisis averted—“grandpa eugene” called the wrong number trying to reach comcast. help him fix T.v. any­way with award-winning advice of “make sure it’s plugged in to the wall.” 
9:31 p.m. call to cancel domino’s order, then order Jimmy John’s. 
9:35 p.m. skype date with girlfriend studying abroad. 
9:47 p.m. skype date comes to premature end after girl­friend, noting she’s not the one stuck on duty, says she’s “re­ceived a better offer.” 
9:54 p.m. confiscate beer in the hallway, to which freshman responds, “whatever, i’ve got five more.” confiscate five more. 
10:00 p.m. pop in “The notebook” with other hall staff. point out various conduct infractions that noah partakes in. 
11:52 p.m. get asked by the visiting brother of a freshman why we have parietals. 
11:53 p.m. explain why we have parietals. 
11:55 p.m. wonder why we have parietals. 
12:00 – 1:10 a.m. extend settlers of cataan winning streak to six in a victory over the group on the second floor. 
1:21 a.m. accidentally doze off. awake to 13th playing of “shake it off” by dorm party down the hall. reminisce fondly over the days when “call me maybe” was played 13 times. 
1:34 a.m. have daydream featuring fun-loving montage of great section bonding experiences at steak n’ shake, section football and hockey games. snap back to reality, where i find myself in the third floor bathroom, mop in hand. 
2:09 a.m. while on final rounds, hear female voice emanat­ing from room. after collecting courage to intervene, walk in on skype call between resident and his mom regarding Thanksgiving flights. my bad. 
2:30 a.m. philosophical conversation regarding the mean­ing of life and existence of true love with recently returned crowd from cJ’s.  sophomore confirms existence of true love, evidenced by “the smile of that girl whose number i just got.” sophomore leaves to text her. 
2:34 a.m. sophomore returns, evidently having been given a fake number.  console sophomore that “there are more fish in the sea.” it’s late and my metaphors are lacking. 
3:02 a.m. climb into bed. 
3:47 a.m. awake to blaring “lizzie mcguire” soundtrack three doors down. check phone to find missed call by domino’s guy waiting out front. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior studying political science and finance. He’s looking to ring by spring — apply at @SiegfriedRAs. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The case for legalizing marijuana 
abuse. schedule i drugs are the most dangerous racism since its emergence. These trends are still 
Sarah Morris 
left of center 

it appears that we are approaching the end of our nation’s second failed prohibition. over the past decade or so, a number of states have passed initiatives to decriminalize marijuana and im­plement exceptions for the use of medical mari­juana under prescription. in 2012, colorado and washington became the first two states to legal­ize the recreational use of the plant and regulate its production and sale, akin to that of alcohol and tobacco. as november nears, alaska, oregon and washington d.c. will vote on measures to adopt similar policies in their own jurisdictions. 
over the past year alone, american opinions favoring the general legalization of marijuana have substantially increased, with 58 percent in favor of the notion as of october 2013. marijuana should be legalized and regulated for numerous reasons, the most notable being scientific reali­ties, social injustices and economic benefits of legalization. 
first and foremost, the historic condemna­tion and prohibition of marijuana have been perpetuated by a consistent refusal to accept the scientific research on cannabis use. This trend began in 1939 when the results of the la guardia committee proved to be in direct contrast to claims being publicized by the u.s. Treasury department. This report found that “prolonged use of the drug does not lead to physical, mental or moral degeneration,” nor did it “observe any permanent deleterious effects from its continued use.” furthermore, the report debunked claims that the substance was addictive and that it led to insanity, violence or deviance. 
Today marijuana remains a schedule i drug under federal law. This categorization implies that cannabis is a drug “with no currently ac­cepted medical use and a high potential for drugs of all the drug schedules with potentially severe psychological or physical dependence.” not only does this characterization directly conflict with the findings originally published in the la guardia report, but with virtually all subsequent research, including the national commission on marijuana and drug abuse in 1972. This federally funded project, commis­sioned by richard nixon himself, found once again that “neither the marijuana user nor the drug itself can be said to constitute a danger to public safety.” since these two seminal, govern­ment-funded endeavors, hundreds of additional studies have been conducted which reinforce the conclusion that cannabis is simply not a dangerous substance and should definitely not be deemed more dangerous than methamphet­amine and cocaine (both schedule ii). 
when compared to alcohol and tobacco, mari­juana proves to be far less of a risk to individual and societal health. in a 2010 study published by The economist, both alcohol and tobacco were shown to have imposed greater levels of harm to “others and users” than cannabis did. on a ranking scale of 1-100 that took into account “damage to health, drug dependency, economic costs and crime,” alcohol scored a 72, tobacco a 25, and marijuana 17. in terms of positive effects, however, marijuana has been widely credited for numerous medicinal properties and is routinely prescribed by doctors for pain relief, glaucoma, seizures, anxiety, insomnia, a combatant to che­motherapy side effects, including nausea and loss of appetite, and many other ailments. 
in addition the copious research supporting marijuana’s benign (and even beneficial) nature, the plant’s legalization would also reform se­verely flawed elements of our nation’s criminal justice system. as its social and cultural his­tory plainly shows, marijuana has been closely intertwined with both overt and institutional in existence today, as minorities are far more likely to be searched, arrested and convicted for drug-related crimes than their white coun­terparts who use drugs at equal or even greater levels. while criminalization of marijuana is the wrong approach in general, the disproportion­ate persecution skewed toward minorities—par­ticularly blacks and latinos—is unacceptable. marijuana’s legalization would address this in­justice by alleviating the potential for discrimi­nation altogether. 
economic advantages of legalizing marijuana are connected to these reasons for decreased incarcerations, which would stem from criminal justice system savings. The argument is com­pounded by three aspects. firstly, economists have estimated that taxpayers would be saved $7.7 billion per year in the form of “prohibition costs” (law enforcement, processing, court costs, etc.) if marijuana were to be legalized. second, $1 billion would be saved per year from the ab­sence of roughly 45,000 incarcerated citizens currently in jail solely for marijuana-related crimes. and finally, if taxed in a similar way to alcohol or tobacco, marijuana sales could gener­ate up to $6.2 billion of revenue annually. 
as with many national issues, attitudes drive the policy. we have already witnessed the grow­ing public embrace of common sense and its in­fluence on local and state governments. as time goes on, hopefully these trends will continue on to spread to the federal level and the flawed system of today will live only in the history text­books of tomorrow. 
Sarah Morris is a junior studying  political science and American studies. She is a proud Ryan Hall wildcat and hails from Monterey, California. She can be contacted at smorris8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

provide support for those with mental illness 
Thank you for covering national mental share their stories with others and receive the st. mary’s, holy cross and in the greater south health awareness week going on this week, oct. proper support and encouragement that they bend area need this hope that all is not lost, 5- 10. i am glad that amidst so many awareness deserve. and they need to know that we are a truly car-week possibilities, this important event is being it is time that people stopped being afraid. it ing community. highlighted as irish state of mind week. is time that people stopped experiencing being maybe as a sign of action every member of our 
as someone who has experienced a major pe-alone and abandoned, and it is time for society community could find a way to actively seek out riod of depression and knows first hand how to progress from just words and awareness to and support at least one person who is going debilitating it can be, as well as what a differ-concrete, positive action. allow those who want through depression, anxiety, fear and/or self­ence receiving the proper treatment can be, to share their stories during the course of this loathing. They are all around us. we only need i am glad that this week is giving the notre week to do so without fear of intimidation or to look. dame community the opportunity to engage labeling. let those who need help find the care, in becoming more aware of and better under-love and support they truly need. standing mental health issues. perhaps even i have spent time with people struggling with Fr. David Kashangaki more importantly, i am hopeful that this week depression, anxiety and a real inability to face parochial vicar can serve as an opportunity for those suffer-their lives with confidence. and i know how st. patrick south bend ing from mental health issues to come forward, much people in this community at notre dame, oct. 6 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

we’ve all had that moment when we're compared to a celebrity, whether it is welcomed or not. i’ve heard it all: “icarly” from my younger brother’s friends, emma watson when i had a pixie cut, “that nerdy girl from ‘The middle’” according to my mom’s “friend” and rory from "gilmore girls," according to my grandma who watched the show solely for that reason.  it’s not a one-way street; i’m guilty of chasing girls down to let them know they re­mind me of Jennifer lawrence or Tayswift. 
The perceived resemblances can lead to ego boosts or concerns. after a few comments on my parallels to Zooey deschanel, i decided to further my connection to the ac­tress: dressing exclusively in light blue or animal prints and getting a bang trim. however, not every comparison is flattering: realizing my asthma, crutches and unflat­tering deschanel-inspired bang trim in high school did leave me a little too akin to “that nerdy girl from ‘The middle’.” 
usually the comparisons, however flattering or un­nerving, channel us provincially but nothing to the ex­tent of “twinzies.” however, sometimes you find “the one” — or in this case, “the two.” 
on a trip home this past week my dad sat me down to watch a few episodes he had recorded of “garfunkel and 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

don’t get me wrong, i am a big fan of John mulaney. his fresh, clean-cut humor in both his work with snl and in his standup specials has been a bright light in com­edy for the past couple of years. however, the premier of John mulaney’s new self-titled series has left most fans bitterly disappointed, myself included. “mulaney” is a multi-camera show following the pseudo life of an up­and-coming mulaney, who not only stars in the show but also writes and executive produces. 
mulaney, living with two roommates in new york city, struggles with the shortcomings of a career in comedy. shot in front of a live studio audience and coupled with an oh-so-cheesy laugh reel, the show falls noticeably short. rooted in disappointment from the get-go, “mulaney” was originally developed by nbc and was later dropped, only for fox to mistakenly revive it earlier this year. 
even more unfortunate is the fact that the show boasts an impressive cast, yet they are all equally stale. former snl actress, nasim pedrad, plays the wild yet caring roommate, Jane. although pedrad does a good job at breathing a shred of life into the show. yet, like most of oates,” a new comedy on ifc. what awaited me was 23 minutes of watching the lives of my roommate and i un­fold on screen, acted out by our body doubles. 
The show, mirroring my life, features the classic best friend duo: short brunette and tall blonde. The two friends make up the comedy folk duo and real-life youTube stars, garfunkel (riki lindhome) and oates (Kate micucci). The friends say their names are derived from “two famous rock-and-roll second bananas,” art garfunkel and John oates (who made a cameo as an em­ployee at an adult video store in an episode). 
The comedy follows the duo as they navigate los angeles as thirty-something singles trying to capitalize on their modest youTube celebrity status. The idea of youTube star best friends on a Tv show is not new; “broad city” has seen much success with the same premise. 
The format of the show resembles “flight of the conchords,” with humorous, somewhat uncomfortable songs not so smoothly interspersed throughout. The roommates take awkward situations in their lives — pas­sively texting a relationship out of existence, wishing ac­quaintances happy birthday on facebook, dealing with smug pregnant women — and put on a witty song and dance about them. 
That aspect of the show is what my dreams are made of, as i try to make a song out of everything — the lack of cups in the dining hall, flossing, how warm clothes are 
her counterparts in the series, she comes off as simply a hollow manifestation of mulaney’s jokes. mulaney’s other in-show roommate, played by seaton smith, is simply not funny, and neither is Zack pearlman, who plays the friendly drug dealer. both characters' utter lack of actual acting is tremendously apparent. rounding out the cast are the veteran actors martin short and elliot gould, who also fall victim to the lifeless writing plaguing the show. 
one of my favorite standup bits of all time is mulaney’s “Xanax story” — if you want a real taste of mulaney’s comedy, youTube it. yet, as the show's first scene, the bit’s translation to live action was lacking — a perfect meta­phor for why “mulaney” is a miss. and although John mulaney’s standup is certainly a strong point for the show, almost none was fresh. Just about every joke came from standup mulaney has produced over the years. 
after hearing the blurry details about “mulaney” a while back, i was desperately hoping for the next “seinfeld.” The pieces seemed to fit: a great stand-up comic, a witty cast and a memorable last name. unfortunately though, it seems my generation will have to make do with old “seinfeld” reruns. The liberty and organic nature of “seinfeld,” which made the show so out of the dryer — however, my blonde roommate merely puts up with this odd behavior and never jumps off the couch to join in. maybe if i were actually oates she would be better at “makin’ my dreams come true.” 
The satirical numbers and amusing banter in the show work to produce uproarious one-liners. They also pose existential questions: “wait, why is she called 'The little mermaid,' she’s like a normal sized mermaid?” 
some of the things quirky, adorable, brunette Kate micucci does in the show are eerily connected to my life: her worry of becoming an adult and being required to eat tilapia and quiche, her love of sweets, her brunette bob and her wardrobe. 
when trying out for a scandalous movie role, Kate is asked by riki if she has anything sexy to wear. 
“i have my hummingbird sweater, my good overalls, my purple skorts?” (i own all of these items, except my sweater has swans on it, not a hummingbird.) 
not to be outdone, riki responds with, “That sounds like the lost and found box at chuck e. cheese.” 
“who takes off their clothes at chuck e. cheese?” Kate questions. 
The show will delight “flight of the conchord” fans and give “broad city” viewers a new alternative until the new season returns in January. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
iconic, is replaced with forced jokes and bad acting in “mulaney.” Though both shows begin with a bit of stand-up and are titled after the front man, the comparisons end there. 
as cbs continues to sweep up the number one net­work spot year after year, with their multi-cam sitcoms smash hits, “The big bang,” “Two broke girls” and “how i met your mother” (r.i.p), it is clear why foX would wish to emulate. however, “mulaney” is just not the right answer. if foX has any hope of attracting some of cbs’ loyal viewers, the formula must be drastically different. although not necessarily critically acclaimed, every cbs sitcom has a clear direction and is comfortable in its na­ture. The direction for “mulaney” is very unclear and in many instances tries to hard to be something it just isn’t. 
what is so unfortunate is that i really want mulaney to have a turn in front of the camera for a change; he of all people deserves it. yet, with a dearth of solid comedians nowadays, we really can’t afford another loss. so for the good of both your sunday night homework productivity and John mulaney’s future comedy endeavors, go ahead and skip “mulaney.” 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By HANNAH ECKSTEIN 
scene writer 

would you intentionally eat something that tastes like dirt? how about starting your day with dirt-fla­vored juice? The answer, surprisingly, for many people who have made beet juice a dietary staple, is yes. 
beet juice often gets a bad reputation for its unap­petizing flavor. according to irwin goldron, a profes­sor of horticulture at the university of wisconsin, some plants, such as beets, cilantro, mushrooms and spin­ach contain a chemical called geosmin. This harmless chemical is responsible for the offensive taste that some people report when eating beets. simply put, beets are chemically made to taste like dirt. but could the health benefits of these blood red roots be worth gulping down some unappetizing juice? you better beet-lieve it. 
The benefits of beets date back to ancient greece, where beet roots were used to heal wounds and treat fevers. Today, research has proven that the benefits of beets go far beyond regulating body temperature. 
beets are rich in antioxidants and nitrates, which improve blood flow throughout the body. reports have shown that drinking one to two cups of beet juice per day can help to decrease blood pressure. in addition, the nitrates found in beets help to increase oxygen flow through the body. because of this, beet juice has been reported to increase energy and endurance through­out the day. it is highly recommended for endurance athletes such as runners, cyclers and swimmers. some studies even suggest that drinking beet juice prior to an endurance workout can increase performance. 
endurance and energy aren’t the only way that this super-juice contributes to overall health. beets are loaded with vitamins and minerals such as potassium, magnesium fiber, phosphorus and iron. They also con­tain phytonutrients, which can help prevent cancer and fight inflammation. finally, beet juice helps to break down toxins in the body, and is a great form of detoxification. 
with all of these health benefits, it’s clear that the nu­tritional value of beet juice outweighs the unappealing flavor. so if you’re looking to try and increase endur­ance, or just pack in more minerals, why not try march­ing to a different beet? Just a word of caution for those brave enough to try this new juice trend: beet juice acts as a natural dye, and what goes in the body, must come out. 
here's a recipe from bonappetit.com to try that might just mask the taste while still giving you all the rich benefits. if you don't happened to have a juicer in your dorm room, you and some friends should think about investing in one — it's a great way to get all your fruits and veggies in your diet while still tasting delicious. 
Beet, Carrot and Apple Juice with Ginger 
Ingredients: 
2 pounds beets (about 6 medium), trimmed, peeled, cut into 1' pieces 
1 pound carrots (about 4 large), trimmed, peeled, cut into 1' pieces 
1 gala or empire apple (about 8 ounces), cored, cut into 1' pieces 
1 granny smith apple (about 8 ounces), cored, cut into 1' pieces 
1 3' piece fresh ginger, peeled, chopped into 1-inch pieces 
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
Directions: 
pass first 5 ingredients through a juicer. strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a large bowl. stir in lemon juice. pour into glasses 
Nutrition Information: 
62.5 calories, 7.5 grams sugar, 15.2 grams carbohy­drates, 145.7 miligrams sodium per serving 
www.bonappetit.com/recipe 
Contact Hannah Eckstein at heckste1@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Playoffs provide reasons to watch 

Samantha Zuba 
assiatant managing editor 
There are some among us who need no prompting to sit down for a three-hour-long baseball game. for the rest, there is the postseason, chock full of reasons for non-die­hards to tune in. 
after 162 games, each of which may or may not have been all that important, every game in october counts. every strike matters. 
gone are the days of late July when players lolled in the dugout looking for shade from the summer sun. everyone is on the top step of the dugout, looking tense or intensely jubilant. 
several great october mo­ments have already passed. but there is much more to come. 
here are a few reasons why you should have been watch­ing all along. may they inspire you to watch some baseball while you wait for 3 p.m. this saturday and bite your finger­nails in anticipation of next week’s matchup with florida state. 
The wildest of wild cards: Royals 9, Athletics 8 
when major league baseball conceived of the one-and-done play-in game, they had this script in mind. pit the teams with the league’s best records after the division win­ners against each other and watch the magic rain. 
The new playoff structure has been a resounding success so far with this insane game as the shining example. 
The royals were losing 7-3 after six innings. They were losing 8-7 in the 12th. but this club, which hasn’t had a lot of hope since brett, rallied. Then rallied some more. 
first baseman eric hosmer started the second comeback with a one-out triple. he scored on second baseman christian colon’s single. Then, with two outs, colon stole second, and catcher salvador perez knocked in the winning run with a single down the third-base line. 
if there had been goal-posts, they would have come a-tum­bling down like at ole miss last weekend. The game was that electric. 
more games will come down to the wire when a few swings can change a team’s travel plans. 
Dodgers -Ca rdina ls rematch 
The los angeles dodgers are down in their nlds, 2-1, to the st. louis cardinals, who eliminated them last year in a contentious nlcs. 

The cardinals flushed the dodgers’ season when cardinals right-hander Joe Kelly hit dodgers short­stop hanley ramirez with a pitch and fractured his ribs. ramirez was the hottest hit­ter in l.a. at the time, but the fracture disrupted his hot streak and derailed the dodgers’ world series hopes. 
Kelly plays for the boston red sox now, but his former team is at it again with the dodgers, this time for a berth in the nlcs. 
drama, drama, drama. 

oh, and the dodgers have one of baseball’s best in ace clayton Kershaw pitching on short rest tonight, trying to keep l.a. alive and redeem himself from an abysmal game-one start (he posted a 
10.80 era). 
The cardinals bested Kershaw again, but it was great theater. The intensity will only ramp up as teams progress deeper into the postseason. How’d they get here? 
This question applies to both the san francisco giants and washington nationals. 
The giants faded and lost their mid-season lead over the dodgers, so they needed to win the nl wild-card to get into the playoffs at all. They pounded the pittsburgh pirates, 8-0, and looked poised to sweep their nlds over the nationals with madison bumgarner on the mound in game three. 
what’s that? it’s the postsea­son so teams don’t quit? 
That’s right. The nationals didn’t. There was a wild throw. There was a sacrifice bunt. and the series headed to game four. The giants got it done in four and head to the nlcs. They just can’t stay away. 
The Royals and Orioles 
it’s great to have two dar­lings in the playoffs, particu­larly when your own team has been eliminated. They’re “the good guys,” teams that haven’t won in awhile and that few people can hate. 
The royals and orioles showed up for the role, made to order. and now they’ll face each other in the alcs after sweeping their respective di­vision series in three games apiece. 
pick a good guy and pull for ‘em. one of them’s making it to the world series. 
Contact  Samantha Zuba  at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL  

colts’ offensive line prepares for watt, Texans 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — when the colts’ offensive linemen walked into the team complex monday, they already knew this week’s challenge. 
Keep andrew luck clean and on his feet. 
sure, the linemen hear that message on a regular basis, but it takes on greater significance this week with J.J. watt and the Texans on deck. 
“he (watt) makes the tough grinding plays, and he’s always going hard. so it’s always a chal­lenge to go up against him,” luck said of Thursday night’s game. “but it makes it fun to go up against great players — and a great defense.” 
while luck embraces the chess match, watt’s versatility and game-changing ability are a major concern, especially for an offensive line in flux. 
undrafted rookie Jonotthan harrison made his first career start at center sunday against baltimore and is expected to play the same role this week. left guard Jack mewhort (ankle) and right guard hugh Thornton (back) have missed two straight days of practice with injuries. if they can’t play, the colts likely would move lance louis back to left guard where he started two weeks ago, and go with ei­ther backup center a.Q. shipley or veteran Joe reitz at right guard. 
coach chuck pagano isn’t saying yet who will start or how indy will contend with the menacing watt, all complicated by the short week. pagano just knows that if the colts can’t protect luck, things could get ugly fast. 

“he’s relentless. he’s got size, he’s got length, he’s got a mo­tor, he knows the game inside and out,” coach chuck pagano said Tuesday. “whether you put a tight end over there, a back, chip, help, slide the line, you’ve got to do whatever you can to take care of this guy. he’s a high energy guy with a ton of talent. he’s long, lengthy, twitchy, fast, competitive. he’s a freak.” 
The numbers prove it. 
watt has more sacks (33) than in anybody in the league since 2012, when he was the nfl defensive player of the year. although he has only two sacks through five games this season, watt is still making an impact. he has scored two touchdowns, one on offense and another on an interception return, while helping the Texans rebound from their dismal 2013 season to a tie atop the afc south with the colts. 
opponents have attempted to slow down watt with some exotic blocking schemes, but somehow the defensive end al­ways seems to come up with a solution. 
“That’s part of the challenge,” said watt, who has sacked luck four times in four career games. 
defending division champion indianapolis (3-2) heads to houston on a three-game winning streak. a win would not only give the colts sole possession of the divi­sion lead for the first time this season, but it also would give indianapolis a 3-0 record in division play, with two of those wins on the road. 
a win for houston would give the Texans an early edge in the tiebreakers before december’s rematch in indianapolis. 
Keeping track of watt is only part of the problem for the colts. 
while indianapolis isn’t ex­pected to see no. 1 draft pick Jadeveon clowney (knee) this week, the Texans still have plenty of playmakers such as linebackers brian cushing and brooks reed, corner-backs Johnathan Joseph and Kareem Jackson and safety d.J. swearinger. 
so while luck & co. must know where watt is at all times, the most dangerous part is avoiding tunnel vision. 
“you do have to keep an eye on where 99 is, he’s a stud,” luck said. “i hesitate to say you build a whole game plan around him, and i know as a quarterback, you don’t ever want to get too locked in on what one guy on the defense is doing. i think that can get you out of rhythm, the offensive rhythm. but i know as a unit we have the utmost re­spect for him and what he does on the field.” 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Defensive strength rules the roost in Big Ten 
Associated Press 
pat fitzgerald, once a stal­wart linebacker and now the head coach at northwestern, looks at the numbers put up by offenses these days and can only shake his head. 
“when i was playing they’d say hold your opponent to 17 points or less and you’re go­ing to win a lot of games,” he said with a chuckle. “and now it’s four scores. if you can keep your opponent under four touchdowns you’ve got a chance to win.” 
in a day when the spread offense seems to be in com­mand and when it appears ev­ery game ends up 45-38, there are glimmers that defenses are holding their own in the big Ten. 

big Ten teams comprise six of the top 20 teams in the football bowl subdivision in total defense, five of the top 20 in scoring defense and five of the top 25 in stopping the run and also interceptions. 
so even if the perception is teams are blowing up score­boards with points, defense isn’t dead in the conference where woody hayes and bo schembechler preached de­fense wins championships. 
The pendulum swings constantly. not so long ago, defenses adjusted to the ad­vent of the spread attack and seemed to take the high ground. now, however, it may be swinging the other way. 
“back in ‘04, when we were at utah, that’s the easiest. i just felt it was very easy to move the ball because teams really didn’t know how to defend the spread. you had more yardage by misalign­ments and mistakes by de­fense than certainly you did in the years following because it wasn’t a novelty,” said ohio state coach urban meyer, a proponent of getting to the line quickly and squeezing off a play to surprise a gassed defense. 
That’s the blueprint. an in­novator comes up with a new way of moving the ball, and his defensive counterpart comes up with a way to stop it. back and forth it goes, year after year, a never-ending struggle. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


MLB | cardinals 3, dodgers 2 
Cardinals move on to NL Championship 
Associated Press 
sT. louis — matt adams could barely contain his enthu­siasm — and he didn’t really try, either. he thrust both arms in the air while still in the batter’s box and added a couple of big hops to his home run trot as he approached first base. 
a stunned clayton Kershaw, bent over at the waist with his hands on his knees, watched from the mound as the long drive off big city’s bat propelled st. louis to a fourth straight nl championship series. 
“some people are calling it the big city leap,” adams said. “i was just super-excited, i didn’t know what i was doing ... i knew i was jumping for joy.” 
The cardinals tagged Kershaw in the seventh inning for the sec­ond straight time, riding adams’ go-ahead, three-run homer to a 3-2 victory over the los angeles dodgers on Tuesday for a 3-1 win in the best-of-five division series. 
“i don’t think i touched the ground the whole way around the bases,” adams said. “definitely the highlight of my career. ... i will never, ever forget this.” 
neither will Kershaw. 

The cardinals sent the dodgers home for the second postseason in a row with a win over Kershaw. last year it was in game 6 of the nlcs. 
“The season ended and i was a big part of the reason why,” Kershaw said. “i can’t really put it into words, Just bad deja vu all over again.” 
The cardinals await san francisco or washington with their rotation well-rested for the nlcs, which starts saturday. They would open at home against the giants or at the nationals. 
Trevor rosenthal allowed two runners in the ninth before get­ting carl crawford on a grounder for a game-ending forceout for his third save of the series. at aT&T park in san francisco, fans cheered when the rival dodgers were eliminated. 
“it was awesome, everything we did throughout that game,” starter shelby miller said. “it was a heck of a game and a lot of fun, i know that.” 
an overwhelming favorite to win his third nl cy young award in four years, Kershaw’s october resume is a wreck. 
Kershaw dropped to 1-5 with a 5.12 era in 11 postseason games, including three relief appearanc­es early in his career. he has lost four straight starts to st. louis over the past two postseasons. 

“i’ve had success against them, too,” Kershaw said. “it just seems like one inning gets me every time. and obviously that’s not success.” 
while the steady cardinals advanced to their ninth nlcs in 15 years, the defeat was a huge disappointment for the nl west champion dodgers, who fin­ished the regular season with a $256 million payroll that was $40 million higher than any other team. 
los angeles remains without a pennant since winning the 1988 world series. 
“it’s awful,” catcher a.J. ellis said. “it’s devastating. it just kind of rehashes those old memories.” 
manager don mattingly wasn’t about to second-guess leaving Kershaw in the game, especially with a bullpen that’s foundered. he wanted the lefty to get three more outs. 
“it goes back to the same question: is there anybody bet­ter, even on short rest, and even 
paid adverTisemenT 

where he was at that point?” mattingly said. 
Kershaw started on three days’ rest for the second time in his postseason career. he was domi­nant into the seventh, as he was in game 1, but again started the inning with three straight hits. 
The third hit Tuesday came when adams, the burly bopper know as big city, drove a curve-ball on Kershaw’s 102nd pitch into the right-center bullpen to put st. louis up 3-2. 
“i had a pretty good idea that it was gone,” adams said. 
The red-clad crowd roared and twirled white towels as Kershaw made a slow slog back to the dodgers’ dugout. 
Kershaw allowed one homer to left-handed batters while going 21-3 with a 1.77 era in the regu­lar season. he gave up two to the cardinals, with matt carpenter connecting in the opener. The left-handed ace is 0-3 with a 9.72 era in his last three postseason appearances. 
reliever marco gonzales earned his second victory of the series, after getting treated for a nosebleed. The rookie lefty got adrian gonzalez on a groundout to end the seventh and strand two runners. 
pat neshek worked a perfect eighth for the second straight game and rosenthal pitched the ninth for a second straight day, receiving two visits to the mound from catcher yadier molina and one from the pitching coach af­ter a shaky start to the inning. 
Kershaw had yielded only one hit through six innings and struck out nine, including three in a row in the sixth. 
but matt holliday opened the seventh with a sharp single up the middle off second baseman dee gordon’s glove, and Jhonny peralta lined another single be­fore adams homered off a left-hander for the first time since July 7. 
The cardinals had an nl-low 105 homers this season and left-hander batters had only eight homers against lefty pitching. but lefties hit five off dodgers southpaws in four playoff games. 
miller matched Kershaw into the sixth, when the dodgers started the inning with two hits. They scored a run on matt Kemp’s double-play grounder and added another on Juan uribe’s rbi single against seth maness. 




SMC GOLF | miaa Jamboree 

Heffernan excels for Belles 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s took third place at the fourth leg of the miaa Jamboree on saturday, shooting a 349 at lenawee country club in adrian, michigan. 
senior Janice heffernan had a big day for the belles. she finished with a final score of 81 to earn second place overall, one stroke away from the individual leader, olivet junior brooke Kastamo. heffernan claimed miaa golfer of the week honors on monday after her performance last week in the third leg of the miaa Jamboree at the ravines golf club, the second time this season she has earned that accolade. 
following not too far be­hind heffernan, was sopho­more teammate ali mahoney, who posted an 85 to tie for seventh individually. 
“any time when we can have players shooting in the high 70’s and low 80’s is extremely helpful to our team’s success,” belles coach Kim moore said. “i feel that all of our players have the capability to shoot those scores on a weekly basis. if those two players can stay low this weekend and we can add one or two more players in the mix ,we will have a great shot at be­ing able to host one or two events in the spring.” 
hope finished in first place at the nine-team com­petition hosted by adrian. The flying dutch tallied an overall score of 340, followed shortly behind by olivet’s 342. 

belles freshman Kaitlyn cartone, who shot a 91 fin­ished in 19th place; fresh­man Kelsey conkright, finished with a 92 to tie for 20th place; junior Katie Zielinski, shot a 93 to fin­ish tied for 25th overall; and sophomore rachel Kim, shot a 94 to finish tied for 30th place. 
moore said she was proud of her team’s ability to do well despite the poor weath­er, which included rain, wind and low temperatures. 
“playing golf in the ele­ments is part of this sport, and being the first to adapt to your situation is extreme­ly helpful,” moore said. “it can be a struggle, especial­ly if you are not used to it, but i felt our team grinded it out very well. you have to be mentally tough when you play in conditions like that, and i felt our team did a great job at taking one stroke and one hole at a time.” 
The belles next compete in the two-round miaa end of season weekend Jamboree on oct. 10 and 11. The final conference competition will be played at The medalist golf club in marshall, michigan. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary’s readies for Albion match 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will take on albion in a crucial match wednesday that could improve its standings in the miaa. 
wednesday’s performance will be indicative of how the belles (8-8, 5-5 miaa) stand against the other members of the miaa, which is led by two of the nation’s top four teams, no. 1 hope and no. 4 calvin. The belles, who sit in fourth place in miaa standings, will need to secure a win against albion (3-16, 1-9), which is ninth in the miaa, to break into the conference’s top three spots. last year, the belles tied for third place in the conference and advanced to the miaa tournament. 
“This is a must-win if we want to reach the top three in conference,” belles coach Toni elyea said. 
The belles lost, 3-0, to fifth-ranked alma on friday at angela athletic facility, following a series of three close sets (25-20, 25-23, 25-20). belles senior captain and outside hitter Kati schneider and senior middle blocker melanie Kuczek led the team with 11 kills each, and sophomore setter lexi grady had 17 assists. 
The belles quickly rebounded from their loss the next day with a 3-0 win against olivet (5-14, 1-9) after three successful sets (27­25, 26-24, 25-21). Junior outside hitter Katie hecklinski led saint mary’s with 12 kills and 15 digs. sophomore setter clare mcmillan picked up 35 assists, her fourth-best performance in that category this season. 


comparing performance in the match against olivet to the one against alma, the belles were able to improve their hitting percent­age and scoring opportunities. however, elyea said her team’s defense has been its highlight. 
“we have been blocking really well this season,” elyea said. “it has been one of our strong points throughout the season.” 
with wednesday’s match, saint 
paid adverTisemenT 
mary’s hopes to overtake the third-ranked Trine, which is cur­rently tied with the belles in terms of league wins but has secured four more overall wins. in order to improve their record, the elyea said the belles intend to rely heav­ily on offensive strategies to form a more cohesive team dynamic. 
“we want to get [the] offensive rhythm early on,” elyea said. “if they get in rhythm with the set­tlers, [we can get] the outside shooters to come alive.” 
saint mary’s takes on albion today at 7 p.m. at Kresge gymnasium in albion, michigan. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 







Carson 
conTinued from page 16 
— was not the first time the irish dominated a match only to fail to come out on top. on aug. 31, the irish outshot georgetown, 23-9. The re­sult? a scoreless draw. and on sept. 8, outshooting unranked Kentucky 18-5 was simply not enough to avoid defeat as the wildcats scored in the final minute for the shocking 1-0 upset. 
in a sport where the cham­pion is decided by means of a small sample size — a seeded team only has to win five matches to win a na­tional championship — it is something that can be quite the worry. what if it happens again? could the irish get knocked out of the first round by a lesser opponent because they get hit on the counterat­tack? how can this even be rectified? 
and then you have re­sults like Tuesday’s against michigan. The wolverines 
— now just 3-5-2 — held their own. They sent 18 shots toward graduate student goalkeeper patrick wall, even with notre dame’s output. and the most surprising part of the game? it would probably have to be the fact that michigan earned an astronomically high 21 corner kicks — roughly one every four and a half minutes. unlike the losses to Kentucky and boston college, the irish were matched on the pitch by a per­ceived lesser opponent. 
granted, whenever the irish and the wolverines get to­gether in any sport, the game is a rivalry. That is a given. but in theory, that rivalry game should not allow an unher­alded, two-win team to play with the defending national champions. and in many ways, it is the type of result that could send notre dame’s season spiraling downhill fairly quickly. 
The good news? The irish play three top-25 teams in the next two weeks. 
The bad news? The irish play three top-25 teams in the next two weeks. 
welcome to crunch time. 
on friday, the irish play host to no. 18 louisville. a home match with no. 24 northwestern follows Tuesday. The next week, the irish visit no. 10 indiana. The run, which includes a visit to duke on oct. 17, signifies a chance for notre dame to make a statement. despite losses to a pair of un­heralded sides, the irish can come back and sweep through the run. The side has the qual­ity to do so, and with two of the three matches at home, notre dame should have a good op­portunity to impose its will on the game. 
but there is another state­ment notre dame could make — one that would signify quite the opposite. struggling through these next two weeks would show weaknesses in the squad and would perhaps signal an inability to make a national championship run. at the very least it would likely take the irish out of contention for earning a seed in the ncaa tournament and make them go on the road early on. 
indiana won the national championship two years ago from the 16th seed. but those hoosiers are the only team in recent memory to take home the title without earning a single-digit seed in the tour­nament. The time has come for the irish to reassert them­selves, to tell the college soccer world that they can still play with the best. 
otherwise? it might be a long finish to the season for the de­fending national champions. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued from page 16 
counsel then initiated “an immediate investigation.” 
notre dame released a statement sunday saying the university will not publicly disclose decisions from the hearings and investigation. 
Grooming Golson 
irish senior quarterback everett golson has the fifth-best odds in the country — at 10/1 — to win the heisman Trophy, per bovada. yet the signal-caller has coughed up six turnovers combined in the last two games. Kelly has spoken recently about golson learning to see the game from a coach’s point of view. That comes down to consistency in practice ev­ery day, Kelly said. 
“he’s such a creative per­son that we don’t want to take away his creativity as a quarterback, but there has to be those fundamentals that we have to drill down and really get to the point where he’s gotta master some of those things,” Kelly said. “and he’s working on them.” 
with three fumbles (two lost) against syracuse and one more against stanford on saturday, Kelly admitted that golson started working last week on ball-security drills like the running backs do. 
“i think it’s a matter of him understanding how im­portant ball security is, but we’ll continue to do that drill,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said he doesn’t think he would pull golson from a game unless he were injured. 

Tussle with the Tar Heels 
a week after stanford and notre dame combined for 31 points on a rainy afternoon, the irish and Tar heels could be primed for a high-scoring affair saturday. 
north carolina boasts an up-tempo offense to go along with a defense that has al­lowed an average of 51.3 points during the last three games. 
“offensively, we’re going to have to score points because this is going to be a game where there’s going to be points put up on the score­board,” Kelly said. “we’ve gotta hold up our end offen­sively and take care of the football.” 
The Tar heels have forced 12 turnovers — tied for the 17th-most in the nation. 
offensively, north carolina junior quarterback marquise williams directs the young, athletic unit. 
“They’re playing a lot of young players, very difficult to defend offensively,” Kelly said. “They play very fast — probably the fastest offense, in terms of tempo, that we’ll see this year.” 
Tar heels sophomore re­ceiver ryan switzer leads the team with 24 receptions for 269 yards and a touchdown. Kelly compared the shifty switzer to denver broncos slot receiver wes welker and also said switzer is like “[for­mer irish receiver] robby Toma with a little bit more speed.” 
The irish square of with north carolina on saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Senior quarterback Everett Golson fires off a pass during the 17-14 win over Stanford on Saturday. 
M Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
clutches,” clark said. “you go for a long period of no scoring, and then when one finally goes in, all of a sud­den another one follows. They were two different types of goals, too.” 
however, notre dame made a push towards the end of the half to regain momentum, registering its first shot on goal in the 36th minute after junior midfielder patrick hodan fancily maneuvered around three michigan defenders but was denied by michigan freshman goalkeeper evan louro. 
The momentum carried over into the second half for the irish. in the 55th minute, junior midfielder connor Klekota sent a cor­ner kick sailing into the box, where sophomore defender brandon aubrey was able to head it on frame, yet louro came up with another big stop for the wolverines. 
notre dame managed to finally find the back of the net in the 64th minute, when freshman forward Jeffrey farina slammed home a pass from fellow freshman Jon gallagher from 10 yards out to cut the deficit in half. it was the second goal of the season for farina and the second time the two freshmen had combined for an irish goal in their first season of col­lege soccer. 

“a nice thing for us was Jeffrey [farina] got another goal,” clark said. “he and Jon [gallagher] came on at halftime and played the en­tire second half for us. Jon still needs to get a goal, but i thought he was going to get one tonight.” 
hodan followed up farina’s goal only four min­utes later, as he bent home a shot from 20 yards out just inside the far post to tie the game. The goal was hodan’s second of the season af­ter registering his first on a penalty kick against virginia on sept. 21. 
The irish had a chance to take the lead in the 78th minute when Klekota sent a long-range attempt on goal. louro punched the shot into a dangerous area, but no notre dame players were around to take advantage of the rebound opportunity. 
“we actually had a lot of momentum there, but then we kind of let it drop,” clark said. “our passes just didn’t seem to be finding people like they were before.” 
one area the wolverines dominated the irish in was corner kicks. michigan end­ed the night with a 21-4 ad­vantage in the area, but it was the second-to-last one that meant the most. in the 83rd minute, wolverines redshirt freshman mid­fielder Tyler anderson sent the cross into the penalty 
paid adverTisemenT 

box, where mcatee rose to meet it, directing it past wall and into the net for the 3-2 lead. 
“we let in two goals off of headers off of corner kicks,” clark said. “That was disap­pointing because we really felt like we should be han­dling that. … They seemed to have a lot of corners, but we have the height to be able to handle them. 
“it was a fairly even game. we did well to come back, two goals down and away from home. i thought we showed a lot of character tonight.” 
The loss was the second consecutive one for notre dame, both of which came against unranked rivals 
— boston college stunned the irish on friday, 1-0, at alumni stadium. The last time the irish dropped two consecutive matches was in the fall of 2010, when they lost to louisville in the big east tournament semifi­nals and then were upset by dartmouth at home in the second round of the ncaa tournament after earning a bye for the first round. 
notre dame will look to put an end to the losing streak when they return to acc play friday at alumni stadium. The irish wel­come no. 18 louisville for the game, set to begin at 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at         zklonsin@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 41 Amalgam, e.g. 2 Tour ride 1 Insect segment 42 Musical combo 3 Hosp. figures 
8 With 68- or designs 4 In-your-face69-Across, what experiments? 
5 Bowlful at 16-, 32-, 42- and 45 Elevs. 
a Japanese60-Across each 46 Cartoon “devil,” restaurantconsists of for short 6 Runner from a13 Get by 47 Hairy sitcom bomb scare, e.g.

14 Big name in cousin 7 Super Mario diamonds 48 Puccini’s Bros. letters16 Fools evaluate Cio-Cio-___ 8 “Lopez Tonight” bodies of water? 51 Barber, at times channel18 Flier of legend 54 Figs. in 9 The Crystals’ 19 “___ bin ein company reports “___ Rebel”Berliner” 55 “Prik khing” 10 Moves like a20 Opposite of baja cuisine tosspot21 Dump, so to 57 “Superman ___” 11 Lyre-holding speak 58 ___ Dhabi Muse 24 “Rabbit, Run” 60 More 12 Nora Ephronwriter embarrassed work27 ___ milk forest creature 14 Metric system

screwed up?
28 Ocean State prefixsch. 66 Short operaticpiece 15 Ben-Gurion29 Competition of successor 

sorts 67 Is exhausted 17 Funny Caesar
30 Scrap for Fido 68 See 8-Across 21 Cartoonist32 Renter finds a 69 See 8-Across Feiffer buyer for fish? 
22 “Me, Myself &39 Sign up DOWN ___” (2000

40 Oospheres, say 1 Smart ___ whip comedy) 
23 Isn’t upright
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
25 Change in Chile 26 Like chicoryvis-à-vis coffee 29 Guardian Angels’ toppers 31 Intro to marketing? 33 MacFarlane of 
“Ted” 34 Palindromic time 35 It might be
served with a cinnamon stick 
36 Girl’s name that sounds like two letters of the alphabet 


Edited by Will Shortz 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  17  
18  19  20  
21  22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  
68  69  

Puzzle by Daniel Raymon  
37 There’s a drawing of it onTV 38 Ways of operating: Abbr. 43 Gymwear item 44 “Less Than Perfect” actress,2002-06  49 “Don’t try to be___” 50 Rock bottom 52 Opera thatpremiered inCairo 53 Go (for) 54 Subjected to ahex  59 Wacky, as humor 61 “V” visitors,briefly 62 Schubert’s “The ___ King” 63 ___ v. Wade 64 Home of Ukr.  
48 What a sucker may have  56 Carded at a club, say  65 Tosspot’s affliction  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t look back or live in the past or you will miss a fantastic year of opportunities, change and excitement. favors will be granted and a new approach to the way you handle stress, responsibilities and goal-oriented projects will change as your confidence improves and your knowledge and skills become easier for you to master and execute. focus on advancement and happiness. your numbers are 6, 10, 13, 25, 28, 33, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): present your ideas and you will grab the interest of someone important. a development in a personal relationship will allow you to make the changes you’ve wanted to make to improve your lifestyle. Travel, moves and educational pursuits will pay off. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): secrecy will help you avoid interruptions that can stand between you and accomplishment. do your research carefully to avoid a costly error. if you have to use pressure or overspend, you are best to back away and rethink your strategy. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): mixed messages can lead to uncertainty. open up and share your feelings with anyone you feel may ruin your chance to advance. call in favors and make personal improvements to ensure you get your way. networking will lead to success. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): ask questions if you are uncertain about a situation or what’s expected of you. don’t allow an emotional moment to soil your reputation or your ability to do a good job. someone’s change of heart will end up being to your benefit. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): stick to what you do and enjoy the most. arguing won’t result in satisfaction. Take care of domestic responsibilities quickly and move on to entertaining, energetic pastimes. love is on the rise and romance will improve your life.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your emotions in check and your mind on whatever task you’ve been given. don’t worry about what everyone else is doing when your own accomplishments are what count. secure your position using insightful and unusual means.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): concentrate on what’s important to you. don’t give in to pressure that someone puts on you at home or at work. recruit people you feel can make a difference. The contributions made to a group you believe in will raise your profile.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make today a new beginning. look at your choices and do what you can to improve your home environment. you can make an insightful move if you let your creativity lead the way. focus on physical fitness and improving your health.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take control and make whatever changes are necessary to improve your surroundings, your position and your reputation. don’t give in to someone who is talking big but doing little. have confidence in who you are and what you can do. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep a low profile. you will achieve the most if you work alone. avoid any impulsive moves, purchases or decisions. concentrate on learning, observing and re-evaluating, and you will avoid the pitfalls that interference is likely to entail. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): direct your energy into moneymaking ideas. don’t let someone who is negative discourage you from following your dream. invite people you have successfully worked with in the past to contribute to your plan. love is on the rise.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): fairness will bring good results, but emotional meddling will lead to trouble. you can avoid a nasty argument if you stick to what you do best and try to steer clear of a negative situation. avoid making a snap decision. 


Birthday Baby: you are charming, gracious and insightful. you are adaptable and progressive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Decisions on suspensions ‘imminent’ 
Kelly expects hearings results this week, speaks about Golson and Tar Heels 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
irish head coach brian Kelly said he was told monday decisions regard­ing the hearings for the five withheld players were “imminent.” 
Kelly, speaking at his stan­dard Tuesday press confer­ence, said he believes players could be notified of the deci­sions Tuesday or wednesday. 
“but i have not, as i stand in front of you, been notified by anybody in the university nor any of our players of any decisions regarding the hearings,” Kelly said. 
irish junior cornerback Keivarae russell, senior re­ceiver davaris daniels, se­nior defensive end ishaq williams, graduate student linebacker Kendall moore and senior safety eilar hardy have been held out of prac­tice and competition during the probe into “suspected academic dishonesty.” 

Kelly said, hypothetically, if players were to be cleared, they could play in limited roles against north carolina on saturday. 
“six weeks is a long time,” Kelly said. “There’s no way that somebody’s gonna come back in and start on saturday. we’ll see how it plays out. if, in fact, we do have a player back, we’ll try to get them an opportunity to contribute. but it would have to be in a limited role.” 
notre dame announced its investigation aug. 15. The university said “evidence that students had submitted papers and homework that had been written for them by others” was initially detect­ed at the end of the summer session and referred to the compliance office in athlet­ics July 29. notre dame said the office of general 
see fooTball PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER | noTre dame 2, michigan 3 
Irish fall to Wolverines, lose two consecutive games for first time in five years 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after working hard to overcome a poor start, no. 6 notre dame fell Tuesday in ann arbor, michigan, to ri­val michigan, 3-2. 
redshirt junior midfielder colin mcatee recorded a hat trick for the wolverines (3­5-2, 1-1-2 big Ten), including the game-winning goal in the 83rd minute. 
“They are a very tough team,” irish coach bobby clark said. “They certain­ly made it difficult for us tonight.” 
The irish (5-3-2, 2-1-1 acc) fell behind in the first half after mcatee headed in a corner kick in the 21st minute, then followed it up with his second goal from eight yards out less than a minute later. michigan largely controlled play through most of the first half, outshooting the irish, 9-7, in the period. 
“goals seem to come in 
see m soccer PAGE 14 



Alex Carson 
sports writer 
after friday’s 1-0 home defeat at the hands of boston college and Tuesday’s 3-2 road loss to michigan, the irish have lost consecutive regular-season games for the first time in five years. 
some might say that friday’s defeat was a fluke 
— a viewpoint that is, quite honestly, hard to disagree with. The now-no. 6 irish fired off 19 shots. The eagles? Just three. from time to time in soccer, a team can completely dominate all as­pects of the game — as notre dame did friday — and still manage to lose. 
but when do results like friday’s become concerning? when the same story lines, those same “fluky” defeats and draws, keep repeating themselves. The loss to un­heralded boston college — it was the eagles’ first acc win in four tries on the season 
see carson PAGE 13 






