The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 128 | FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Try to heal, try to forgive’ 
A local Rwandan couple recalls watching the 1994 genocide unfold from the United States 
By TORI ROECK 
senior news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the second installment in a two-part series discussing two South Bend families’ experiences with the 1994 Rwandan genocide, in light of Notre Dame’s commemoration of the 20th anniversary of this tragedy, to take place April 26. 
during the 1994 rwandan genocide against the Tutsis, in which more than one mil­lion people were killed in 100 days, south bend residents marie rose gatete and gaetan gatete, who both grew up in rwanda, learned of the deaths of most of their close family members over the phone. 
gaetan gatete said most rwandans living in the united states during the genocide were plagued with uncertain­ty and relied on secondhand information about their loved ones back home. 
“i had a sister who was liv­ing in kigali, and that’s where the genocide started,” he said. “i don’t really know the exact time when she died, but i think it was in the first two days of the beginning of the genocide. i don’t remember how 
see genocide PAGE 5 


Photo courtesy of Marie Rose Gatete 

Gaetan and Marie Rose Gatete stand with their sons Gabe and Jabo in front of the Capitol in Washington. The Gatetes attended a commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the Rwandan genocide on April 7. 


prosecutor charges former smc worker for voyeurism 
Observer Staff Report 
an email was sent to saint mary’s students Thursday morning providing updates on last week’s incident in which a maintenance worker was fired and arrested for allegedly ob­serving students in the fourth floor restrooms of le mans hall. 
according to the email on april 17, the prosecutor’s of­fice formally charged david summerfield, a former mainte­nance worker, with voyeurism and theft for stealing students’ clothing from a laundry room. 

on monday, the saint Joseph county special victims unit (svu) investigators, escorted by campus personnel, con­ducted an investigation of le mans’ attic and the private and community restrooms on the fourth floor. police document­ed 21 holes in these locations. a female painter and a female maintenance worker then patched all of those holes. 
The email stated college per­sonnel inspected all restrooms on campus, and female building services employees checked the bathrooms in the residence halls. 
saint mary’s president carol ann mooney’s email said she hopes students feel more at ease knowing the situation was quickly resolved by the svu, and the college took immedi­ate and appropriate actions. 
“we notified all involved or potentially impacted and con­ducted a campus-wide 
see incidenT PAGE 5 


university to host notre dame day 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
This weekend, the department of development will host its first notre dame day, a 29-hour live broadcast from laFortune student center featuring students and alumni from around the globe. 
morgan bullock, marketing programs manager, said the day will “give alumni and community members an opportunity to recon­nect with the university.” 
notre dame day begins sunday at 6:42 p.m. and runs until midnight the following day. it will feature various events, including residence hall competitions, a live broadcast and fundraising that will benefit numerous organizations across campus, Jonathan retartha, social media director, said. 
The department chose the date because of its special significance to the university, he said. 
“The idea is that april 27th was the date that commemorates Fr. sorin returning to campus after the main building burned down,” 
see day PAGE 4 



Event commemorates 1994 Rwandan genocide 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
in commemoration of the 1994 rwandan genocide, the rwandan american community of the midwest will honor the lives of vic­tims and reflect on the causes of eth­nic violence on saturday in mckenna hall from 2:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
alice cyusa, a notre dame bud­gets and grants coordinator and a member of the local rwandan community, said the kellogg institute for international studies partnered with the rwandan american community of the midwest to sponsor the event, which will feature speakers dis­cussing topics from genocide pre­vention to forced immigration. 
“Fr. bob dowd of the kellogg institute helped us secure the ven­ue for the event, which is mainly funded by the local rwandan community,” cyusa said. 
immaculee mukantaganira, the treasurer for the community organization, said the event will commemorate 20 years of recovery following the 1994 genocide, which claimed the lives of some one mil­lion Tutsi rwandans. 
“This 20th commemoration is special,” mukantaganira said. “in rwanda, a flame of remembrance has traveled rwanda since January of this year. it communicates a message of hope, telling rwandans that the flame will never die. This year, we tried to educate the public about the genocide, its causes and its consequences.” 
see evenT PAGE 4 







ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What was the best musical decade? 


Emily Voorde 
junior 
ryan hall 

“The 90s, a.k.a. the early 2000s.” 

Ben Gunning 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“The 70s.” 

Daniela Nunez 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“The 80s.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Abby Sullivan 
freshman 
pangborn hall 

“The 20s — big band and swing music.” 

Sarah Prizio 
junior 
breen-phillips hall 
“The 90s.” 


Dottie Schleuter 
sophomore 
lewis hall 

“The 90s. That was the best decade for everything.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
carolyn hutyra evan anderson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com catherine owers greg hadley charlie ducey mary green 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
keri o’mara miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Discernment Celebration of the Seventh Annual Happy Hour and Daniel Picouley’s 
wei lin Tabitha ricketts 
Lunch Festival of Holi Father Ted’s 10K Trivia Night One-Man-Show 
LaFortune Student Coleman-Morse Center Jordan Hall of Science Legends Decio Faculty Hall Center 11:30 p.m.- 2 p.m. 10 a.m.- 11 a.m. 5:30 p.m.- 8 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 
Corrections 

12:30p.m.- 1:30 p.m. Bollywood music, play Events include a 10K Hosted by GlassND. French media 
The observer regards itself as Prayer and discussion. with colors and more. walk, and 5K or 10K runs. personality performs. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Stress Buster Friday Saturday Vigil Mass Notre Dame Day Concert of Indian ND Softball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

St. Liam Hall Basilica of the Sacred LaFortune Student Classical Music Melissa Cook Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
1:30p.m.- 2:30 p.m. Heart Center Hesburgh Library 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Free yoga session to 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. 6:40 p.m. 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m. The Irish play Western 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
help students relax. Music by the Woman’s A global celebration of Free for students. Michigan. 
we can correct our error. 

Liturgical Choir. all things Notre Dame. 


Students perform ‘The Coronation of Poppea’ 
mcgee, who will play nero in 
By MADISON JAROS 

news writer the show, the opera explores 
emperor nero’s passionate affair 

This weekend, notre dame’s with poppea, a noblewoman who department of music will con-is eventually able to supplant tinue an important department nero’s wife octavia and become tradition of opera performance empress of rome. for the student body with the pre-regarded as one of the oldest sentation of monteverdi’s “The operas ever created and written coronation of poppea.” in italian, “The coronation of 
according to senior sean poppea” differs from pieces the 
paid adverTisemenT 

department has performed in the past. These qualities present­ed their own unique challenges, mcgee said. 
“The styles of music were very different from how they’re writ­ten today, the way opera was structured is incredibly different from how it was when it later de­veloped, and actually it doesn’t look a thing like what you would expect an opera to be,” he said. “it’s a lot more fluid, a lot more free form.” 
The preparation for the opera was extensive, senior ali Thomas, who plays poppea in the show, said. The dedication required to perform the opera is exactly what makes it such an exceptional event. 
“because we work so hard on it and spend so much time on it, i think that’s what makes it so much better once we perform it,” Thomas said. “you can just tell how much work has been put into every single word and movement.” 
senior Joe paggi, who will also play nero next weekend, said the show is important to the de­partment because of its ability to include so many students and faculty in its production. 
“it basically is the culmina­tion of everything that we do,” he said. “it involves a lot of our mu­sicians in the pit, it involves all of our singers on stage and it in­volves all the teachers who direct it. That’s probably why it’s one of the biggest events that the music department does, because it en­compasses all different aspects of it.” 
“The coronation of poppea” runs this Friday and saturday at 
7:30 p.m. and this sunday at 2:30 
p.m. paggi said the show is the perfect opera to see if one has not experienced the medium before. 
“it’s a very old opera, so any­body that hasn’t been to an op­era before, it’s as old as it gets,” he said. “it’s opera at its finest. … people who haven’t been to opera before, i think will be pleasantly surprised by it.” 
students will be particularly surprised by their ability to relate to the show as well, mcgee said. 
“The thing about opera is it’s much more human than people think,” he said. “The idea that people think of when they hear the word opera is very much an idea of the fat lady onstage sing­ing with the viking hat, and peo­ple think, ‘i can’t relate to that.’ what i’ve learned with doing op­era is that it’s so much more than that.” 
Thomas also said she thinks the opera tells a relatable story. 
“That storyline in general . a political leader with a mistress, scandal, climbing up the ropes of the political ladder . that can ap­ply to so many different things,” she said. 
Tickets for the show are $5 with a student id.  students can buy tickets at performingarts.nd.edu 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 

students share experiences from math conference 
By CHELSEY FATTAL 
news writer 
The saint mary’s math club and math honor society, pi mu epsilon, held a presenta­tion about the world’s larg­est mathematics conference wednesday afternoon in madeleva hall about their ex­perience attending the Joint mathematics meeting (Jmm) conference. 


nine members of the saint mary’s chapter of pi mu epsilon discussed their January trip to the conference in baltimore. 
“mathematics is such a powerful, universal subject, that people from around the world can embrace it and learn more, together,” senior brianne michaels, president of pi mu epsilon, said. “This meeting offers students the opportunity to learn about topics outside of the saint mary’s curriculum. The meet­ing also offers an abundance of networking opportunities and the opportunity to meet many new people from around the country and the world.” 
Junior chloe mccolgan, a pi mu epsilon member and notre dame engineer, said the conference drew a global audience. 
“people came from all over the world to speak and to hear about math educa­tion,” she said. “as a student, i attended the conference because i wanted to listen to the many panel discussions that were going on, and to learn more about math and its applications.” 
senior devree stopczynski said the saint mary’s students spent two full days at the con­ference, beginning from 8 or 9 
a.m. and lasting until the late afternoon. 
Junior meredith mcgee, pi mu epsilon treasurer, said she particularly enjoyed the mathematical association of america (maa) committee on the participation of women poster session. 
“This event allowed us to see what institutions, such as other colleges or programs, were doing to interest mid­dle and high school students about mathematics and other sTem careers,” mcgee said. “mostly, the programs that we heard about were for girls, minorities and the financially disadvantaged, which are of­ten underrepresented in these fields. 
“coming from a women’s college, it was exciting to hear about such efforts to encour­age more female students to explore mathematics and to experience the different ap­plications it can have.” 
mccolgan discussed her fa­vorite panel discussion, which focused on “the math behind origami.” she said she was in­trigued by the ways to interest younger students, especially girls, in mathematics. 
michaels said an unprec­edented number of students, six seniors and three juniors, had the opportunity to attend the conference. 
“The mathematics educa­tion at saint mary’s is out­standing, but it is important to also, experience mathematics outside of the classroom,” she said. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Day 
conTinued From page 1 
retartha said. “he said it burned down because mary said we dreamed too small.” 
The focus of notre dame day is to connect the global notre dame community, retartha said. 
“The broadcast is going to have every corner of the university come out [to participate],” he said. “There will be performances and inter­views from groups around campus and skype interviews from notre dame clubs and institutes around the globe. The whole idea is to en­courage people, once they hear these stories, to have them think what is important to them and re­alize they have the opportunity to make a difference in those areas. 
“For example, if you have a department of Film, Television and Theater [FTT] alumnus, you will be able to see what FTT is doing on campus, and by donat­ing minimum $10 to FTT, you get three votes you can put anywhere in the university to the challenge fund. This helps allocate money to different groups at the university . alumni clubs, varsity teams, etc. at the end of the day, if FTT gets one percent of votes, then FTT gets one percent of the funds raised throughout the entire day.” 
The day will also include a great deal of student participation, aaron wall, assistant director of student philanthropy, said. 
“we invited all of the residence halls to compete, one against an­other,” wall said. “Through some of our most loyal benefactors, we were able to do fundraising ahead of time so dorms can compete for up to $1000 per hour.” 
wall said other events through­out the day include a jumbotron in front of stonehenge and a picnic at noon on south Quad. rohr’s at the morris inn will also host a special selection of food and drink to those over 21 from 1 to 2 a.m. 
The department has been plan­ning notre dame day since the fall, amy schell, director of annual fund marketing and operations, said. 
“There has been a lot of decision-making, trying to figure out every­thing together,” schell said. “we did videos, flyers, etc. to make sure we were promoting this as much as we could. 
“we are thinking about each audience. The whole reason we decided to do this is because we realize how busy everyone is, and there are so many stories that people don’t usually see. we are trying to highlight every nook and cranny, knowing full well we can’t even fit everything into a 29-hour broadcast.” 
retartha said the department of development has worked as the lead for marketing strategy. 
“we are using social media as a way to connect people with areas of the notre dame experience they haven’t connected with in many years,” retartha said. “we wanted to ask our followers to follow proud to be nd, our media brand for giv­ing, and asked people what they are thankful for in their notre dame experience. 
“once they identify those areas, we want people to check out what those areas are doing now. by en­couraging them to find those areas on social media areas to hear the stories they have today, they will be motivated to cast their vote and watch the broadcast.” 
retartha said that so far, they have a potential reach of 800,000 people on social media through a network called the social ambassadors program. nearly 875 social ambassadors are participat­ing, and from a trending social me­dia perspective, more than 5,700 posts have used the words notre dame day. 
“There is a system where anyone that is involved in notre dame day can connect their social media with this social toaster program,” he said. “They received emails from me about how to help spread the word about notre dame day news.” 
retartha said the support of the university and many partnerships have made this day of coming to­gether on an “unprecedented level” possible. 
“we know there are great things that happen on campus, and we want to help everyone else outside the university understand those stories,” schell said. “The day of is going to be a massive celebration. The amount of energy we will have on sunday and monday will be amazing.” 
For a full list of the events planned for notre dame day, visit https://notredameday.nd.edu/ schedule/ 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 
Event 
conTinued From page 1 
according to nxulalo louis ruhaya, who also helped organize the event, education and spread­ing awareness about the rwandan genocide carries great importance for preventing future atrocities. 
“The 20th anniversary com­memoration gives us an opportunity to share our stories with the american people and bring awareness to the kind of atrocities that took place in our country so that together we can make sure it never happens again anywhere in our lifetime,” he said. 
mukantaganira said the com­memoration will build around a three-part theme that works to­ward renewal in the rwandan community. 
“The theme of the commemora­tion is remember, unite, renew. we remember our beloved we lost during the genocide against the Tutsi, we remember how they shaped our lives, how they blessed us with their love,” she said. 
mukantagnira said the phrase “kwibuka20,” meaning, “remem­ber 20” in the rwandan language, embodies this spirit of remem­brance and has the potential to 
paid adverTisemenT 
unite rwandans regardless of per­ceived ethnic divisions. 
“we are all rwandans who speak the same language and bounded by the same culture,” mukantagnira said. “as we stand together, we renew together, com­mitting to continue building a new rwanda where there are no divi­sions and where a lasting peace is the purpose of surviving.” 
rwandan-americans from ohio and illinois are expected to attend the event, mukantagnira said. 
ruhaya said he hopes notre dame students also join in the commemoration. 
“i hope we can have many of our notre dame students attend, as they are the future leaders of to­morrow,” ruhaya said. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 




Genocide 
conTinued From page 1 
i heard the news of how she died, probably from a friend, but i know she died within a day because where she lived was very close to the military compound. 
“my brother was living close to the airport, so he got killed. i don’t know the exact time but probably within two days.” 
his parents, who lived in the south of the country, survived for longer than his siblings but could not escape the killers, gaetan gatete said. 
“They tried a couple times to escape, but unfortunately they couldn’t,” he said. “They were stopped and returned to their home. but the whole village … protected them for three months because people loved them. The whole village loved them. unfortunately, they didn’t protect them until the end. 
“i don’t know who killed them. people were coming from some other areas, and it’s hard to know what happened 
paid adverTisemenT 



most of the family members.’ 
“but i keep hearing my par­ents, my mother and my fa­ther, echoing in my ears, ‘you can’t give up,’ because there were times when i felt that i was about to give up. but i kept telling myself, ‘you can’t give up, because if you give up, you will let your parents down.’ and i can’t do it. basically peo­ple who are killing my family, they want all of us to die. so if i give up, i will really accom­plish what they wanted us to be: dead people.” 
marie rose gatete and gaetan gatete met while studying at indiana university south bend, and in 1999, marie rose gatete graduated from the executive mba program at notre dame. since then, the couple has been active in the local and national rwandan community, and gaetan gatete said he serves as the president of the rwandan diaspora in the united states. 
“our role [at the rwandan diaspora] is to coordinate all those rwandan areas [in the united states], to teach them to try to promote their activi­ties so, in the end, we get a bet­ter rwandan community … [to] promote the culture and promote peace and transfor­mation in our country and to make the community better and to link our country to the u.s.a., which is a big role that the diaspora plays.” 
part of their responsibility is to share their strength with others and to emphasize their faith, marie rose gatete said. 
“i came to the point where i truly believe that god will never tempt us beyond our limit,” she said. “he knows better than anybody else what we can handle. if he accepted that i go through this, that i have nightmares sometimes, flashbacks of things i saw on Tv, of things i heard from my own sister, my own friends, my people, it’s because he knows that i have the strength to move on and also i have the strength to use that pain as a stepping stone to a better, hopeful life, to not use those as roadblocks to so many things, and also he knows that i have the passion of trying to make peace and trying to really love people. 
“he allowed me to go through that so i can even be stronger so my sister, who lost everybody during the geno­cide, can lean on me, and she can cry on me, that my brother who lost parents when he was young can say, ‘i know that i have a strong sister.’ my other sister can say, ‘ i know i have a strong sister.’ my husband, who lost every single person, including parents, can lean on me.” 
gaetan gatete said he is grateful to have survived the genocide and believes his life has a particular purpose. 
“Fortunately god gave us a way to leave the country,” he said. “i’m sure if we were in rwanda, we would’ve all been killed. so there’s a reason why we’re here, and there’s a rea­son why we survived. 
“and i think once you come to terms with what happened and you accept it, then you try to make meaning out of it, and the meaning is to make this world better. and that’s why, whatever we do, we question ourselves why we exist.” 
To help others heal, the gatetes organized a com­memoration of the 20th an­niversary of the genocide in washington d.c. on april 7 that featured survivor tes­timonies and a speech from someone whose parents sur­vived the holocaust, marie rose gatete said. 
as the world remembers the 20th anniversary of the 1994 rwandan genocide, marie rose gatete said it is impor­tant to recognize how far the country has come since then. 
“The bad leadership from before genocide had divided us,” she said. “we had those id cards that were saying, ‘you are Tutsi,’ ‘you are hutu,’ and those were like a guide to who should die, who should get school, who should be allowed to university. 
“but now, the end of the lead­ership was the genocide, kill­ing people. and now, the good leadership is the leadership that came in and said, ‘people died. people killed. but we are all rwandans. let’s put aside that division, what divides us, and embark on a journey where we are all rwandans, where we can walk together and try to rebuild the country and move on with our lives, try to heal, try to forgive.’” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
faculty, our students and the staff.” 
mooney asked students to re­main vigilant and report any­thing that does not look or feel right to campus security (284­5000), residence life (284-4522) or a resident advisor. it is be­cause of staff on campus that the issue came to light, mooney said. 
“a vigilant employee helped surface this issue, and he is a wonderful example of what it means to be a part of the saint mary’s community, a communi­ty that cares about and looks out for each other,” she said. 
because people don’t want to talk because they’re scared of being arrested because they probably participated.” 
marie rose gatete said she kept in touch with her sister over the phone until she died. 
“i remember the last time i spoke with my sister before she died, before they killed her,” she said. “i was asking her why they can’t try to get out of the country because they called me on easter. That was the last time. They called me to wish me a happy easter. and i said, ‘why can’t you please try to get out of the country?’ 
“and she said, ‘no. it’s hard. i guess we are ready to die, but we are afraid that they’re going to kill the children this time.’ They had the feeling already.” 
marie rose gatete’s young nieces and nephews were killed, and she said that was the hardest news to receive. 
“even though you’re seeing tears, i’m a very happy person,” she said. “i have no grudges against these people. it’s just the tears of those memories 
that i wish i had with my par­
ents. i wish i had my nephews 
and my niece who died too 
young, at 10 years old, four 
years old, five years old. now, 
they would’ve been like 20, 
graduating from college. why 
were their lives cut short?” 
Tutsis had been persecuted 
in rwanda for decades before 
the 1994 genocide, and marie 
rose gatete said she grew 
up in fear of ethnic-based 
violence. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“my father was killed in what i can call pre-genocide training [in 1990] because … the real genocide happened in 1994, but the killings of the Tutsis started way back,” she said. “in 1959, they killed peo­ple. i lost my grandparents in 1959. in 1973, they killed more Tutsis. in 1973, we tried to flee the country, and we were ar­rested at the border, beaten up. 
“we came back. They threw my dad in jail. They left my mother with my siblings and my brother, and my younger brother was a year old. They beat him up, so we thought he was dead, and we got home. They had sold our house. The government took possession of all our belongings.” 
because of her family’s his­tory, marie rose gatete said her father encouraged her to study in the united states to avoid the dangers in rwanda. 
“i remember that [my fa­ther] was telling us that he would do anything to help us get out of the country, to help us get education and hope­fully have a better life without fear of being killed, being tor­tured . what we went through when we were young kids,” she said. “when he passed away, i wanted to keep the legacy i told you about hard working and just keeping my faith. … it was during the hardest time in my life, during the genocide, when i was calling, and they were telling me, ‘This one died. your sister died. your aunts . they died. your nephew died. 

Congratulate your graduate with a senior ad in the commencement edition of The Observer! 
May 16th, 2014 

For more information, please contact: (574)-631-7471 or observergradad@gmail.com 
Ads are due May 2nd 
Incident 
conTinued From page 1 
inspection to identify and fix any areas of concern,” mooney said in the email. “it was our intent to address this as quickly as humanly possible. nothing is more important than the safety, security and privacy of our stu­dents, campus guests, faculty and staff. 
“This is a very troubling mo­ment in saint mary’s 170-year history, but one man’s actions certainly does not mar the ex­cellence of this institution, the 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Taken for grant-ed 

Wei Lin 
photo editor 
dear grant, our photo editor emeritus, 

i just wanted to start off with a haiku i wrote: 
i’ve gotten complaints. 
your chest hair is unsightly. 
grant, please, button up. 

here’s where all the mushy, gushy stuff begins. it has truly been a blast working with you. you are a great photographer, leader and friend. while you have your idiosyncra­sies and sometimes seem unap­proachable, getting to know you has definitely changed that. going to nashville and spending time with you definitely allowed me to see the other side of you, and i am so glad that i was given the opportunity. 
Fastest responder 
To texts i have ever met. 
do you ever sleep? 

you made the photo department what it is today and i cannot thank you enough. your frequent emails and texts even after ending your term as photo editor shows how much you are dedicated to and in­vested in the photo department and The observer. 
despite his short height, 

grant Tobin’s vast photo skills 
will truly be missed. 

everyone makes fun of you for your height, but i’m in the same boat, so i can relate. you always say to exude confidence, and i will do just that. you give great advice, and i hope others are as lucky as i am. 
Thank you for an awesome year, grant. you will be missed. 
with lots of love, wei lin and the photo department 
p.s. ladies, he is still single. hit him up. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

You gotta Regatta 
did you have your fill of dorm events after you con­sumed your weight in cinnamon rolls at the lewis hall of pancakes? did you laugh your last at the final joke of the keenan revue? did you join the freshman girls at the dillon hall pep rally? 
after all of this, did you find yourself wishing: isn’t there something more?  let me tell you about a conver­sation i overheard that might answer this question. 
i observed two people strolling along south Quad the other day. one asked the other, “what’s the Fisher regatta?” The other’s response to this inquiry is the only possible response for someone who has experi­enced the regatta: “what is life?” 
have you ever wanted to do something awesome? if your answer is yes, keep reading and clear the area around you of anything fragile because you just might start throwing things in joyous celebration. if you and i have the same definition of awesome, then awesome means celebrating the spring sunshine and sending winter packing in the most righteous way possible. 
how else could one do this except by paddling a boat/floatable device across st. mary’s lake, eating free burgers and having a radical outdoor shindig? luckily for everyone at notre dame, there is an up­coming event with this exact description, and it is the Fisher regatta. 
The regatta puts all the other dorm events to shame. if you don’t believe me and think i’m just some random sophomore who has no idea what he’s talking about, i’d like you to ponder the fact that the regatta has been named one of espn’s top 100 college campus events. if you still don’t believe espn and me, ask any nearby upperclassman, “hey, did you go to the Fisher regatta last year?” and watch as a wide grin spreads across his face. why is he grinning with pleasure? simply because at no other time will you be able to chill with a bunch of your friends in the afternoon, eating burgers and dancing to music while watching people aboard an inflatable kiddie pool submerge into a lake. 
do you even need more convincing that this is the dorm event to top all dorm events? 
The temperature, like our spirits, is rising, so it would behoove you to shelve those sweatpants and that winter coat and replace them with a bro tank and colored shorts. your mom wants me to remind you that you need to put on that expired sunblock and those sunglasses that have been gathering dust, in prepara­tion for the dorm event of all dorm events on april 26. 
echoing the words of ac/dc singer brian Johnson, Fisher hall would like to say, “For those about to [regatta], we salute you.” 
billy cheely sophomore april 24 
Response to ‘(Re)production’ 
i am writing in response to professor botting’s letter “(re)production is not ‘success.’” 
i would like to begin by thanking professor botting for her engagement with the important ideas discussed at the panel. That being said, i am concerned her ab­sence from the actual event seems to have contributed to a significant misunderstanding of my argument. The observer article paraphrased me as saying “a woman’s true success is not achieved until her fertility is em­braced,” and it is this statement upon which professor botting’s passionate letter is based. 
i did not make this statement, and i do not agree with it. The observer correctly quoted me as saying, “the catholic perspective fully embraces and integrates all aspects of a woman’s personhood.” clearly, i strongly agree with professor botting that women should not be defined in terms of their reproductive capabilities. To reduce a woman to her reproductive capacity would be to ignore the intrinsic dignity of each woman, a dig­nity that is not dependent upon whether or not she can conceive. 
rather, my point is that by presenting contracep­tion as essential to women’s equality and success, the hhs mandate sends the message that a woman’s op­portunity for success or equality is dependent upon suppressing her fertility. i believe this undermines the movement for equality among women and men, by requiring women to leave their fertility at the door. The catholic church also rejects this single-sexed 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“when we exercise self-control on a given occasion, we win for ourselves a little credibility we can rely on the next time around. pretty soon we develop a reputation to ourselves that we want badly to uphold. with each test that we meet, our resolve gains momentum, fueled by the fear that we may succumb and establish a damaging precedent for our own weakness.” 
Daniel Akst 
author and Newsday columnist 

definition of success, instead fully embracing and inte­grating all aspects of woman, including her fertility. 
To claim that contraception is key to women’s success is demeaning to all women. women deserve better than this. instead, we need to promote real resources to sup­port women who are pregnant or parenting. our efforts need to be focused on providing mandatory paid mater­nity leave, better prenatal care, better financial aid and medical care for women and children, and better, more affordable, childcare, which would support all women’s success in the workplace. 
Finally, in the last paragraph of her viewpoint, professor botting seems to imply that the hhs mandate is necessary to provide women with contraception for non-contraceptive health reasons. as a matter of fact, notre dame . along with many of the other religious organizations that oppose the hhs mandate . already provides contraception to women for non-contracep­tive health reasons. however, anyone who did hear my full presentation will recall my personal story of finally finding real medical help through napro technology, after numerous doctors tried to merely “band-aid” my symptoms with contraception. i would love to share my story again, so professor botting and anyone else who is interested, please feel free to contact me. 
erin stoyell-mulholland junior april 24 



america’s disturbing wealth disparity 
Sarah Morris 
candid contemplation 

over the past few years, the increasing wealth disparity in the united states has gained the attention of academics, jour­nalists and politicians. Just yesterday, The new york Times published an ex­tensive story declaring, “The american middle class is no longer the world’s richest,” accompanied by a swath of alarming new data that shows substan­tial lags behind western europe and canada. 
most would agree that these concern­ing patterns starkly emerged as a result of the tax policies put in place by the reagan administration, and were exac­erbated by the decline of labor unions and subsequent policies of the bush Tax cuts in the early 2000s. of course, some level of inequality is inevitable in a nation that values freedom as well as equality, but today’s dramatic disparity far surpasses what anyone can consider healthy. 
currently, levels of income inequality equal those of the 1920s and continue to grow. as politico magazine and pew research report, the top one percent of american incomes have increased near­ly 280 percent over the past 20 years, as the bottom 20 percent of wage earners have seen growth of only 18 percent. Furthermore, the top 20 percent of the nation owned 88.9 percent of the total wealth in 2010, while the bottom 40 percent owned less than one percent. These figures are staggering and have severe consequences. scientists have produced compelling studies that con­nect high levels of income inequality to many societal maladies, including lower quality of health, lower life expectancy rates, unequal political engagement, in­creased corruption and frail economies. 
most recognize these patterns as a problem that must be addressed — though many prominent conservatives continue to disregard the issue with the flippant label of “class warfare” — for 69 percent of americans believe that the government should do something about the rising levels of inequality, according to a recent survey from pew research. however, proposed solutions are highly varied. 
some understand the key to lie in increased economic freedom for all americans. This liberty must come in the form of lower tax rates across the board . for individuals and corporations alike . as well as cuts to programs that supposedly “perpetuate the cycle of poverty,” like welfare, medicaid, food stamps and various other channels of discretionary spending. by allowing americans to retain greater percentages of their annual income, rather than con­tributing to inefficient federal programs, the argument goes, families will have more discretion that will lead to oppor­tunity. much-needed reform to today’s social programs will also aid in greater upward mobility since poor americans will no longer be trapped by incentives to remain on uncle sam’s dollar, but will be encouraged to seek employment and independence. 

however, these ideas are sorely mis­guided. They fail to address the problem at hand and, in reality, would aggravate the existing trends even further. The guise of “personal liberty” masks the true outcomes of such a course of ac­tion, which would include significant tax breaks for top earners and crip­pling cuts to vital programs that have been proven successful by independent research. 
according to The washington post, if paul ryan’s “path to prosperity” budget proposal, which encompasses many of the aforementioned ideas and was passed by the house on april 10, were to be enacted, it would cost the govern­ment $5.7 trillion dollars over the next nine years, in spite of cutting only $5.2 trillion to social programs — resulting in a loss of $500 billion. Therefore, in addition to increasing inequality and posing disastrous threats to millions of americans who depend on govern­mental services, such solutions would bring about severely problematic fiscal consequences. 
instead, the proper solution for ad­dressing rising levels of income inequal­ity is based on legislative action in the form of progressive tax reform and education. Through tax policy that tar­gets capital gains, corporate loopholes and the very top earners to which the “buffett rule” should apply, we can be­gin to slow the rising levels of inequality while simultaneously increasing federal revenue that is so desperately needed. 
beyond this direct approach, the more holistic solution depends on the restora­tion of our country’s shrinking middle class. educational efforts like universal pre-k and increased funding to commu­nity colleges directly lead to adulthood success and pave the clearest path to a strengthened middle class. These ideas address the problems at hand through both broad and specific lenses and will begin to close the overwhelming gap between rich and poor. 
social scientists across the board agree that education is the clearest link to higher incomes, levels of employ­ment, life expectancy, civic engagement and health. by choosing to invest in a proven stepping-stone to positive out­comes and reforming federal tax codes to promote equity, we will be taking the first steps in addressing a complex issue that invariably affects us all. 
Sarah Morris is a sophomore political science and American studies major in Ryan Hall. She can be contacted at smorris8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Mendoza enrollment cap consequences 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

in late February, the university an­nounced that beginning with the class of 2018, enrollment in the mendoza college of business would be capped at 550 students per class. This is not all that surprising. mendoza already does not accept sophomore transfer students, and wharton school (upenn), ross (michigan), and kelley (indiana university) already have various caps or required applications for prospective students. The business school is busting at the seams, and the administration is acting accordingly. 
one thing the administration has unsurprisingly glossed over . or only vaguely alluded to . in publicizing the move is the impact it stands to have on the college of arts & letters. while touting the advantages of an enrollment cap . maintaining smaller class sizes and keeping business classes open to non-business majors . the more quietly stated motive almost certainly derives from the slow-drip of arts & letters students into mendoza. paraphrasing dean of First year of studies hugh page, The observer wrote “the admissions office and the First year of studies are working to provide more information to high school students and freshmen on the different paths to a career in busi­ness besides a business major.” 
major enrollment statistics are available online through the office of institutional research to anybody with a notre dame netid. as spreadsheets go, they’re something to see. while the total number of notre dame undergrad­uates has essentially held constant over the past 10 years, the number of un­dergraduates enrolled in arts & letters has plummeted. political science, once the most popular undergraduate major with 684 enrollees, has lost 38 percent of its students since the spring of 2004. likewise, the history department has dropped from 324 to 196 undergraduate majors, and english has fallen from 424 to 239. over the same period, the num­ber of finance majors has climbed from 368 to 482 (25 percent). it is now the most popular major at notre dame. 
with the recession and increasing market demand for sTem majors, the loss is not surprising, and university officials like associate vice president of admissions don bishop have said as much. but the numbers and the move to cap mendoza’s enrollment are most indicative of the sad fact that arts & letters has so far failed to make its case that the degrees it confers are valuable, both in terms of post-graduate employ­ment prospects and the intrinsic value a liberal education carries. 
arts & letters has to sell prospective students on the following value propo­sition: a liberal arts education, if not more beneficial than a business degree for one’s post-baccalaureate employ­ment prospects, will at least not hurt them. and, to the extent that a liberal arts degree does not directly translate to immediate and lucrative private-sector employment, you will at least realize benefits of critical thinking and reflection you could not hone as sharply elsewhere. 

in short, if you don’t land the finance job because you chose philosophy, you’ll at least be a better person. 
i subscribe to this idea wholeheart­edly, but there are several structural and rhetorical barriers to making this sale. The first is best summed up by my friend andrew: “if you’re gonna pay $60,000 a year for this, you better expect a job at the other end.” The job market today compared to the one our parents faced is horrid, and the prom­ise of thinking, speaking and writing more lucidly is poor consolation if your degree doesn’t swiftly punch your ticket to gainful employment. The unemploy­ment rate of arts & letters students six months after graduation is only three percent . compared to one percent in mendoza . but the percentage of stu­dents opting for law school, grad school and service (all outstanding options) gives pause to parents who write the tuition checks. 
second, mendoza offers a package that is nothing short of seductive to a freshman who just pulled their nose out of the us news & world report rankings. bloomberg businessweek has reminded mendoza students and fac­ulty every spring for the past five years that they are the number-one under­grad b-school in the country. graduate with a 3.8 from mendoza, and a top investment bank will hire you. against that, arts & letters appears to offer rela­tive uncertainty and insecurity. That’s certainly how it looked to me two years ago as a freshman, even as i took the plunge into the humanities and social sciences. 
capping mendoza may slow the flow of would-be history majors into accoun­tancy, but it will simultaneously add another layer of exclusivity and cachet to the notre dame business major, and thus another hurdle for arts & letters in selling first-year students on the liberal arts. First-year students will ask how good arts & letters could actually be if it doesn’t actively try to weed fresh­men out with an application process or slate of backbreaking classes like orgo and Transport i. while science and engineering kids say, “i survived,” and business kids say, “i got in,” us arts & letters folks will have to find our secu­rity elsewhere. 
on balance, capping mendoza enroll­ment seems like the right, if inevitable, decision. arts & letters will need to accompany it with a stellar recruiting effort, or its would-be students will continue looking toward mendoza, now more exclusive, chic and alluring than ever. 
Alex Caton is a junior living in St. Edward’s Hall. He can be contacted at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
senior scene writer 

i unapologetically am absolutely not an expert music critic, and have never pretended to be anything of the sort, even in the rare album reviews i’ve done — i fear the five-shamrock rating i handed to macklemore & ryan lewis’s “The heist” will prevent me from ever being good friends with any self-impor­tant, “real” music fans for years to come. my defense to friends, colleagues and haters over the years has always been that i may not know what’s good, but i know what i like and don’t like, and that’s good enough for me. 
additionally, i don’t like to criticize student organizations on campus for their programming decisions, because i know how difficult it is to pull together big events successfully, and it’s not like planning an event for a club is a full-time job upon which the merits of someone’s character should be judged. i think sub does a great job, and the 
By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

a hot new country music artist comes to legends on Friday. Jokes. Jamie lynn spears comes to legends on Friday at 10 
p.m. she is young though, and she has recorded a country music song, so i was not being entirely facetious. 
she literally has just the one song out. her debut album has not dropped yet. so what will she be singing in concert? only one way to find out.The one single we can be sure she will sing is “how could i want more.” it’s a soft, sad, girly country song. it has the same theme as 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 
people who work in it are generally nice kids. 
all that being said — the goo goo dolls? For real? They’re a fine band, sure. i like “iris” much in the same way i enjoy bad wayans brothers movies — somewhat ironically unless no one’s around, and then wholeheartedly. They created some of the most memorable and pop-culturally referenced songs of the late 90s, and the songs are soft enough that maybe the band can still kill them live like they did 15 years ago when they debuted. 
but for goodness’ sake, couldn’t we have edged a little more toward, i don’t know, relevance? someone who has put out meaningful, noteworthy, popular or even nameable music in the last de­cade? please? 
last year’s concert was atlanta-based almost-rapper b.o.b, and even though i was abroad, general consensus seems to be positive. people liked him, and it was a fun show. The change in venue from the traditional choice of the dreadful, 
Taylor swift’s “The way i loved you,” but is much less catchy. The song is about a girl who has a nice boyfriend, but their relationship lacks passion. you don’t have to worry about it being overplayed to the point of exhaustion pre-concert, because, really, where are you going to be hearing it? The song is not particu­larly irritating, so give it a listen before­hand so you can sing along. why not? 
Jamie lynn probably also will sing a cover of her sister britney’s “chillin’ with you.” The song is a sister duet from her most recent album “britney Jean.” we notre dame kids do love siblings and celebrating them, so check this god-awful, why-don’t-they-tear-that­down stepan center to compton was a much-lauded decision, and b.o.b’s energy and popular music was a much-appreciated shift from the previous two years, which featured o.a.r. one year and Third eye blind the next. 

clearly, though, b.o.b and compton proved too radical a policy shift, as this year they’ve been replaced by the dolls and a return to that good old ninth gate to hell, stepan. There are students on this campus who like music other than soft rock and musicians other than mid-forties guys in funny hats. it’s like our concert selections are being made by a middle-aged man who wasn’t cool in high school and now is desperately try­ing to fit in with somebody, anybody. it’s me in 20 years, and i’ll be picking bands like all-american rejects and good charlotte. 
look, i can live with the goo goo dolls, whatever. but they’re not much more than a carbon copy of two of the three bands we’ve seen in our four years 
song out. The message of the song is quite deep and is difficult to summarize with only a few words. luckily, the title already does that. it’s about how when britney and Jamie get together, they are “chillin’.” and often times, they drink some red wine. other than those two songs, i am sure we can depend upon a lot of country and britney covers. in my experience, college kids love covers and washed-up teen has-beens. This is prob­ably going to be a really fun concert. legend’s knows us better than we know ourselves. i never would have asked for the younger spears to come to campus, but am i going to have a great time at here. can’t we broaden our horizons? and for the love of all things holy, can we have the concert literally anywhere other than stepan center? There’s got to be someone popular, exciting, talented or edgy in the slightest way whatsoever that we can convince to come cash a check here. Fine, we probably won’t see Tyler, the creator any time soon — though how fun would that be? — but let’s try taking a chance in a different di­rection next time. maybe. if you feel like it. who am i kidding, i’m graduating; i don’t care. have fun with spin doctors next year. 
The concert opens at 7 p.m. in stepan center. Tickets are $20, but they’re probably already sold out, because my opinions are generally wildly exagger­ated and even more wildly wrong. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at                                     knoonan2@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
that concert? you bet. i think everyone should go. even if she isn’t talented, popular or good in any sense, it’s an ironic way to spend a Friday night. and i live for irony.  plus, this is the perfect way to kick off a weekend that will surely be closed out by bret michaels’ concert at club Fever on sunday. it’s going to be a funny weekend, and hopefully a fun one too. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

once called “the kurt vonnegut of rock” by rolling stone magazine, lead singer, songwriter and front man for the band eels mark oliver everett — known more commonly as moe and even more commonly as e — has been delivering music racked with sardonic hope, cyni­cal humanism, wit and dry humor to the indie rock community for just shy of 30 years, since before it was cool — since before it was cool to do things since be­fore they were cool. with a long beard, raspy voice and worn-out strumming style, e has been telling youths of the 80s, 90s and today that although it’s really freakin’ hard, the good in life ultimately outweighs the bad. 
i started listening to the eels when i was 12 or 13 years old. Their most recent album was blinking lights and other revelations, and i had heard the song “losing streak” on the shrek soundtrack and decided to learn to play it on piano. i did. still one of my favorite songs to play. out of like, the nine. a guy i do re­search with was telling me the other day that the song “Things the grandchildren should know” is one of his favorite songs of youth to this day. in 2009, eels’ release of “hombre lobo” brought with it a series of high-energy, western-facing cigarette-smelling songs that were guaranteed to occupy one of the six discs in my dad’s suv until i graduated high school. it might even still be there. 
but starting with ’10s release “end Times,” eels adopted a much softer, slow­er, emotional sound. This sound was not absent on previous records, but starting with “end Times,” both e’s lyrical style and stripped-down instrumentation seem more tired and worn-out through­out each album. in a career move remi­niscent of early bob dylan, engaging songwriting has been brought out of the spotlight (not forgotten) to make room for lyrical potency. slow songs about ex-girlfriends, about regret, about emo­tional hindsight take up almost all of the eels discography in the last half-decade. with the caveat of the heavy use of per­cussion and a return to electric instru­ments on “wonderful, glorious,” eels stays true to its more depressing thought process through “Tomorrow morning” (2010) and the most recent addition to eels discography, “The cautionary Tales of mark oliver everett,” which was re­leased this past Tuesday. 

reminiscent of “end Times” and “Tomorrow morning” in attitude, song structure and lyrical makeup, “cautionary Tales” delivers another package of regretful hindsight, lost love and lonely-heart ballads. now, while there is certainly nothing wrong with songs, or even albums, of this nature (see my review of beck’s “morning phase”) several albums that follow this feel in monotone released in succession tend to leave the listener disappointed. Focusing on his emotional and physical weariness, the last few eels albums have explored the experiences that accompany enter­ing middle age — and e doesn’t make it seem too bright. i find it hard to give e credit for even his songwriting ability; although his beauty has always been in his simplicity, he has seemed to reach his limit on different ways he can say, “i’m pretty sure i’m depressed.” 
“The Cautionary Tales of Mark Oliver Everett” 
Eels 
Label: E Works 
Tracks: “Lockdown Hurricane,” “Where I’m Going” If you like: Beck, somber music 

Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Predicting the summer in sports 

Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
with the last days of the school year petering out, it’s as good of a time as any to reflect on the great year of sports we’ve had so far. since school began in august, we’ve seen everything, from the mi­raculous moments like auburn cornerback chris davis’s game-winning, missed-field-goal return against alabama to more depressing happenings like another knee injury for former nba mvp derrick rose. 
but as fun as reminiscing can be, the best thing about sports is that these great, unexpected moments happen every single year. This summer will be no different. with the nba and stanley cup playoffs looming, the mlb season raging and so much more happening this summer, the sports world will be a very different place when school resumes next fall. so, instead of celebrate the past, i’d rather present a few predictions for the twists and turns of the summer. 
Johnny Manziel will be picked eighth by the Minnesota Vikings in the NFL Draft 
The controversial quarter­back, projected by some to drop on draft day because of his attitude and height, will imme­diately be proclaimed the solu­tion to the vikings’ revolving door at the position. minnesota fans will gush about his amaz­ing college highlights, and declare that, like drew brees and russell wilson before him, manziel will take revenge on teams that passed him because of his small stature. This talk, however, will dwindle in august after reports out of training camp reveal Johnny Football is clashing with new head coach mike Zimmer and being outperformed by matt cassel, returning vikings’ fans to their usual sullen silence. 
The Miami Heat will de­feat the Oklahoma City Thunder in seven games in the NBA Finals 
after oklahoma city’s kevin durant wins the nba mvp and averages over 38 points against the spurs in the western conference finals, many pre­dict that he will use the Finals to claim the title of world’s best basketball player from its cur­rent holder, the heat’s lebron James. much to the chagrin of James haters, however, it will be James who stamps his mark on the series by reaching for an extra gear to harass durant into mere 43-percent shooting, shoot nearly 60 percent himself on offense and even notch a triple-double in the series-deciding game 7. even better for heat “fans,” James will an­nounce he will be returning to miami to pursue more champi­onships. 
Carmelo Anthony will sign with the Chicago Bulls 
another superstar will not be as loyal, as anthony will ignore the new york knicks’ hiring of phil Jackson as president and enter free agency. citing his desire to play for a winner and his respect for head coach Tom Thibodeau, the small forward will take his versatile scoring skills to the windy city. already boasting one of the league’s top defenses, the bulls will im­mediately jump to the top of the list of projected contenders behind their new “big Three” of anthony, derrick rose and Joakim noah. still, worried whispers will persist among doubters about anthony’s mo­tor and rose’s health. 
The United States will not make it out of Group Play in the World Cup 
group g will live up to its “group of death” nickname, and the u.s. national team shall be sent home from brazil early. american fans will mourn briefly and then return to not caring about soccer for the rest of the summer. 
Yasiel Puig will win the Home Run Derby 
while the cuban star has attracted his share of disap­proval for his off-field behavior, hot-headedness and perceived antics, puig’s performance on the field will prove all that ir­relevant. behind his formidable bat, the dodgers will race to first place in the nl west, and puig will make his first all-star game. There he will become the second-straight cuban player to win the derby, after yoenis cespedes last year. reports that he was also the first contestant to attempt to fight his pitcher in the locker room will remain unconfirmed. 
while all these predictions are possible, chances that summer unfolds in such a way are slim to none. and that’s the way it should be, because much of the fun of sports comes from their unpredictability. so buckle up as the weather warms, because no matter what you dream up for this summer, the sports gods have something better in store for you. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the authoer and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish make tourney debut 
Observer Staff Report 

no. 13 notre dame will make its acc Tournament debut Friday at noon against no. 16 clemson at cary Tennis park, in cary, n.c. The irish (18-8, 7-4 acc) have won five out of their last six matches heading into the tournament. 
Five of the twelve teams in the conference are currently ranked in the top 20 nation­ally. Joining notre dame in the top 20 are conference foes no. 4 virginia, no. 9 north carolina, no. 11 duke and clemson (20-7, 6-5). 
as the fourth seed, the irish qualified for a bye in the first round, which was held Thursday night. notre dame earned the fourth and final bye, while no. 1 seeded virginia, no. 2 duke and no. 3 north carolina qualified for the first three byes. 
notre dame will face no. 5-seeded clemson in the quarterfinals. The Tigers finished only one game be­hind the irish in the confer­ence standings. notre dame won the only meeting be­tween the two schools, 5-2, in a match held march 21 in clemson, s.c. 
at that time, the irish were ranked 11th nationally, while the Tigers were 20th. The irish win came on the heels of notre dame’s only 7-0 loss on the season, to usc on march 14. 
clemson took the dou­bles point, but the irish countered with five wins in singles play, including a back-and-forth match be­tween irish senior ryan bandy and clemson junior alejandro augusto, 6-7 (3­7), 6-4, 1-0 (10-8). 
notre dame ended the season on a roll, winning four matches in a row, in­cluding a 7-0 sweep of boston college on april 19 to end the regular season. with the win, the irish fin­ished 7-4 in acc play during the spring campaign. 
after this weekend, the irish will have two weeks to prepare for the first and second rounds of the ncaa tournament, held from may 9-11. The first two rounds are held on the campus of the higher seed, while the final rounds of the champi­onships run from may 15-26 in athens, ga. 
For now, the irish will play clemson in the quar­terfinal round of the acc championships on Friday. if they advance, they play saturday against the win­ner of virginia-Florida state, with the conference championship on sunday in cary, n.c. 
ROWING 

nd faces top competition 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 

no. 10 notre dame heads to bloomington, ind., this weekend for the dale england cup, hosted at lake lemon by no. 13 indiana. 
The irish look to bounce back from their perfor­mance last weekend against no. 7 michigan and no. 3 ohio state at the acc-big Ten challenge. notre dame failed to win any of the re­gatta’s races, though it fin­ished within 10 seconds of the winning boat six times and got as close as a mere two seconds back in it second varsity eight race against the wolverines. 
improvement will be a central focus for the irish this weekend, freshman hilary shinnick said. 
“we have been close on a lot of races,” shinnick said. “so, it’s important just to keep concentrating on the little things we can control. we have to keep trusting each other and finish races as strong as we can.” 

WANTED 

PERFECT SUMMER JOB Child care provider for two boys for the summer. Crafts, sports and other activities required. Flex. hours, FT or PT, competitive wage. Call 
The dale england cup will take place over two days and will feature a total of 32 events raced by boats from notre dame, indiana, alabama and rhode island. The irish will have entries in 19 of the events, as they will enter three varsity four squads and two varsity eight squads throughout the course of the competition. 
Four coxswains . senior christina dines, junior mikaela prego and sopho­mores alex Techar and Jill ryan . lead the top four entries for notre dame. dines’s varsity eight will aim to improve on its most recent time of 6:32.25, while the varsity four, which prego leads, will try to bet­ter its last time of 7:39.83. 
as for the cup’s hosts, the hoosiers come in af­ter earning three wins at last weekend’s clemson invitational. meanwhile, the crimson Tide are com­ing off a free week after they secured two top-10 finishes in races at the knecht cup regatta in west windsor Township, n.J., on april 13. in rhode island’s last out­ing, the rams took three of four races from rutgers on april 12. 
shinnick said the irish are confident they can earn victories this weekend. 
“we have faced top teams from all over the country,” shinnick said. “This week­end will be tough, but we are ready to perform our best and rely on the expe­riences we’ve had and the work we’ve put in. we are getting better as a team and need to just keep build­ing. This is a key point in our season, and we need to make sure all the work pays of f.” 
The dale england cup marks notre dame’s last competition prior to the acc championship may 16 and 17. The irish begin rac­ing Friday at 4:30 p.m., and the competition is sched­uled to conclude early saturday afternoon. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
574-271-0747 and experience swimmer preferred. 
Please contact Emily Neufeld at 

ND alumni seeking an ener-574.532.7295 for more information. getic, organized and experienced student to provide full-time child-On this day:  David Robinson scored care to 2 boys ages 10 &amp; 71 points against the Los Angeles 12 from mid June to mid August. Clippers (‘71) ... Apple Records de-Personal transportation required cided not to sign David Bowie (‘68). 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | acc championships 
Irish advance 
Observer Staff Report 
The first day of the acc tour­nament saw no. 7-seed notre dame seal a 4-0 victory over 10th-seeded boston college on Thursday at cary Tennis park in cary, n.c., setting up a Friday meeting with second-seeded miami (Fl). 
The irish (17-8, 9-6 acc) cruised to a victory, taking the doubles point clinched by an 8-3 victory by senior duo Julie sabacinski and Jennifer kellner. The position-three doubles went to notre dame when the boston college pairing of freshman emily safron and sophomore heini salonen withdrew because of an injury to salonen. 

notre dame then earned an­other quick point because the eagles (14-9, 6-7 acc) did not have a complete lineup with salonen injured and forfeited the sixth singles position. 
irish senior brittany sanders followed with a 6-3, 6-1 sin­gles victory over junior Jessica wacnik, and freshman monica robinson clinched the match with a 6-3, 6-2 win over safron. 
The singles matches of kellner, sophomore Quinn gleason and freshman mary closs went unfinished. 
The irish lost to the hurricanes (18-4, 12-2 acc) earlier in the year, 6-1, in coral gables, Fla. The quarterfinals match will begin at 
11:30 a.m. Friday in cary, n.c. 

paid adverTisemenT 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 7, valparaiso 2 
Winter sets strikeout mark 
Observer Staff Report 
senior pitcher laura winter earned her 20th victory on the season, sophomore first base­man micaela arizmendi hit her team-leading 11th home run of the year, and the notre dame bats came alive to de­feat in-state rival valparaiso, 7-2, for a 32nd consecutive time dating back to 1990. 
The visiting crusaders (19­26, 9-4 horizon) tallied two first-inning runs on back-to­back solo home runs by senior second baseman amanda wisniewski and junior first baseman Tarah mcshane. however, winter (20-4) set­tled in nicely, allowing just singles from there on out as she struck out 13 batters while allowing just one walk. 
but the irish offense squan­dered chance after chance against valparaiso sopho­more starting pitcher Taylor weissenhofer (12-8). in the first inning, two walks and a bunt single by junior center-fielder emilee koerner loaded the bases, but notre dame (31-10, 10-5 acc) could not capitalize. in the second, the irish stranded two after lin­ing into a double play. Junior third baseman katey haus scored junior second base­man Jenna simon on an rbi double off the wall in right-center in the third inning, but the irish bats remained largely dormant until the fifth inning. 
but then they roared to life. haus scored freshman leftfielder karley wester on a sacrifice fly with the bases loaded and a throwing error on the play brought simon around as well to give the irish their first lead. The next batter was arizmendi, who swatted a two-run home run to left field to give notre dame a cushion it would not need. koerner also added two insurance runs in the sixth inning, as her 20th double of the season scored both wester and simon once again. it was her second consecutive sea­son with 20 doubles, a feat that she is the first in program history to achieve. 
it was another day of mile­stones in a season full of them for laura winter. already the winningest pitcher in program history, she joined heather booth as just the sec­ond pitcher in school history to record four 20-win seasons. she also struck out the 1,000th batter of her prolific career in the top of the fourth inning. 
and she was as dominant as ever in the circle, striking out the side in the seventh inning to slam the door shut. 
notre dame is back in action this weekend as they host a three-game set with maryland (8-32, 4-13 acc). The two teams play a saturday after­noon doubleheader starting at 1 p.m., then play the rubber match at 7 p.m. sunday night to finise the series. 

TRACK AND FIELD | drake relays 
nd competes at drake relays 
Observer Staff Report 
competition began Thursday afternoon at the drake relays in des moines, iowa, as notre dame athletes competed in event finals in the men’s 4x1,600-meter relay.  Thursday marked the first action for the irish since a successful debut at the acc outdoor champion­ships, where the men’s team finished third and the no. 22 women’s team finished sec­ond and just 15 points away 
paid adverTisemenT 
from first place. 
earlier in the afternoon, notre dame ran the 4x1600­meter relay against compe­tition from no. 14 nebraska, no. 6 georgia, iowa and missouri, among other schools. graduate student and recent acc gold med­alist nick happe anchored the relay run by junior chris Quinn, graduate student 
J.p. malette and freshman Jacob dumford as the irish took third place with a time of 16:24.32, less than three seconds behind the win­ning relay from washington and three-hundredths of a second behind runner-up illinois. 
This weekend’s meets are the first in a series of tune­ups before ncaa prelimi­naries in late may. The irish travel to bloomington, ind., charlottesville, va., and atlanta in a whirlwind cou­ple of weeks before a short break leading up to national championships. 
action begins in earnest tomorrow, as irish athletes compete in nine events in des moines. Junior sprinter Jade barber, fresh off the first acc gold medal in notre dame history, runs in the 100-meter hurdles along­side her sister, junior kaila barber. The gold medal wom­en’s 4x400-meter relay is also back in action. Junior emily morris will compete in the shot put and senior amanda chamblee will throw javelin. 
on the men’s side, ju­nior Josh atkinson will run in the 100-meter dash, and the men’s 4x400-meter relay unit of junior chris giesting, senior Jarrod buchanon, freshman harvey smith and senior patrick Feeney is also competing. in the field, ju­nior keith mesidor and se­nior logan renwick are both entered in the long jump. 
The irish continue to com­pete at the drake relays to­day, and action begins at the hillsdale gina relays in hillsdale, mich., in the early afternoon. 


paid adverTisemenT 




W Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
Freshman goaltender liz o’sullivan made just her third start of the season and played all sixty minutes for the irish, stop­ping six shots on the night. as the ncaa tournament looms, halfpenny said the young goal­ie gained valuable experience against the top-ranked team in the country. 
“she did what she could do,” halfpenny said. “The stops we did get … are definitely some­thing that she’s going to build off of and learn from.” 
while syracuse will move on to the semifinals of the ncaa tournament, notre dame must now hope the ncaa selection committee deems them worthy of an at-large bid. halfpenny said she hopes that the committee considers the quality of their op­ponents this season when they look at notre dame’s resume. 

“we’re battle-tested,” halfpenny said. “we’ve played the best. we’ve played every team that’s won a national title in the past ten years. we’re definitely going to hang our hat on not only that experience, but also what we did against it. There were incred­ible shining moments in every single game, including our short acc tournament.” 
The ncaa tournament field is announced may 4. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

irish take on strong field 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame heads south this weekend to com­pete in its first ever acc championships at the old north state club in new london, n.c. 
The 12-team field is head­lined by such national pow­erhouses as no. 2 georgia Tech, no. 9 virginia and no. 13 virginia Tech. The irish enter the competition with momentum after claiming their first win of the season at the oak hill invitational in rochester n.y., on Tuesday. 
in their first year in the conference, notre dame faces a tall order against the top of the conference. The acc features four top­25 teams, while the irish are currently ranked no. 99 in the nation, ahead of only no. 137 maryland and no. 211 boston college in the con­ference. The irish sit within 15 spots of acc adversaries duke, north carolina state and north carolina. 
The blue devils, ranked 85th in the country, won the acc championships last spring with a team score of 25 shots under par for the weekend in a field that in­cluded eight teams in the top 100. The irish, in their final season in the big east, finished in third place in their former conference af­ter posting the best final round of any team. 
For the irish, senior cap­tain niall platt will lead the team in the final weeks of his collegiate career. in notre dame’s sixth-place finish at the irish creek collegiate on april 5-6, platt enjoyed team-best rounds on all three days, finishing each round under par. he ended competition with a score of 209, good for a tie in second place. at the oak hill invitational, platt con­tinued to play well, shooting his best round of the season 
(66) and taking medalist honors in his best finish all year. 
notre dame’s top senior will be joined by freshman matt rushton, who will try to build on top-20 per­formances in the past two tournaments. at the irish creek invitational, he had only one round above par. like platt, rushton fared competitively against his acc peers at irish creek, as he finished within two strokes of six acc foes in the competition. 
The irish will step onto the course at the old north state club this weekend for the acc championships in new london, n.c. 






The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Bookstore 
conTinued From page 16 
loss to holy cross Juniors. 
Touchdown 3s def. CJ’s Party of Five 
sixth-seeded Touchdown 3s pulled off a 21-15 upset over no. 3-seed cJ’s party of Five last night to advance to the Final Four of the bookstore basketball tournament. 
The squad never trailed and led by as many as seven points in the game. 
“This game was a total team ef­fort,” Touchdown 3s senior guard chris cali said. ”if you look at the point distribution, almost every­one scored the same amount of points. The way we play team bas­ketball really distinguishes this team.” 
on an afternoon when the wind limited both teams’ ability to shoot jump shots, Touchdown 3s adjusted its game plan to utilize its guards’ height advantage. 
“because of the wind, we knew that most of our points would have to come around the basket,” junior captain kevin gates said. “even though they had bigger big men, we had bigger guards size-wise, so we used them to post up and score inside.” 
after Touchdown 3s jumped out to an early lead, cJ’s party of Five tied the game at eight and trailed by only two points at the break, 11-9. Touchdown 3s then went on a 7-1 run and never looked back as it claimed a six-point victory. 
“i think it came down to the fact that we were able to neutralize their advantage down low,” cali said. “we knew that they wanted to get it down to Tom knight so our focus was deny, deny, deny.” 
Touchdown 3s will face the no. 2 seeded uncle drew nem in a semifinal game slated for 7 
p.m. tonight. The winner will ad­vance to the championship game saturday. 
Holy Cross Juniors def. The Show 
The no. 4-seeded holy cross Juniors made several critical stops and survived a late push by no. 5-seeded The show to secure a 21­19 victory in Thursday’s elite eight matchup. 
Junior Zoe bauer started holy cross Juniors off on the right foot, attacking the basket and knocking down a shot to put them up 2-0. 
The show responded with two quick baskets of its own, begin­ning a series of trading points un­til the score was knotted at 10-10. bauer made his third shot from well beyond the 3-point arc to give holy cross Juniors a 11-10 halftime lead. 
bauer, who finished with 10 points, stepped up throughout the game, filling the void left by his cousin and former bookstore teammate for the past two years, beau bauer. 
“beau scored most of our points last year, so we needed to find points somewhere,” he said. 
a 13-13 tie was broken when bauer went on an offensive tear, banking in shots on four of the five possessions. 
The show, however, made two blocks as part of a 4-1 comeback run that evened the score again at 19-19. 
holy cross Juniors made four crucial stops and brought the game to a close with a short jump­er and a transition basket to win, 21-19. 
“defense was definitely [a de­ciding factor],” bauer said. “we’re very vocal out there, and that helps.” 
bauer and juniors darrell mcintyre and alajowon edwards are members of the same two-time defending bookstore cham­pionship team, which bauer said contributed to their chemistry on the court against The show. 
“me and darrell and [alajowon], we’ve been playing together for three years, so we know each oth­er and play well together,” bauer said. 
holy cross Juniors will have a Final Four rematch against the top-seeded romeo medical clinic, its championship opponent from last year. bauer said he expects an­other back-and-forth battle. 
The game will take place Friday at 6 p.m. at court 4. 
Uncle Drew Nem def. #Team43 (forfeit) 
in the last game of the night, #Team43 forfeited to uncle drew nem, sending the no. 2 seed to the Final Four. 
#Team43, comprised of senior garrick sherman, a former var­sity basketball player, and four varsity soccer players, withdrew before play started Thursday. The men’s soccer team is scheduled to play the mexican under-20 national team in an exhibition Friday at alumni stadium. uncle drew nem will play Touchdown 3s in the semifinals Friday. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu, Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu and Andrew Robinson at     arobins6@nd.edu 
M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
the Terrapins from dominating the majority of possession again. 
“There are a number of things we could do differently to gain more control, such as having different players face off and different players on the wings,” corrigan said. “however, it wasn’t just our faceoff. our ground ball play wasn’t good enough, so we made sure we addressed that, and i’m sure we will do a better job this time around.” 
defensively, the irish main­tained a solid front throughout the contest, forcing 16 turn­overs and making 14 saves. but o’hara, who leads the irish de­fense with 19 groundballs and 12 forced turnovers, said the irish defense has adjusted and hopefully should be even more able to effectively shut down the Terrapin offense. 
“we want to guard people better from the beginning of the possession,” o’hara said. “we’ve corrected some of the mistakes we made from a sliding standpoint and our approaches on their players. we are also looking to make sure we play all the way through the possession and clear efficiently.” 
although the Terrapins boast 

Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 

is not worried about his team’s motivation. 
“i think we still have a de­cent amount to play for,” he said. “but we try to talk to the kids about going out there … just come to the park every day … take it pitch by pitch. i think overall we’ve been successful at doing that.” 
The irish will take on the huskies for the first time in program history in a three-game series beginning Friday at the u.s. steel yard in gary, ind. First pitch is slated for 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 
a 12.17 goals per game average and a defense that maintains a 
0.92 clear percentage, the two ends of maryland’s field do not pose the greatest threat to the irish squad, o’hara said. 
“The biggest challenge for us, as it’s been all year, is going to be for us to play a full 60-minute game,” o’hara said. “we know they’re a really good team, and it’s going to take our full focus and effort to beat these guys, but if we can get off to a good start and continue to play our game, we should be in good shape.” 
The irish take on top-seeded maryland in the acc tourna­ment semifinal Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at ppl park in chester, pa. The contest will be broadcasted live on espnu and watchespn. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: on’t sit idle when getting out and sharing what you know with others will help you advance. Travel, learning, and participating in community events will help give you a say in the way things are done. more involvement will also lead you toward a leadership position. work hard to form solid alliances with influential people. your numbers are 4, 7, 13, 20, 27, 33, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do your best to get things done. arguments will be a waste of time. good fortune will find you if you offer a helping hand to someone in need. a humble and gracious attitude will lead to advancement, popularity and victory. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Find out all you can before you make a move. offering your services to an organization that you feel you have something worthwhile to contribute to will result in new prospects and a diverse way of putting your talents to work. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): emotional deception and disillusionment will surface when dealing with peers and those who do not wish to see you advance. look out for your interests and try to present and promote what you have to offer succinctly. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): network, nurture relationships and form alliances that will help you put your best foot forward. don’t let what’s going on at home or in your personal life stifle your chance to reach your dreams, hopes and professional wishes. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): re-evaluate your motives before making promises. ask questions and get the lowdown on what everyone around you wants and is willing to contribute. change is good, but it has to be for the right reason. Financial confusion is apparent. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t stop until you are satisfied with the results you get. you can get ahead, but only if you are willing to take the extra step and make things happen. put your ideas into play and you’ll impress someone you love or admire. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) complaints, demands and trouble will plague you when dealing with business or personal partners. get out and do something that will benefit you. personal gratification will help ease stress and give you a better perspective regarding your relationships. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t let tension slow you down. get the ball rolling and don’t stop until you reach your destination. what you accomplish will be recognized and rewarded. leave time for romance late in the day. love is on the rise. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make changes at home that add to your comfort, but don’t go over budget or you will fall short financially at the end of the month. an aggressive act at work will grab attention and raise consideration for what you have to offer. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): be careful not to jump into something without checking the fine print. loss is likely if you show impatience. anger will mount when dealing with those who oppose your plans. stick close to home and focus on self-improvement, not trying to change others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): clarity coupled with a genuine offer will help you make positive changes. an unusual investment or financial deal can change your standard of living. don’t give up on your ideas, just keep reworking them until you find the perfect fit. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ake a bit of a break. enjoy life and share good times with someone special. catching up with an old friend will spark vim and vigor in your life. love is in the stars, and romance will enhance your life. 


Birthday Baby: you are energetic, willful and stubborn. you are a leader and a doer. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Final Four field set for Friday 
By EVAN ANDERSON, HENRY HILLIARD and ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writers 
Romeo Medical Clinic def. Team 8 
senior Tyler sonsalla had 11 of his team’s 21 points, and senior Tom hickey added six as romeo medical clinic defeated Team 8 in the elite eight on Thursday. 
romeo medical led 11-9 at halftime after the teams traded buckets for the first half, with neither squad opening a lead of more than one point until near the end of the half. but in the second half, sonsalla began to take over as romeo medical clinic looked to push the pace. 

senior captain dominic romeo said that transition offense has been key to his team’s scoring throughout the tournament. mix of floaters and midrange 
“our whole game has been a jumpers. lot of up-tempo, fast pace, push-“we are really proud of Tyler,” ing the ball on offense, so that romeo medical clinic coach is what we were looking to do Jude rhodes said. “he is an in-today,” romeo said. “at the start valuable asset to this team.” of the second half, they came out Team 8 aimed to get the ball strong, but then i think they got inside in the post to sophomore a little tired.” center pat mazza early and of-
a gusting crosswind made ten, but the length and swarm-shooting conditions less than ing help-side defense of hickey ideal for both teams, but made touches on the interior sonsalla was effective with a hard to come by for mazza. 

“every time [mazza] made a move, we had two or three guys in his face,” romeo said.  “we just wanted to contest shots.” 
Team 8 cut the deficit to two near the end, but a jump hook from hickey ended the game. 
with the win, romeo medical moves a step closer to the cham­pionship, where the squad will look to avenge last year’s narrow 
see booksTore PAGE 14 
BASEBALL 

ND meets Huskies for first time 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
notre dame will take a break from its conference schedule when it hosts northeastern in a three-game series this weekend at the u.s. steel yard in gary, ind. 
The irish (16-24, 4-17 acc) and the huskies (16-21, 3-8 caa) bring similar records into Friday’s opener, but the game will be the first-ever meeting between the two squads. 
however, irish coach mik aoki has faced the boston school 10 times in his career as a former beantown rival when he coached at boston college, earning eight victories in his four-year tenure with the eagles. 
“That’s a staff that i’ve known for a long time,” aoki said. “great coaching staff, great group of people. i know that i’ve always enjoyed competing against them. you never have to put up with a whole lot of goofy stuff, don’t have to worry about their kids acting the wrong way. They’re going to go out there and compete.” 
This will also be the final time notre dame will have the chance to play against legendary huskies coach neil mcphee, currently in his 29th season as skipper. 
“i know this is his final year, and he’s going to retire after this year, so for us to be able to play them in his last year, i’m excited about that,” aoki said. 
The irish enter the series com­ing off their first weekday loss of the season, a 4-3 loss to central michigan on wednesday. The matchup was tied at three head­ed into the eighth inning, but irish senior right-hander donnie hissa surrendered a sacrifice fly to give the chippewas the late lead and victory. 
barring any injuries or changes to the rotation, notre dame will look to rebound by starting se­nior right-hander sean Fitzgerald for Friday’s opener, sophomore left-hander michael hearne on saturday and junior right-hander pat connaughton on sunday. 
That trio will match up against three northeastern right-hand­ers — junior nick berger on Friday, senior chris carmain on saturday and undefeated freshman dustin hunt (3-0) on sunday. 
while notre dame has strug­gled to stay hot this season, never extending a win streak past three games, aoki said he 
see baseball PAGE 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish, Terps ready for rematch 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The no. 4-seeded irish take on no. 1-seeded maryland in the semifinals of the acc tour­nament Friday at 7:30 p.m. at ppl park in chester, pa. 
no. 9 notre dame (6-5, 2-3 acc) fell, 12-8, to no. 5 maryland (10-2, 4-1) on saturday in both teams’ regular-season acc fi­nale. The Terrapins held the lead the entire contest until the irish tied it up 8-8 in the fourth quarter, but it was maryland that capitalized on a late four-goal surge to get past the irish. 
six days later, the irish and Terrapins meet again with the acc title close on the horizon. unlike saturday’s game, the irish head into this semifinals contest with a better grasp of how they match up against maryland. 
“The biggest advantage in playing a team again less than a week later is that we don’t have to start over in our preparation for a new team,” irish coach kevin corrigan said. “we are fa­miliar with maryland’s person­nel and what they do, and we can look at what they did that was unexpected and what we weren’t ready for without start­ing over from the beginning.” 
with a second shot at maryland, the irish have an opportunity to take what they learned about themselves and better direct their focus against the top-seeded Terrapins, se­nior defense stephen o’hara said. 
“This time around we want to try to really dictate the tem­po of the game from the start,” o’hara said. 
setting the pace of play from the beginning will be critical for the irish offense, which could not take control of saturday’s scoreboard. The irish trailed, 6-3, at halftime, lost 20 of 24 faceoff attempts and were out-shot, 40-21. corrigan said his team will aim to gain more con­trol of the ball in order to prevent 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | syracuse 16, nd 10 
orange oust notre dame 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 

no. 13 notre dame fell in its first-ever acc tournament game Thursday, dropping a 16-11 deci­sion to no. 1 syracuse. 
it was the second consecutive loss for the irish (9-8, 2-6 acc) to the orange (17-1, 7-1), who defeated notre dame, 18-10, last saturday. 
syracuse jumped ahead early Thursday night, scoring the first four goals of the game before ju­nior midfield caitlin gargan re­corded notre dame’s first score of the night. by halftime, the orange had built an 8-3 lead behind senior attack alyssa murray, who scored all five of her goals in the first half. irish coach christine halfpenny said syracuse deserved credit for coming ready to play from the opening faceoff. 
“They’re the number one team in the country for a rea­son,” halfpenny said. “[against syracuse’s] potent offense, we had to control our possessions a little bit more in the first 15 minutes of the first half. when they were able to go on a 4-0 run, and you lose by five, that’s kind of what you want to look at there.” 
after two more syracuse goals to start the second half, the irish started to find more success on of­fense. They scored six of the next seven goals behind gargan, who had three goals and three assists in total, and freshman midfield cortney Fortunato, who scored twice. The irish were never able to get closer than 11-9, however, as syracuse went on a 5-2 run to end the game. still, halfpenny said she was proud of how the irish stepped up instead of wilting in the face of the early deficit. 


“To be honest i think that our team kind of settled in [and] tight­ened our possessions here and there,” halfpenny said. “The of­fense really took advantage of the pressure syracuse was putting on us, instead of backing up from it. so we were able to execute in our offense more in the second half.” 
see w lacrosse PAGE 13 




