The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 86 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Judicial Council withholds election results 
Both LaMagna-Andresen, Vidal-Devine accused of campaign violations 
By LESLEY STEVENSON and ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer and news editor 
campaign violations and sanctions against the lamagna-andresen ticket for student body president and vice president pre­vented the Judicial council from releasing election re­sults as scheduled 12 a.m. Tuesday, according to the Judicial council. 
in a press release issued late monday night, the council said it sanctioned junior olivia lamagna and sophomore rohan andresen for “insulting the opposing ticket in a facebook post by a supporter.” 
The council asked lamagna and andresen to remove the post from facebook. 
andresen told The observer the incident was “a miscommunication and a misunderstanding of one of our supporters who did not mean to offend anyone in any way.” 
lamagna said she was grateful for the dedication her and andresen’s sup­porters had shown during the campaign process. 
“There was absolutely no harm or offense intended, nor did we perceive that anything that any of our supporters have done over the course of this could be in any way, shape or form offensive,” lamagna said. “we don’t want this to downplay all of the 
see elecTion PAGE 3 



researchers publish cross-disciplinary biological study 
By HENRY GENS 
news writer 
in a cross-disciplinary ef­fort, notre dame biology and mathematics professors have published a study on stath­min, a key protein in the cy­toskeleton, demonstrating the success of mathematical com­puter modeling and lab work in photographing of stathmin. 
notre dame associate pro­fessor of biochemistry holly goodson recently published the study in conjunction with professor of applied math­ematics mark alber. 
“mark alber’s lab special­izes in doing biological mod­eling and they had already approached us about the pos­sibility of trying to put some­thing together with this,” goodson said. “we’ve actually been working on this for quite a long time. The models had to start very simply and we’ve built complexity over time.” 
in developing the mathematical model, goodson said the goal was to create a system that was not overly complex. 
“The first thing we’re look­ing for is just general behav­ior,” she said. “Then you can add extra levels of details to make it more precise. one of the main things you can get out of something like this is to figure out what really matters.” 
using computational mod­els in a systems biology ap­proach indirectly tests and observes conceptual mod­els of the dynamic subcel­lular system, goodson said. although electron micro­scopes can capture images nanometers in size, such pic­tures are often incomplete, she said. 
“it’s like trying to under­stand a football game: if you’re trying to figure out foot­ball from a hundred random 
see biology PAGE 3 



ND graduate Ahearn emphasizes development of whole person, moral compass 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
retired u.s. air force general, engineering consultant and notre dame graduate Joseph 
a. “bud” ahearn spoke to engineering students and faculty monday night in debartolo hall on the importance of social and moral consciousness in engineering. 
The 90-minute talk, titled “enjoying the leadership journey from good to excellent to extraordinary — per­forming in the flow,” focused on the develop­ment of the whole per­son and a moral compass and the applications of those qualities to ca­reers in engineering. ahearn spent sever­al decades in the air 
see lecTure PAGE 4 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 fencing PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Girl Scout cookie? 

Clarissa Schwab 
sophomore 
farley hall 
“Tagalongs.” 

Ezra Kim 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“Thin mints.” 

Madelyn Nelson 
freshman 
badin hall 
“samoas.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Michelle Mann 
freshman 
breen-phillips hall 

“all of them; i’m a girl scout.” 

Mike Feula 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“Tagalongs.” 


Shannon Takahata 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“Thin mints.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
carolyn hutyra mary green Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
katie mccary renee griffin henry gens conor kelly 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
erin rice gabriela leskur 

Photo Viewpoint 

Lecture: India’s Gallery Talk Workshop on Dante’s Junior Parents Play: “The Graduate” 
grant Tobin austin Taliaferro 
Urban Slums Snite Museum of Art Inferno Weekend begins DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Center for 12:30 p.m.-1:15 p.m. Information Everywhere Arts Center International Studies Renaissance artist Technology Center All the time 7:30 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 


Corrections 

12:30p.m.-2 p.m. Albrecht Durer. 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Includes gala,  L.A. Theatre Works 
The observer regards itself as With Adam Auerbach. Focus on Canto VIII. workshops, Mass. revives the classic. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball Women’s Lacrosse Film: “A Touch of Sin” SonnetFest Film: “Sharknado” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Purcell Pavilion Loftus Center DeBartolo Performing O’Shaghnessy Hall DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Arts Center 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on the The Irish take on the 7 p.m. Valentine’s Day with 11 p.m.-12:30 a.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Clemson Tigers. Cincinnati Bearcats. Part of Asian-all 154 of The Bard’s “Are you not 
we can correct our error. 

American Film Series. sonnets. entertained?” 


SMC music department hosts “Such Sweete Melodie” 

By ALAINA ANDERSON 
news writer 
The saint mary’s music department invited stu­dents to a concert by guest baroque ensemble “such sweete melodie” in le mans hall on monday. 
music department chair nancy menk, who orga­nized the event, said it is important to learn about music from the 17th cen­tury in order to increase understanding of music today. 
“[such sweete melodie is] fantastic and it’s great for our students to hear music of this quality on these original instru­ments, as well,” she said. 

The performance in­cluded experimental music from the early 17th centu­ry baroque era. member of “such sweete 
menk said she thought melodie, played both lute it was an educational ex-and theorbo during the perience for students and performance. he said the group participates in a wide variety of music, in­cluding broadway show 
“Our program 
tunes, medieval dance mu-
focuses on the 

sic, argentine tangos and early years of the standards of the classi­the baroque era, cal repertoire. 
although they have a di­
featuring the 
verse range, noonan said 
music and styles 

the group gravitates to the that came to expressively experimen­define ‘baroque’ tal music of the early 17th 
century. 
as a break with 
“our program focuses on 
the old style and 

the early years of the ba­something clearly roque era, featuring the on the edge.” music and styles that came 
to define ‘baroque’ as a 
Jeffery Noonan 
break with the old style 
former professor 
and something clearly on the edge,” noonan said. 

during the concert, was very pleased with the lindsey adams performed performances. as mezzo-soprans, charles 
“we try to expose our stu-metz played the virginal, dents to as many different alice culin-ellison played styles and types of music the baroque violi, and as we can,” she said. “we philip spray played the don’t have any early mu-violone, lirone and the ba­sic performers on our fac-roque guitar. ulty right now, so we bring metz said he found the them in from the outside.” virginal for sale in an an-
Jeffrey noonan, former tique shop eight years saint mary’s professor and ago as a painted piece of 
paid adverTisemenT 


furniture. he said he was happy to stumble across 
the  instrument  and  had  
it  restored  to  playing  
conditions.  

“long story short … we can determine it had been built by francesco poggio who lived in florence, italy and died in 1634,” metz said. “we believe [this in­strument] was built in about 1590. 
“i firmly believe it’s im­portant to not have [the virginal] sit in a museum, there are 18 of these in the world, all in museums ex­cept for three by this mak­er, this is one of the three.“i think it’s very important to take it out on snowy days … and have people such as yourself hear it and hear an instrument as shakespeare and Queen elizabeth would have heard it, because they were both alive when this instrument was built.” 
noonan said he has looked forward to return­ing to saint mary’s since-this teaching days from 1977 to 1980. 
“having taught here and knowing the kind of stu­dents and faculty that are here, how interested they would be and how appre­ciative they would be of what we’re doing was what i was really looking for­ward to,” noonan said. 
“it is also very important to me that we bring an en­semble here fronted by two young professional women musicians who are making their living as professional players,” he said. i think it’s an important part of what saint mary’s does in terms of promoting women to get out and do what they love to do.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmarys.edu 

Election 
conTinued from page 1 
awesome work that we’ve had with the innovative team behind us and we don’t want this to over­shadow the impressive work that happened by the hard work of a lot of peo­ple over the course of this election.” 
The constitution of the undergraduate student body of the university of notre dame du lac states that election results can­not be released while any allegation or appeal is pending. candidates may appeal the election committee’s decision within 12 hours of the hearing. 
Judicial council stat­ed that the results of monday’s vote cannot be released until 9:15 a.m. Tuesday at the earliest, ac­cording to these rules. 
an earlier press release from Judicial council is­sued monday morning said juniors lauren vidal and matthew devine “exceed­ed their campaign spend­ing limit by paying for 
Biology 
conTinued from page 1 
snapshots of the game, you would never see anything interesting,” goodson said. “you would never see a touchdown, it would never happen. That’s kind of like electron microscopy: it’s hard to figure out what’s re­ally going from these snap­shots frozen in time.” 
stathmin plays a crucial role in the destruction and uptake of microtubules, goodson said, a dynamic, continuous process that is difficult to track. her lab for­mulated conceptual ideas for the mechanism of this pro­cess, goodman said, and ob­tained only limited evidence by traditional biochemical means. 
“it was frustrating because we couldn’t really figure out how to test if these ideas were correct,” goodson said. “it goes back to the saying that you don’t really under­stand something until you can predict it quantitatively. 
“it’s too complicated a system to write down math­ematical models — all we advertising on facebook for specific posts.” 
“as an appropriate sanction, the election committee hereby asked the vidal-devine cam­paign to completely delete from facebook the three advertised posts that caused them to exceed their campaign spending limit,” the press release stated. 
according to the constitution, “a campaign limit is set for all student body presidential and vice-presidential candi­dates’ tickets at $200.00. … penalties are up to the discretion of the election committee.” 
devine said he and vidal were looking forward to hearing the vote tally Tuesday. 
“lauren and i are going to get rest tonight,” devine said. “we’ve been working hard these past few weeks, and we’re excited to hear the results [today].” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu and Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajaku­bo1@nd.edu 
really know is how the indi­vidual pieces interact, but we don’t really know how that would give rise to spe­cific predictions about the behavior of the system other than that ‘it grows’ or ‘it falls apart.’” 
goodson said she studied computational biology as a rotation student working on modeling protein folding in the lab of michael levitt, one of the winners of the 2013 nobel prize in chemistry. 
goodson said she believes computational and inter­disciplinary approaches are the way of the future in biology, as shown by joint efforts of notre dame’s bio­chemistry and mathematics departments. 
“This is an example of why it’s important for people in a variety of sciences to be learning something about biology because there’s a lot of science that’s going to be done in the next 20 years or so at this interface between biology and the other scienc­es,” she said. 
Contact Henry Gens at hgens@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lecture 
conTinued from page 1 
force before joining the engineering consulting firm ch2mhill. he was also a founding direc­tor of engineers without borders and is a member of the national academy of engineering and the notre dame engineering advisory board. 
great leadership arises from the development of “whole personship,” be­yond simply talent and technical competence, ac­cording to ahearn. 
“if you think consciously about being a whole person, a whole leader, a whole fol­lower, a whole team mem­ber, you’ll find that the community is very signifi­cant,” ahearn said. “That’s why we have this remark­able . . . service program [at notre dame] going on. we want you to take that topi­cal learning, that partial experience, those courses and take them to your own communities, wherever you end up living.” 
ahearn said engi­neers should be aware of the factors that influ­ence “whole personship.” 
“if you go to work for somebody who won’t let you bring the whole pack­age — family, lifelong learning, great jobs, great opportunities, participa­tion in the profession, al­lowing you to speak about the guiding principles of your faith framework and go have some fun — if they don’t make those mea­sures, don’t go there,” he said. “They’re a bunch of jerks.” 
“whole personship” was also influenced by one’s “inner compass,” the moral principles and outlook that guide performance and leadership, ahearn said.
  “The inner compass def­inition is that you own it,” he said. “nobody else owns it. it’s yours, and it’s what you bring to mar­ket, and it’s the offering of how you can multiply the force of you the person.” 
applicable to engineering, the inner compass includ­ed fr. Theodore hesburgh’s principles of “character, commitment and caring,” as well as talent, vision, ingenuity and a positive worldview, ahearn said.
  “you become known as the clarifier, the engager, the highly-competitive, high­ly-reliable, highly-attrac­tive and worth a hell of a lot of money,” he said. “let me tell you, these folks are re­ally good to organizations.” 
The event was orga­nized by the engineering leadership and community engagement program. director gary gilot, said the program was founded in september after engineering faculty mem­bers, including dean peter kilpatrick, encouraged ser­vice and connectios with the south bend communi­ty. gilot said the talk, pro­gram retreats and design project are  meant to help engineering students de­velop social consciousness in their work. 
“we’re trying to awaken sort of the whole student, the spiritual side as well as the intellect and get them engaged with community,” gilot said. “south bend is a community with a lot of needs. we want to open people’s hearts a little bit, see the challenges within the community as an op­portunity to learn, how to work in teams, how to do multidisciplinary stuff, how to get things done.” 
 Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

Explosion at New Hampshire plant injures 15 
Associated Press 

peTerborough, n.h. — an explosion rocked a small-town ball bearings plant on monday, shaking walls, shat­tering windows and sending at least 15 people to the hospital, but a company spokeswoman said none of their injuries ap­peared to be life-threatening. 
hazardous-materials teams responded after monday af­ternoon’s explosion at the new hampshire ball bearings inc. plant in peterborough, but firefighters said there didn’t appear to be any envi­ronmental damage. 
a plant machine opera­tor, paul clark, said he was outside in the parking lot on monday afternoon when he heard the blast. 
“i was in my car backing out when i felt a rumble and heard a bang,” he said. “i looked up, and snow on the building’s roof was flying into the wind.” 
The blast blew out windows on the three-story building’s ground floor, peterborough fire department spokesman eric bowman said. There was heavy explosion damage, and the first arriving firefighters saw a column of smoke, he said. 
The cause of the explosion was under investigation, but all indications were that it was an industrial-related in­cident, bowman said. 
first responders will try to determine the extent of the damage to the facility, com­pany spokeswoman kathy gerrity said. it was unknown when the facility will be back in operation because it would need to be inspected and deemed safe first, she said. 
The plant, in the south­west new hampshire town that was the inspiration for Thornton wilder’s play “our Town,” manufactures high-tech parts for the aero­space industry and employs 700 people. gerrity said she wasn’t sure how many people were inside when the explo­sion happened monday af­ternoon but there are usually about 450 working around that time. 

paid adverTisemenT 



Obama administration delays health requirements 
Associated Press 
washingTon — angling to avoid political peril, the obama administration monday granted employers another delay in a heavily criticized requirement that medium-to-larger firms cov­er their workers or face fines. 
in one of several conces­sions in a complex Treasury department regulation of more than 200 pages, the administration said compa­nies with 50 to 99 employees will have an additional year to comply with the coverage requirement, until January 1, 2016. 
for businesses with 100 or more employees the require­ment will still take effect in 2015. but other newly an­nounced provisions, affect­ing technical issues such as the calculation of work­ing hours, may help some of those firms. 
more than 90 percent of companies with 50 or more employees already cover their workers without the government telling them to do so, but the debate has re­volved around the potential impact on new and growing firms. most small business­es have fewer than 50 work­ers and are exempt from the mandate. however, employer groups were also uneasy with a requirement that defines a full-time worker as someone averaging 30 hours a week. 
republicans trying to take control of the senate in the november elections have once again made president barack obama’s health care law their top issue, casting it as job killer. They want to use the employer mandate to build that case, with anec­dotes of bosses reluctant to hire a 50th worker, or slash­ing the hours of low-wage workers who need to pay household bills. monday’s moves by the administration seemed calibrated to reduce that risk. 
The reaction of business groups was mixed. 
“These final regulations secured the gold medal for greatest assistance to retail­ers, and other businesses, and our employees,” said neil Trautwein, a vice presi­dent of the national retail federation. 
The u.s. chamber of commerce was unimpressed, calling it more of a respite than a fundamental change. 
“This short-term fix also creates new problems for companies by moving the goalposts of the mandate modestly when what we real­ly need is a time-out,” presi­dent Thomas donohue said in a statement. 
The administration still hasn’t issued rules for report­ing requirements on business and insurers, the nitty-gritty of how the coverage require­ment will be enforced. 
administration officials and the law’s supporters said the concessions were the sorts of reasonable ac­commodations that regula­tors make all the time when implementing major new legislation. The Treasury de­partment said secretary Jack lew was well within his le­gal authority in making the changes. 
“This common sense ap­proach will protect employ­ers already providing quality insurance, while helping to ensure that larger employ­ers are prepared to meet their responsibility to their hard-working employees,” said house minority leader nancy pelosi, d-calif. 
but republicans said they smelled fear. 
“it is clear democrats don’t think they can survive politi­cally if obamacare is allowed to fully go into effect,” said rep. dave camp, r-mich., who as chairman of the ways and means committee over­sees the tax penalties enforc­ing the mandate. 
The law passed in 2010 re­quired employers with more than 50 employees working 30 or more hours a week to offer them suitable health 

paid adverTisemenT 

coverage or pay a fine. The coverage requirement was originally supposed to have taken effect this year. 
but last summer the the administration announced a one-year delay, the first sign of potential problems with the rollout of the health care law. 
since then it’s been a gi­gantic crisis management drill. The new online sign-up system at healthcare. gov was crippled by tech­nical problems for the bet­ter part of two months last fall. separately, millions of people who were already buying health insurance in­dividually had those poli­cies cancelled because the plans did not meet the law’s requirements. 
with the online system mostly fixed, supporters of the law are hoping to turn around public opinion. 
when it comes to the im­pact on jobs, “the big con­cerns that have been raised by opponents of the affordable care act amount to very lit­tle because large employers already think it is in their best interest to provide cov­erage to their workers,” said ron pollack, executive direc­tor of families usa, a liberal advocacy group. 
in other provisions an­nounced monday, the ad­ministration said: 
companies will not face fines if they offer coverage to 70 percent of their full-time employees in 2015, although they will have to ramp that up to 95 percent by 2016. The law defines “full time” as people working an average of 30 hours a week per month. That concession is expected to help firms who have a lot of workers averaging right around 30 hours. 
volunteer firefighters and others who give of their time will not be considered em­ployees for under the law. some volunteer fire depart­ments worried they might have to shut down if forced to provide health insurance. 
adjunct faculty members at colleges will be deemed to have worked 2 hours and 15 minutes for each hour of classroom time they are as­signed to teach. officials said that means someone teach­ing 15 hours a week in the classroom would be consid­ered “full time” and eligible for coverage, but someone teaching 12 hours may be considered part-time. 
a one-year delay in a requirement that em­ployers offer coverage to dependents of full-time workers. companies that are working to meet the goal will have until 2016 to comply. 
georgia faces impending winter storm 
Associated Press 
aTlanTa —- Just two weeks ago, atlanta became a national punch line when a few inches of snow crippled the city. comedians said the gridlocked highways looked more like a zombie apoca­lypse than the south’s bus­tling business hub. 
on monday, officials were quick to act as the winter weather zeroed in, deter­mined not be the butt of jokes like the saturday night live parody that referred to the “devil’s dandruff” and “yankee’s slush.” before a single drop of freezing rain or snow fell, georgia gov. nathan deal had declared a state of emergency for nearly a third of the state, schools canceled classes and workers were staying home. 
still, people were skeptical the state would be better pre­pared this time. 
“i’m not counting on it. i’ve been in georgia on and off for 20 years. it’s usually the same scenario, not enough prepara­tions and not enough equip­ment,” said Terri herod, who bought a large bag of sand and a shovel at a home depot. she said her sister told her to also buy kitty litter in case her car gets stuck on an ice patch. 
The memories of the last storm were too fresh for some. late last month, students were trapped on buses or at schools and thousands of cars were abandoned along highways as short commutes turned into odysseys. one woman gave birth on a jammed interstate. in the chaos, though, there were stories of southern hos­pitality - people opening up homes and businesses to help the stranded. officials report­ed one accident-related death. 
This storm could be worse this time. a one-two punch of winter weather was expect­ed for atlanta and northern georgia. rain and snow were forecast Tuesday, followed by sleet and freezing rain wednesday. downed power lines and icy roads were a ma­jor worry. salt trucks, snow plows were ready to roll and the national guard has 1,400 four-wheeled drive vehicles to help anyone stranded. 
other parts of the south were expected to get hit as well. alabama, which saw stranded vehicles and had 10,000 students spend the night in schools during the January storm, was likely to get a wintry mix of precipitation. parts of mississippi could see 3 inches of snow, and a blast of snow over a wide section of kentucky slickened roads and closed several school dis­tricts. south carolina, which hasn’t seen a major ice storm in nearly a decade, could get a quarter to three-quarters of an inch of ice. 
atlanta has a long and painful history of being ill-equipped to deal with snowy weather and people were not taking any chances, even though officials promised the response would be different this time. 
“we’re not looking back, we’re looking forward,” deal said. “The next three days are going to be challenging. we want to make sure we are as prepared as possible.” 
schools announced early that they would close Tuesday, and tractor-trailer drivers were handed fliers about the weather and a law requiring chains on tires. city and state government were to stay open Tuesday, but the governor called for a liberal-leave poli­cy, meaning if workers didn’t want to come in they didn’t have to. 
people around atlanta planned to stay off the roads, which couldn’t be treated last time because there were too many cars stuck on them. 
“basically, everyone from the office is going to be work­ing from home” on Tuesday, dakota herrera said as he left a downtown car park on his way to the office monday. 
deal was doing many things differently. he opened an emergency operations center and held two news confer­ences before the storm. when the Jan. 28 storm hit, deal was at an awards luncheon with mayor kasim reed, who was named a magazine’s 2014 “georgian of the year.” 
reed had just tweeted: “atlanta, we are ready for the snow.” 
This time, the mayor made no such predictions. instead, he said he was in contact with school leaders and the city had 120 pieces of equipment to spread salt and sand and plow snow. 
“we are just going to get out here and, flat out, let our work speak for itself,” reed said. 
during the last storm, deal and reed didn’t hold their first news conference until hours after highways were jammed. 
much is at stake for the gov­ernor, a republican who is up for re-election, and reed, who is seen as a rising star in the democratic party and has aspirations for higher office. both took heat from residents, forecasters and even comedi­ans during the last storm. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

To travel the world 
Joseph Monardo 
associate sports editor 

To “travel the world” is a grand sentiment, one common in the stated desires of teenag­ers, young adults and aimless middle-aged individuals. The statement is an acknowl­edgement of one’s own limited experience with foreign cities and cultures. from an individual perspective, the world can at times seem infinite. 
with the winter olympics bringing inter­national diversity to the forefront and with my hopes mounting for a post-graduation travel period, let’s roll through a list of places i would like to visit. i have done some international travel in the past (notably italy, london, belgium and el salvador), so this list will focus only on as-of-yet unseen countries. most of my motivations are based only tangentially on evidence or experience. highly unscientific, far from comprehensive and probably not that different from what most of my peers would construct, in no par­ticular order: 
first, ireland. because i go to notre dame, duh. dublin sounds like a cool city and i think ireland possesses more than enough impressive countryside and dramatic coast­lines to satisfy my imagination. corned beef and colcannon would probably be enough to lure me to ireland anyway. 
next up is spain. spain seems wrapped up in its own culture more than most countries. To walk the spanish streets would be an assault on the senses. The country holds its cuisine in high regard, and with barcelona and madrid as high points of the visit, i would also like to encounter smaller spanish cities. 
Third, croatia. i’ve been sold on the ser­pentine country to the east of the adriatic since i saw anthony bourdain’s “no reservations” episode set in the croatian coast. The many sea-front cities promise beautiful views, and the country’s culture and cuisine are supposedly intriguing mixes from multiple european sources. 
fourth, greece. for all its well-publicized problems, athens still has considerable draw for me, especially remnants of greece’s civi­lization. The many islands dripping away from the mainland are also plenty attractive. 
fifth, Japan. mount fuji is there. also, the land of the rising sun has a culture and history quite distinct from many of my other proposed destinations. 
sixth, australia. cool terrain, fun people and nice cities. it would be like america. 
seventh, portugal. again compelled by “no reservations,” i have developed a view of portugal as a highly desirable destination. lisbon is beautiful based on what i have seen. 
eighth, south africa. going on a safari would be really enjoyable. 
ninth, russia. relax, vladimir putin. you made the list. The sheer size of this year’s olympic host is such that i could hardly to have claimed to travel the world without having touched russian soil at least once. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 

when you’re the president, an oppor­tunity to combine good policy and good politics is like free beer or a complimen­tary dessert: you don’t pass it up. 
president obama doesn’t have a cold one on the house or some free-of­charge cheesecake waiting on his desk today, but he does have the keystone Xl pipeline project. The question now is whether the president will pass up the best opportunity he has seen in years to not only sign off on a policy that will benefit the country, but a plan that will help him politically as well. 
The keystone Xl pipeline, the fourth and final proposed stage of the larger keystone pipeline project, would trans­port crude oil extracted from the oil sands region in western canada and carry it nearly 1,200 miles to southern nebraska, where it would then be trans­ported to refineries along the gulf coast of Texas. 
The project has the potential to cre­ate thousands of construction jobs. not only does it makes sense in terms of the jobs it could create, but it would lessen america’s dependence on foreign oil, a task that every president over the past quarter century has shared, yet none have really been able to execute. 
environmentalists, a key base of obama voters in 2008 and 2012, claim this is a make-or-break moment for the president who, just one month into his presidency, stated his commitment to help “save our planet from the ravages of climate change.” 
still, last week’s state department re­port confirmed that the construction of keystone Xl will have little-to-no effect on greenhouse gas emissions. 
our warming planet is one of the most serious and immediate issues with which our generation is faced. but when it comes to keystone Xl, the washington post editorial board put it best: environmentalists have drawn “the wrong line in the wrong sand, far away from any realistic assessment of the merits.” 
long story short: keystone Xl’s not good for the planet, but it’s not that bad either. it will give the country access to cheaper fuel while doing nothing to hin­der the progress we’re making towards cleaner energy production. it will create jobs and allow the united states to ob­tain oil from somewhere other than the places where people don’t like us very much. 
in terms of sound policy, keystone Xl passes the test. in terms of smart politics, there’s no question keystone Xl does the same. 
virtually every day since obama took office, we have searched near and far for an issue, any issue, on which democrats and republicans could find some com­mon ground. 
immigration? stalled. a budget deal? not without a government shutdown first. health care? ha, good one. 
but an oil pipeline? Just maybe … 
republicans have long favored the project’s completion. obama’s approval of keystone Xl won’t free washington from all its gridlock, but it’s a start. it will at least send a signal to the right that the president is willing to work with them on issues that they have prioritized. 
in turn, republicans may be more willing to work with the president who, free from the pressures of reelection, sided with them in the name of good policy and finally put to rest one of the most debated issues of the past few years. 
This is to say nothing of the fact that more than half of americans are in favor of the pipeline project, as well as many congressional democrats. is that the endangered species of bipartisan agreement poking its head out from the bushes? 
if approved, keystone Xl will allow president obama to put his name next to a major public works project. at a time when many americans are still un­easy over obamacare, nsa surveillance and the state of the economy, obama could use a positive headline or two. 
keystone Xl will create jobs and more energy independence. 
keystone Xl throws a bone to republicans while also allowing the president to put his name next to a piece of major infrastructure. 
approval of keystone Xl makes policy sense. it makes political sense. but most of all, it makes too much sense to pass up. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




is college a waste of time? not in my book 
Robert Dilenschneider 
guest columnist 

you can’t pick up a magazine or newspaper or listen to the Tv these days without some pundit saying that college is a waste of time. it is their view that getting a college degree is a waste of time that will improve nei­ther your career prospects nor your lifetime earnings. 
The Thiel foundation offers select exceptional students $100,000 to for­get about going to college and pursue their ambitions on their own. There is even a popular book out there called “college is for suckers”. 
Quite frankly, i’m not buying it. 
while the digital revolution has changed many things, including the shape of the economy, under­graduate, graduate and professional schools are still the engines of the information economy. They help sup­ply the intellectual capital that “fi­nances” the economy. 
in my work, i have the privilege of working with and for some of the finest business minds of this genera­tion. almost invariably, conversation turns to our experiences in college. To a man (and woman), they can recall a professor, a classmate or a guest lecturer who had a profound influence on them. when i was a graduate student in journalism, my professor and mentor walter seifert, taught me so many lessons that still resonate today. 
it may sound self-indulgent, old school or naïve, but education enriches the life of the mind. it intro­duces you to new concepts, new ways to understand the world, new ways to address problems, new sources of information. it deepens your knowl­edge, improves your powers of analy­sis, and stimulates your curiosity. The more you know, the more you want to know. 
again, at the risk of sounding trite, education expands your network on a number of levels. classmates, es­pecially in graduate school, will later be colleagues and competitors in the business world. 
as i know from personal my experi­ence, professors can become some of the most influential mentors you will ever have. They can influence you intellectually and professionally. They can introduce you to people. and they can write glowing letters of recommendation — but only if they know who you are. be sure to culti­vate them. 
colleges and universities also have extensive alumni networking oppor­tunities. if you think that old school ties don’t matter anymore in the hir­ing process, you are sadly mistaken. 
on a more tangible level, educa­tion bolsters the bottom line. over a lifetime, people with more education are more employable, make more money, experience a higher level of job satisfaction and enjoy greater job security. 
i know people will point to bill gates, mark Zuckerberg and steve Jobs as men who dropped out of school and did just fine. but their talents, vision and drive were beyond 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

brave the cold 
dearest ladies (and gentlemen) of notre dame, 
do you love your boys of notre dame in minimal amounts of clothing? yes? good. how about abdominals so well-defined you could find them in a diction­ary? yeah? great. and most importantly, do you like fighting homelessness? still with us? perfect. if you said yes to all three — and let’s be honest, who didn’t 
— then do we have an event for you. 
This wednesday, the young, strap­ping and in many cases, single, lads of siegfried hall will once again brave the cold to stand in solidarity with our homeless brothers and sisters. wearing at most a T-shirt and shorts, and prefera­bly less, the ramblers of siegfried will be roaming campus, classrooms and dining halls all day seeking donations for the south bend center for the homeless. 
homelessness is a societal disease that impacts hundreds of thousands of americans every year, disproportion­ately affecting veterans while causing untold damage to the futures of the children it afflicts. as the calendar turns to winter and the crippling cold settles in, the dangers posed by homeless­ness become lethal. since its inception, siegfried’s day of man has raised tens of thousands of dollars to support and aid the homeless community in south bend. This year, we once again need your help. 
we cordially invite you to stand with us this wednesday and support the cause as we freeze for a day in the hopes that the homeless will no longer. every dollar and coin makes a difference. every little bit can help. so please join us, our beach-ready bodies and the hump day camel, and back the effort to fight home­lessness. we might even make you a snow angel. yours in siegfried hall. 
Thomas ridella Junior matt miklavic Junior alex campbell sophomore siegfried hall feb. 11 

extraordinary. it may be trendy to say that college doesn’t matter — and maybe it doesn’t for a few select in­dividuals. for the rest of the world, a college degree is essential. 
as a caveat, though, a college de­gree in itself can be quite meaning­less if the student fails to make the most of their time on campus. it is quite possible to attend a univer­sity, even a top-tier school, put in minimal effort, and still emerge with a degree. maybe college is a good place to get away from mom and dad. maybe it offers the heady freedom to party and play without anyone looking over your shoulder. for these students, college is, indeed, a waste of time. 
as we all know, college and gradu­ate education is enormously, even at times prohibitively, expensive. To get the most out of education, stu­dents must squeeze everything they can out of this amazing opportunity they’ve been given. 
for this reason, students must ap­proach their education as if it is their occupation, for whatever the dura­tion of their post-high school formal­ized education might be. To make the financial investment pay off, stu­dents have to gain control over the educational process. 
students shouldn’t fool themselves into believing that by simply going to class every day they are getting an education. They must be proactive about their personal and professional development. colleges offer numer­ous opportunities to prepare stu­dents for their professional futures. 
all colleges bring in guest speakers in a wide array to disciplines. it is the wise student that broadens his or her horizons by going to lectures outside of their particular area of study. 
Just as importantly, a significant percentage of students attend col­lege somewhere far from their home towns. Taking advantage of new environs and cultures is good both for the soul and for bringing new perspectives to their professional futures. 
i understand that the businesslike approach to the college experience i espouse may seem to preclude so­cializing and having fun, but that’s anything but the case. 
Just as many in the professional world have learned the importance of maintaining a healthy balance be­tween their work lives and their per­sonal lives, students can learn to take their responsibilities very seriously and still find the time to socialize, play sports and enjoy the arts. 
The opportunity to learn the skills, attitudes and behaviors it takes to balance work and play — in and of itself — makes college anything but a waste of time. 
Robert Dilenschneider is the founder and principal of The Dilenschneider Group, a stra­tegic communications consultancy. An au­thor of numerous books, his most recent, “The Critical 14 Years of Your Professional Life,” was just published in January by Kensington Publishing Corp. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




By WILL NEAL 
scene writer 

There are countless reasons why “The lego movie” shouldn’t have worked. many of us raised an eyebrow at the concept of revolving an entire movie premise around a toy product (you’d be right to be skeptical). in the wrong hands, “The lego movie” could have been disastrous, but under the direction of comedy experts phil lord and chris miller (directors of “cloudy with a chance of meatballs” and “21 Jump street”) this film becomes something truly outstanding. with gorgeous spectacles, constant laughs and surprisingly heart­warming message, you’ll quickly see that, like the product, “The lego movie” isn’t just for children ages 8 to 14. 
The film follows the story of emmitt — an ordinary construction worker who is perfectly content living his life by instruction booklets that guide his every action (“remember to breathe!”). he and the rest of the citi­zens of bricksburg (get it? because of the … oh, never mind) spend their days blissfully working, watching quality programming (“where are my pants?”), paying for overpriced coffee (“That’ll be $37!”) and listening to the hit song, “everything is awesome,” on constant re­peat (“i will never get tired of this song!”). They all live under the mighty fist of lord/president business (will ferrell) who wants nothing more than utter perfection for his world, even if it calls for “deadly” measures. 
as for emmitt, he’s a forgettable nobody who doesn’t quite know how to stand out. he’s not special; he nev­er has been. but that all changes when he accidently stumbles across the legendary “piece of resistance,” which is not only the key to saving the lego universe from president business, but promises that whoever discovers it is the “most important and interesting person in the universe.” now bearing the title,  “The 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

Editor’s Note: This article is part of a recurring series, Alternative Top 40, which brings you new and newsworthy alternative music. 
since the inception of spotify, i’ve become more and more informed about what people listen to and when they listen to it. as my spotify account is connected to facebook, i can see what my friends are listening to dur­ing the wee homework hours of the night. indie jams, pop tunes, metal screamers and club bangers scroll in the side­bar on the daily. but in addition to modern music, my feed is full of classical music — the homework weapon of choice for many. 
most people i talked to listen to such music only when they’re doing homework. The classical genre provides pleasant background noise without distracting vocals or crazy guitar solos, making it perfect for the task. 
This week, alternative Top 40 turns to modern music that’s well-suited to the late night study fiend. atmospheric yet engaging, these artists all provide rich music that does well in both the background and the foreground. 
special,” emmitt is joined by the awesomely rebellious wildstyle (elizabeth banks) and the hippy, blind sage vitruvius (morgan freeman) who train him in becom­ing a fellow master builder, someone who can build anything from lego world around them. 
president business cannot stand the master builders, who continuously keep “messing with his stuff,” so he devises a plan to coat the world with a dangerous substance known as kragle (you may know it as krazy glue) in order to keep things exactly the way they are. of course, president business keeps the world oblivi­ous to his plans with the promise of free tacos on Taco Tuesday. Teaming up with other master builders, from iconic figures like the ego-centric batman (per­fectly voiced by will arnett) to total original lego creations like the giant robotic pirate, metal beard (nick “swanson” offerman), this team will do what­ever it takes to stop president business and his double-faced henchman, bad cop/good cop (liam neeson). Through this crazy and consistently charming ad­venture in the various realms of the lego universe, emmitt will discover just what he’s truly capable of and that every one of us has the power within to be special. 
Technically, this movie is an animated wonder. Though a majority of the film is created through com-puter-generated imagery, the production team creates the illusion of live-action, stop motion through some impressively advanced techniques. The voice acting cast hosts an impressive list of celebrities (too many to count). some iconic roles like superman (channing Tatum) find new voices, while shaquille o’neal and several “star wars” roles are the real deal. 
with an endless number of characters under warner brothers’ studio to use, the movie takes full advantage of this and pokes fun at a number of beloved franchis­es. chris pratt is the true stand-out among the cast and brings an absolutely charming and hilariously 
Sigur Rs 
sigur rós is an icelandic post-rock band that creates jaw­droppingly gorgeous musical soundscapes. vibrant, joyful and often victorious, the music of sigur rós is a wonder to behold. yet the vocals are in a lingual hybrid of icelandic and nonsensical non-words, allowing the soaring vocal melodies to sit nicely in the background. if you want to do your homework in efficient yet epic style, sigur rós is the musical companion for you. check out their breakthrough classic, “aegitus byrjun,” to catch a glimpse of the magic. 
recommended tracks: “starálfur,” “hoppípolla,” “olsen olsen” 
Tycho 

if it were up to me, Tycho’s sophomore album “dive” would be prescribed to patients suffering from chronic stress. The chilled-out, ocean-evoking atmospheres and steady, calming beats are enough to take any poor soul out of the freak-out danger zone. crisp production and driving crescendos of Tycho’s tracks prevent any sort of sleepiness from happening. it’s quite a miraculous balance — com­pletely relaxing but not in any way sedative. Tycho’s afore­mentioned record “dive” serves is the perfect introduction absent-minded innocence to the voice of emmitt. you know from listening just how much fun the cast is hav­ing with their roles, surprisingly most noticeable with neeson and freeman’s roles. will ferrell particularly shines in the film (especially in mispronouncing the names of real-world products) as his role is heightened in the finale in a hilariously surprising manner (think “wedding crashers”). 
but the heart of its film is its narrative, which show­cases the battle between the relatable mindsets of fol­lowing instructions and following imagination, with both sides shown to have their benefits. The story is surprisingly layered and multi-dimensional, particu­larly at the end when the source of the lego-universe is revealed. it’s a story about embracing the carefree child within and learning the importance of freethink­ing and fun (no matter your age). 
in “The lego movie,” everyone is redeemable and ev­eryone has the potential for greatness. There’s a very promising future for this franchise, but right now, it’s important not to look towards the future and instead appreciate what was accomplished in this film. in “The lego movie,” everything is wonderful, hysterical, charming, heartfelt and absolutely awesome. 
Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu 
“The Lego Movie” 
Warner Bros. Pictures 
Director: Phil Lord, Christopher Miller 
Starring: Chris Pratt, Elizabeth Banks, Morgan Freeman, Will Ferrell If you like: “Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs” 
for future Tycho fans. if you stick around, you can also look out for his new album “awake” to be released this year. 
recommended tracks: “dive,” “coastal brake,” “epigram” 
Todd Terje 
This super-chic, bouncin’ dance music makes for a bob-yo-head homework sesh. lacking any loud elements or drops of most modern dance music, Todd Terje’s jams roll on toward awesomely groovy infinity. never distracting and yet infectiously catchy, Terje’s music puts the listener in the zone. 
The zone, of course, is one of intense focus and the false belief that you could at any moment out-dance michael Jackson. 
dancing delusions aside, Terje’s music offers a perfect balance of focus and energy to keep you going during the late hours of the night. check out his excellent “it’s the arps” ep to begin your homework domination. 
recommended tracks: “inspector norse,” “strandbar (disko),” “spiral” 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Fans must control tempers 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
you might have heard that oklahoma state sophomore marcus smart made a big mistake over the weekend. in fact, he broke the one inviolable rule of sports: never, ever lay hands on a fan. 
as one would suspect, the consequences were swift. he was kicked out of the game and will be suspended for three more. he had to answer to the media, where he apologized to the Texas Tech “super fan” he shoved. college basketball analysts rushed to their cameras and keyboards to explain just how much this will dent smart’s already-falling draft stock. 
it all sounded pretty bad for smart. but then i went to watch the video. and while i cannot say that smart acted admirably or came away looking all that good, i also cannot pretend that many of the rest of us would not have lost our cool in a similar situation. be honest - if you were knocked to the ground, and you heard a man two­and-a-half times your age taunting you, calling you a “piece of crap,” do you think you would respond calmly? it is easy to say that smart should have ignored the fan, but can we truly be sur­prised when a college stu­dent finds that hard to do? 
The “super fan,” a Texas Tech alum named Jeff orr, has likewise apologized and said he regrets calling smart a “piece of crap,” but insists that he did not direct any racial epithets towards the oklahoma state star. while i suppose it would be an even worse affront if orr had made an explicitly racist comment, the fact is he still felt the need to tell a teenag­er that he was somehow less than human. a racist person can make an offensive com­ment without using the n-word, and non-racist people are still entirely capable of saying and doing offensive things. The bottom-line is that orr wanted to upset smart, and he was even more successful than he probably intended to be. 
i do not write all of this because i think we should let smart off the hook. he does need to be suspended, because we just cannot have incidents like this become routine. smart’s shove did not do any damage to orr, but it could have been a very different story if he had thrown a punch instead. and there are enough timeouts in college basketball as it is. i do not want to wait around while referees issue techni­cals for a fight started by a fan. 
but some fans do not un­derstand that this rule is a necessary measure to pro­tect both athletes and audi­ence members. They seem to think it is a shield that gives them the right to hurl insults and threats with no risk of retribution. They need to get over themselves. 
Just as i understand why smart might have wanted to deck orr, i also understand why fans want to get rowdy. i have said (okay, shouted) some unkind things in my day. like everyone else, i join in chants, some of them mean-spirited, at basketball and football games. but i also realize that i am not responsible for the outcome of the game. i am not the “12th man.” good fans cheer for their team to show their support after a good play. good fans make noise in the hopes that it will distract the other team. good fans make funny signs for their own amusement. good fans enjoy the game, but realize they are there to watch the game, not interfere in it. good fans do not personally harass individuals on the other team. let’s hope Jeff orr has learned that lesson. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No.17 North Carolina defeats No.3 Duke 
Associated Press 

durham — freshman diamond deshields scored a season-high 30 points and no. 17 north carolina upset no. 3 duke 89-78 on monday night. 
deshields hit 12 of 20 shots while becoming the first player to score 30 against duke since 2009. 
fellow freshman allisha gray added 24 points — in­cluding three three-point plays in the final 8 min­utes — for the Tar heels (18-6, 6-4 atlantic coast conference). 
Xylina mcdaniel finished with 17 points for north carolina, which never trailed, hit 12 3-pointers, built three separate double-figure leads in the second half and finally made the third one stand. 
The Tar heels snapped a three-game overall losing streak, a seven-game slide against their fiercest rivals and claimed their first win at cameron indoor stadium since 2008. 
elizabeth williams had a 
career-high 28 points on 12­of-23 shooting and Tricia 
liston added 20 for  duke  
(22-3, 9-2).  
after  last  week’s  88-67  

loss to no. 2 notre dame, the blue devils have lost consecutive games at cameron for the first time in two decades. 
alexis Jones had 15 points and 11 assists for the duke, which twice in the second half trailed by double digits but closed within one pos­session. liston pulled the blue devils to 63-61 with her free throw with 8:13 left. 
deshields then swished a 3 from the left corner on the Tar heels’ next trip downcourt — holding her right hand in the air for a few extra seconds. gray got behind haley peters for a fast-break layup through contact and hit the ensuing free throw to push the lead to 69-61 with 7:42 left. 
gray added another three-point play about 2 minutes later, and her 3-pointer with just under 5 minutes left put north carolina up 75­64 — its third double-figure lead of the half. 
This one stuck: duke didn’t get closer than seven the rest of the way, and now has its first losing streak at cameron since it lost to virginia and clemson in January 1994. 
deshields eclipsed her previous high of 28 set against arizona state in november and became the first player to put up 30 on the blue devils since James madison’s dawn evans (31) on dec. 18, 2009. 
deshields and mcdaniel helped the Tar heels domi­nate the first half. They led 45-36 at the break after re­peatedly pushing their lead to 12. 
deshields had 15 points and mcdaniel had 12 at halftime against a duke team that hadn’t allowed more than 44 points in any first half all year. 
mcdaniel’s 3-pointer about 15 seconds into the second half made it 48-36, but duke temporarily made it a game again by reeling off 11 straight points over the next 2½ minutes. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
iowa state falls to west virginia in a rout 
Associated Press 

morganTown — remi dibo scored a career-high 20 points to lead west virginia to a 102-77 victory over no. 11 iowa state on monday night, the cyclones’ most lopsided loss of the season. 
Juwan staten added 19 points and eron harris and Terry henderson each had 16 points for the mountaineers (15-10, 7-5 big 12). 
iowa state (18-5, 6-5) had five players in double figures, led by georges niang’s 17 points. but melvin ejim, coming off a big 12-record 48 points and a career-high 18 rebounds against Tcu, was held to six points on 1-of-9 shooting. 
The cyclones fell behind by double digits midway through the first half and trailed by as many as 32 points late in the game. 

FOR SALE 

2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call 561-588-5520 
west virginia hit a season-high for points and improved to 2-1 amid a stretch of four straight games against ranked opponents heading into a matchup saturday at no. 19 Texas. 
west virginia shot 54 percent (35 of 65) from the field, including 13 of 22 from 3-point range. 
iowa state’s outside scoring was virtually nonexistent until it was too late. The cyclones were held to 37 percent shooting (26 of 71) in losing their fourth road conference game. 
dustin hogue added 15 points and 10 rebounds for the cyclones while deandre kane had 14 points, matt Thomas 13 and monte morris 10. 
kane, a pittsburgh native, had more than 50 relatives and friends in attendance. he went 1-2 against the mountaineers while he played at instate rival marshall and was booed and taunted whenever he touched the ball. 
west virginia’s lack of bench scoring had stood out in a dou­ble-digit loss to no. 7 kansas on saturday. on monday, the mountaineers’ reserves out­scored iowa state’s 27-15. 
Trailing 52-33 at halftime, iowa state put together its best stretch and closed the gap to 58-44 5 minutes into the sec­ond half before west virginia again pulled away. 
The cyclones went four minutes between field goals after that, and west virginia got a big boost from its bench to keep the pressure on. freshman nathan adrian made two baskets and two free throws, and kevin noreen doubled his season scoring average with a layup and two free throws. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
blg57@sbcglobal.net 

FOR RENT 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 

Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601. mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 


NBA | pacers 119, nuggeTs 80 
Pacers trounce Nuggets 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — david west scored 25 points and roy hibbert added 14 as the indiana pacers routed the short-handed denver nuggets 119-80 on monday night. 
indiana snapped a five-game skid in the series, beating the nuggets for the first time since a 31-point blowout in november 2010. The pacers (40-11) still have the nba’s best record, the league’s best home re­cord (25-2) and now lead two-time defending cham­pion miami by four games in the eastern conference. 
wilson chandler scored 17 points and J.J. hickson added 12 to lead the nuggets (24-26), who have lost three straight and played without several injured players, includ­ing andre miller, danilo gallinari, Javale mcgee, nate robinson and Ty lawson. 
after the first six min­utes, this game was never close. 
The pacers took control with a 21-5 run that made it 37-20 early in the second quarter. Then, they closed the half on a 14-4 spurt to make it 61-40, and the nuggets couldn’t get closer than 19 in the second half. 
indiana, which lost sunday at orlando, hasn’t lost back-to-back games since mid-december and hasn’t lost three straight all season. The pacers fin­ished this one with a sea­son-high points total and a season-best shooting per­centage (57.5). 
denver was nowhere near full strength, though, and it showed. 
again the nuggets played without miller, who has been held out since early January; gallinari, who is out for the season with a torn acl in his left knee; mcgee, who has been out since late January with a stress fracture in his left leg; and on monday, they were also missing their backup point guard in robinson (left knee) and their top scorer and point guard lawson (fractured left rib). 
coach brian shaw’s big­gest concern heading into the game was finding a re­placement for his only two point guards and defend­ing paul george, who shaw dubbed the best two-way player in the nba. george finished with 12 points, five rebounds and four 
paid adverTisemenT 
assists. 
but the bigger problem came inside. 
west finished 11 of 13 from the field and had 21 points in the first half. hibbert had 12 rebounds and the pacers won both key battles in the paint — outrebounding denver 56­37 and outscoring them 58-36. 
it was just too much for denver to overcome. 
after trailing for the only time in the game, 11-10, indiana steadily pulled away. The pacers led 31­20 after one quarter, 61-40 at the half and 85-56 after three. indiana was so far ahead that coach frank vogel rested his starters the entire fourth quarter. 
The nuggets finished with a season-low shoot­ing percentage (31.5) and suffered their most lop­sided loss of the season 
— the second time that’s happened in three days. denver’s previous low marks came in a 117-90 loss friday at new york and a 36.4 percent shoot­ing performance dec. 21 in los angeles against the clippers. 
randy foye had nine points and 10 assists in place of lawson. 

NCAA BASKETBALL | wesT virginia 102, iowa sTaTe 77 
mountaineers roll over iowa state 
Associated Press 
morganTown, w.va. — remi dibo scored a career-high 20 points to lead west virginia to a 102-77 victory over no. 11 iowa state on monday night, the cyclones' 
most  lopsided  loss  of  the  
season.  
Juwan  staten  added  19  

points and eron harris and Terry henderson each had 16 points for the mountaineers (15-10, 7-5 big 12). 
iowa state (18-5, 6-5) had five players in double fig­ures, led by georges niang's 17 points. but melvin ejim, coming off a big 12-record 48 points and a career-high 18 rebounds against Tcu, was held to six points on 1-of-9 shooting. 
The cyclones fell behind by double digits midway through the first half and trailed by as many as 32 points late in the game. 
west virginia hit a sea­son-high for points and im­proved to 2-1 amid a stretch of four straight games against ranked opponents heading into a matchup saturday at no. 19 Texas. 
west virginia shot 54 per­cent (35 of 65) from the field, including 13 of 22 from 3-point range. 
iowa state's outside scoring was virtually nonexistent un­til it was too late. The cyclones were held to 37 percent shoot­ing (26 of 71) in losing their fourth road conference game. 
dustin hogue added 15 points and 10 rebounds for the cyclones while deandre kane had 14 points, matt Thomas 13 and monte morris 10. 
kane, a pittsburgh native, had more than 50 relatives and friends in attendance. he went 1-2 against the mountaineers while he played at instate rival marshall and was booed and taunted when­ever he touched the ball. 
west virginia's lack of bench scoring had stood out in a double-digit loss to no. 7 kansas on saturday. on monday, the mountaineers' reserves outscored iowa state's 27-15. 
Trailing 52-33 at halftime, iowa state put together its best stretch and closed the gap to 58-44 five minutes into the second half before west virginia again pulled away. 
The only drama for west virginia came when harris was ejected for a flagrant foul with 4:25 left. 

NBA | rapTors 108, pelicans 101 

Raptors beat Pelicans at home 
Associated Press 
ToronTo — kyle lowry had 19 points and 12 assists, patrick patterson scored a season-high 22 and the Toronto raptors beat the new orleans pelicans 108-101 on monday night. 
demar derozan also had 22 points, Terrence ross added 14 and Tyler hansbrough scored 12 for Toronto, which has won five consecutive meetings and seven of eight against new orleans. The first-place raptors moved three games ahead of brooklyn in the atlantic division by winning for the ninth time in 11 home games. 
Tyreke evans had 23 points and 10 assists, and anthony davis scored 19 for the pelicans, who lost their second straight and have dropped four consec­utive games in Toronto. brian roberts had 18 points for new orleans, and eric gordon 10. 
Toronto’s 27 wins before all-star break are its most since the 2009-10 season, when it had 
29. The raptors host atlanta on wednesday in their final game before all-star weekend. 
evans returned after sit­ting out sunday night’s loss at brooklyn. pelicans coach monty williams said sunday that evans, the 2010 nba rookie of the year, did not play against the nets because of an “internal” issue. 
Toronto called timeout after a 6-0 pelicans run cut it to 85­78 with 9:25 left. luke babbitt blocked derozan’s shot after the stoppage, and anthony morrow’s jump shot brought new orleans to 85-80. 
derozan stopped the run with a jumper, but lowry fouled davis on a dunk and the pelicans’ all-star con­verted his free throw. one possession later, babbitt hit a 3-pointer, shaving the deficit to 87-86. 
lowry and hansbrough each made a pair of free throws to give the raptors some breath­ing room before lowry made a jump hook, assisted on a layup by hansbrough and fed ross for a 3 to make it 98-89 with 
4:20remaining. 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2013 | ndsmcobserver.com 

CLUB SPORTS 

women’s hockey drops pair to badgers, msu 
Men’s hockey falls twice at Michigan; wrestling goes 3-1 at Glass City Duals 
Special to The Observer 
The irish played three games over the weekend, traveling to madison, wis. for four games, two each against the host badgers and michigan state. 
on friday, notre dame fell 4-0 after a quick start from the badgers. wisconsin scored early in the first period to start the game, but sopho­more goaltender allison stankowicz made 11 saves in the period to keep the deficit at two. stankowicz contin­ued to play well, making an­other 12 saves in the second, only allowing one goal at the 
6:06 minute mark. The irish, down 2-0, came out flying in the third period, matching the badgers in shots on goal. Though the badgers found the net twice in the period to push the lead to 4-0, the irish finished the game strong, stankowicz finished with 30 saves for the irish. 
barely 12 hours later, the irish returned to the ice against wisconsin again, this time starting junior goalten­der mary salvi in net against the badgers. The irish came out hard, looking for retribu­tion from the previous day’s game. sophomore forward Jackie dunn got notre dame on the board for the first time all weekend, shooting a re­bound of a shot from junior defenseman lauren gabel into the upper right hand corner of the net. shortly af­ter, sophomore forward alex stern and freshman forward ana grandinetti skated into the offensive zone two-on­two, and after battling it out in the corner, stern put a shot on net, which grandinetti was able to put in on the rebound. 
The badgers responded with two goals of their own before the end of the first pe­riod and continued the on­slaught with two more goals in the second. salvi played well in net, making numer­ous saves to keep the irish close. despite numerous scoring opportunities, the score remained the same at 4-2 badgers. 
later in the day, notre dame came out to play michigan state. although they let in an early spartan goal, the irish dominated the period. sophomore goalten­der regina engel made eight saves in the period to keep the score at 1-0. The momen­tum continued into the sec­ond, as sophomore forward 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

White House applauds Sam 
Associated Press 
washingTon — The white house is applauding a university of missouri foot­ball player’s decision to an­nounce that he is gay, with president barack obama’s spokesman, first lady michelle obama and vice president Joe biden all por­traying him as a courageous and inspirational athlete. 
biden and the first lady took to Twitter on monday to comment on michael sam, the all-american college player who declared publicly on sunday that he is gay. mrs. obama says she “couldn’t be prouder” of sam’s courage, both on and off the field. 
The tweet was signed “-mo,” which is how the white house marks messages personally sent by the first lady. 
“your courage is an in­spiration to all of us,” biden said. The message was signed “-vp,” which designates that the vice president sent it personally. 

sam could become the first openly homosexual player in the nfl. he’s scheduled to participate in the league’s weeklong scouting camp, where potential draftees are evaluated, later this month in indianapolis. he is currently projected to be a mid-round draft pick in may. 
white house spokesman Jay carney said the presi­dent “shares the sentiments expressed by the first lady and the vice president and so many others in marveling at his courage and congratulat­ing him on the decisions he’s made, on the support he’s had from his team and wish­ing him well in the future, 
including  in  professional  
football.”  
carney  said  sam’s  an­ 

nouncement should not af­fect his standing on the nfl draft and that his abilities should be measured by his performance. 
“and in this case, his per­formance has been excep­tional,” carney said. 
madison ratcyz scored at the 11:52. 
The irish continued to dominate play and drew two penalties. on the second power play, dunn scored off a loose puck in the offensive zone. 
The spartans came back with a goal of their own to start the third period, tying the score at 2-2, but engel made a series of saves to keep michigan state from tak­ing the lead. despite three power plays in the third, the irish were unable to find the net, and the spartans snuck a goal past engel to take the lead. The irish received two penalties of their own near the very end of the game, and michigan state converted on the power play to make the score 4-2. 
on sunday morning, the irish took on the spartans again in their final game of the weekend, and stankowicz got the start in net. The game remained scoreless into the second period until an inter­ference penalty by dunn gave the spartans a power play goal with less than two min­utes left in the period. 
The irish dominated during the third period, outshoot­ing the spartans 12 to four. 
They kept the pressure on the spartan net, but michigan state held on to their one-goal lead to win the game. 
Men’s Hockey 
The irish traveled to ann arbor, mich. on friday to take on michigan in a two-game series. playing a wolverine squad that was headed to nationals, the irish fell twice, 5-0 and 2-0. Though notre dame threw close to 80 shots on net during the two games, the irish were unable to find the back of the net. Junior goaltender Justin dancu and sophomore goaltender nick stasack played well in the losses. 
Wrestling 
notre dame continued to build upon its successful in­augural season as the team recorded three wins and only one loss at the glass city duals in Toledo, ohio on saturday. Toledo hosted the round robin-style team tour­nament that featured eight teams. The irish began the day with a rematch against their most recent opponent, michigan. The irish won handily with a final score of 35-24, after winning 28-23 two weeks earlier at home. 
paid adverTisemenT 
in its second match, notre dame fell to sixth-ranked grand valley state 31-21. 
The irish bounced back from their loss to defeat bowling green 39-24. with this victory, the irish finished second in their pool and were slated to wrestle pittsburgh for third place at the event. notre dame lost to pittsburgh 27-21 in south bend on Jan. 19, and the irish wrestlers were eager to avenge that loss. The irish prevailed 27­23, marking a strong finish to a successful day. 
freshman garrett schmelling and sophomore ben evans were key contribu­tors to the team’s achieve­ments, wrestling in the 141-lb. and 197-lb. weight classes respectively. both wrestlers finished the day with four wins and no loss­es. schmelling’s continued his undefeated season, and his record now stands at 9-0. The team’s season record is now 4-5, 4-1 in its last five matches. 
notre dame will continue to work to improve as it looks forward to the final event of the year, the great lakes conference Tournament, which will be held march 1 at grand valley. 



SMC BASKETBALL | kalamaZoo 71, smc 66 
belles fall to kalamazoo in roller-coaster game 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
after holding on to a narrow lead for most of the first half, saint mary’s traded blows with kalamazoo in the second half and eventually lost the hard-fought contest, 71-66, on saturday at the angela athletic facility. 
The belles (6-15, 4-8 miaa) got off to a fast start, with soph­omore forward krista knapke making layups on each of the first two possessions. after saint mary’s went up 8-3, how­ever, the hornets (12-8, 8-4) battled back with a 16-5 run to take a six-point lead. 
again the tide shifted when saint mary’s forced four consecutive turnovers, cru­cial defensive stops which belles coach Jenn henley has stressed throughout the year. 
“we played some very good defense in the first half,” said henley. 
six points from senior guard shanlynn bias off those turn­overs and a 3-pointer by fresh­man guard kristen kleist put the belles back in the lead midway through the first half. 
with offensive contributions from the entire lineup, led by junior forward ariana paul’s 12 first-half points, the belles headed into halftime with a 42-39 advantage. 
early in the second half, shots stopped falling for the belles while the hornets be­gan to put in easy buckets, going on a 17-4 tear led by se­nior guard/forward nicole antoine. kalamazoo took an eight-point lead with less than 10 minutes remaining. 
“we gave up too many one­on-one layups in the second half,” henley said. “we had our chances to score, [but] we had too many turnovers.” 
however, the belles were not finished, making repeated de­fensive stops and taking sev­eral trips to the free throw line to regain a 61-60 lead with 3:17 left. bias, who scored 12 sec­ond-half points and a team-high 18 in the game, led the charge. 
The hornets found their way back, scoring a couple bas­kets and getting to the foul line. paul, who contributed 16 points and six rebounds, fouled out near the end of the game. 
“any time a starter fouls out, it impacts the game,” henley said. “losing paul with 1:40 to go wasn’t ideal.” 
after that, a layup by hornets junior guard emily lindsay and a free throw by se­nior guard india hoskins put kalamazoo up by four with 17 seconds left. 
sophomore guard maddie 
paid adverTisemenT 


kohler responded with a 3-pointer to pull saint mary’s within one, but time was not on the belles’ side, as the hornets held on with late free throws to win. 
henley said the loss against a strong kalamazoo team did not discourage her. 
“we knew it was going to be a battle, and it was,” henley said, “i am very proud of how this team continues to battle throughout the season.” 

Fencing 
conTinued from page 16 
a record fan section of 698 peaked mid-afternoon, just in time for the most exciting matchup of the day between the irish and penn state wom­en. after notre dame fell be­hind 13-11 overall, a win by junior ashley severson on the epee strip and another by ju­nior foilist madison Zeiss tied the score at 13. all eyes turned to the final bout between se­nior foilist adriana camacho and penn state junior kane gladnick. 
with the teams and the re­cord fan section looking on, the foilists went back and forth in a high-intensity matchup. a touch by camacho put her up 4-3 with nine seconds remain­ing, and she defended herself for another touch to win, 5-3. The irish fans and teams, pre­viously silent with suspense, erupted to celebrate the elec­trifying 14-13 victory. 
“she had beaten already two of the strongest girls [penn state junior alina antokhina and sophomore clarisse luminet],” irish coach gia 
kvaratskhelia  said.  “i  had  
confidence  that  adriana  
would pull this off.  

“over the last four years, i have seen steady progress in her performance, technically 
The belles will travel to hope college on wednesday for a 
7:30 game against the flying dutch. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
and emotionally. i would bet that 99 out of 100 times, adriana would win that bout.” 
camacho was 3-0 against penn state and an impressive 11-1 on the day. 
The men did not fare quite as well against the nitanny lions, losing 18-9, includ­ing 7-2 losses for both the epee and sabre squads. kvaratskhelia, however, said he was not wholly disappoint­ed by the performance. 
“we have beaten penn state previously this year, so we knew we were going to get their best shot,” he said. “we had a couple slops, but it’s be­fore the ncaas, and now is a good time to correct them and move on.” 
The duals continued sunday in the club teams competition, in which notre dame overmatched its com­petition, winning 152 of its 162 bouts in landslide victo­ries against bradley, purdue and chicago. 
several irish fencers will compete individually in the national Junior olympics next weekend. meanwhile, kvaratskhelia said, the notre dame team will con­tinue to build its chemistry and prepare for the ncaa championships in march. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued from page 16 
remained undefeated, win­ning 57-44. The Tigers were limited to 34.1 percent (14­for-41) shooting from the field en route to their third-lowest scoring output this season. clemson’s 14 made field goals were the fewest in brad brownell’s four years as 
head coach.  
Junior  forward  k.J.  
mcdaniels,  who  leads  
clemson  in  scoring  (16.4  

points per game) and re­bounding (7.2 boards per game), was the only Tiger in double figures sunday, as he tallied 19 points to go along with 10 rebounds. 
brownell admitted his team was tired after arriving home at 1:30 a.m. monday following the trip back from syracuse. Tuesday’s tilt will be clemson’s fifth road game in its last six games. 
“i can barely remem­ber who it started with,” brownell said monday. “we’ve had a long three weeks here, obviously some very difficult games on the road in some challenging venues. i think it’s showed our team when we play well and when we defend, we can play. and we can play with some very good teams in the country.” 
in its previous two games, clemson slugged its way to wins over florida state, 53­49, and georgia Tech, 45-41. clemson is 8-0 this season 
— and 27-2 overall during brownell’s tenure — when holding opponents to 50 points or fewer. 
The irish, meanwhile, dropped to .500 for the first time since 2006 and have five home losses for the first time since the 2005-06 sea­son. The last time notre dame lost at least six games at home was the 2003-04 campaign. 
notre dame tips off in its first-ever matchup against clemson at purcell pavilion on Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mike Monaco at            jmonaco@nd.edu 



M Tennis 
conTinued from page 16 
tough at every position and are a legitimate top-25 team. we know that we’ll have to battle at every posi­tion if we’re going to have a chance to win.” 
despite the loss against the illini, sachire said that he does not plan to make any changes to his lineup. 
“what we’re going to do [against northwestern] is pretty much the same as we did against illinois,” sachire said. “we just have to do it a little better. we’re not that far removed from beating kentucky twice in a row, so it’s just a matter of playing the tennis we’re capable of playing.” 
senior greg andrews continued his recent tough stretch against illinois, dropping his fourth straight singles match. in doubles play, however, notre dame has won six out of seven points this season, led by andrews and sophomore alex lawson. 
for the irish to defeat the wildcats, they need a more complete effort from their entire lineup, sachire said. 
“our goal is to play nine great matches — three doubles and six singles,” sachire said. “we can’t have any poor performanc­es to give them an easy win. when we can do that, we’re a pretty good team and not many other teams can beat 
us.”  
The irish  square  off  
against  the  wildcats  at  
6  p.m.  on  Tuesday,  in  

evanston, ill. 
Contact Greg Hadley at            ghadley@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaforTe 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: prepare for change. acceptance will help you maneuver your way through any turbulence you face. improvements will begin midyear if you are diligent about making decisions that will help you put an end to old conditions and make way for a bright new future. action will be required to help you take control of your life. your numbers are 2, 10, 21, 23, 28, 36, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): concentrate on yourself and what you can do to be at your very best. it’s important to be introspective and consider the outcome before you make a change to your personal life that will have a lasting effect. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): rise above any controversy you face at work. getting along with your peers will help you bypass slowdowns and interference. learn from the mistakes others make and protect your position. romance is highlighted and will help improve your love life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t take part in or listen to gossip. put your creativity into work and getting ahead, not bringing someone else down. misinformation will be costly if you invest based on hearsay. stick to what you know, whom you can trust and what you want to achieve. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): follow your intuition and it will lead to new friendships, greater opportunities and mastering your talents. progress will be a direct result of the changes you make. put love high on your list and you will improve your domestic situation. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): participate, have fun and enjoy the company of the people you encounter along the way. embrace change and negotiate in order to get what you want. money will come your way from an unusual source. a creative investment will pay off. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): do something that will make you happy. socialize or treat yourself to a spa day or shopping spree. romance is in the stars and making special plans for two will bring you closer together. a favor will be granted. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t take on more than you can handle. keeping life and relationships with others running smoothly will help you avoid unwanted setbacks or last-minute changes that will disrupt your plans. put more effort into presentation and promotion. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): domestic and personal money matters may not be as they appear. before making an unnecessary purchase, check your budget and make sure it won’t stress your debt load. self-improvements will add to your appeal and bring plenty of attention and compliments. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): little problems will grow if you evade issues or withhold information. someone close to you will question your motives or send mixed signals regarding what’s expected of you. focus on home and making positive alterations conducive to your happiness. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): how you deal with personal and professional relationships will set the stage for how things will turn out for you in the future. Try to include everyone in your plans and you will get the help you need to finish what you start. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): pick up the pace and get things done. you’ll come up with a unique and trendy idea that can turn into a prosperous venture. a change in the way you earn your money is looking good but will need time to build. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): nothing will slow you down once you gain momentum. size up your situation and take a leap of faith when it comes to investments, contracts or other money deals. a celebration should be planned with someone you like to share your accomplishments with. 


Birthday Baby: you are fidgety, impatient and unique. you are progressive and innovative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame takes on Clemson for first time 
Tigers bring top scoring defense in nation into matchup 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
on saturday, the irish com­mitted 17 turnovers against a stout north carolina defense. 
Two days later, notre dame (12-12, 3-8) runs into another strong defensive squad when it hosts clemson on Tuesday night at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame’s 17 turnovers were tied for the second-most this season, as the Tar heels and their no. 16 defense in the nation rolled to a 73-62 victory, scoring 23 points off turnovers. 
“[we] really had some prob­lems handling the basketball [against north carolina],” irish head coach mike brey said during a teleconference monday. “our turnovers have hurt us here really through the acc season. so we’ve really tried to address that … in practice [sunday and monday].” 
entering monday, the Tigers (15-7, 6-4 acc) were first in the nation in scoring defense, allowing an aver­age of 55.1 points per game. fellow acc foe virginia, who limited notre dame to a sea-son-low 53 points and forced a season-high 20 turnovers Jan. 28, is second in the na­tion, surrendering an average of 55.6 points per game. 
“i think they’re very simi­lar,” brey said of clemson and virginia. “They’re jam­ming that lane up. They’re really crowding it. it’s tough to get anything in the lane and in the paint. and you re­ally have to work to get shots against them. you’re going to have to make shots over the top of them because they’re going to give that up a little bit.” 
The Tigers themselves struggled offensively against no. 1 syracuse and its 2-3 zone sunday night at the carrier dome. clemson hung around, but the orange 
see m bball PAGE 14 


JODI LO | The Observer 

Senior guard and captain Eric Atkins drives to the basket against North Carolina’s James Michael McAdoo in Notre Dame’s 73-62 loss to the Tar Heels on Saturday at Purcell Pavilion. 
FENCING 

MEN’S TENNIS 
ND posts successful 
irish look to 
weekend at DeCicco Duals 
bounce back 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
The irish fencing squads captured 15 wins and suf­fered only one loss as they hosted the decicco duals on saturday and sunday in the castellan family fencing center. 
both the men and women, donning “coach decicco” armbands in honor of late notre dame coach and event namesake mike decicco, found early success in the saturday morning match against cleveland state, which the men won, 26-1, and the women won, 25-2. 
They then turned to northwestern, and again the teams looked strong in their respective 20-7 victories. on the men’s side, northwestern edged the irish epeeists, 5-4. The women’s epee team was 9-0 against the wildcats and 31-5 for the day. 
after a lunch break, the teams continued their suc­cess, beating wayne state 22-5 on the men’s side and 23-4 on the women’s side. 
see fencing PAGE 13 


By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
after their first loss of the season, the no. 16 irish will try to get back in the win column against no. 30 northwestern on Tuesday, ahead of the iTa national indoor championships in houston this weekend. 
notre dame (6-1) suf­fered its first defeat of the spring season against no. 22 illinois on sunday, 5-2. The loss spoiled the squad’s best start since 2005 and came at the beginning of a two-week stretch away from home. 
“The illinois match was a big contrast to how we played early in the season,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “early on in the year we did a really great job … when our opponents made a run. we would respond well and make a run of our own. at illinois we started out great and when illinois made that run, we didn’t respond. so our biggest fo-
EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

cus this week in practice 
has been realizing that 
Senior foilist Adriana Camacho competes at the DeCicco Duals on 
northwestern is a good 
Sunday. Camacho’s win gave the Irish a 14-13 win over Penn State. 
team and there will be a time when they have the momentum, and we need to get back and create our own momentum.” 
The road does not get any easier for the irish as they travel to evanston, where the wildcats (7-2) are un­defeated at home and have yet to surrender a point this spring season, outscoring their opponents 23-0. 
“we’re not concerned with our surroundings or travelling,” sachire said. “all that matters to us is the quality of the opponent we’re playing.” 
The wildcats do not have any player ranked in the top 100 for singles or top 60 in doubles, but have won two straight at home and upset then no. 24 Tulsa on the road Jan. 25. The irish fell to northwestern last year at the eck Tennis pavilion, but had won eight straight matches against the wildcats before 2012. 
“They are a really good team up and down the line­up,” sachire said. “They’re 
see m Tennis PAGE 14 



