The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 77 | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
judicial council launches voter plan 
“Vote Today” campaign aims to increase voter turnout by 20 percent 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
news wriTer 
The Judicial council has de­veloped a campaign designed to better advertise and sim­plify the voting process for next week’s student government pri­mary elections, Junior Kathryn peruski, vice president of elec­tions said. The council hopes to use this plan to increase voter turnout, she said. 
a seven-member election committee appointed by the Judicial council has been work­ing on the “vote Today” cam­paign since last spring, which incorporates new strategies for reaching student voters and en­couraging them to vote, senior michael masi said. 
“if there’s not enough public­ity, people won’t know about the election,” peruski said. 
masi, president of Judicial council, said “vote Today” fo­cuses on advertising elections through redesigned posters, banners in laFortune student center and both dining halls and communication through email, Twitter and Facebook. 
“The big push is ‘vote Today’ because we are actually encour­aging people to turnout on 
see voTe PAGe 3 




Student government works to prevent assault 
By ELYSE HIGHT  Observer Staff Report  
news writer sibly creating a  reinforce-have been found to have in­ 
ment system of  federal capacitated many victims  notre dame reopened on a  
with an announcement agencies for sc hools that of sexual assault.  limited basis Tuesday afternoon  
made last wednesday, do not confront  this rising obama said he sees a  and will resume regular sched- 
Jan. 22, president obama problem.  need for college to be a safe  uling wednesday, following the  
launched a new white prompted by  a report place that harbors indi­ shutdown forced by inclement  
house Task Force for pro-made by the wh ite house vidual growth and that “it’s  weather monday.  
tecting students nation-council on wo men and not just these individuals  The city of south bend and  
wide against sexual assault. girls, the presi dent’s an-and their families who suf­ st. Joseph county lifted the  
obama is giving the task nouncement stat es that one fer … our communities- our  state of emergency at noon on  
force, comprised of u.s. in five women ar e sexually whole country — is held  Tuesday, and an email from the  
government administrative assaulted at col lege, with back.”  university stated that classes  
officials, 90 days to come only 12 percent  of assaults notre dame has already  will resume at their regularly  
up with sexual assault pre­reported. The r eport said made strides independent  scheduled times for wednesday.  
vention and response sug­issues of sexual  assault on of the federal government’s  The email asked all university  
gestions for colleges. The college campuses  related to efforts,  attempting to  staff to report to work at their  
group is also tasked with drug and alcohol  use should  next regularly scheduled start- 
proposing ways to increase be especially  examined see TasK Force PAGe 4  ing time. The dining halls and  

public awareness and pos­because these substances 

University reopens 
laFortune student center will resume normal hours wednesday. 
although the travel ban has ended, all students, faculty, staff and others were urged in the email to keep road and weather conditions in mind, dress warmly in the cold tem­peratures and use caution when traveling to, from and on-campus. 
all students, faculty, staff, fans and others are urged to keep road and weather condi­tions in mind, dress appropri­ately and use caution when traveling to, from and on cam­pus for athletic events. 

Three students intervene in university lawsuit 
Jan. 14 that the female stu-for public affairs and com-
By MARISA IATI 

assistant managing editor dents, who remain anony-munications, said Jan. 2 mous, can participate in the that notre dame is provid-
Three students who want lawsuit, according to a re-ing this coverage through the university’s health care port by the associated press. its third-party insurance plans to cover birth control The lawsuit challenges administrator. are intervening in notre an hhs mandate that re-americans united for dame’s lawsuit against the quired nonprofit religious separation of church and 
u.s. department of health organizations to start to state is representing the stu­and human services (hhs). cover contraceptive servic-dents, according to the 
The u.s. court of appeals es Jan. 1. paul browne, the for the seventh circuit ruled university’s vice president see lawsuiT PAGe 4 



news PAGe 3 viewpoinT PAGe 7 scene PAGe 8 men’s basKeTballPAGe 16 men’s lacrosse PAGe 16 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 

Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


How will you conquer the second coming of the polar vortex? 


Anna Baumhoer 
freshman 
ryan hall 

“don’t go outside for three days straight.” 

Annie McGarrigle 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 

“Friday night lights re-runs on netflix, obviously.” 

Colleen Barry 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 

“hmm i’m staying snuggled up and watching movies.” 


Courtney Wright 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“watch lots of movies and eat popcorn.” 

Madeline Harris 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“watching movies with friends.” 

Melange Galvin 
freshman 
badin hall 
“retreat into my bed and never come out.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

christian myers samantha Zuba Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Jack rooney henry hilliard haleigh ehmsen Katie heit 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
steph wulz allie Tollaksen 

Photo Viewpoint 

Wellness Wednesday Christianity Prayer Curling Clinic Writing Workshop Mass in Spanish 
grant Tobin Tabitha ricketts 
LaFortune Student Service Compton Family Ice LaFortune Student Dillion Hall Center Keenan Hall Arena Center 1:30 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. 6 p.m.- 7 p.m. 6 p.m.- 7p.m. 5:30 p.m.- 7:30 p.m. 10:30 a.m.- 2:30 p.m. Lunch is provided after 




Corrections 

Learn how to increase In honor of Christian Learn the basics of Writers reflect on the Mass the first Sunday 
The observer regards itself as your motivation level. Unity Week. curling. nature of violence. of the month. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Valerie Sayers Women’s Basketball Bach’s Lunch Men’s Basketball Women’s Tennis 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Reading Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hammes Bookstore 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. Arts Center 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.- 8:30 p.m. The Irish take on the 12:10 p.m.- 1 p.m. The Irish play the The Irish take on the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Reading from recently Virginia Tech Sponsored by the Boston College Indiana Hoosiers. Free 
we can correct our error. 

released novels. Hokies. Music Department. Eagles. and open to the public. 

ndsmcobserver.com | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | The observer 



Health services warns students about cold 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
with temperatures plunging into the negatives this week, university health services ad­vised students to protect their health against the risks posed by adverse conditions.  
dr. Kevin mcaward of university health services said the most basic preventative measure students should take is to dress warmly and in layers. 
“cover your skin and dress in layers,” mcaward said. “avoid your clothes or socks getting wet.” 
in such extreme cold temper­atures, it does not take long for the body to be at risk for frost­bite or hypothermia. mcaward said it is important for students to be aware of the symptoms of these serious health problems. 
“pale, painful, burning skin is a sign of frostbite,” mcaward said. “skin that doesn’t pink [or] red up after going inside is concerning. hypothermia is a state of full body cooling. mild hypothermia presents with lethargy, confusion, shivering and then worsens to delirium and finally coma and respira­tory depression.” 

mcaward said the key to pre­venting frostbite is warming the affected areas in the right way. 
“To avoid damage from frost­bite, run areas of concern un­der warm water. do not rub them to try to keep them warm. That can damage them more,” he said. “also it is very impor­tant to keep an area of potential frostbite warm after it has been rewarmed. do not go back out into the cold.” 
according to mcaward, the amount of exposure to cold is an important factor for the onset of health conditions like frostbite and hypothermia. 
“more important than the amount of time, is the amount of exposure [to the cold]. it de­pends on how cold the temper­ature falls. at -15 F it will only take five to 10 minutes before exposed skin is subject to frost­bite,” he said. 
mcaward also advised cau­tion with regard to exercising outside in dangerously low temperatures. 
“staying covered again re­mains the most important consideration when exercis­ing in the cold,” mcaward said. “while exercise will keep your core temperature up, it will not help your skin to stay warm and may make [you] at greater risk if sweat accumulates in clothing.” 
mcaward also said it was im­portant for students to be aware that the most common cold-related injury is falling due to slippery conditions. 
“notre dame does a fantas­tic job clearing sidewalks and parking lots, but there are still a lot of slippery spots. being aware of your footing is ex­tremely important,” he said. 


Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 

initiative seeks to improve global health 
impact of the choice project … at global government projects information from those aid university will begin in the 
By ALEX CAO 

news writer project concern international and look at what impacts those programs will help to tailor or spring. implemented.,” sweikar said, projects are actually having,” to redesign aid for better effi-“The data collection will 
michael sweikar, head of “[project choice] is basically sweikar said. “what we do is ciency and effectiveness. actually occur this spring,” the notre dame initiative for a u.s. agency for international above and beyond just measur-“when we are able to view said sweikar, “The data we’re global development (ndigd), development funded project ing outputs, such as whether our final reports at any loca-going to collect will be col-was recently awarded a con-that was primarily in indonesia. a well is built. not only where tion, our goal is to work with lected in april 2014. so notre tract from project concern it was a four-year project from the project is implemented, the organization ... and we pro-dame researchers, including international (pci) to evalu-2003 to 2007 and one of the pri-but what actual outcomes or vide the information and the [professors] edwin michael, ate one of their projects in mary goals of the project was impacts it has for community data,” sweikar said. “in some Juan carlos guzman and indonesia. to try to improve or help the members in terms of better cases, they can modify the lila Khatiwada, are going to 
The child health health in these communities health or education. project or implementation. or work with project concern opportunities integrated with for children. “we’re doing a project in in the case of pci, they may be international and go to community empowerment “you’re looking at impact ghana where we’re measuring able to use that information for indonesia and that’s where we (choice) project, which in the terms of fine health im-the impact of water points — a redesign for a new project or are going to look at the sample sweikar and others at notre provements in children.” wells and other water systems look for what works and what size, investigate the households dame will be working to evalu-sweikar said this work is part in the country. we’re also do-doesn’t work for a new project and conduct the survey to see ate, is centered on improving of a worldwide effort to help ing an investigation in burkina proposal ... and ideally look at the what benefits the program the health of local children evaluate the impact of govern-Faso, which is nearby ghana. some lessons learned from all had.” through wells and other water-ment-funded projects such as we’ve done a number of evalu-our work.” related interventions. project choice. ations as well in uganda.” sweikar said his work with Contact Alex Cao at 
“we were to measure the “our main focus is to look sweikar said all the other researchers from the acao@nd.edu 
Vote 
conTinued From page 1 
election day,” peruski said. 
Judicial council is also work­ing with the office of information Technology to advertise the elec­tions on sakai homepages and on screen backgrounds of university computers, masi said. 
“we’ve been trying to rebrand Judicial council,” he said. “it’s been about increasing [student] awareness of elections.” 
peruski said for the first time, in addition to the digital ballot, a physical voting booth would also be in laFortune on election day, wednesday, Feb. 5. 
The final element of the “vote Today” campaign includes direct outreach to student organiza­tions and hall councils to com­municate election details, masi said. 
peruski said students should appreciate the impact of their votes in this election. 
“it’s important for students to vote because [the elected stu­dents] do represent you for an en­tire calendar year,” peruski said. 
senior michael masi said Judicial council has long been working to increase the dis­appointing turnout from 

paid adverTisemenT 

undergraduate students in the elections it oversees. 
“voter turnout practically hov­ers around 50 percent, which we find unacceptable for the notre dame undergraduate stu­dent body,” masi said. “it’s never as strong as we would like. we would like upwards of 70 or 80 percent.” 
masi thinks the busy sched­ules of notre dame undergradu­ate students may account for the low turnout, and that publicity of elections and explanation of dif­ferences between candidates can help combat this issue. 
“part of our problem is we have a campus full of leaders, and they’re very committed in what they’re doing, and they don’t look beyond their organizations,” he said. “we are very busy students and we don’t have time to know what’s going on.” 
masi said correcting this trend of low turnout would put stu­dent leaders in a stronger posi­tion when student government meets with university leaders. 
“This is the students’ chance to choose a representative for them. student government lead­ers meet with administrators on a daily basis, and if we have less than 40 percent of students voters, it sends a weaker mes­sage,” masi said. “higher turnout allows greater engagement and gives greater authority to get things done. This is the opportu­nity for students to express their interests in what they care about on a greater scale.” 
masi and peruski said attend­ing the election debates monday at 8 p.m. in the basement of laFortune offers the best way to learn about this year’s candidates for student government. masi also said that better coordination with student government helps increase student awareness of its elections. 
“it’s a group effort. Judicial council needs to work with student government and candi­dates to make sure the students know what’s going on. if all of us work together, we can increase engagement,” he said. 
statistics on student voting have been available to Judicial council only for the past three elections, since the council took over the physical ballot record­ing process from oiT and created a google form for digital voting, masi said. 
he said this new format al­lows for easier distribution of the digital link to the ballots, both on the Judicial council website and through email, and allows the council to oversee the process and results. 
“That way the data is all in-house … if there are allegations of election misconduct, we can look at the data,” masi said. “it seems to work really well and candidates seem to like it.” 
masi said that although he does not have concrete statis­tics, he believes seniors vote at lower levels than any other class. masi said he believes it is either because they think they cannot vote or because they do not care, but he encourages them to take the time to vote. 
“seniors, it’s like leaving a lega­cy,” he said. “if you care about the future of notre dame, it’s impor­tant to vote.” 
beyond a general apathy with student government, peruski said dwindling membership on the Judicial council listserv makes it hard to distribute the voting link during the election, which only lasts from 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m. on election day. 
primary elections for student government representatives will take place on wednesday, Feb. 
5. if no candidate receives a ma­jority of votes, a run-off election between the two candidates who receive the highest numbers of votes will occur monday, Feb. 10. 
Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 


The observer | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Task Force 
conTinued From page 1 
address this serious concern. 
student body president alex coccia said student government’s “one is Too many” campaign has been put in place to “bring the topic of sexual violence into mainstream consciousness and conversation and to de­velop an attitudinal shift that leads to a culture that understands sexual violence and actively works to pre­vent it.” 
coccia spoke on this topic before the national campus leaders council, where he said notre dame can stand as an example for other schools and the task force to turn to when looking for solutions. 
“The discussion nationally is crucial to our efforts on campus.  it shows that our efforts here at notre dame have the backing of the na­tional conversation, and that no one is alone in their efforts to respond to and prevent sexual violence,” said coccia. 
The university administra­tion has taken similar steps, creating the committee on sexual assault prevention and working directly with student government to de­velop policies directed to­ward preventing sexual assault, student body vice president nancy Joyce said. 
Joyce said she has worked on the sexual assault issue in the past and is in favor of this new initiative from the white house. Joyce said she believes the new task force will work in tandem with the system that notre dame has in place, bringing about in­creased awareness not just on campus but across the entire united states. 
“The timing of president obama’s announcement both enhances and supports our ‘one is Too many’ cam­paign,” Joyce said. 
The approach obama indi­cated is similar to that taken thus far by the university and student government, with some adjustments to the unique aspects of notre dame, Joyce said. 
“president obama men­tioned that he hopes a stron­ger sense of peer pressure on college campuses will help to prevent sexual as­sault,” she said. “To some degree, this is the approach we are taking here at notre dame, but i think alex and i are more focused on the idea that notre dame’s sense of community is what will en­able us to take better care of each other.” 
coccia said he hopes the white house initiative will finally bring due attention to this increasing problem from the rest of the country. coccia also said he is opti­mistic this announcement will stand as an important 

commitment by the white  americaLawsuit  ns united’s legal the courts.  
house to preventing sexual assault.  director, conTinued From page 1 is represe ayesha Khan, who “is it  religious liberty nting the women, matter, or is it a matter of  
“our goals nationally and  organization’s director said the re sult of the lawsuit people getting access to  
on campus are to break that  of communications, rob will have  important impli­medication that they need?  
silence and ensure that men  boston. cations fo r the students. … once those questions  
take responsibility in these  “we felt that, in this case, “They  will get funded are settled, we’ll have some  
efforts,” coccia said. “This is  the voices of the parties contracep tion, or they will sort of a clearer under- 
so important in the residen­ who would be most affect-continue  to have to pay for standing of how this is go­ 
tial structure at notre dame,  ed by a loss of contracep­it out of  pocket, and that’s ing to shake out.”  
where leaders in male dorms  tive access, largely women, of great  importance to browne said the lawsuit  
have the unique opportunity  were not being heard, and them bec ause all three of “is fundamentally about  
to set the standard of behav­ it was a possibility that them wo uld like access to religious liberty, and only  
ior for all classes within the  their perspective might not contracep tion, which they incidentally about contra- 
dorm.”  be represented,” boston can’t aff ord right now,” ceptive services.”  
as for the future of notre  said. “we filed this mo-Khan said . Khan said the students  
dame and the white house  tion to intervene on behalf boston  said americans chose to be anonymous be- 
task force, coccia said he  of these students, specifi­united’s  intervention in cause they did not want to  
believes promoting active  cally so that their perspec­the lawsu it is about people release information about  
bystander intervention,  tive would be heard by the “losing i mportant medical intimate aspects of their  
speaking out against trivi­ court. services.”  lives.  
alizing sexual assault lan­ “we believe that if notre “The st udents are real­“They were concerned  
guage and supporting the  dame is allowed to deny ly lookin g at this more as about retaliation, both  
healing of survivors will be  contraceptives, it could an issue  of their access to from the university and  
the main responsibilities of  negatively affect students, needed  medication, more from the larger communi­ 
all those involved.  faculty and staff at the in-than they ’re looking at it as ty,” she said.  

Contact Elyse Hight at ehight@nd.edu 
stitution, so we feel that the courts should hear from them.” 

a religious liberty question. and i think that’s what this is going to come down to in 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | The observer 



Obama pledges several modest, important goals 
Assoicated Press 
washingTon — count 2014 as the year president barack obama’s agenda went from bold to bite-sized. 
The president’s state of the union address Tuesday was an amalgam of modest proposals designed to chip away at some of the same problems he’s been working on all along: persistent unemployment, middle-class insecurity, lagging schools and more. 
“let’s make this a year of ac­tion,” obama exhorted mem­bers of congress arrayed before him. “That’s what most americans want — for all of us in this chamber to focus on their lives, their hopes, their aspirations. 
but coming off a year in which his major legislative proposals largely fell flat, obama already was putting plan b in play, too. 
where congress won’t co­operate, obama aims to find creative ways to act more fre­quently on his own, through executive orders, regulatory ac­tion, presidential cajoling and the like. 
“wherever and whenever i can take steps without legis­lation to expand opportunity for more american families, that’s what i’m going to do,” he declared 
There is plenty obama can do on his own. but creativity is no substitute for clout. 
and an executive order on job training, wages or retirement security doesn’t have the zing of an $800 billion stimulus plan or a historic overhaul of the health care system. 

obama isn’t closing off fur­ther congressional action: he renewed his calls for legislation on immigration reform, extend­ing unemployment benefits, boosting the minimum wage for all workers and bolstering preschool programs. and he added new items to his congres­sional wish list, including a call to expand the earned income tax credit to workers without children. 
but obama knows congres­sional republicans are even less likely to cooperate this year than they were in 2013, which has largely been written off as a lost year. and that knowledge is giv­ing him a new sense of urgency. 
The white house announced obama’s first new unilateral action — raising the minimum wage for newly hired federal contract workers — even before he began speaking. 
it quickly drew derision from republicans. house speaker John boehner stressed that the change would affect only new contracts and predicted the number of workers affected would be “somewhere close to zero.” 
still, small steps may be a bet­ter fit for these times than grand legislative proposals that would likely stall. 
The economy is better, even if not everyone’s feeling it yet. The unemployment rate is lower, even if 6.7 percent still isn’t great. The health care law is taking ef­fect, even if it’s causing heart­burn for plenty of americans. 
The president had a fine line to walk in his speech: projecting the optimism and energy that dispirited members of his party, and the public at large, are hun­gry for without overpromising at a time when his influence is sure to wane. 
“This can be a breakthrough year for america,” he declared. 
obama tempered that opti­mistic assessment with an open question to lawmakers: “The question for everyone in this chamber, running through ev­ery decision we make this year, is whether we are going to help or hinder this progress.” 
with congress unlikely to deal on most issues, obama must keep expectations low, without putting people into a funk. 
if they’re not already there, that is. 
polls show people are pes­simistic about the country’s direction and the condition of the economy. seventy percent think unemployment will stay the same or get worse in the next year. 
as for obama himself, “both his supporters and his oppo­nents are worried that he has lost his enthusiasm and his en­ergy for the political contest,” said calvin Jillson, a presidential scholar at southern methodist university. 
Jillson pointed to obama’s own comments in a recent in­terview that he’s “overexposed” and that it’s natural for people to want something new “after six, seven years of me being on the national stage.” 
probe uncovers more cheating in nuclear corps 
Associated Press 
washingTon — The cheat­ing scandal inside the air Force’s nuclear missile corps is expanding, with the number of service members implicated by investigators now roughly dou­ble the 34 reported just a week ago, officials said Tuesday. 
it wasn’t immediately clear whether the additional 30­plus airmen suspected of be­ing involved in cheating on proficiency tests are alleged to have participated in the cheat­ing directly or were involved indirectly. 
regardless, a doubling of the number implicated means that approximately 14 percent of the entire air Force cadre of nuclear missile launch control officers, which numbers about 500, has been removed at least temporarily from active missile duty. it was not clear Tuesday how that affects the mission, beyond requiring the remaining crew members to bear a bigger share of the work. 
The officials who disclosed the higher number cheating suspects spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose the information by name while the investigation is ongoing. 
The air Force announced on Jan. 15 that while it was inves­tigating possible criminal drug use by some airmen, it discov­ered that one missile officer at malmstrom air Force base, mont., had shared test ques­tions with 16 other officers. it said another 17 admitted to knowing about this cheating but did not report it. 
The 34 officers had their se­curity clearances suspended and they were taken off missile launch duty. 
lt. col. John sheets, a spokes­man for air Force global strike command, which manages the nuclear air Force, said he could not comment on the number of additional officers implicated in the cheating investigation since last week, but he said all are launch control officers at malmstrom and all have been removed from performing that duty pending the outcome of the investigation. 
The air Force has 450 inter­continental ballistic missiles, or icbms, on alert at all times, with a contingent of about 500 launch control officers, some number of which are unavail­able on any given day due to illness or other reasons. so the number temporarily unavail­able for duty because of the cheating scandal, at roughly 68, is substantial. 
each day, a total of 90 officers work in pairs inside 45 under­ground launch control centers, with each center monitoring and controlling a group of 10 icbms. They work 24-hour shifts in the missile field and then return to their base. They generally do as many as eight of these shifts per month. 

GOP responds with message of empowerment 
Associated Press 
washingTon — rep. cathy mcmorris rodgers on Tuesday offered a kinder, gen­tler vision of republicans who are determined to empower americans, not the govern­ment, and close the gap “be­tween where you are and where you want to be.” 
Tapped to deliver the gop response to president barack obama’s state of the union address, mcmorris rodgers touched on the daily routines of average americans that overshadow washington, from kissing children goodnight to preparing for a doctor’s visit, and complained that obama’s policies are making life harder. 
The highest-ranking republican woman in congress said the gop be­lieves “in a government that trusts people and doesn’t limit where you finish because of where you started. That is what we stand for — for an america that is every bit as compassionate as it is excep­tional. our plan is one that dreams big for everyone and turns its back on no one.” 
noteworthy for a member of the republican leadership, mcmorris rodgers expressed support for changing the na­tion’s immigration system, though she made no mention of what to do about the esti­mated 11 million immigrants living in the united states illegally. 
The chairwoman of the house republican conference focused on dealing with bor­der security and expand­ing visas to attract high-tech workers. 
her remarks were highly personal, devoted in large part to her background and family. she spoke while seated on a couch in her office, a flag, fam­ily photo and fireplace in the background. she spoke of pre­ferred republican approaches on school choice and lower taxes. 
mcmorris rodgers said that under the president’s econom­ic policies “more americans stopped looking for a job than found one,” and criticized his health care overhaul for lead­ing to canceled insurance cov­erage and patients unable to see their regular doctors. 

“republicans believe health care choices should be yours, not the government’s,” said the five-term congresswoman from eastern washington. “and that whether you’re a boy with down syndrome or a woman with breast cancer, you can find coverage and a doctor who will treat you.” 
mcmorris rodgers’ son cole, 6, has down syndrome, and she co-founded the congressional down syndrome caucus six years ago to try to raise aware­ness of the difficulties that children with the syndrome face. The 44-year-old lawmak­er delivered her third child just eight weeks ago. 
countering recent democratic defenses of gov­ernment, mcmorris rodgers said the mission is “to ensure that we are not bound by where we come from, but empowered by what we can become. That is the gap republicans are working to close. it’s the gap we all face: between where you are and where you want to be.” 
republicans have struggled to shed democratic criticism that they’ve waged a “war on women,” a difficulty reflected in the 2012 presidential vote in which obama captured 55 percent of the female vote. republican remarks about “legitimate rape” and mike huckabee’s recent convoluted comment about birth control and women’s libido have un­dermined the party’s effort to appeal to female voters. 
hours before the president’s speech, the house voted to bar federal subsidies to americans signing up to health care plans that cover abortion, and democrats accused the gop of undercutting women’s repro­ductive rights. 
mcmorris rodgers, who is fourth in the house leader­ship, has stood out in a gop conference dominated by older men. her national televi­sion address comes as the gop is seeking to attract female voters. 
The annual response to the president’s address is often awarded to up-and-coming politicians, including ones with presidential ambitions. but delivering the speech to a camera after the president’s applause-interrupted ad­dress can sometimes prove problematic. 
louisiana gov. bobby Jindal’s stiff response in 2009 was widely panned, and the lasting image from sen. marco rubio’s speech last year was his desperate grab for a water bottle. 
mcmorris rodgers was not the lone gop voice Tuesday night. sen. mike lee of utah was giving the tea party re­sponse to the president, and sen. rand paul of Kentucky was delivering his views. 


InsIde CoLumn 

a college snow day 
Annemarie Loessberg 
news writer 

i am from the east coast, just outside of washington, d.c. while i was in high school, we were hit by two very large storms chris­tened “snowpocalypse” and “snowmageddon.” if there is about an inch of snow on the ground, the government closes, and schools closely follow suit. while i was in high school, we had so many snow days that a few years we had to make up class days on federal holi­days and at the end of the school year. i remember hearing that, at the same time, friends of mine in the midwest had their first snow day since kindergarten. 
That brings me to now: i moved to the midwest to attend saint mary’s college. i had heard hor­ror stories from my family who had attended saint mary’s and notre dame 20 years before and how, one day, it was even illegal to drive on the roads. my first two years here, i kept waiting for those horrific win­ters and they never arrived. yes, we did get a lot more snow than i did at home, but it wasn’t the extreme i had been led to believe was the norm, here. in my first two years, whenever it snowed, i would check my email and the news, out of habit from years of ‘when it snows, school is closed.’ For two years i was dis­appointed. at the beginning of this year, there were reports that we were due for the worst winter in a very long time. but i had heard that repeatedly since freshman year. i thought nothing of it. 
back home, we had strange weath­er over christmas. normally the big snows happen in late January, early February so i left all my snow clothes back at school, leaving room in my baggage for other things. but we got snow while i was home and the huge storm that swept through made it even worse over here in the midwest. it was illegal to drive on the roads. it was so cold frostbite could occur in five minutes and en­gines could fail without warning; putting those two together is not appealing at all. 
but now, when i had just gotten to the point where i had accepted i was never going to have a snow day while in college, i got two. in a row. They didn’t affect me too much since i don’t have Tuesday classes, but they have given me a reason to open my bottle of wine, sit back and watch trashy television and enjoy the company of all my friends. so cheers! hope you all en­joyed your snow days! 
Robert Alvarez 
man on a nag 

i’m a huge fan of the north dining hall lunch’s salad of the day. if you’d ask my mom, you’d know that this is a huge deal. historically, i’ve despised salads. really, i hated food in general. i thought pizza was nasty until age five. i regularly drank sodas at family parties to fill me up, mostly because i didn’t like tamales until high school. my mom has tried to accomplish for years what ndh has accomplished with a simple fajita chicken salad. That salad line is now my daily lunch habit. 
one day last week, i was overjoyed to find out that day’s salad was the cobb salad with avocado ranch dress­ing. i shoulder-checked some poor girl to avoid the exponentially increasing line (this is standard practice), and ea­gerly walked to my friends’ table ready to get that turkey-bacon-avocado goodness in my mouth. as i sat down, though, a friend of mine commented, “it looks like they tossed your salad well, huh?” 
confused, i glanced at my salad and replied, “yeah, i guess.” 
another friend then chimed in, “ah man, i hate when they don’t toss it well!” 
“i know, right? it ruins my salad.” 
“employee X is the worst.” 
by this time, i was already halfway done with my salad, but i was con­cerned by what my friends were say­ing. They eventually went on to give an evaluation of other dining hall employees: “he doesn’t smile,” “she’s so slow,” “he freaks out when…,” all usually preceded by, “i hate.” i’ve heard these complaints before and i usually shrug them off, but for some reason i was annoyed this time. is this really representative of how we view our workers? usually, when i press my friends about these kinds of state­ments, they respond by reminding me how much we’ve paid for these ser­vices; we deserve better than this. 
how much, however, can we reason­ably expect for the money we pay? we pay employees to carry out a service of some kind, and i’ve yet to encounter an nd employee who has not done their job when i paid them. The execu­tion of a job is not the issue here. what is at issue is we seem to expect more; we expect “service with a smile.” money can only buy so much, though. To me, it seems unfair to expect more than the service rendered. we are not owed a view into the psyche of the people who wait on us; i don’t know who the person swiping my card is, i don’t know what their day has been like. why should i expect more from them besides a well-swiped card? 
That being said, however, i’ve yet to meet an nd employee who wouldn’t return a smile if i was persistent in of­fering one. even some of the “meaner” employees would eventually relent if i did something as simple as read­ing off their nametags. (This little tip is a game changer. who knew, people respond positively when you recognize them as a person with a name). regardless of whether i receive a smile in response, though, what does it say about me if i only view my smile or thanks as valid if i receive a “you’re welcome!” in return? is my gratitude contingent on having my ego stroked? am i only a friendly person when other people are friendly to me? This seems out of line with the spirit of gratitude, especially to us notre dame students who have already been given everything. granted, gratitude is not something one should expect from anyone, no matter how much they have. it is something that is given freely and shouldn’t be some­thing conceded when certain mate­rial thresholds are reached. if this is our standard, i doubt we will ever be grateful. rather, gratitude comes from a sense of wonder at our lives. luckily, we live in a wonderful world; gratitude should be our default, not contingent. 
This brings me back to our favorite salad-tosser. she has special needs, and special needs employees don’t have a minimum wage, so in all prob­ability she isn’t paid much. many special needs people still work for a pittance, however, because they love working. yet, we’re upset because this lady doesn’t toss our salads well enough? Frankly, if a poorly tossed salad upset me to the extent i’ve heard others express, i’d need to reevaluate some things in my life. Try saying hi to her. learn her name. she gets a little flustered when the line is long though, so don’t always expect a response if that is the case. but eventually you might catch her when things are slower and she’ll flash you a smile with a, “you’re welcome!” she even wished me a good weekend once. The great thing about showing gratitude is that it is usually met with the same. 
Robert Alvarez is a senior studying in the Program of Liberal Studies. He is living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edITorIAL CArToon 

Contact Annemarie Loessberg at aloess01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
pro-life talk but not pro-life ethic 
Elizabeth Pfenson 
guest columnist 

last week, approximately 600 stu­dents, faculty, staff and alumni repre­sented the university of notre dame at this year’s march for life. despite the unusual cold and vast amounts of snow (by d.c. standards, at least), the notre dame community demonstrated its commitment to life as beginning at conception. roughly two months ago, the university re-filed its lawsuit in the 
u.s. 
district court for the northern district of indiana for relief from the hhs mandate. This is a case about re­ligious liberties, but at the heart of the matter is notre dame’s commitment to the unborn and the teachings of the church that celebrate life, whenever it comes and whatever its form. 

in its november 13, 2013, “special message” on the hhs mandate, the 

u.s. 
conference of catholic bishops reiterated their opposition to the mandate and celebrated the church’s long-standing practice of providing and advocating for “accessible, life-affirming health care” (usccb.org, u.s. bishops issue ‘special message’ on hhs mandate at conclusion of general assembly). They grounded their con­cerns in the church’s commitments to “feed the poor, heal the sick, and edu­cate the young.” 


i have often heard criticisms of the “pro-life” movement by members of the “pro-choice” community that con­strue pro-lifers as only caring about life at conception and as stopping to care about that life once it has been born. such critics point to a perceived comparative lack of vigor about the rights of the elderly, disabled, homeless and orphaned. To the extent that this criticism is true, it is well-deserved: a healthy respect-for-life ethic must be carried through to support and value life in all of its stages and forms, no matter if the work becomes less glamorous or harder because of social inequalities, racism and systematic poverty (to name just a few complicat­ing factors). 
at least at one time, it would have been harder to levy this criticism at notre dame. when i heard of the university life initiative called the “pregnant and parenting student assistance Fund,” i was thrilled. This fund, to me, was a demonstration that notre dame was interested in follow­ing through with its commitment to support life; it was a sign the university was interested in engaging with stu­dents in the challenging and resource-intensive task of raising the life that often can be so easy to create. 
simply put, the assistance fund existed to support undergraduate or graduate students who faced inten­tional and unintentional pregnancies. recognizing “pregnancy and parent­ing present challenges of fitting in as well as keeping up with academic de­mands,” in its mission statement on the university life initiatives website, the university committed itself “to work­ing with pregnant and parenting stu­dents to find ways for them to continue their education at the university.” For many students, this meant they re­ceived financial assistance for diapers, formula and childcare — costs that are not provided for in the typical financial aid award or graduate student stipend. This fund was a blessing to many stu­dents, some of whom i know here at the university and some of whom have graduated in recent years. 
but this fund is no more — it has assisted its last pregnant or parent­ing student. in the words of the fund administrator, “no funding remains,” and the university has “decided not to move forward with actively seeking donations for the fund at this time,” according to an email from peter horvath, student services program director of the notre dame law school, to me dated Jan. 23, 2014. i learned the fund had been discontinued when i went to apply for assistance for myself, my spouse and our child. 
at one time, the university saw this fund as deeply connected to its mis­sion as a catholic university. it was a very concrete way for notre dame to follow through with its promise to support life. From the university life initiative’s program description on its website: “notre dame is committed to life and to offering students resources that support a student’s choice of life 
— both during the pregnancy and af­ter the child’s birth.”To be fair, notre dame does offer limited additional resources for pregnant and parent­ing students, including counseling, academic support, housing accom­modation for undergraduates and limited financial assistance for those with unintentional pregnancies. but none of these programs offer the same flexibility to meet individual needs as the assistance fund, and many of the resources offered by notre dame are not available to graduate students or those who became pregnant intention­ally. by closing off this avenue of sup­port for many of its own families, notre dame opens itself up to criticisms that it is interested in the pro-life talk but not the pro-life ethic. by encouraging students to be open to life but not sup­porting them once that life has arrived, notre dame finds itself in a position that is too close to hypocritical for comfort. 
as a graduate student mere months from graduation, whether or not this fund is ultimately re-endowed is un­likely to impact my own life story. but my hope in writing this is that future students who are pregnant or have children can benefit from the university’s wealth of resources as they nurture the lives entrusted to them. in our transition out of advent, through epiphany and now into ordinary Time, let us not forget the story of our lady, who prepared to mother in the worst of circumstances, and who, i think, feels as deeply for mothers and families as she does for the unborn. may she continue to watch over young families in need of assistance, even if her university has decided to do so no longer. 
Elizabeth Pfenson is a third year law student at the University of Notre Dame Law School. She can be reached at epfeffer@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
uwIre 

Finding solace in lost baggage 
Ally Daniels 
yale daily news 

last week i inadvertently bore wit­ness to a quasi-psychological study involving baggage claim representa­tives and volatile customers. 
let me start off with some back­ground. over winter break, my fam­ily took a two-week trip to asia. my brothers and i, all college students, packed our bags with almost every­thing we brought home for break. when we arrived in hong Kong, two airline representatives were wait­ing for us at the gate to deliver the news that three of our six bags did not make it onto the aircraft. They sincerely apologized, gave us $400 of compensation and told us the ex­act time the following day that the bags would be delivered to our hotel. The way in which the representa­tives handled it — with courtesy and a calm attitude — ameliorated any frustrations we might have had, and instead left us appreciative of their efforts. 
my experience coming back to the 
u.s. could not have been more dif­ferent. we arrived in baltimore on a saturday night and i was eager to get my bags home, hoping to do my laundry before i returned to yale the following day. after my luggage failed to appear on the baggage car­ousel, i waited in a long line to speak to an airline representative. with an unnecessarily rude tone, the repre­sentative told me my bag was still in chicago, where we had connected between Tokyo and baltimore. Though i was told it would be put on the final flight to baltimore that night, it didn’t leave chicago until late in the afternoon the next day. i had to have the bag shipped to new haven and i didn’t receive it until 11 p.m. that monday. i was given no explanation, no apology and no reimbursement. 
Therein lies my study and, as a prospective psych major, i couldn’t possibly pass up an opportunity to (very rudimentarily) analyze this. both on the way out and on the way back our bags were lost. but, on the way out we were wholly pacified and on the way back we were incredibly frustrated. The ways in which the airlines handled the mishap framed the experiences for us, either posi­tively or negatively. it was fascinat­ing to see how much power those around us hold in creating the lens through which we view our everyday experiences. 
This reminded me of an adage that used to play every morning on my elementary school pa system: “Treat all people as you would like to be treated, with respect, courtesy and consideration.” it is a simple cliché that is often forgotten and makes a world of difference in frustrating situations. 
This lesson is made especially rel­evant during shopping period. we are thrown into a week of indecision and confusion, begging professors for spots in seminars and capped lec­tures while simultaneously trying to find backup classes that meet at the same time. we can’t even shop those backup classes without risking los­ing potential spots in our first-choice courses. 
amidst the throes of the two-week period, we seek compassion from professors and are often given very little. i’ve received countless one-sentence notes from professors in re­sponse to my three paragraph emails to them, singing their praises and imploring them for a highly coveted spot in their class. it’s not that i can’t handle the rejection; i can and have prepared myself for not getting into their classes. but i would come away from the experience much more posi­tively if the professor tried to soften the blow a little bit, thanking me for my interest and wishing me luck with the rest of my classes. professors are under no obligation to craft cour­teous responses — i assume they receive hundreds of these pleading emails daily — but the extra effort would go a long way in soothing the exasperating pandemonium that is shopping period. 
The takeaway from this overly sim­plistic analysis of my pseudo-case is obvious, and one that is instilled in us from a very young age. but, in the spirit of new year’s resolutions, it’s never a bad idea to be reminded of the basics. we’ve all been that person whose baggage was lost, or whose spot in a coveted seminar was de­nied. Just like the polite airline rep­resentative, we too have the capacity to frame even negative moments with kind words and an upbeat attitude. 
The Yale Daily News is the independent student newspaper serving Yale University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

This evening, notre dame’s creative writing program will have its first reading of the semester. valerie sayers, the celebrated author of six novels, will be sharing her work. of sayers’ six novels, two were named in the new york Times’ “notable books of the year.”  her most re­cent novel, “The powers,” a coming-of-age story about yankees slugger Joe dimaggio, was released last fall to much acclaim.  sayers’ five earlier novels have just been reissued by northwestern university press in a paper­back set. sayers, who is also a notre dame professor of english, spoke with scene writer emma Terhaar about her upcoming reading. 
emma Terhaar: what will you be reading from on wednesday? 
valerie sayers: since this reading is to celebrate new uniform editions of five previously-published novels that northwestern released in late 2013, i thought i’d read from the first of these, “due east” (1987) and the last, “brain Fever” (1996).  my latest novel, “The powers,” was published in april 2013, and i also celebrated that publi­cation with a campus reading. 
eT:  “The Powers” is a novel told from the per­spective of joe dimaggio, right? what sparked your interest in dimaggio? 
vs: The novel explores pacifism and acts of witness 
Matt McMahon 
scene writer 

T-pain produced his Top Ten, certified platinum single “i’m ‘n luv (wit a stripper)” in a mere two hours. This is pretty shocking, considering it sounds like the product took less than an hour of work to put together. using only the garageband software from apple — and his affinity for radio-penetrating earworms — the rap­per and singer created the hit single, his third most popular to-date.  The song combines, in my opinion, the worst elements of pop hip-hop and the non-confronta­tional, easy listening style of elevator music. 
his use of a winding steel-string acoustic guitar to establish that perfect contemporary r&b sentimental­ity is so cheesy and unearned that it’s difficult for me to even get through the first five seconds of the song.  Then the chiptune fluty synth line he lays over the top sounds like you’re listening to one of those non-copyrighted versions of a song on a music tab website.  you know, the kind that avoids plagiarism by using a high-pitched wind instrument as the vocal melody in place of the actual vocals — actually, maybe that version of the song would be easier to listen to because you wouldn’t be subjected to T-pain’s painful lyricism, but, don’t worry, i’ll get to that in a moment.  The pervasive flute and guitar arrangement not only remains one of the most on the eve of world war ii. since Joe dimaggio’s famous hitting streak took place in 1941, and since so many americans seemed to regard dimaggio as the kind of hero they were looking for as they debated entering the war, he was a great way to tie together the questions i was asking. 
eT:  It’s really interesting that you inhabited a very specific historical figure, not because you were overly interested in him, but because he was a way to answer some more socially impor­tant questions you had about that time period. About how much research went into writing about that historical era and joe specifically? 
vs: i researched a great deal — i read all the dimaggio biographies to date, as well as books about pacifism and the catholic worker movement, and books about the early years of the holocaust. online, i followed the daily new york Times for 1941 (i was as interested in ads and the writing style as i was in the news, but the news was fascinating. i had no idea, for example, that accounts of Jewish residents being rounded up in paris and vienna were buried in the back pages of “the paper of record.”)  i also read The sporting news’ accounts of Joe d’s streak games and looked up many baseball facts; i’m a fan, but i needed the knowledge of a fanatic. Finally, i looked at more photographs of the era than i could count. 
eT:  so is it correct to describe a book like “The Powers” as historical fiction? 
annoying, inorganic pieces of music ever to dominate radios and clubs and any other place people decide to listen to terrible music, but also on top of that, it also gets stuck in your head makes it even more annoying for me to hear. 
not to mention the dually grating aspects of the vo­cals T-pain lays down on the track.  he uses vocal modi­fication just for the sake of masking his own voice, but his delivery at the ends of all of his lines ends up inten­sifying the most irritating tendencies of his pronuncia­tion.  The autotune applied, even briefly, throughout the verses could easily be replaced by singing in a man­ner not so entirely flat and devoid of emotion.  Then at the tail end of most, if not all, of the song’s phrases, he either weakly and lazily drops the final syllable or sus­tains it for far too long in this lip-curled snarly drawl. 
even T-pain seems embarrassed by the ballad, put­ting the fact that his infatuation is with this stripper in parentheticals.  it’s an afterthought; he’d much rather the listener only know, “i’m ‘n luv” — with only two hours to make the song he couldn’t afford dedicat­ing any of that time to properly spelling out “in” or “love.”  so the “(wit a stipper)” looks like the typeface embodiment of his habit of trailing off at the end of a sentence.  with his choice of song title T-pain’s basi­cally pronouncing “i’m in love…with a stripper.”  if he really feels this strongly, he should own it: stalwartly declare that love by jumping up on stage with her and 
vs: it’s certainly historical fiction, but it’s also an ex­periment in using two forms of narrative, prose and pho­tographs, to tell two parallel stories. 
eT: And how long does it normally take you to write a book, and “The Powers” in particular? 
vs:  The idea for it came when the u.s. was debat­ing whether to invade iraq and my sons were debating whether they considered themselves conscientious ob­jectors. but i wasn’t able to start working on it in earnest till several years later, around 2004. it took a long time to write, but getting permissions for all the photographs i used took up a lot of time too. no book of mine has ever taken so long to make it to print! 
eT:  does notre dame influence your novels? 
vs:  notre dame influences me on a daily basis, but certainly the presence of a Kroc institute where the ideas i was writing about are studied seriously provided a kind of moral support. and working among sports fanat­ics also illuminated some ideas for me, especially how sports can transport us and call forth a kind of fidelity we may otherwise find hard to honor. 
sayers’ reading will be tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the hammes notre dame bookstore. attendance is free, and her newly reissued paperback books will also be avail­able for purchase at the hammes notre dame bookstore. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at eterhaar@nd.edu 
screaming it for everyone to hear, man.  also, if i were the stripper he’s in love with, i wouldn’t know how to feel based on his decisions in punctuation. 
and don’t get me started on the rest of T-pain’s song­writing on “i’m ‘n luv (wit a stripper).”  it’s probably safe to assume that given the nature of the woman’s profession, T-pain’s affection might be in some part physical.  but, in composing an ode to his crush, T-pain was presented an opportunity to expound upon her other qualities, possibly in personality or character or moments they’ve shared, that also might attract him to her.  instead, he spends five hundred words spewing out vague, superficial typicality.  she’s hot, she’s thick, she does that thing with the pole— what sets her apart from all the other strippers he claims, “show me love,” huh? his description cannot possibly do this girl justice, after all sexuality and intimacy have been taken away.  The lines come off as excruciatingly mechanical, and while he only focuses on the physicality of this stripper he loves so much, he cannot even convey that bit poeti­cally.  i hope this girl, the subject of the ballad, didn’t fall for such a lazy attempt at courtship; if she did, that would make the song even worse than the worst thing ever. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 

The observer | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
associate scene editor 

i should preface this article by explaining that i am not a Justin bieber fan. i don’t know any of his music, to the extent that when i came to notre dame as a freshman and my dorm’s Frosh-o “serenade” used the melody of a Justin bieber song, i fumbled over the tune all week as apparently the only living person on planet earth who hadn’t heard “baby” before. what i do know about bieber is that he’s a canadian teenager, usher made him famous and, apparently since then, he’s stirred up plenty of trouble. 
i first heard about bieber’s issues long ago in 2013 when his “birthday clubbing” incident hit the news. after reading Justin’s rants about the london club that denied him and his friends entry, i dismissed the story as nonsense, thought of bieber as kind of a jerk and didn’t think of it again. it wasn’t until last week that news of the star popped back into my usually bieber­less life. news about the singer’s “sizzurp” problem hit hard, and in reading the reports, i learned of the 19-year-old’s history of close calls with drugs and alco­hol – he was found with marijuana and a stun gun last april, had several run ins with club goers and owners throughout last year and was even detained in australia for drug possession. 
it was this January, however, that bieber’s “close-call” streak ended. in continuing his habit of bad behavior, bieber was accused of egging a neighbor’s house. The accusations led to a full-fledged police raid, which 
John Darr 
scene writer 

yesterday, i asked one of my more strongly-opinionated friends if he had heard of some relatively obscure rock band. “i don’t listen to that hipster bull****” he responded with deriding seriousness. i laughed it off, but it made me sad. i wasn’t insulted; us musical hipsters experience a lot of this sort of thing. instead, i was again reminded of a misconception commonly held about indie music. 
many indie bands make songs very similar to those on the radio with catchy chorus and friendly production. such “indie-pop” bands are often the music heard at trendy clothing stores and during television commercials; noth­ing noticeably separates the music from mainstream pop music except for its popularity. 
That being said, there’s a lot of indie music out there. most of it, for some reason or another, would never be on Top 40 radio. some of it is recorded and produced with lo-fi equipment, some of it is experimental/artsy and a whole lot of it is just plain bad. even if a radio listener wants to check out “indie music,” it can be difficult for them to track down something they really like. 
exposed fully the teenager’s involvement with drugs – allegedly, cups of “sizzurp,” a drink made with codeine, as well as marijuana and ecstasy were found in the house during the raid. somehow, the events managed to take an even worse turn when bieber was arrested for drag racing a rented lamborghini while drunk and high and charged with a dui. 
with this rapid-fire series of events leading to bieber’s arrest, “bieber Fever” turned into some serious bieber hate. as bieber was put in and subsequently bailed out of jail, trends on Twitter indicated that most of the country was not pleased with the singer’s actions, with hashtags like “#deportbieber” trending worldwide. an online petition to deport the canadian star has gained over 50,000 signatures from “concerned” americans. 
it’s clear that Justin bieber has his fair share of prob­lems. it’s even clearer that the country has turned on the once-beloved pop star as he transitioned from baby-faced teen heartthrob to tattooed bad boy. but what i’m still not sure of is why our collective reaction to this news is shock and dismay. 
while i certainly don’t believe there’s any excuse for bieber’s behavior, let’s take a step back and think about the star’s upbringing: he was discovered at age 13 and was quickly ushered (no pun intended) from living with his single mother in canada into a life of world tours, paparazzi and magazine covers. along the way, bieber obviously became involved in some very adult activ­ity, but at an age that most kids spend worrying about detention or their acT scores, bieber was surrounded by millions of dollars and group of managers and an entourage who never told him “no.” incident after 
That’s why i’m starting this column. after countless hours of exploring spotify, iTunes and the like, i’ve tracked down amazing indie-pop artists whose music screams to be played on the radio. every week, Top 40 a.u.e. will showcase an indie-pop artist whose music is friendly, catchy and just plain great. if anyone finds themselves hap­pily jamming to indie music and hungry for more, i’ll have done my job. 
well let’s get started, shall we? 
snowmine 
snowmine makes warm, airy music with gorgeously layered guitars and soft orchestral atmospheres; think hot chocolate on a softly snowy day. Frontman/songwriter grayson sanders has a voice that effortlessly slips in and out of falsetto, allowing songs to have original vocal melo­dies that never stray into awkward territory. This is show­cased in incredibly catchy singles “penny” and “let me in” from debut album “laminate pet animal.” Just a warning: you will try to hit “those notes.” you will not hit those notes. 
‘laminate pet animal’ is currently downloadable on their bandcamp page for whatever price you want to pay. They also have a new album, “dialects,” coming out within the next month. That album is streaming on spotify as of incident, the singer’s managers and label dealt with his problems privately, likely with no repercussions for the star. and the public is actually surprised and angered by his recent actions? 
like so many child stars, Justin bieber’s upbringing in the limelight has put him in situations far past his maturity level, and if his recent home raid is any indi­cation, bieber isn’t dealing with it well. but while his erratic, aggressive and irresponsible behavior is repre­hensible; the knee-jerk reaction to deport the star due to his recent arrest seems bafflingly inappropriate to me. rather than respond with any sort of compassion or concern for a clearly troubled teenager, america has decided to declare bieber a “danger to society” and dis­pose of him. i’m still not sure why we as the public care so much about this kid, but if we’re going to care, maybe it should be about his health rather than his impact on the fabric of american society. Just a suggestion. 
since Justin bieber faces felony charges, there is ac­tually a possibility that he could legally be deported. The star also allegedly is on the receiving end of an intervention from his label and will be encouraged to go to rehab. it seems that finally, the people around the 19-year-old are giving his problems the attention they need. but if the reaction of the public is to shame, aban­don or literally deport a likely drug-addicted teenager who was so obviously headed in this felonious direc­tion, i’m just glad i’m not a pop star. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
yesterday. 
washed out 
Known best for portlandia theme song “Feel it all around,” producer earnest greene makes chilled out, reverb-laden pop songs under the name washed out. rich drumbeats that flit between world music and hip hop pin down gauzy synth atmospheres. while the vocals are often difficult to understand, they carve out irresistible harmo­nies and easy melodies that lull a listener into humming along. 
washed out stretches out pop music’s fist-pumping chord progressions into soft, pillowy backdrops. it’s the perfect music for shutting one’s eyes on a car drive through the countryside, or simply sinking into the comfiest chair in the common room. check out washed out’s excellent debut “within or without” to hear trademark singles “eyes be closed” and “amor Fati”, and if you’re thirsting for more, his 2013 offering “paracosm” for a more flowery, tropical sound. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


sPorTs AuThorITY 

‘Space Jam’ is a game for the ages 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the eighth installment in a 10-part series discussing the best rivalry in sports. Join the discussion on Twitter by using the #BestRivalry. 
over the past week and a half, on the off chance that you read this column regularly, you’ve seen some arguments for some of the great rivalries in all of sports. you’ve read about the illustrious competition in the iron bowl, the tradition of the army-navy match-up, Frazier and ali’s epic battles, the cold war competition between america and the ussr, and more. There are several more worthy rivalries that will get their days in the sun later this week, as well. 
but none those are even in the same ballpark — the same universe, even — as the greatest rivalry in all of sports. 
The rivalry may not be a pro­lific one, as the teams played each other only once, nearly 20 years ago. but the game has not been forgotten by dedi­cated fans, and the highlights, even now, rank it as an instant classic. 
The year was 1996. on the one side, the best player in the game, in his prime, along with legends your parents had grown up watching. Team chemistry could be an issue at times as these legendary personalities clashed, and arguments among teammates could get pretty animated — in a hurry. but when the game was on the line, this lineup knew how to put on a show and get the job done. 
however, the crowd favorites were undersized and the obvi­ous underdogs compared to their opponents, a team filled with loads of foreign talent and a huge frontcourt. many of their players had come from lowly beginnings, but their no-holds­barred coach and some highly controversial training methods had whipped them into shape just in time for this crucial matchup on the road. 
The contest was billed as “The ultimate game,” and the stakes of this one time rivalry couldn’t have been higher. The animos­ity between the two squads was evident from the opening tip, as things got physical in a hurry. but the referees were deter­mined not to let the whistle decide the game, and let the players have at it, even as the on-court violence began to es­calate to a nearly comical level. 
This early style of game clearly favored the visitors, and the sell-out home crowd was quickly taken out of the game. Things only got worse for the home team, as a pathetic effort sent them into the locker room down 48. after all the build-up and hype, the game seemed to be over before it started. 
but then, halftime happened. historians and fans have de­bated what exactly happened behind the closed doors of the locker room for decades. while the players maintain that the team’s leaders gave a series of motivational talks and came out with new life after the water break, some cynics allege that a mysterious and secret perfor­mance enhancing substance was passed around at halftime. 
regardless of what you choose to believe, the results were sweeping and immediate. The home team came out on fire, focusing in on their own brand of aggressive defense and putting their big opponents on the run. with the crowd finding its way back into the game, the home squad used its superior bench depth to go on an incred­ible run, even as their injuries began to rack up. unheralded players stepped into contrib­ute along with the superstars, with seemingly everyone play­ing a role in engineering the comeback. 
as all great rivalry games do, the game came down to the final play. up one point with 10 seconds to play, all the visitors needed to do was hang on to the ball and secure the win. but things unfolded like a hollywood script, as the scrap­py home team forced a mon­strous turnover on the inbound and moved the ball up the floor. 
watching the highlights, even all these years later, these 10 seconds still seem to stretch on forever. but after a series of passes, the underdogs finally get the ball to their best player, streaking over the half court line, and what happens next is just loony. he disappears into a crowd of two defenders, then seems to hang in the air for eternity, even with the defense draped all over him. 
and when michael Jordan’s 50-foot arm threw the ball through the hoop as time ex­pired — saving himself from enslavement, the looney Tunes from destruction, charles barkley from a lifetime of ther­apy and ending a bizarre nba lockout subplot — he puts the finishing touch on the greatest rivalry game ever played. 
Tune squad 78, monstars 77. it doesn’t get any better than that. 
welcome to the Jam. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at whef­fero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nFL 

‘Stoner Bowl’ takes hold 
Associated Press 

seaTTle (ap) — The way bryan weinman sees it, he and his friends already won their super bowl bet. 
Two weeks ago, the night­club dJ and a few buddies were sitting at a sports bar in denver, joking about how funny it would be if the seattle seahawks and denver broncos — the nFl teams from the two states that have legalized mari­juana — made it to the big game. 
They decided to plunk down a $44 wager — the fee for registering the internet domain www. stonerbowl.org — just be­fore the seahawks and broncos won their confer­ence championships. 
it paid off. They’re now using the site to hawk T-shirts and hats celebrat­ing the coincidence. one shirt features the vince lombardi Trophy, reserved for the game’s victors, re­fashioned into a bong. another features a spoof of the league’s logo, with the letters “Thc” — for mari­juana’s active compound — replacing “nFl.” 
From weed-themed super bowl parties to a denver company’s “stoner bowl” tours of recreation­al pot shops, this year’s super bowl offers a twist on a sporting event better known for its beer commer­cials. Thanks to the rec­reational marijuana laws passed by voters in 2012, sales of taxed pot to adults over 21 began at colorado pot shops Jan. 1 and are due to begin in washington later this year. 
There have been a slew of predictable, ready-made puns, most of which have to do with “bowl” being the part of the pipe where pot goes. some fans have issued not-quite-serious calls for a cannabis-friend­ly musician — say, willie nelson or snoop dogg — to sing the national anthem. 
“i’m staying home and will be watching the super bowl while i light up my own super bowl,” well-known stoner Tommy 

FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $137,500. Call 561-588-5520 
“Let’s Get Away From It All” by 

chong, of the comedy duo cheech and chong, wrote on their Facebook page. The pair released a public­ity photo doctored to show chong in a seahawks head­band and cheech marin in a knit broncos hat. 
The washington chapter of norml, the national organization for the reform of marijuana laws, said it would be rooting on the “Thc-hawks.” it made a friendly bet with colorado norml for what 
t hey’re ca lling “bud bowl  
Xlv iii.”  
if  denver  w ins,  t he  

washington chapter has to dress in broncos colors and sing John denver’s “rocky mountain high.” if seattle wins, the colorado chap­ter must dress in seahawks colors and sing “purple haze,” by seattle native Jimi hendrix. video evi­dence is to be posted on the winner’s Facebook page for at least a week. 
in deference to the im­portance of good officiat­ing, high Times magazine offered a guide to spotting “stoner bowl” party fouls, including the offense of “holding”: “when the vio­lator takes, two, three, maybe eight hits before passing the joint.” 
on Twitter, people for the ethical Treatment of animals promoted its rec­ipe for vegan “colorado catnip” brownies, with ca­veats: “note: This recipe is for humans only. also note: This recipe is for le­gally obtained marijuana. peTa does not condone the purchase or sale of illegal dr ugs.” 
at the sports bar, weinman, 35, and his friends scribbled down their T-shirt ideas — first on coasters, and then pa­per. Their motto: “one team and a lot of fans are gonna get smoked.” 
“There’s so many easy jokes,” he said. “i hope the average person finds com­edy in what we’re doing.” 
even if the average per­son might, it’s not clear the nFl does. “we do not have any response,” league spokesman greg aiello wrote in an email. 
derek Franklin, the pres­ident of the washington association for substance abuse and violence prevention, said all the at­tention about the “weed bowl or the bong bowl, what have you, it drives home the wrong public health message.” 
he noted that washington norml’s Facebook page featured a cartoonish ver­sion of the seahawks logo, with bloodshot eyes and a joint in its beak. 
“That’s the kind of thing that for kids, it’s going to stick in their heads,” he said. This super bowl is “incredible for the ‘hawks, but tough for those of us in prevention.” 
medical marijuana ad­vocates also suggested the joking over the big game underscores a serious is­sue: The nFl doesn’t al­low its players, even those in states that have ap­proved medical or recre­ational marijuana, to use it to ease the pain from the beatings they take on the field. commissioner roger goodell said Thursday the league could reconsider that. 
“i’m not a medical ex­pert,” he said. “we will follow science. we will fol­low medicine. if they de­termine this is a proper method, we would consider it. our medical experts are not saying that right now.” 
among those hoping to make a buck on the denver-seattle matchup is matt brown, co-founder of my 420 Tours in denver. The company is offering a three-night “stoner bowl” package starting at $1,409. it includes tours of local marijuana shops and in­door gardens, lots of free samples, a cannabis cook­ing class and a private viewing party for the game. 
brown, who grew up in Kansas city and has mixed loyalties between the chiefs and the broncos, said he expected about 50 customers. 
“we’ve been joking about the ‘stoner bowl’ for a cou­ple weeks now,” he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Frank Sinatra: Let’s take a boat all. We’ll travel ‘round from town to bermuda Let’s take a plane to to town,We’ll visit ev’ry state.I’ll saint paul. Let’s take a kayak to repeat, “I love you sweet!”In all quincy or nyack, Let’s get away the forty-eight.Let’s go again to from it all.Let’s take a trip in a niag’raThis time we’ll look at the trailerNo need to come back at fall.Let’s leave our hut, dear Get all.Let’s take a powder to boston out of our rut, dear, Let’s get away for chowder,Let’s get away from it from it all. 


ndsmcobserver.com | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | The observer 
smC bAskeTbALL 

Belles set sights on rematch with Adrian 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The belles open up their second round of conference play Thursday with a home matchup against adrian at angela athletic Facility at 7:30. 
saint mary’s (5-12, 3-5 miaa) faces adrian (8-9, 4-5) for the second time this sea­son. adrian won 80-70 when the two teams met Jan. 29 and the belles will look to avenge that loss with a second look at the bulldogs. 
“The last time we played adrian we did not show up to play in the first half,” belles coach Jennifer henley said. “we had a great second half effort, but we need to put 40 minutes together.” 
rebounding from a tough 70-68 loss to olivet on Jan 22., the belles have concentrated their efforts on their defense. 
“our focus continues to be defense,” henley said. “we had a heartbreaking loss at olivet last week as that game came down to a last-second shot.” 
sophomore guard maddie Kohler tied the game against olivet (16-2, 8-1) with a three-pointer in the last ten sec­onds, but the belles’ defense could not stop olivet from scoring a last-second layup to win the game. henley said the belles will try to adjust their defense to adrian’s style of play. 
“adrian looks to run a lot,” henley said. “we have to find a way to slow down their tran­sition game.” 
like the belles, adrian re­cently lost to olivet. The bulldogs fell 71-59 to the comets on saturday. senior guard casey Fougerousse, who averages 7.1 points per game, led adrian with six­teen points, while senior for­ward amy van gessel scored thirteen points and had eight rebounds. 
Though they lost to adrian earlier this season, the belles face the bulldogs with more game-time experience this second time around. The loss to olivet and the 67-64 over­time win against albion on Jan. 18 were both strong tests for the belles, henley said. 
“my team has certainly been tested the last couple of games,” henley said. “i know those situations will certainly help us down the road.” 



lately, Kohler and two for­wards, sophomore Krista Knapke, and junior ariana 
paid adverTisemenT 

paul, have spurred the belles’ scoring. Knapke led the belles with 23 points against olivet to bring her season average to 10.8 points per game. paul added12 points against olivet and averages 13.9 points per game. 
The belles take on adrian on Thursday at angela athletic Facility at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


The observer | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

women’s swImmInG 

Ryan reflects on Notre Dame career 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
with senior night and the end of her swimming career fast approaching, senior back-stroker Kelly ryan is using her final moments with the irish to leave behind a legacy. 
ryan has swam in the olympic trials, been named an all-american, and captained notre dame during her junior year, accomplishments she will carry with her after graduation. 
 “it’s been an awesome fours years, i could never imagine being where i am today,” ryan said. “i’ve grown a lot as an ath­lete and person and the people at notre dame made that pos­sible. i came from a club team and was a raw athlete coming here, and i just improved a lot through hard work and believ­ing in myself, which i learned 
here.”  
This  weekend’s  irish  
invitational  will  be  senior  
day  for  ryan,  sarah  dotzel,  

mikelle masciantonio, christen mcdonough, Kelly ryan, and lauren stauder. For ryan, she knows it will be an emotional weekend. 
“i’ve come to think of rolf’s aquatic center as a second home to me, and it will al­ways hold a special place in my heart,” ryan said. “i’ve had so many memories there, both good and bad, and made some of the best friends of my life there, so i’ll be a little sad leav­ing on saturday.” 
ryan said of all her accom­plishments with the irish, the 2012 ncaa championships will always be her favorite. 
“i surprised myself at the 200-yard-backstroke and took seventh, which earned me all­america honors,” ryan said. 
“it was a turning point in my career because it made me real­ize that i could swim with the top girls in the country. From a confidence standpoint, that was huge.” 
That turning point propelled ryan toward her best season yet, as she earned honorable mention all-america honors in two events, all-big east honors in six events, and was named a team captain. 
“being a captain was such a huge honor,” ryan said. “i wasn’t really expecting it be­cause i was junior, so i was just really honored to be selected as a co-captain. it was fun to lead the team and we had a success­ful year.” 
while she is not a captain this year, ryan said she’s proud of the way her senior class has led the team. 
“This year all the seniors have really stepped up and proven to be leaders even if they aren’t of­ficially captains, so that’s really great to see,” ryan said. “i try to lead more by example but i am vocal too. i always work hard in the pool and i’m always the one that cheers in the pool and yells ‘go irish!’ all the time, although i don’t know if everyone always likes that, but i feel it helps.” 
in addition to the leadership of the senior class, ryan has also been pleased with the suc­cess sustained in the pool. 
“i think as a team we’ve been really good this year,” ryan said. “we’ve been working harder than we ever had before and its really paying off in dual meets and skill work. at confer­ence we’ll really be able to see all the work we put in.” 
while the irish invitational is the last home meet of the season, the team is far from done. in order to prepare for their first ever acc conference championships in February and the ncaa championships in march, ryan said she is fo­cusing on two things. 

“my two main goals are to stay focused and stay confi­dent,” ryan said. “it’s really im­portant to focus on details and technique going into confer­ence. confidence is a big deal to me; i have to be confident in myself, in my coaches, and in my teammates.” 

after graduating, the pre­med and spanish double ma­jor hopes to take a year off from school volunteering and shadowing doctors in spanish­speaking countries before eventually going to med school. 
before she does that, though, she has a legacy to pass on. 
“i hope to leave the mes­sage that it doesn’t really mat­ter where you start, you can still succeed if you work hard, have confidence, trust in your coaches and teammates, and just keep at it.” 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
CLub sPorTs 

synchronized skaters finish first at competition 
Bowling Club finishes ninth at Blue and Gold Classic; Hockey takes third at Chicago tournament 
Special to The Observer 
The Fighting irish synchronized skating team came in first place this weekend at the midwestern sectional synchronized skating championships in hoffman estates, il. 
The team skated a nearly perfect program and per­formed difficult choreography to songs by The Temptations. They received a standing ova­tion at the end of the program and first place marks from four out of the five judges. 
This is the fourth year in a row that the notre dame team has won this competition, which is its most important competition of the season. The irish skaters competed against nine other midwest colle­giate teams including north dakota and miami university, who came in second and third place, respectively. This was the team’s final competition of the season, but they will per­form several times throughout the rest of the semester. 
bowling Club 
This weekend the notre dame bowling club com­peted in the blue and gold classic.  
sophomores steven brill and chris hecht led the team, both bowling 184s during game one. Throughout the next two games, the team missed sev­eral spares and only scored 787 and 785 total. in the fourth game, senior mike murray posted a strong showing of a 208 and things started look­ing up for the team as a whole. The fifth game was the team’s best game of the tournament and the team shot a combined 

875.  Towards the end of the day the lanes got very dry and challenging, and the team only shot 822 in the final game of day one.  at the start of day two, the irish were striking well, but struggled to convert spares.  during the last three games, the team scored 816, 817, and 860 to end with a total score of 7428 on the weekend. overall, the team finished in ninth place out of the eleven varsity teams. murray finished in 20th in the individual stand­ings with a total pin count of 1647 and an average of 183. 
men’s Ice hockey 
The irish traveled to chicago for a tournament over the week­end, falling to nebraska be­fore sweeping northwestern, indiana/purdue-Fort wayne and wisconsin-plattville  to take third place in the eight-team tournament. 
notre dame fell in its first matchup of the weekend, los­ing 3-1 to nebraska as the cornhuskers netted an empty-net goal with a minute remain­ing to win the game. 
saturday the irish rebound­ed with a 3-1 victory over host northwestern with junior goaltender Justin dancu earn­ing the win. sunday saw the irish defeat ipFw 2-1 in a close game, with the team getting goals from junior forwards Joe brogan and mike marino and sophomore goaltender nick stasack turning aside over 40 shots in the victory. 
with nebraska’s sunday night victory over the northwestern, the cornhuskers secured first place in the pool and a spot in the tournament champion­ship, and the irish were rel­egated to the third-place game monday morning. a hat trick from marino and strong goal-tending by dancu helped the irish overcome a short bench to earn their third-straight win. 


ndsmcobserver.com | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | The observer 

men’s swImmInG 

Irish to celebrate diverse group of seniors 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
when notre dame cel­ebrates its four seniors at the finals of the shamrock invitational on saturday it will honor a group from all over the map that found its home in the pool at rolfs aquatic center. 
“when you look at the geographic spread for these guys, you put a star in new york [for freestyler Frank dyer], a star in louisiana [for breaststroker colin babcock], for [breaststroker] Josh choi, you put a star in california and for [backstro­ker] bertie nel, you put a star in south africa,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “it kind of exemplifies the international reach of notre dame.” 
The seniors represent the smallest class on this sea­son’s squad, but welsh said their impact has been great nonetheless. 
“each guy brings some­thing different to the class, but they’ve been very, very helpful to the program over­all,” he said. “They’ve estab­lished a level of this program that lets us compete at a very high level.” 
Three of them — dyer, babcock and nel — have competed in their respective countries’ olympic trials, and dyer was the program’s first all-american and sec­ond ncaa qualifier. 
welsh said, however, that swimming does not encapsulate all of dyer’s life. 
“The thing about Frank is, he’s more than his time on the scoreboard, and he’s more than his place at our dual meets and at the na­tional meet,” he said. “he has an outgoing personality. he’s very creative, and he sang for a while in the halftime [a cappella] group. … he’s just been a very good representa­tive of the university and our program.” 
as a pre-professional sci­ence major, Joshua choi also boasts achievements outside of the pool. 
“Josh choi continues our excellence in pre-med,” welsh said. “we’ve had a pre­med character to our team for years and years, and it’s represented in this year’s class by Josh choi. he’s a very serious student, not that the other three aren’t, but he continues to connect us to our pre-med history.” 
babcock is a two-time win­ner of the team’s charles blanchard award for his per­formance, leadership and inspiration. 
“colin babcock has brought constant energy and enthusi­asm, and he is a team player,” welsh said. “he has been recognized as the guy who is most willing to help the team, so that combination of high-level achievement and team orientation has been really, really important.” 
The fourth senior, nel, brings a positive presence to the pool deck, his coach said. 

paid adverTisemenT 


“bertie has been constant,” welsh said. “he shows up ev­ery day; he works hard every day; he’s cheerful every day; he’s an outgoing, friendly guy every day. he’s simply a regular, friendly guy.” 
Though this group will be distinguishable from the rest of the team saturday at senior night, welsh said his team does not make much of a distinction between the classes in its day-to-day activities. 
“we’re not usually class-oriented,” he said. “we look 
Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
marlatt followed his su­perb sophomore campaign with an equally, if not more impressive junior season, notching 32 points off of 20 goals and 12 assists en route to usila third team all­american honors, as well as a second-straight first team all-big east selection. 
despite the individual awards he’s racked up the past two seasons, marlatt said the accolade he is most proud of is being named a captain this year. 
“it’s an unbelievable honor, because it’s from my team­mates and coaches,” marlatt said. “it’s something i’ve al­ways aspired to, and espe­cially to be voted alongside one of my best friends, (se­nior defenseman) stephen o’hara, my roommate for three years, is really unique at the senior class this time of the year, but we’re just one team. These guys represent their class very well, and they represent the team very well, but we’re all one team.” 
while welsh said he fol­lows the “one-team” philoso­phy when creating his meet lineup, he said a seniors-only relay could post a competi­tive time. 
“if you look at them, bertie’s specialty is backstroke, Josh’s specialty is breaststroke, Frank just set a universi­ty record in the 100[-yard] 
and a great experience.” 
with team captain checked off now, only one goal re­mains on marlatt’s check­list, something he hasn’t done since he helped lead river hill high school to a maryland state title his se­nior year of high school: win a postseason tournament. 
“we were able to win a big east regular season champi­onship [in 2012] and that puts a better taste in your mouth, but we weren’t able to finish in back-to-back years in the big east playoffs, so finishing strong and bringing home a championship, especially in our first year in the acc, is something we really want to get done this year.” 
That being said, marlatt cautioned that he and the rest of team aren’t looking that far ahead just yet. 
“The most important thing for us is that we try to get bet­ter every day,” marlatt said. “obviously you want to win butterfly and colin is emerg­ing as a sprint freestyler. so, if we were to put a 400[-yard] medley relay together, this senior class would have a very good relay.” 
while that relay might not compete at the shamrock invitational, its theoretical members will be celebrated for their four years of work at the meet’s finals saturday at 5 p.m. at rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
every game and win champi­onships, but if you focus on getting better each and every day those things tend to fall in place. That’s something i’ve been trying to do since i got here and something our team does really well.” 
marlatt said, in addition to bringing notre dame its first acc and ncaa champion­ship, he wants to be certain he imparts two simple les­sons to the younger players on the irish squad before he leaves. 
“it’s cliché, but just have fun,” marlatt said. “we’ve got a lot of players on this team and not everyone can see the field. division i lacrosse can be a very stressful experience at a tough academic school, so just being thankful for the opportunity to play is impor­tant, too, because it goes by quick.” 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 


The observer | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

m basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
“let’s give them a lot of credit,” irish coach mike brey said. “i think that’s the best team in the league, most confident team in the league. They thoroughly beat us down tonight.” 
beckoned by free admis­sion and cancelled classes, the irish student section was raucous at first, yet soon de­flated as the cavalier lead bal­looned. virginia’s suffocating defense — which entered Tuesday’s action in the top five nationally in opponent scoring average at 56.2 points per game — forced the irish into a season-high 20 turn­overs, and notre dame shot 20-of-47 (43 percent) from the field. virginia scored 29 points off irish turnovers. 
under brey, notre dame’s most first-half turnovers is 14. Thirteen of the 20 irish turn­overs came in the first half Tuesday. 
“i don’t know if you ever survive 13 first-half turnovers and deserve to win a game, 20 for the game,” brey said. “we made some bad decisions, but i think they’re really good defensively, kind of imposed their will on us and broke our spirit a little bit.” 
The cavaliers stormed out of the gates and claimed a 20-point lead at one point in the first half. Ten minutes into the night, the irish had more turnovers (eight) than field-goal attempts (seven). but notre dame entered the break on a 9-0 run and trailed by 10 at the intermission. 
in turn, however, the cavaliers began the second stanza with a 9-0 run of their own and pushed their lead to 43-24 within the first four minutes. 
“i don’t know how the heck we made a run, i mean, when you have 13 first-half turn­overs,” brey said. “you have a little life at the end of the first half. i don’t even think we deserved that. but then the second half we couldn’t get stops.” 


54 percent of its shots from the field. brogdon stuffed the stat sheet with seven rebounds, six assists and five steals. 
“his stat line was terrific,” virginia coach Tony bennett said of brogdon. “he was very complete and he’s showing that.” 
The cavaliers led from wire to wire and held a double-dig­it lead for the final 29:36. 
“you look at one of those and you’re amazed it only counts as one loss,” brey said. “we’ll go back to work tomorrow and try to find out how to regroup and win a league game.” 
notre dame looks to snap its three-game losing streak when it hosts boston college on saturday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Gastelum 
conTinued From page 16 
the life out of the other team that was favored by 10 points on the road. it’s boring, and it works. 
but this, this is a dramati­cally different notre dame team in mostly one sense: the win column. and, the turtleneck, obviously. it’s a notre dame team that has been trying too hard to burn at the wrong times and then trying to hit the switch in order to run-and-gun. 
it’s a notre dame team that prefers to make flashy passes and not take care of the ball on a fast-break. it’s a notre dame team that enjoys running the shot clock down 
virginia rolled right on and busted open a 58-34 lead with 
7:26 remaining in the second half. The irish only got as close as 14 points the rest of the way. 
auguste and freshman guard demetrius Jackson led the irish with 10 points apiece, while senior center garrick sherman, senior point guard eric atkins and junior forward pat connaughton 
to 10 before starting their offensive set and settling for an nba 3-pointer — who do they think they are, luke harangody? 
it’s got to be the doggone neatly pressed, top-button open, light blue collared dress shirt. it’s just too much flash. pizazz never worked at purcell. it inspires too much of a laid-back, “we’ll get to it when we can” gameplan. it’s 1-on-1, individual basketball, and notre dame will never win at 1-on-1 basketball. 
Just look at the 13 first-half turnovers on Tuesday night (an astonishing eight in the first nine minutes of the game). or maybe the nine total points with nine min­utes left in the first half. or the 60 percent virginia shot night’s an example of when your three old guys can’t re­ally find a very good rhythm, i don’t know if we’ll beat any­body that way,” brey said. 

combined  for  21  points  on  
8-for-23 shooting.  
“as  far  as  offensively,  to­ 

cavaliers redshirt sopho­more guard malcolm brogdon scored a game-high 16 points and sophomore center mike Tobey added 14, as virginia hit 
for almost the entire game. despite the blue-collar, it’s been anything but a blue-collar effort from the irish other than a close loss to ohio state and a home win against duke. 
after all, notre dame is not an acc team. Those pleated van heusens may be the norm in the acc, but not here — no sir. if they try to play collared-shirt basketball with the rest of them, they will continue to be out-done by those classier shirt-and-tie behemoths of the conference that once produced the coach who brought mock turtlenecks to south bend. 
meanwhile, that was on full display Tuesday. They finally let students in for free, but the arena was often quieter than pickup ball at rolfs. outside of a 9-0 irish run at the end of the first half, there wasn’t any reason to cheer. not even for free t-shirts. but Tuesday’s per­formance was nothing new for the new acc irish, all while the mock turtleneck collects mothballs in a closet somewhere. 
no, the mock turtleneck doesn’t belong at a swanky jazz club or slam poetry night. it belongs on the bas­ketball court in a crouch on the end of the bench soothing the vocal chords as they work their magic yelling “burn, baby, burn.” moreover, it’s a mentality that has been lost, an iden­tity that has been stolen. 
sooner or later, that mock turtleneck will assume green-jersey status and then fade away into urban legend. one would’ve thought that the turtleneck would have made it’s winter debut with the outside temperatures at 0 degrees and a potential acc swing game in the wings. but alas. 
until it works its way back into mike brey’s wardrobe and game plan, notre dame will continue to make, dare i say it, a mockery of itself. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Crossword | will shorTZ 


hIGhLY PunLIkeLY | chrisTopher brucKer 
sudoku | The mepham group 

ConTroLLed ChAos | hillary mangiaForTe horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: Take a methodical approach to both professional and personal situations involving money, contracts, health and your future. strive for stability and security, and hang on to what you have. building a strong base will ensure that you will not face setbacks due to excess or impulsive acts that have the potential to stand between you and your goals. your numbers are 4, 13, 22, 26, 35, 38, 47. ARIES (March 21-April 19): wait to see what others do and say. get promises in writing and don’t offer something you may not be able to honor. an unpredictable situation is best left alone until you feel safe and secure regarding the outcome. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take action and take control. show how passionate you feel about the things you do and the people you care about most, and you will receive greater opportunity to prove how valuable you are. put your best foot forward. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look closely at your current position and you will find ways to improve what you do or what you receive for your time and effort. step up the pace and keep everyone important abreast of the situation, and you will benefit. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take on a project that is different from anything you have done in the past. explore new avenues and meet new people. up your game and appeal to others, and your personal gain will increase. love is highlighted. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): voice your opinion and make a difference. a change of scenery or hanging out with people from unusual backgrounds will open up a host of new opportunities. expect someone to show distain or jealousy. don’t fuel the fire; massage the situation. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): enjoy people, places and hobbies that have brought you joy in the past. interacting with someone you love will enhance your personal life. children will play a role in a decision you must make. be true to your word and your heart.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Try not to get caught up in inevitable personal situations. go about your business and be as productive as possible with regard to research, educational pursuits and exploring new connections. don’t give in to emotional blackmail or unprofessional tactics. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll accomplish more if you get out and do things outside your home base. business or promotional trips will be fruitful and take your mind off a personal matter. a lifestyle change will do you good. look at your options. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep your head clear and your communication honest and straightforward. move quickly and precisely to get your point across and make your position clear. avoid spending your own money. protect your heart and your reputation. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): change things up a bit. do the unexpected and you will catch someone trying to give you a hard time. offer a suggestion to someone you love and you will find out exactly where you stand and how to proceed. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you are overdue for a change. a new source of income will buy you freedom to follow a dream. don’t share too many of your ideas or someone is likely to pursue and take credit for a concept that is rightfully yours. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): show your willingness to get along and to be a contributor. what you offer will lead to a contract, settlement or investment that will help you out financially. a love relationship appears to have a much brighter future than you anticipated.  


Birthday Baby: you are insightful, determined and loyal. you are industrious and goal-oriented. 
jumbLe | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | wednesdAY, jAnuArY 29, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
men’s bAskeTbALL | virginia 68, nd 53 
Falling flat 
Virginia keeps foot on the gas on way to victory 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
on a frigid night, virginia stayed hot while notre dame remained cold. 
The notre dame stu­dents swarmed into purcell pavilion, but the virginia de­fense swarmed the irish all evening. 
and it all added up to a 68­53 virginia victory on Tuesday night at purcell pavilion. 
“we just gotta give it to them,” irish sophomore for­ward Zach auguste said. “They definitely gave us a beating.” 
notre dame (11-10, 2-6 acc) meanwhile, has lost six of its last seven games. virginia (16­5, 7-1 acc) is off to its best start in conference play since 1982­83, when star center ralph sampson and the cavaliers began 7-1 in the acc. 
see m basKeTball PAGe 14 


Brey ditches turtleneck, Irish lose swagger 

Andrew Gastelum 
editor-in-chief 
it’s got to be the white-hot question on the minds of notre dame basketball fans. no, not “how many more days until Jerian grant comes back?” or “is it too late to refund my student tickets?” 
no, it’s a question that de­mands so much more atten­tion and concern for the blue and gold. 
where the h-e-double­hockey-sticks is the mike brey mock turtleneck? 
laugh while you can, but it’s more than just pleasantly cozy hipster neckwear. it’s an identity. it’s low-scoring games. it’s shooting efficien­cy. it’s a methodical catch­and-shoot ideology. it’s the burn offense. it’s draining 
see gasTelum PAGe 14 
men’s LACrosse 

Marlatt overcomes injuries to excel 
By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
Jim marlatt has come a long way since he first stepped foot on the notre dame cam­pus four years ago. 
The all-american senior midfielder came to cam­pus as a highly touted re­cruit, ranked 46th overall in the class of 2010 by inside lacrosse, but watched his en­tire freshman year from the bench after struggling with injuries and ultimately being redshirted. 
“it was a little difficult not being on the field [fresh­man year],” marlatt said. “but one thing i was able to do is watch and observe two great all-american midfield­ers in david earl and Zach brenneman. They were re­ally instrumental in helping me learn what it takes to be a leader and great player at this level.” 
with the loss of earl and brenneman to graduation af­ter marlatt’s freshman year, it wasn’t long until marlatt got his opportunity, as he was thrown into the starting lineup immediately by irish coach Kevin corrigan. 
“any time you don’t play that much, you have a chip on your shoulder,” marlatt said. “when you get on the field, you just want to prove why you’re here, and i just wanted to come in and show i could contribute.” 
“contribute” might not be the best way to describe marlatt’s opening sea­son for the irish, though. “dominate” may be better, as he scored 19 goals and dished a team-high 11 assists on his way to a first team all-big east selection. 
see m lacrosse PAGe 13 



Men’s Basketball vs. Virginia  L 68-53 Hockey at New Hampshire  Fri., 7 p.m.  Women’s Swim./Diving, Shamrock Invit.  Fri.-Sat.  
ND Women’s Tennis vs. Illinois  Fri., 3:30 p.m.  Hockey at New Hampshire  Sat., 4 p.m.  
Track and Field at Indiana Relays  Fri.-Sat.  Fencing at Northwestern Duals  Sat.  
ND Women’s Basketball vs. Virginia Tech         7 p.m.  Track and Field at New Mexico Invitational Fri.-Sat.  Men’s Basketball vs. Boston College  Sat., noon  
Men’s Swimming/Diving, Shamrock Invit.  Fri.-Sat.  ND Women’s Basketball at Duke  Sun.,2p.m.  







