ThE iNdEpENdENT NEwSpApEr SErViNg NOTrE dAmE ANd SAiNT mAry’S 



Blog considers diversity at ND 
Students illustrate minority experience through photos on Tumblr, Facebook 
By MARISA IATI 
Senior News writer 
when senior Zuri Eshun cre­ated the blog “i, Too, Am Notre dame” for a photography class project, she didn’t know it would grow into a vehicle for conversa­tion about race and culture at the university. 
One week after the Tumblr page launched, messages on the blog drew students’ and faculty members’ attention to issues of diversity on campus. 
“it started out as just the [class] project, but once i started read­ing more about [a similar cam­paign at harvard university] and different schools that were doing it, i wanted it to be some­thing … that had some kind of impact on campus,” Eshun said. “So that’s why i then turned it into a project involving a lot of diversity students on campus, rather than just my friends. 
“i wanted it to be some­thing that was widespread and something that caught atten­tion and something that really brought that sense of where we are with race as a campus to the forefront.” 
The blog, located at itooam­notredame.tumblr.com, and a Facebook page titled “i, Too, Am Notre dame” feature photos of students with messages written on their arms, palms or other parts of their bodies. Eshun said those messages are either hurt­ful statements that other people have said to them or reactions to those statements. 
“i know that a lot of the [oth­er schools’] campaigns use white boards or a chalkboard or something to write their say­ing down, and so what i wanted 
see BLOg PAGE 5 



PEMCo Revue performs to aid community 
viewing vulnerability as a strength . being open to hav­ing conversations like these, airing my dirty laundry, as i like to say.” 
Although richmond open­ly shared her personal en­counter with violence, she said she was once much more reluctant to speak about the horrific experience. 
“There are very few people in my life that knew what happened and to the great detail of what happened,” she said. 
richmond, who shared her story with her father this past weekend, said her parents’ reactions to the events were why she did not want to tell them in the first place. richmond said that upon hearing of her at­tack, her mother misdirected 
see ViOLENCE PAGE 7 

writer relates media to politics 

By ALEX CAO 
News writer 
hedrick Smith, former New york Times pulitzer prize-winning journalist, was the featured speaker at the 2014 red Smith Lecture in Journalism at the audito­rium of the hesburgh Center for international Studies on wednesday night. 
Smith, a former Notre dame journalist and member of the team responsible for the publi­cation of the pentagon papers, promoted his book, “who Stole the American dream?” and spoke about the problems plaguing American politics and the American news media. 
“i wish i could be really posi­tive and upbeat about both the country and about jour­nalism,” Smith said. “But the truth of the matter is that this is a troubling time for both the country and journalism.” 
Smith said there is extreme distrust toward both the gov­ernment and news media as a result of economic strife and American unhappiness and dissatisfaction. 
“we know that public atti­tudes toward our major institu­tions–including the press–are poor,” Smith said. “Confidence in our political system as a whole is at one of its lowest points in the last 40 years. 
“One of the polls i read re­cently said that 63 percent of the people responding to that poll said that America was in decline. we also, unfortunate­ly, know that the public has a low opinion of us in the media as well. There was a gallup poll in 2012 where ... 60 percent had little or no confidence in the press to report the news fully, fairly and accurately.” 
Smith said experts in the field of journalism attribute the negative opinion of the 

see JOurNALiSm PAGE 5 



Student assault victim shares experience 

By EMILY McCONVILLE 
News writer 
This weekend in the LaFortune Ballroom the pasquerilla East musical 
Company (pEmCo) will hold 
its  annual  pEmCo  revue,  
a  series  of  performanc­ 
es  from  popular  musicals  

see pEmCO PAGE 5 


By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News writer 
The Justice Education department at Saint mary’s began its “week Against Violence” on Tuesday night in the Student Center with the discussion “Beyond the Violence,” led by Saint mary’s junior Jessica richmond, who discussed her personal account of violence. 
“Authenticity requires vulnerability, courage and integrity,” richmond said, adding that she lives by these words. 
richmond shared her story of physical and sexual as­sault to offer perspective and advice to her peers as fellow victims and friends of victims. 
“people see vulnerabil­ity as being weak,” she said “But i build my life around 







ndsmcobserver.com 
p.O. Box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 
News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin Song Advertising Manager: Emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: Sara hillstrom Controller: Alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnett@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, Assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post Office information 
The Observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
pOSTmASTEr 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
p.O. Box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who is your PEMCo Revue crush? 

Brigid Clary 
senior walsh hall 
“ryan wiegand.” 

Caleb Cobbin 
senior Keough hall 
“maggie moran.” 

John Corr 
senior off campus 
“Sea moose ronan.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Katie Mullins 
senior Farley hall 

“psh, ryan wiegand and Joanie hogan both. Because COmE ON.” 

Emily Nash 
senior off campus 

“it’s a tie between maggie miller and ryan wiegand. Swoon.” 

Sam Schubert 
senior off campus 
“[The other] Sam.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Carolyn hutyra Conor Kelly Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

rebecca O’Neil Casey Karnes Kayla mullen henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Steph wulz Kevin Noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Women in Leadership Fr. Hesburgh and Men’s Lacrosse Film: “The Graduate” American Politics in 
wei Lin Erin Thomassen 
Mendoza College of Human Rights Arlotta Stadium DeBartolo Performing the 21st Century Business Hesburgh Library 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Arts Center DeBartolo Hall 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. The Fighting Irish 3 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
Corrections 

Lecture on women in Lecture on Fr. take on the Duke Blue Starring Dustin Lecture on Latino civic the life of the Church. Hesburgh’s legacy. Devils. Hoffman. engagement. 
in the April 2 issue of The Observer, the article “Forum discusses impact 
Mentor 7th - 9th Film: “I Was Born for Race for the Heroes Zen Meditation Memorial Mass 
of oil pipelines” misquoted Jeff insko. 
Graders This” Fieldhouse Mall Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred 
he actually said “...[oil] companies 
Main Building DeBartolo Performing 9 a.m.-10:30 a.m. Center Heart 
like Enbridge are not suddenly going 
5 p.m.-6 p.m. Arts Center 5K or 10K race. 6:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 
to start living up to the values they 
Information meeting. 7:30 p.m. Open to all. Rwandan Genocide 
profess all the time.” The Observer regrets this error. Film on Joan of Arc. memorial Mass. 


Students create Moneythink chapter 
By WEI LIN 
News writer 
Senior John gore founded and serves as current presi­dent of the Notre dame chapter of moneythink, an or­ganization founded in 2008 at the university of Chicago that places college volunteers in lo­cal high schools to teach stu­dents about financial literacy and entrepreneurship. 
moneythink’s mission is to empower the next generation with economics and financial literacy. mentors go to under-served communities within the united States, such as South Bend, and aim to pro­vide students aged 17 and 18 with financial literacy skills and entrepreneurial skills to succeed in the future, gore said. 
“The mendoza College of Business is founded on the principle of ‘Ask more of Business’ and this is a great ex­ample of asking more of busi­ness,” he said. 
gore said moneythink spans 30 campuses across the united States, has trained more than 600 mentors and provides services for more than 6,000 high school students in under-served communities. 

during his study abroad ex­perience in Santiago, Chile, gore said he spoke with native students from underserved communities in order to im­prove his Spanish fluency. he said a lot of the students did not know much about banking and finances. 
“when i came back, i knew i wanted to do something with sustainability and financial education,” he said. 
gore said he talked to Kristen Collett-Schmitt, assis­tant professional specialist in mendoza, about opportunities regarding this idea, and she proposed starting a chapter of moneythink. 
in order to start the chapter, gore said he first submitted an application to the moneythink website. he was then inter­viewed by representatives and attended a summer leader­ship institute at the university of Chicago Booth School of Business with the other chap­ter presidents and founders. 
Junior Sydney rebne, cur­rent vice president of opera­tions, said moneythink is a unique opportunity for Notre dame students to combine social service with their inter­ests in business and finance. Notre dame business students are not only helping these high school students with their fi­nancial skills, but they are also solidifying their business acumen and understanding of finance. 
gore said many obstacles were faced in establishing the Notre dame chapter. The first involved gaining Notre dame’s approval of the chapter, which was followed by a lengthy wait time. gore said he was not able to reach out to schools until re­ceiving official approval. 
A future obstacle the Notre dame chapter will face is the development of its cam­pus brand. moneythink cur­rently consists of a board of directors and faculty advisor Collett-Schmitt, but gore said the organization is still in its recruitment stage. 
The current board of direc­tors will also sit on next year’s board, and gore said rebne will succeed him as the next chapter president.  
gore said the chapter plans to finish building the board of directors and lay down a solid recruiting base before reach­ing out to the local schools in South Bend. in the near future, gore said the organization hopes to partner with South Bend’s Clay high School and Adams high School.  
“i don’t think your back­ground and upbringing should determine your success,” he said. 
“This is a really unique op­portunity for not only busi­ness students but all students of the university,” gore said. “The curriculum is really easy to understand and anyone can get involved. Not only are you making a social impact, you are also developing your own financial skills.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
driehaus architecture prize awarded 
By JESSICA MERDES 
News writer 
On Saturday, Notre dame presented italian architect pier Carlo Bontempi with the 2014 richard h. driehaus prize, the most significant the prize was started by richard driehaus 12 years ago with the goal of further­ing the use of tradition in the modern world.

 “The work that [Bontempi] has done has been all about focusing on the local charac­website, Bontempi, who orig­inates from Fronovo di Taro, parma, italy, studied archi­tecture at the university of Florence and has taught ar­chitecture at universities across America and Europe. he is most noted for his block innovation. 
Each year, a panel of judges evaluates the work of vari­ous architects and comes to a consensus on the winner. 
The 2014 panel members included Adele Chatfield-Taylor, president of the 
SENATE 
New senators swear in staff 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
News writer 
At wednesday night’s student Senate meeting, student body president Lauren Vidal vice president matt devine were offi­cially sworn into office. in their oath, administered by Judicial Council president Kathryn peruski, Vidal and devine swore to uphold the Constitution of the undergraduate Student Body. 
New senators from all 29 dorms were also sworn in wednesday night, and their first order of business was approving the following 19 different stu­dent government positions: 
Chief  of  Staff:  Shannon  
montague  
parliamentarian:  Carolina  
ramirez  

Secretary: Katie wood Executive Controller: Thomas Schneeman director of Communications: Lindsay huth Athletics representative: Corey robinson diversity Council representative: Stephen Kim Campus ministry representative: grace Carroll 
recognition for classicism in ter,” Lykoudis said. “he builds recovery plan in parma’s 
the contemporary environ-with consistent principles historic center, the place de 
ment, according to the Notre while also adapting those Toscane and the “Quartier du 
dame website. principles to the climate and Lac” resort near paris. 
michael Lykoudis, the geology, including aspects in “Bontempi is unique in that 
Francis and Kathleen rooney the work that tie back to its he doesn’t see architecture as 
dean of the Notre dame location.” an art that calls attention to 
School of Architecture, said According to Notre dame’s an architect, but to the build-First undergraduate 


Experience in Leadership 
(FuEL) directors: Louis 
Bertolotti, marisa Olsen 
director of the department 

of Academic Affairs: michelle 
Lacouture 
director of the department of 

Campus Technology: Shuyang 
pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 

ing’s central place,” Lykoudis 
said, “while there is a great deal of beauty in his work, he is very modest in creating quality work.” 
According to Lykoudis, driehaus believed the $200,000 award and bronze statue would act as sufficient incentive to fuel the practice of classicalism and tradi­tionalism with an emphasis on sustainability in modern architecture. 
Lykoudis said the driehaus prize allows Notre dame to engage in the practice of ad­vancing the use of tradition in the modern world while Notre dame’s national rec­ognition as a top university allows the prize to grow in stature. 
According to Notre dame’s website, recipients of the driehaus prize are distin­guished architects who are skilled in the areas of tradi­tional or classical architec­ture, contribute positively to society and whose work fo­cuses on sustainability and American Academy in rome, robert davis, developer and founder of Seaside, Fla,, paul goldberger, a contributing writer for Vanity Fair and witold rybczynski, award winning architecture critic and professor. The panel also included Léon Krier and demetri porphyrios, past winners of the driehaus prize. 
Bontempi possesses all of the qualities the panel values, Lykoudis said. 
According to the jury cita­tion, Krier said “the seren­ity and robustness, elegance and economy of [Bontempi’s] considerable built work dem­onstrate the falsity of the economic, philosophic, tech­nical, artistic argument as excuses for the catastrophic performance of the com­mon contemporary building industry.” 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 
Li 
director of the department of Community relations: Jamie grzybowski 
director of the department of Constituent Services: Jack mcKeon 
director of the department of gender issues: Kristen Loehle 
director of the department of internal Affairs: Angel Zambrano 
director of the department of residence Life: Brent murphy 
director of the department of Social Concerns: paul Lipari 
director of the department of university Affairs: Andrew Carmona 
director of the department of National Engagement and Outreach: Elizabeth Fenton 
past student body president Alex Coccia, vice president Nancy Joyce and chief of staff Juan rangel were also granted the title emeritus by unanimous vote. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

panel offers artistic critique of “12 years a Slave” 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
News writer 
The Saint mary’s Art department screened Steve mcQueen’s Oscar-winning film “12 years a Slave” in Carroll Auditorium on wednesday, followed by a panel discussion. 
Tiffany Johnson Bidler, as­sistant professor of art, started the panel with her opinions on the comparison of mcQueen’s gallery and video work. 
“mcQueen always commu­nicates directly with view­ers through what he calls the medium of aesthetic effect,” Bidler said. “what this means in a nutshell is that mcQueen is interested in engaging viewers’ emotions. much of mcQueen’s gallery work addresses histori­cal moments.” 
Bidler said it was interesting to see connections between mcQueen’s older work and “12 years a Slave.” An example she gave concerned mcQueen’s 1997 short film “deadpan.” 
“we see a couple of things that are evident in ‘deadpan’ and also ‘12 years a Slave,’” Bidler said. “First is the re­
“This idea of non­diegetic music, which means it is music that doesn’t take place within the world and the narrative, it is what the composer has scored to aid our understanding of the narrative and perhaps even the characters.” 
Rika Asai 
visiting assistant professor 
art department 
lationship between the pro­jection and the viewer. The projection is large for deadpan and when you walk up to it, it is overwhelming. 
“it only focuses on his face, which i also think he does in interesting ways in ‘12 years a Slave.’ he focuses on the faces of the characters.” 
Jamie wagman, assistant professor of history and gen­der and women’s studies, gave a historical context to the 19th century and slavery. Child slavery began in the 1600s, and historians estimate that ap­proximately 12 million African slaves endured the middle pas­sage, wagman said. 
“Some people however never reflected on the moral­ity of owning slaves,” wagman said. “For example, histori­ans have reason that george washington, like many white slave owners, never gave much thought to slavery. we don’t have any evidence of any of his writings including slavery.” 
wagman said she wanted the audience to think about how mcQueen exposes the ways in which men and women experi­ence slavery in different ways. She said “The New yorker” brought up an interesting per­spective to viewers. 
“The New yorker recently brought up that this film leaves audiences grieving for thou­sands that were never able to tell their stories,” wagman said. “i think that’s an impor­tant comment and i hope that’s something you’ll remember. So many people were born into and died into slavery; you will never know their stories.” 
Junior Clarissa Frederick compared the movie to the novel and said the two were very similar. 
“The movie did a great job of portraying the characters in the novel, but there were some things that i wish they would have expanded upon,” Frederick said. “i found Eliza and patsey’s characters to be the most tragic of the entire novel, because … of the way that she begged to have her children stay with her.” 

The biggest difference for Frederick was the character named Bass and his role with the main character Solomon. 
“Bass, the one that helped him be freed, worked a lot harder to getting him free than what is shown,” Frederick said. “he worked for almost a year, sent out several letters, and when they weren’t hearing anything back he began sav­ing up for the trip to Saratoga himself in order to petition to a long list of people that he knew to save him. 
“he was an older man who took this as his mission in life to see this man free. Solomon is very grateful for him and prays for him every night, as said in the novel. he calls Bass his savior, and Bass saw Solomon as basically the reason he had lived that long.” 
rika Asai, visiting assis­tant professor of music, spoke on the importance of the soundtrack to the film. She said there are three categories of music on the soundtrack that include the sound effect, the music and the dialogue. 
“Of these three categories, the dialogue is usually consid­ered to be the most important element, but i think also we were all really aware as to how much silence there was in the film,” Asai said. “it wasn’t dead silence. 
“There was a lot of ambient noise in there. i think the first time i watched this film, i had the sensation of feeling the heat of this film with the crick­ets and insects, and the wind of all of this. i think this is re­ally part of this authenticity the sound world is trying to help us create.” 

Asai said non-diegetic music helped the audience under­stand the emotion and impor­tance of the movie. 
“This idea of non-diegetic music, which means it is music that doesn’t take place within the world and the narrative, it is what the composer has scored to aid our understand­ing of the narrative and per­haps even characters,” Asai said. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 


PEMCo 
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 1 
surrounding the theme “Breaking Boundaries.” 
The proceeds from the student-run performance, which costs $5, will benefit The music Village, a South Bend arts company that pro­vides group music and dance lessons for a variety of ages. Junior Shannon Kirk, one of the show’s two producers, said pEmCo hopes to raise at least $1,500 for the organization. 
“we’re excited that we’re picking that one, especially this year, because it’s a pretty new organization and it pro­motes arts and education in schools, which we all benefit-ted from in high school and younger,” Kirk said. “in the past we’ve given to the Bald and the Beautiful, but we de­
“We’re excited that we’re picking [the Music Village], especially this year, because it’s a pretty new organization and it promotes arts and education in schools.” 
Shannon Kirk 
junior 
cided this year to give to a charity that was more in the style of what we do.” 
Kellirae Boann, execu­tive director of The music Village, said the funds con­tribute to a $5,000 fundraising goal, which the South Bend Community Center will then match. proceeds will go to­ward an upgrade in computer equipment. 
Sophomore Joel Ostdiek, an actor in the show and an in­tern at The music Village who originally suggested the orga­nization as a beneficiary of the show, said The music Village and pEmCo may continue to work together after the revue. 

“we’re looking to have more Notre dame students volun­teer [at The music Village], and they wanted to meet with students and see what would all be possible, so the details of that are very much in flux because it’s difficult to set that up,” Ostdiek said. “But it was cool that pEmCo is willing to have the funds go to [The music Village] right away.” 
According to its Facebook page, the pEmCo revue will feature songs from a variety of genres and musicals, includ­ing “hairspray” and “rENT.” Kirk said the audition process for the show began before spring break and rehears­als began shortly after break, leaving about three weeks to put the show together. 
“This is the only kind of pro­duction that we can do in that short amount of time, because people come in with the piec­es that they want to be in the show,” Kirk said. “most of the songs are already prepared by auditioners. They audition as solos or duets or trios or small group numbers, so they’re al­ready mostly set; they don’t have to learn it.” 
Ostdiek said the revue pro­vides individuals and groups with an opportunity to dis­play their talents evenly. 
“it’s a lot of variety,” Ostdiek said. “The revue showcases a lot of different voices, which is cool, because in a normal mu­sical you have your principals and you kind of hear them all night, but in a revue it’s really spread out equally across the cast of who gets to do what, so it’s cool because you get to see everybody’s talent on display.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 

Blog 
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 1 

to do to make it unique to Notre dame was i had them write it on them somewhere, so that it was their experience and that that couldn’t be taken away,” Eshun said. 
Eshun said she reached out to students of racial and cul­tural minorities via email and Facebook to invite them to par­
“Notre Dame is a family, and it’s not perfect. And really working toward that is what matters the most, which is why all these efforts that the administration has been putting in really mean  a lot.” 
Kay Kay Fiannaan 
sophomore 

ticipate in the project. She said she included students of various minority backgrounds to make the point that “as an entire [mi­nority] group on campus, we are going through this together.” 
Eshun said she instructed vol­unteers to make their written messages “whatever is honest to them.” 
For senior Olevia Boykin, who participated in the project, that message was “Oh, you’ve got it good. you can play that diversity card!” 
“i’ll be going to law school next year, and that was the most pertinent thing that’s been said to me recently,” Boykin said. “i think a lot of people think i got in because i’m Black or i got to write a diversity statement, but … that’s not why i got in.” 
Eshun said she thinks the blog scares some people because it suggests that Notre dame is imperfect. 
“Being told that something negative has happened, people take it as an offense to them,” she said. “[But] no one is blam­ing anyone for anything. if this is anything it’s saying there is no blame, there is no anything, there’s only going forward with this. 
“if you were to take this proj­ect, respond to it negatively and move backwards, that would be a problem. But if you see this proj­ect and you see what your peers have gone through, you can only go forward with it. you can only have a change in mindset.” 
Sophomore Kay Kay Fiannaan said she decided to participate in the “i, Too, Am Notre dame” project because she wanted to encourage people to discuss is­sues of race and culture on a personal level. She wrote on her palms, “Are you dating [blank]? he is black too!” 
Fiannaan said she realized that after someone made the comment to her, she had talk­ed about the experience only with her friends who were also minorities. 
“i thought this would be a good chance to get other people to un­derstand that this has actually been said. This … kind of view that someone has or this idea that someone has, it’s surprising, but it’s out there,” Fiannaan said. 
Eshun said she has received both positive and negative feed­back to the blog. 
Fiannaan said although she has heard people call the proj­ect “attention-seeking” or “un­necessary,” she believes the blog strikes at the heart of issues of diversity at Notre dame. 
“Notre dame is a family, and it’s not perfect. And really work­ing toward that is what matters the most, which is why all these efforts that the administration has been putting in really mean a lot,” Fiannaan said. “however, it’s one thing to be up there in the office and making all these rules and changing different parts of the structure of Notre dame … but it’s another thing to get to the heart of the issue, which is the students. 

“And that’s what this project is supposed to do, really to get stu­dents talking about this on a very personal level.” 
Eshun said the blog has recent­ly started to gain momentum. 
“where it is now is that it’s starting to kind of be talked about, but what i want it to be is something that you have to go and see or you have to kind of be a part of,” she said. “i want it to be at a point where everyone has seen it and everyone can start that dialogue.” 
Freshman manny Caballero, who participated in the blog, said Notre dame students’ dif­ferent racial and cultural back­grounds are very apparent. 
“i think it’s a beautiful thing, but also, at the same time, the [blog] project helps people kind of develop a sense of community and lets them know who we are, where we come from, what we are about,” he said. 
Eshun said the students fea­tured in the “i, Too, Am Notre dame” project are shaped by their cultures and backgrounds. She said the project displays parts of these students’ identities and people should acknowledge their messages. 
“it’s not sympathizing, it’s not being sensitive,” she said. “it’s respecting that person enough to know ‘i see who you are, i see that you’re African-American, i see that you’re Asian or that you’re hispanic or Latino. i see that, and i’m going to respect you, not only as the person that i know you as, but as the person who is attached to this lineage and this history and this culture.’ 
“And ultimately, when the whole thing is done, that’s what i want.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
said. “But that does not excuse us from trying to get the best obtainable version of the truth. 
“Now, [it] is not dots. we’ve got to connect the dots and say, ‘what does it mean? what 
“Recovering history on the fly, we’re not going to get it right, you know that. But that does not excuse us from trying to get the best obtainable version of the truth.” 
Hedrick Smith 
journalist 

is it telling us about the way America is working and how well is it working, for who?’” 
Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 
Journalism 
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 1 

press to a decline in the quality of news media. 
“if you go inside the news media itself, the assessment is not good by the top editors,” Smith said. “Their conclusion 
— this is by news executives all across the country — is that news standards in the indus­try have declined and factual errors in reporting are on the rise.” 
Smith said this decline in quality, including increasing bias and increasing pressure to integrate marketability in reporting, have grim political implications. 
A successful democracy re­quires a good educational sys­tem,” Smith said. “it requires good quality journalism to keep them informed, and then it requires an effective politi­cal system so the people get the kind of policies they want. Before the u.S. invasion of iraq in 2003, most Americans said they believed that Saddam hussein, the leader of iraq, was linked to Al Qaeda, so most Americans were misinformed. 
“when it came to the economic bailout ... many Americans believed it did not help [the economy]. Very few economists, business leaders and very few governmental leaders on both sides would share that opinion, so the public’s opinion is at odds with what most experts would believe.” 
Smith said that, in order to the media’s image, journalism needs deeper coverage, more specialized journalists in law and the sciences and most of all a deeper drive to uncover 
underlying  causes  behind  
events.  
“recovering history  on  the  

fly, we’re not going to get it right, you know that,” Smith 
pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 




Violence 
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 1 
her frustration toward her daughter. She said her moth­er’s strong reaction made her more cautious about delving into details. 
“i almost felt as if there was resentment towards me for not telling her sooner,” richmond said. “my mom immediately jumped to ‘what did he do to you?’ and being a victim, i recommend you never do that to someone because that instantly put me on the defensive. i didn’t want to tell her.” 
richmond said many peo­ple, including her mother, have asked her why she did not report her attack. 
“i’m not trying to play into being young because i think there are many young­er women that are stronger than i was [who are also] as­saulted, but i was so scared,” she said. “i was so alone. i had no idea [of] the resources out there. i had no idea what to do. i was scared of him.” 
This fear lies in the system­ic sexism of the united States’ judicial system, richmond said. 
“men have a power and an authority in society, and there’s a lot that goes into that,” richmond said. “But he scared me to death. Even after knowing he no longer worked with me, he didn’t live near me, he terrified me.” 
richmond said her decision to keep the attack private was an act of self-preservation. 
“it was the thought of go­ing to the police and saying i wanted to press charges when there was no evidence and when no one knew about what had happened,” richmond said. “i didn’t want to air my dirty laundry for the whole world to have him get a slap on the wrist. 
“i didn’t want to have to tell my story a thousand times only to be told ‘well, there’s nothing we can do.’” 
richmond said she also feared it would become a “he said, she said” situation, or she would be condemned for not explicitly saying “no.” 
“Life went on,” she said. “i didn’t report it. That is the one thing i come back to most often. maybe i should have. maybe if i called him to jus­tice, it could have gone in my 
“It was the thought of going to the police and saying I wanted to press charges when there was no evidence and when no one knew about what had happened. I didn’t want to air my dirty laundry for the whole world to have him get a slap on the wrist.” 
Jessica Richmond 
junior 
favor. i find myself still sort of switching a little bit, but i don’t regret not reporting.” 
richmond said her deci­sion not to report might not be the best choice for all oth­er victims of violence. Each person should make an indi­vidual choice. 
“do i think [other victims] should?” richmond said. “yes, because there’s a great chance [they] can get some­thing out of it, but i think for my health i couldn’t. This is not ‘Law and Order.’ due process doesn’t happen in 45 minutes.” 
richmond said she attri­butes much of her growth 

pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 

since the attack to her boy­friend of three-and-a-half years. 
“he’s my support system,” she said. “it’s kind of strange because he’s a man, he’s six-foot-seven and almost three hundred pounds. he is my version of empowerment.” 
richmond said her boy­friend and his sensitivity played key roles in her ability to heal. 
“i found that when we first started dating i had all sorts of triggers,” she said. “ A cer­tain smell would throw me into a hysterical crying fit, a certain way of being touched, a certain playful comment. Sometimes it wasn’t the words that were being said; it was just the tone it was said in. 
“i can’t have my neck touched. That is like my one thing that will put me in a fe­tal position crying.” 
As a victim of violence, richmond said it is amazing to have someone there to say, “Okay, that’s completely fine. i respect you for that.” 
“Once i got to that point, i became offended when people used tamer words because it’s oppressive,” she said. “don’t be afraid of us­ing the terms. don’t be afraid to say, ‘She was raped.’” 
richmond said that in spite of having a solid and healthy relationship with her boy­friend now, if she could go back in time she would tell her high school self that she did not need a man. 
“we’re women at such an amazing school with such an empowering philosophy that we can do anything,” she said. “i don’t want someone to stand in front of me. 
“That’s what’s great about [my] relationship now. [my boyfriend] stands behind me pushing me forward.” 
Adrienne Lyles-Chockley, head of the Justice Education department, ended the dis­cussion by offering richmond affirmations on behalf of the audience. 

“This is such a gift and a refreshingly honest dialogue, so i want to affirm this and affirm you,” Lyles-Chockley said. 
The Justice Education pro­fessor said she also support­ed richmond’s decision to not go to the police. 
“i’d also just like to affirm your choice not to report,” Lyles-Chockley said. “i ap­preciate that part of giving the person that was raped or assaulted control [means] granting them control of what happens next. So we support women by listen­ing and helping according to their individual needs. Friends often don’t under­stand, and it’s just not that simple.” 

As a continuation of the “week against Violence,” Saint mary’s will host a panel presentation on community responses to violence against women, titled “Justice and the Victims: Beyond Law and Order,” on Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the Vander Vennet Theater. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
Earthquake emits aftershocks 
Associated Press 

QuiQuE, Chile — A power­ful 7.6-magnitude aftershock hit Chile’s far-northern coast late wednesday night, shaking the same area where a magni­tude-8.2 earthquake hit just a day before causing some dam­age and six deaths. 
Chile’s Emergency Office and navy issued a tsunami alert and ordered a precaution­ary evacuation of low-lying areas on the northern coast, meaning many people could be spending another sleepless night away from their homes. 
The aftershock caused buildings to shake and people to run out into the streets in the port of iquique, which was one of the cities that saw some damage from Tuesday night’s big quake. But there were no immediate reports of new damage or injuries from the latest tremor, which was one of dozens that have followed the 
8.2quake. 
“i was evacuated like all citizens. One can see that the people are prepared,” tweeted president michelle Bachelet, who was in the nearby city of Arica to assess the damage. 
The aftershock was centered 12 miles (19 kilometers) south of iquique at a depth of 25 miles (40 kilometers), the u.S geological Survey said. The uSgS initially reported the tremor’s magnitude at 7.8, but downgraded it to 7.6. 
it was felt across the bor­der in southern peru, where people in the cities of Tacna and Arequipa reportedly fled buildings in fear. 
On Tuesday, authorities re­ported just six deaths from the initial quake, but said it was possible others could have been killed in older structures made of adobe in remote com­munities that weren’t immedi­ately accessible. 

About 2,500 homes were damaged in Alto hospicio, a poor neighborhood in the hills above iquique, a city of nearly 200,000 people whose coastal residents joined a mandatory evacuation ahead of a tsuna­mi that rose to only 8 feet (2.5 meters). iquique’s fishermen poked through the aftermath: sunken and damaged boats that could cost millions of dol­lars to repair and replace. 
Still, as president michelle Bachelet deployed hundreds of anti-riot police and soldiers to prevent looting and round up escaped prisoners, it was clear that the loss of life and prop­erty could have been much worse. 
ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
Canceling Colbert 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Lessons abroad 

Colby Hoyer 
News writer 

Study abroad: this experience will change your life. you hear this over and over again in every meeting leading up to that moment where you step on the plane towards the journey of a lifetime. i was definitely skeptical at first, thinking “these people are building this up way too much.” After almost three months abroad, i have to say i have learned some pretty important lessons. So here goes a shot at a list of my top three i will take with me as i return to the States in just over a month. 
1) Confidence using public transporta­tion. raised in a small town with one taxi for public transportation, i had a lot to learn. No matter what environment you grew up in, nothing can prepare you for some of the crazy situations you may find yourself in. After asking complete strang­ers for directions multiple times, chasing the airport bus down as it pulls away and receiving glaring looks because you stood on the wrong side of the escalator, things settle down and you really begin to get the hang of navigating a plethora of af­fordable methods of transportation. The elated feeling of arriving at your intended destination never really goes away. As for those times where you end up somewhere completely opposite of where you wanted to go, it only adds more to the adventure. 
2) you can never have enough Nutella. Seriously, this is god’s gift to chocolate lovers everywhere. i certainly enjoyed this wonderful concoction in the States, but in London where everything is double the price, Nutella is a real game-changer. Completely acceptable at breakfast, lunch and dinner, this spread pairs perfectly with everything from toast to fruit to the peeps everyone keeps receiving in their Easter packages. Our flat now has an 11-pound (and i’m not talking about the currency) jar that we are determined to finish before the end of the semester. 
3) if you want to really get to know someone, travel with them. i swear you learn more about a person from a week­end of adventuring than a semester as a roommate. As you can probably imagine, this is both good and bad. i have made some of my best friends through traveling with them on weekends. i mean, nothing says friendship like sharing the pain of a 6 a.m. flight departure time. more impor­tantly, you all share in the experience of feeling completely lost for 24 hours and transforming into “city natives” by the end of the weekend … or so you think. 
These lessons may not fall under the category of “life-changing” (except num­ber 2), but in all honesty, i have grown so much as a person and have made lifelong friendships. Like anything else, you get out of it what you put in. Take advantage of every opportunity and never be afraid of exploration. Cheers! 
Contact Colby Hoyer at khoyer@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Shelley Kim 
guest Columnist 
i’m an Asian-American and, like many Notre dame students, an avid fan of “The Colbert report.” instinctually, i dismissed the “#CancelColbert” fiasco with con­tempt. The trending hashtag was a reac­tion to a tweet from the @Colbertreport account (now terminat­ed) that referenced a line from the episode taken out of context. in the actual seg­ment, Colbert satirized how washington redskin’s owner dan Snyder erroneously named his organization “washington redskins for Original Americans” by fabricating his own organization, the “Ching-Chong ding-dong Foundation for Sensitivity to Orientals or whatever.” The tweet only showed the latter name. Even out of context, the name of Colbert’s fake organization was a spot-on articulation of a white man misguidedly asserting his benevolent superiority. “Oriental” is an archaic term, just as offensive as “ching­chong.” pretty sure the writers knew that, and were making fun of dan Synder, not Asians. 
Still, #CancelColbert brings attention to a more insidious kind of micro aggres­sion. i grew up in very diverse Orange County areas and made race jokes often and openly. many of us did. it wasn’t until i matured in my later college years when i realized imitating racism was a very problematic way of recognizing racism. i laughed along with racial stereotypes under the assumption that i was “allowed to” because i was a minority and knew the difference. As a Korean-American, i especially felt permitted to mention Asian stereotypes in everyday conversations. Soon enough my friends, of all ethnicities, openly made jokes that targeted Asians and Asian-Americans around me be­cause, come on, we’re not actually racist. we saw someone like Suey park, the activ­ist behind #CancelColbert, as someone who just really didn’t get it. 
Just as the @Colbertreport tweet provided a limited view of the show’s humor, #CancelColbert is a simplistic label on a larger concern. in The New yorker article “The Campaign to ‘Cancel’ Colbert,” prominent Asian-American writer Jay Caspian Kang interviewed Asian-American activist park even though he did not support the hashtag. Finding that park had an issue with exceptional­ist attitudes instead of with Colbert, Kang admits “like park, i have seen how quickly a presumed collegiality can turn into a mocking, almost threatening, tone when­ever i stray from the assumed consensus that we all hate ‘worse racists,’ Fox News and gun nuts. Like park, i have always assumed — again, fairly or not, that white liberals believe that as a person of color, i owe a debt of gratitude to the generations of well-intentioned white people who have fought hard for my right to write for prestigious publications.” 

The u.S. Census Bureau recognized “Asian” and “pacific islander “ as ethnici­ties relatively recently, the former in 1990 and the latter in 2000. Again and again, the Asian-American populace is still de­meaned as a novelty, an “other,” gaining prominence because “well-intentioned white people” let them. An unfair gener­alization, but an experience nonetheless expressed by many Asian-Americans who reach a ceiling in the workplace despite their merits. racist media portrayals from the past perpetuate the sentiment. whether or not the majority is cultured or a conservative “gun nut,” there still seems to be an air of superiority and predomi­nance over the minority. when a racist joke is said for the public, will anyone really be able to read (or care) about the person’s actual intentions and views?
 Along with park’s views, we need to understand #CancelColbert in context to everything that’s been concerning the Asian-American activist community. The hashtag, i think, is a reaction towards a culmination of micro aggressions. “Jimmy Kimmel” aired a segment where he asked some children: “America owes China a lot of money, how should we pay them back?” One child responded, “Kill everyone in China.” “Kimmel” received a significant amount of backlash for showing that re­sponse to the public, but not nearly the same amount of internet activism. The “dads” sitcom premiered with a heavily stereotyped Asian schoolgirl character. “how i met your mother” had that kung­fu parody episode. Although the hashtag is an inadequate and often misguided mode of communication, it indicates the existence of an Asian-American community that has little voice in main­stream media. 
i really can’t imagine Colbert as some­one who views any race as socially ac­ceptable to victimize. But i also can’t imagine him mentioning slurs about a minority ethnicity regardless of the inten­tion behind the slur. Kang pointed out how the backlash showed how “desper­ate” Asian-Americans were to discuss their own national identity. i don’t like the word “desperate,” but i think many saw “CancelColbert” as an opportunity to vocalize that, once again, the public views our race as fair game for slurs and dis­crimination. racial stereotyping was once again shrugged away, neglected like the one-paragraph explanation of internment camps in high school textbooks. 
do i still think the hashtag was over­blown and a bit ridiculous? well, yeah. i wasn’t offended when i saw the tweet out of context or within Colbert’s actual segment. The satire seemed pretty clear. however, i do need to thank Suey park’s hashtag fiasco for a hilarious response episode from “The Colbert report.” Self-aware of his show character and the issue, Colbert celebrated his non-cancellation while explicitly discouraging his viewers from harassing Suey park. 
Of course, Colbert was also unafraid to satirize the movement that wished for the show’s demise. in classic “report” fashion, Colbert called out the media and its attention on #CancelColbert, which inadvertently concealed the original com­mentary on dan Synder’s lack of cultural sensitivity. restating his actual intention, Colbert conjectured that “Twitter seems to be fine with” the redskins Foundation for Original Americans ”because i haven’t seen sh** about that.” As an Asian-American who is also a fan of “The Colbert report,” i could not have asked for a more enjoyable 30 minutes of television than watching one of my favorite comedians discuss the issues of unrecognized minor­ities with humor, insight and fairness. 
Shelley Kim is a senior resident in McGlinn Hall. She is majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies and film. She can be reached at ykim12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
Family traditions, divine love 
Scott Boyle 
The Sincere Seeker 

Each year in the final days be­fore Christmas, my family travels to Kenwood mall in Cincinnati so that my brothers and i can get our annual picture with Santa. 
The casual observer might chuckle seeing three relatively grown-up boys entering a line filled with cry­ing, excited and whiny youngsters, but we’ve gotten used to it. The tradi­tion of this yearly picture has always meant a lot to my mom and served as our Christmas card, so we have kept it up. (As a side note, i think i have a greater understanding of how dorothy must have felt when she entered munchkinland.) 
But our annual picture with Santa is just one of the many Boyle family Christmas traditions. 
Ever since i can remember, we have attended mass on Christmas Eve and enjoyed the same post-mass feast: the annual Boyle family “Chip Buffet.” Our main course includes doritos, Bugles, mike-Sells, Simply Naked chips, Cheetos puffs, along with mom’s legendary chip-dip. we have salad and shrimp too, but those dishes are an afterthought compared with the main courses. i can’t remember 
UWIRE 

don’t do a British accent 
Gerna Mour-Barrett 
The Soapbox 

yes, you heard it here first. The first rule of doing a British accent is never to do one. Ever. No, seriously. Since i’ve been in America, every attempt at impersonating my accent (that has inadvertently ended up sounding more like the Queen or Eliza doolittle) has been terrible, and if i’ve told you otherwise, i was lying. The number of people that mimic me each day is incredible. granted, at first it was cool. my accent was a novelty that made me marginally interesting and was handy as an icebreaker, if only for someone to ask if i was from England and for me to solely reply “yes.” however, if i am to be wholly frank, this accent is a pain in the arse. i urge you all never to mimic another person’s accent with­out permission, and here is why. 
it was a day like any other. i entered a coffee shop (with the intent of buy­ing tea and not coffee, obviously) and looked for a table. Laptop open and tea in hand, i searched for a sign that dis­played the wi-Fi password, and it was the last time we actually had nutri­tious dinner on Christmas Eve. 
we stuff ourselves to such a degree that we are too full to do much of any­thing after dinner.  Our bodies usually wave the white flag around 9 p.m., and it usually takes us about an hour to muster up the willpower to move from the couch. 
Fortunately, this is all part of the plan. we go to bed early to give Santa and the reindeer the opportunity to get everything done before morning. But before we go to bed, we always make sure to leave a hospitable envi­ronment for our guests: cookies, milk and oats. 
But while the days before Christmas are fun, nothing beats our Christmas Eve bedtime ritual. when we are home, my brother Steven and i share a bedroom. my mom, brother Kevin, dog Charlie and i all pile onto my single bed while my brother Steve lis­tens from his own as my mom reads us two classic Christmas stories: “mr. willowby’s Christmas Tree” and “Twas the Night Before Christmas.” 
i used to protest this particular Christmas tradition. i had tired of the stories and thought we were a little too old to be read to. 
despite my protests, my brothers insisted that we continue. Although i didn’t recognize it at first, i have come to realize that there was always some­thing much deeper at work here, and it has very little to do with the stories themselves. 

i understand now how often i take for granted what a gift it is to be able to gather together as a family. Each one of my family members is growing into his or her own path, paths that are increasingly taking us away from Cincinnati and from one another to other parts of the country and the world. 
yet each dec. 24, all of that fades into the reality of the present. No mat­ter where we have been, on that day we all gather together in the same place. There, in that small room with two beds, we gather to listen to the same stories we have always listened to. 
yes, the stories bring us together, but love causes us to stay. There, in that room, i look around and marvel at my family, the people who have been with me for my highest highs and my low­est lows. Truth be told, sometimes the stories get lost as i realize i am in the presence of the most important people in my life, those whose love has made me who i am. 
St. Clare of Assisi wrote, “we become what we love and who we love shapes what we become. if we love things, we become a thing. if we love nothing, we become nothing. imitation is not 
nowhere to be found. i looked to a guy who seemed to be tapping away hap­pily on his computer and simply said: 
“ ’Scuse me, do you know what the wi-Fi password is?” 
“pArrrrSE-word,” he replied, laughing, “pArrrrSE-wOrd?” 
i stared at him, confused as to why he’d just repeated part of my sen­tence back to me in what sounded like russian. 
“Erm yeah, the … password.” 
he began laughing again, and for what, i have no idea, because he really was the only one amused. Eventually, he told me the password, and i thanked him, doing a sterling job at not shouting a truckload of profani­ties at him. he didn’t even know me, yet he thought it was perfectly accept­able to mimic my accent in the least flattering way possible. it’s something that we all like to do, and i am the first person to admit i have had a field day with some people’s accents in the past 
— but i don’t think the majority of us realize how rude it can come across as. have you ever experienced a younger sibling or friend copy everything you say to the point of insane irritation? 

That, my friends, is an accurate de­scription of what it is like to have a British accent in America. 
i have never been able to under­stand the fascination with the British accent. people have told me that they love it, that it’s cool and that i even sound smarter because of it. it makes no sense to me. British accents are just like any other accent — different, but ultimately boring. Contrary to popular belief, i am no better off in the united States having an accent, and judging by the snapchats my friends have the joy of receiving, it definitely doesn’t make me any cooler. The only thing it pretty much gives me is social anxiety, knowing my accent is so ob­viously recognized and so easily tar­geted as a source of humor. Of course, i understand that for many people i’ve met, mimicking my accent is not something that is done out of spite. most would assure me the reason they do it is because they like it, and i too am guilty of copying an accent out of admiration. however, when someone tries to impersonate me, two things happen: They do an awful job at it, and i instantly feel like a joke. There a literal mimicking of Christ, rather it means becoming the image of the beloved, an image disclosed through transformation.” 
we must take care to continually guard against the dreary prophecy: “if we love nothing, we become nothing.” in the same way that god’s love shapes what he becomes in Christ, who and what we love shapes who we become as “imago dei,” the hands and feet of incarnate Christ to the world. 
So, to become who god wants us to be as imago dei, we must love one another. And this love begins with our families, friends and communi­ties. it means taking time to gather together, to recognize how good it can be to slow down and to recognize that even the smallest and silliest of tradi­tions can teach us the greatest lessons: there are people worth slowing down for. 
And there, in that slowness, we will find love, god’s love, that we have been most longing for. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and a student in the Echo Faith Formation Leadership Program in the Notre Dame Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
have been times when i have been interrupted mid-sentence just so the person can laugh at a word i’ve said or ask to reel off different words just to hear how i say them. After six months, the ol’ “accent thing” has become pretty old. Just when i think i have sneakily slipped under the radar, i am fiercely reminded of my difference, which is a beautiful thing but often tiring. Sometimes, i just don’t want to be reminded that i say things “weird” or that i sound “hella foreign.” 
Thus, if you are reading this and happen to meet me, do me a favor and leave my poor accent alone. i assure you, your mimicking it is not as cute as you think it is, nor will any amount of fake laughing i force make it funny. however, if you are interested in learning how to do a decent one, i will quite happily teach you. For a fee, of course. 
This article was originially published on April 1 for The Soapbox, the Daily Californian opinion blog. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

Daniel Barabasi 
Scene writer 

“mZA, who was that? Ayo, the wu is back” 
As announced last week, the wu Tang Clan has indeed made its return, with their 20th anniversary album, “The wu 
— Once upon A Time in Shaolin.” The album is a self-declared “piece of con­temporary art” and the “first ever private music album,” according to the Edictum posted by producers Cilvaringz and The rZA. 
The description sounds grand, but they have the wow-factor to back it: Only one copy of the 31-track album will be produced, and it will be sold in a hand carved nickel-silver box designed by British-moroccan artist yahya. Before the album is sold, offers have been made up to $5 million. it will be offered to the public at “listening events,” which will include museums, galleries and music festivals. 
The website devoted to the project, 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
Scene Editor 

when mac demarco released his first full-length album, “2,” in 2012, the Canadian crooner received plenty of critical success and quickly gained al­most cult-like indie admiration for his bizarre behavior and lo-fi, poppy tunes. A year and a half later, the misfit singer/ songwriter has released his sophomore full-length Lp, “Salad days,” an intrigu­ing 30-minute long acid trip of an album that distorts everything you love about summery guitar-pop in the curiously ap­pealing way only mac demarco could. 
The most immediately noticeable ele­ment on “Salad days” is demarco’s vo­cal presence on the track. while his first two albums, “rock and roll Night Club” and “2,” ring with a distant, lo-fi voice matching demarco’s now-notorious non­chalance, “Salad days” gives us a much more present demarco. with this sharper voice comes an overall cleaner sound — a sign of a more serious musician, perhaps. Still, much hasn’t changed in demarco’s sound: his distinctive, affected guitar, tuned a half-step up, is still what drives each of the 11 tracks on “Salad days,” making each song easily attributed to its writer, and almost too familiar at times. 
The familiarity doesn’t stop there, ei­ther. Though it has been said before of properly titled EZCLZiV SCLuZAy, de­tails the purpose behind their alternate method. The Concept and Edictum sec­tions proclaim how the “music industry is in crisis,” as the ease of mass production of albums and songs devalues the cre­ativity, reducing it as an art form. yet, the major arguments revolve around money, as the website encourages the turn to artistic commissions in the music in­dustry in order to reduce the $50 million difference between a microphone and a paintbrush. ironic, coming from the rap group worth at least $100 million. 
As grandiose as the plan may sound, it does not even compare to the ambi­tion motivating the group to write verses together, and that’s only after actually collecting the rambly bunch together in a room. 
Formerly, the wu Tang consisted of nine members: The rZA, who was considered the head of the team, The gZA, ghostface Killah, raekwon the Chef, method man, Ol’ dirty Bastard, inspectah deck, masta Killa and u-god. Now, with OdB six feet under, and former 
demarco, with a more prominent voice on the album, the singer sounds distract­ingly like a cross between ringo Starr and John Lennon at times, with “Salad days” reminiscent of “Sgt. pepper’s” and “magical mystery Tour” to a near-alarming extent. if he’s been listening to 1967-era Beatles lately, demarco cer­tainly knows how to wear his influences on his sleeve. 
This isn’t a bad thing, per se, and the most psychedelic, Beatles-esque songs are some of the most enjoyable. The album’s title track is a toe-tap-inducing opener reflecting on growing old and growing up, a theme that continues throughout the subsequent tracks. “passing Out pieces,” the second single on “Salad days,” is a somber take on “i am the walrus,” slowing down calliope-inspired instrumentals and pairing it with a melancholic demarco reflecting on the toll time has taken on him. The result is a disorienting carnival song somehow still peculiarly gratifying. 
in all of his music, demarco has the uncanny ability to combine pop and dissonance, and “Salad days” is no ex­ception. From unexpected progressions and warped chords to introspective lyrics over largely cheery, strolling in­strumentals (as in the title track, “Salad days”), the album sits in a precarious place between self-indulgently gloomy unofficial 10th member Cappadonna ac­cepted into the group, The rZA struggles to maintain his former control amidst the clash of even bigger and richer egos. 

To commemorate the upcoming album and encourage its release, i’d like to take a moment to offer a way to mess with the wu Tang Clan because, you know, they specifically ask you not to. 
record “The wu — Once upon A Time in Shaolin.” 
Since only one copy of the album will be produced, the idea is that it will not appear on Spotify or youTube. Once it fin­ishes its tour, listening to it will only be at the discretion of the poor sap who shelled out $5 million for the masterpiece. 
This is pretty much an open invitation to mess with the wu Tang. it has been an­nounced that the listening events will be heavily screened for recording devices. So, all you need to do is figure out how to sneak one in and then post the album online. 
There’s also the added bonus of get­ting to meet the wu Tang if you get caught. Because, i assure you, they will 
and amusingly cheeky, a balancing act demarco has worked towards perfecting in his young career. 
Though much of the album reflects on aging, fame and anxieties (as so many second or third albums do), “Salad days” isn’t a pity party. instead, demarco doles out quite a bit of advice in various tracks. From “Brother” and “Blue Boy,” we’re told to calm down and take it slow, and in “Let her go” and “Treat her Better,” we get boyfriend advice from the unabashedly romantic artist (he notoriously brings his girlfriend on stage and serenades her at shows). 
while demarco laments over the demands of touring and the confusion he may feel, he also puts his foot down when it comes to things he does know. in “goodbye weekend,” he indignantly sings, “So don’t go telling me how this boy should be leaving his own life/ Sometimes rough but generally speak­ing i’m fine,” and in “Treat her Better” he knowingly proclaims, “Treat her better, boy/if having her at your side’s some­thing you enjoy.” At times these tracks can feel a little preachy or arrogant, but when paired with lyrics expressing his vulnerabilities, demarco comes off as less sanctimonious than if these tracks were presented alone. 
Some tracks stand out and almost reach the caliber of demarco’s most personally escort you outside and break your knees. 
perhaps this is the sort of moment of unity the wu Tang needs. in an in-depth interview with “grantland,” the wu Tang showed their inner doubts at the entire ordeal. The rZA, supposed leader of the group, asked the interviewer whether he feels the group is optimistic, or if they’re questioning the leadership. masta Killa reminisces about when they first got to­gether and were having fun, something he doesn’t see now, and doesn’t want the group to end on a weak note. 
in the end, the community has to lay its hope in the words of inspectah deck. “The nucleus has separated. Once rZA throws up that Batman symbol, that wu-Tang ‘w,’ it’s goin’ be on again.” 
That’s all that’s left to do: raise the w and reenter the slums of Shaolin. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
famous and still ridiculously good single “Ode to Viceroy” from “2,” including the hypnotic “Let my Baby Stay,” “Blue Boy” and, oddly, “Jonny’s Odyssey,” the final and only instrumental track on the album. Other songs could have been omitted from “Salad days” altogether, like the uninspired “Brother” and the painfully slow and grating “Chamber of reflection.” Still, the album as a whole is consistently mac demarco, and ultimate­ly, to hear him apply his laid-back sound to less laid-back themes makes “Salad days” an occasionally bizarre but overall enjoyable listen. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
“Salad Days” 
Mac DeMarco 
Label: Captured Tracks Tracks: “Salad Days,” “Blue Boy” If you like: Real Estate, The Beatles, 
Foxygen 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: AcoustiCafe Where: LaFun Basement When: 10 p.m. How Much: Free 

There’ll be music, there’ll be danc­ing, there’ll be the entire Scene staff probably in one form or another. Come express yourself by listening to other people expressing themselves. presented by SuB. 
FRIDAY 

What: “American Hustle” Where: DeBartolo 101 When: 8:30 and 10 p.m. How Much: $3 
david O. russell directed and co-wrote this crime comedy-drama, which stars Christian Bale, Bradley Cooper, Amy Adams, Jeremy renner and Jennifer Lawrence. it was nomi­nated for 10 Academy Awards but didn’t win any, so who knows. presented by SuB. 

SATURDAY 

What: Humor Artists Where: Washington Hall When: 7 p.m. How Much: $2 
it’s called “A wrinkhal in Time,” but beyond that, we don’t know literally anything about it. Should be funny. Tickets on sale at the LaFun box of­fice. SuB’s involvement not specified, assumed doubtful. 
SUNDAY 

What: “The Graduate” Where: DPAC When: 3 p.m. How Much: $4 
graduating seniors, come get a snapshot of exactly what your life will turn into if you don’t get a job imme­diately after college. Not sponsored by the Career Center, but maybe it should be. 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
Scene writer 

indie-rock stalwarts The National are characterized by a reliable consistency. The band’s cerebral and often existential songs about middle-class adult concerns often earns it the “dad rock” label, aided by the fact that ot sound has remained largely unchanged over the past decade. remarkably, their critical reception is wildly consistent as well, with their past four albums earning metacritic scores over 80. The band’s new documentary “mistaken for Strangers” is a film about a disruption to that consistency — the tu­multuous sibling dynamic lurking under every family’s perfectly projected facade. 
The National has two sets of broth­ers — Bryan and Scott devendorf and twins Aaron and Bryce dessner — and lead singer matt Berninger let his younger brother Tom join the crew as an assistant tour manager. 
Tom follows The National on its 2010 tour, which saw the group sell out radio City music hall and play a rally with president Obama, and begins filming footage for a documentary whose con­cept is largely undefined. “do you have any kind of organization and plan for this film?” matt asks Tom early in the docu­mentary. “you have to come up with some kind of idea for this movie.” 
For those expecting a band profile or concert film, “mistaken for Strangers” is neither of those things. Save for the per­formance of “Terrible Love” during the film’s conclusion, footage from the band’s performances are shown only in frag­mented snippets. Early on, Tom turns the camera on himself, filming himself eat­ing French fries in a parisian hotel room while matt gives a phone interview in the background. This sets the course for the documentary, with the band serving as a background for a profile of a flawed younger brother overshadowed by his successful older sibling. “having matt as my older brother sucks because he is a rockstar and i am not,” Tom confesses to the camera. “And it has always been that way.” 
Tom is a compelling subject for all the reasons he frustrates his older brother. his easygoing personality constantly ir­ritates matt, as he desperately craves a flashy rockstar tour experience complete­ly contrary to The National’s ethos. in one of the film’s funniest scenes, Tom floats on a shark inflatable in a Los Angeles hotel’s infinity pool and screams “hey moby!” at what he believes is the electronic artist’s house. The ludicrous questions he asks in interviews — i.e. ”do you have your wal­lets on stage with you?” or “where do you see The National in 50 years?” — baffle the band’s members and reveal Tom’s dis­interest in the band as a subject. 

in contrast with the responsible matt, Tom is depicted as relatively immature and unambitious. he constantly neglects his responsibilities as a member of the crew, which include checking the back­stage food spread is correct and assem­bling the band before show time. he is left behind by the tour bus at one point and is eventually fired by the band’s tour man­ager. “matt was a lot easier to raise than you,” Tom’s mother tells him. “you always quit things.” 
As Tom becomes frustrated trying to determine the direction of the documen­tary, he tearfully films himself admitting, “i just want to make something good for [matt], as well as myself.” while it is a low-stakes conflict, Tom’s unguarded vul­nerability and focus on universal sibling conflicts make for a surprisingly engaging film. in an interview with The dissolve, Tom explains that his “directing credit was part of the narrative. For me, it was part of the movie itself. … The movie is only complete when someone is sitting down watching it.” Completing the film is framed as a redemptive moment for Tom, a necessary victory for someone constant­ly critiqued by his seemingly perfect older brother. Even for non-fans, “mistaken for Strangers” is well worth a watch, a fasci­nating subversion of rock documentaries grounded in familial relationships, meta commentary on filmmaking and affirm­ing the importance of small victories in life. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Mistaken for Strangers” 
Director: Tom Berninger Starring: The National See it at: Facets Cinematheque in 
Chicago 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

March Madness lives up to its name 

Alex Wilcox 
Sports writer 
This weekend marks the last part of the 2013-14 college basketball season, as Florida, Connecticut, wisconsin and Kentucky will battle it out in the Final Four for the chance to play for the national cham­pionship monday night. 
it has been a fun, wild and dramatic season, and march madness has certainly lived up to its name. Kentucky, the little eight-seed that could, has stormed its way into the Final Four after knocking off undefeated wichita State, fierce rival and defending na­tional champs Louisville and national runner-up michigan in three successive incredible games. 
perhaps even more sur­prising was seventh-seeded Connecticut’s run to the Final Four. After trailing by double digits late in the open­ing round game against St. Joseph’s and only eeking out a win in overtime, the huskies then knocked off two-seed Villanova, three-seed iowa State and four-seed (and nearly every expert’s and president Obama’s national champ pick) michigan State. 
uConn’s reward for its ex­haustive efforts making it through arguably the tough­est region of the tournament? A Final Four matchup with overall number-one seed Florida, winner of 30 straight and the only top seed to ad­vance all the way through to dallas. 
Sounds like the huskies definitely need this week-long break between games. This college basketball hiatus is good for the fans too, as it gives us all a chance to see how our brackets are doing. 
Touchy subject? Sore spot? Low blow? don’t worry, your bracket couldn’t be worse than mine. my younger brother reminds me daily how he is in first in his pool (because how could i NOT have seen Kentucky going all the way), and i am even los­ing to my non-sports-inclined girlfriend (how a girl who has never watched a game of basketball knew dayton would reach the Elite Eight is beyond me). 
Besides, cheer up, it’s not like you publicly proclaimed your picks to be a surefire way to a billion dollars like this crow-eating sports writer did. 
with that in mind, let’s re­cap how i did. 
First, in light of recent up­sets like Lehigh over duke or Florida gulf Coast over georgetown, i predicted a 15­seed would once again topple a mighty basketball program ranked second. milwaukee over Villanova or Eastern Kentucky over Kansas seemed promising, but both higher-seeded teams emerged victo­rious, although Villanova did lose in the next round, so i was close. Kind of. 
Not only did all two seeds win their opening games, one of them – wisconsin - even made it to the Final Four. 
Next, i said this would fi­nally be the year a 16-seed takes down a one-seed. For a brief moment it appeared that might happen, as Coastal Carolina played Virginia close up until Virginia pulled away at the end. But that wasn’t good enough for me. i had to go all the way and say Albany would pull off the upset of all upsets, and knock off the overall one-seed, the Florida gators. Not only did Florida win by double digits, it then beat everyone in its path on the way to becoming the only top seed to make this year’s Final Four. 
Finally, i told you not to listen to the experts. And i was right! Nearly every col­lege basketball “expert” predicted michigan State would be cutting down the nets. Even the president went with the Spartans, and they were all wrong. Nate Silver, famed political blogger and numbers guru, decided after careful statistical analysis that Louisville was most likely to have its one shining moment, and the man who has successfully predicted every presidential election in our lifetime was wrong. So i was right, don’t listen to the experts. 
if only my pick was any better. 
i went with the underdogs, the small school whose best player is a 22-year-old white guy with a cute nickname. yes, i went with dougie mcBuckets and Creighton, who unceremoniously bowed out in the second round after being embarrassed by Baylor. 
Once again it was another humbling march madness. warren Buffet won’t be writ­ing me a check anytime soon, my brother will undoubt­edly snapchat me a picture of him rolling in his winnings and my girlfriend was right, again. 
Can’t wait till next march! 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

NU takes case to Congress 
Associated Press 

Northwestern university ath­letes pressed their case for col­lective bargaining rights during meetings wednesday with law­makers, as a vote was scheduled for them to decide whether to au­thorize a union. 
The vote will be held April 25, according to ramogi huma, president of the College Athletes players Association. 
during meetings on Capitol hill, huma and former Northwestern quarterback Kain Colter tried to drum up support just a week after a ruling that the athletes were employees and had the same rights to bargain collectively as other workers. 
“Safety of athletes is the con­cern, especially to reduce the risk of brain trauma,” huma said. 
Added Colter, co-founder of the association: “we’re up here raising awareness.” 
Even though the issue is not directly before lawmakers, “Congress is an important part of the chess board,” he said af­ter meeting with Sen. Sherrod Brown, d-Ohio. 
Brown said in a statement that “the right to fair treatment is why all workers, no matter the job or venue, should have the opportu­nity to unionize.” 
“College athletes dedicate the same hours to their support as full-time employees and deserve the same protections as any oth­er worker,” he said. 
Colter and huma were accom­panied by Tim waters, national policy director of the united Steelworkers union, which is underwriting and financing the effort. 
more meetings were sched­uled Thursday. 

MLB | TigErS 2, rOyALS 1 
Tigers top Royals in extras 
Associated Press 

with the detroit Tigers in a jam after a close play at first base, Brad Ausmus calmly made his way onto the field. 
No histrionics from the rook­ie manager — not in this situ­ation at least. All he had to do was challenge the call and wait. 
“it’s almost awkward when you go out there,” Ausmus said. “Normally the manager would go out there to scream and yell, but it doesn’t make sense to go out there and scream and yell if they know you have a chal­lenge. in essence, i’m really just taking my time getting out there so we can get a determi­nation from our video room as to whether we should use the challenge.” 
Baseball’s new instant re­play system was popular at Comerica park on wednesday, when two calls at first base were overturned in detroit’s fa­vor. The second reversal ended a Kansas City rally in the 10th, and the Tigers eventually won 2-1 on ian Kinsler’s single in the bottom of the inning. 
Kinsler also hit a solo homer in the fourth, helping detroit win despite a blown save by new closer Joe Nathan. max Scherzer pitched eight score­less innings for the Tigers. 
“All i kept thinking about was picking up max. he was so good all game and you don’t want to waste that kind of per­formance,” said Kinsler, who 

FOR SALE 

OPEN HOUSE 2-4. CONDO ­SEDGWICK HOUSE $99,500, 820 Lincolnway West, #307. Large beautiful 3 bedroom 
2.5 bath condo. Great area-view of river and Beutter Park. Underground garage. Well main­tained secured building. Lots of amenities. Located in Mishawaka. 
was acquired from Texas for prince Fielder in a November trade. “it was great for Joe, too. we know he’s a great closer, but it is a lot easier to forget about a bad outing when your team wins the game.” 
in the top of the 10th, Kansas City’s Norichika Aoki was called safe at first, and it looked like the royals would have first and third with two outs against Al Alburquerque (1-0). But upon further review, the throw barely beat Aoki. he was called out to end the threat. 
There was another overturn in the sixth when detroit’s Tyler Collins was initially called out at first, giving Kansas City a 4-6-3 double play. The play was reviewed and Collins was ruled safe, although detroit didn’t score. 
“That’s exactly why the sys­tem is there — to get the call right,” royals manager Ned yost said. “Both calls went against us, but they were the right calls, so i don’t have any problem with it.” 
Scherzer allowed four hits and a walk with seven strike­outs, but Nathan blew a save at Comerica for the first time after 19 straight as a visitor. 
Alex gordon’s bases-loaded sacrifice fly in the ninth tied it, and Nathan balked the runners ahead when he pulled up in the middle of his motion. Nathan said afterward he stopped be­cause he wasn’t sure he and catcher Alex Avila were on the same page. 
“i just didn’t want to cross him up,” Nathan said. “i thought i saw a fastball in, and when i came up to my balance position and looked in, i saw him setting up away.” 
After Alburquerque made it through the 10th, Austin Jackson and Nick Castellanos both walked for detroit. Kinsler won it with a two-out single to left-center off Tim Collins (0-1). 
Scherzer can become a free agent after this season, and if he keeps pitching like this he’ll be in line for quite a pay­day. The American League Cy young Award winner mostly cruised until the eighth, when Salvador perez doubled leading off. 
Scherzer rebounded to strike out mike moustakas and Lorenzo Cain. Ausmus then visited the mound, but he left Scherzer in. Alcides Escobar followed with a flyout on Scherzer’s 110th and final pitch. 
Scherzer said Ausmus told him to make a decision about staying in. 
“i said, ‘give me a second to think about it,’” Scherzer said. “i needed to be honest with Brad. i said, ‘give me the ball.’” 
Jason Vargas, who signed a $32 million, four-year contract in the offseason, was sharp in his first start for Kansas City. he allowed a run and five hits in seven innings, walking one and striking out six. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Call Beth Sargent Re/Max 574-campus. 1 to 2 year lease. Call 235-3088 or Estella 574-255-574-360-6910 3862 Commencement Rental available- next to Eddy Street Commencement and Football. Commons Walk to every-GREAT location -next to thing. Call 574-360-6910 Eddy Street Commons. Call 
574-360-6910 
FOR RENT 

“I have made good judgments in the past. I have made good judg­2 BR 1.5 BA close to ments in the future.”- Dan Quale 


SMC LACROSSE | KALAmAZOO 16, ST. mAry’S 9 
Belles can’t avoid Hornets’ sting in MIAA loss 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
Sports writer 

despite solid effort and improvement on the field, Saint mary’s came up short in its miAA opener against Kalamazoo, falling 16-9 in wednesday night’s matchup. 
The hornets (3-4, 1-0 miAA) jumped out of the gate quickly, posting a 2-0 lead less than six minutes into the game, but Belles fresh­man defense Jackie Loesch took a free position shot on goal only minutes later to put Saint mary’s (0-7, 0-1) on the board. 
After multiple fouls and turnovers by the Belles, the hornets capitalized to ex­tend their lead by three goals. Saint mary’s regained some momentum late in the first half, countering Kalamazoo’s 4-1 lead with three straight goals of its own. Freshman midfield Cathy Baxter tallied an unassisted goal, Loesch connected with freshman attack Lauren Telford for another goal and freshman midfield Aubrey golembieski knotted the game at 4-4 with an unassisted effort to cap off the run. 
Still, Kalamazoo closed out the half with a set of goals to take a 7-4 lead at the break. 
The hornets continued their run in the opening five minutes of the second half with two more goals. Loesch brought an end to Kalamazoo’s scoring streak with an unassisted goal half­way through the second half. 
As the game progressed, both teams exchanged goals, with golembieski scor­ing a pair to keep the Belles alive. with the clock winding down, however, Kalamazoo strung together a string of goals to put the hornets up 14-7 late in the second half. golembieski capped off the scoring for the Belles in the final minutes of the game with two additional goals but Saint mary’s never secured a lead. 
“Overall, i believe we played a great game tonight,” Belles coach Amy Long said. “however, we gave up too many turnovers, especially in the second half. having everyone play the whole 60 minutes with no subs defi­nitely wears on our players. regardless, i am proud of their continued strength and the way they played tonight.” 
Saint mary’s held the ad­vantage in draw controls, 14-13, while Kalamazoo col­lected 23 ground balls to the Belles’ 17. 
Freshman goalkeeper Stephanie Szymas had 17 saves in goal for the Belles, her best effort of the season. 
“Stephanie truly stepped it up in goal tonight and had her best game of the season,” Long said. “She executed her clears well, and i couldn’t be more happy for her.” 

in addition to Szymas, golembieski had a record night, scoring a season-high five goals and controlling eight draws.
 “Aubrey really amped up her game today by scoring 
“Having everyone play the whole 60 minutes with no subs definitely wears on our players. Regardless, I am proud of their continued strength and the way they played tonight.” 
Amy Long 
Saint Mary’s coach 

multiple goals to lead our offense,” Long said. “She worked incredibly hard on the draws and was a true leader on draw controls.” 
As the Belles look ahead to their next game, Long em­phasized the importance of her team’s continued improvement. 
“i am very proud that we scored more goals in this game than any of our games so far this season,” Long said. “it just goes to show that we are constantly improving, which is huge for us moving forward as a team. we played a solid opponent tonight and truly rose to the challenge. As a team, we played tough and worked to the best of our abilities in order to have our best game yet. Tonight with­out a doubt helped us gain confidence as we head into our next game.” 
The Belles return to the field Saturday when they host illinois institute of Technology in the program’s first-ever home game at 1:00 p.m. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu. 





SMC SOFTBALL 

Selner takes mound against Anderson 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles will play their second doubleheader of the week as they square off with Anderson tomorrow. After being swept by Carthage on Tuesday, the Belles (8-6) look to get back to the form that recently helped them win six games in a row. 
Senior pitcher Callie Selner continues to lead the way for the Belles with her 
2.62 ErA on the mound and 
a .382 batting average at the plate. Selner suffered a loss in her most recent outing but still sports a 5-3 record on the year. 
After Selner, the Belles get most of their production from their young infield. Freshman shortstop Caitlin migawa, sophomore first baseman Jillian Busfield, sophomore second base­man Angela dainelli and sophomore third baseman Kayla Chapman are the only four members of the team to start all 14 games, and the group boasts four of the top five batting averages on the team. 
Busfield leads the team offensively, hitting a team-high .392, with four doubles and the Belles’ lone home run. She also tallied three of the team’s six hits in their doubleheader against Carthage. meanwhile, dainelli has stolen three bases this season to go along with five rBi while migawa and Chapman are both hit­ting over .300 for the year. 
The Belles will be look­ing to get wins against an Anderson squad that has won ten straight to push its record to 11-2. 
Anderson is led by the pitching of sophomores Sami Frazier and hannah Belvo. Frazier is 5-2 on the season with a 1.52 ErA and 40 strikeouts while Belvo has yet to drop a decision, posting a 3-0 record to go with her 2.28 ErA. 
At the plate, Anderson’s leading hitters are sopho­more Katie mcCool and freshman Shelby Shaffer. mcCool is hitting .538 with 4 rBi and Shaffer has filled up the stat sheet. She has a .415 batting average to go along with her seven rBi and nine stolen bases. 
Selner will pitch against Frazier in the day’s first game, which starts at 3:30. The second game will fea­ture the Belles’ sophomore pitcher Sarah Burke against Belvo. Both games will be played at Saint mary’s College Softball field. 



pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 





ND Softball 
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 20 
once we scored in the sec­ond inning we would be just fine, and as we started getting good outs i liked our level of play. we had a lot of energy and we stayed there.” 
gumpf said she was espe­cially proud of her team for the number of hits its was able to get from the second inning on. 
“i think the girls are see­ing the ball really well,” gumpf said. “They’re comfortable with the bat. generally we keep them in the same area [in the line­up] and they’re okay there. They’re doing a nice job.” 
Saganowich said the irish proved they were ready to finally hit the field. 

“i thought we were really ready to play games at this point, having so many can-celled,” Sagonowich said. “we did a really good job of manufacturing runs.” 
The irish offense con­tinued to gain momentum in the bottom of the third. with two on base, junior third baseman Katey haus laid down a sacrifice bunt to move junior second baseman Jenna Simon and junior center fielder Emilee Koerner into scoring po­sition. A long single from sophomore first baseman micaela Arizmendi brought Simon in and tied the game at 3-3. 
whidden knocked in Koerner with a sacrifice fly to give the irish their first lead of the game. 
A ground ball up the 

pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 

middle by Africano put her on first and sent Arizmendi to second. Saganowich then sent a long ball over the centerfield fence for a three-run homerun, scor­ing whidden and Africano and bringing the score to 7-3. 
in the top of the fourth, the irish sent freshman pitcher rachel Nasland in to relieve sophomore pitcher Allie rhodes. Nasland gave up one hit to the Spartans, but the irish got three quick outs to shut out the top of the inning. 
The irish added another three runs in the fourth af­ter a sacrifice fly by Koerner plated Simon and a two-run home run by Arizmandi brought home haus. haus extended the lead in the fifth with an rBi single. 
The irish kept their lead and shut out the Spartans through the seventh inning to take the win. 
gumpf said she was proud of the way her team played on defense. 
“we didn’t strike a lot of people out today, and we do typically,” gumpf said. “Not getting those strike­outs, there’s a lot of balls in play. And i think with the amount of balls in play we had a good defense. That was a good strength of ours today.” 
Saganowich said she was proud of the way her team was able to keep scoring af­ter getting down early. 
“we made sure we were scoring every inning af­ter that, which results in a win,” Saganowich said. 
The irish are back in ac­tion when they visit depaul for a matchup at 6 p.m. Friday.  
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles travel to St. Louis for invite 

By MANNY DE JESUS 
Sports writer 
After placing fifth at the 
Southwest  minnesota State  
university  invitational  
at  LpgA  international  in  

daytona Beach, Fla., two weeks ago, the Belles are looking to continue their success at the washington university in St. Louis invite this weekend. 
with the miAA NCAA Qualifiers less than two weeks away, the Belles will be competing against 10 ranked division iii schools this week­end, including first-ranked washington university in St. Louis. The Bears’ top golfer is sophomore Connie Zhou, who ranks fifth in the coun­try with a 76.69 average. As a team, washington averages a solid 314.73. 
while the Belles are not ranked in the top 25, they took fifth at the SmSu invitational, where they were the only division iii school represented. 
“we were the only division iii school amongst all division ii schools, and if we would have shot average on day one then we probably would have finished even higher,” Belles coach Kim moore said. “it just showed our girls that it doesn’t matter what division they are play­ing against, if they just play the course and play one shot at a time that they can play with a lot of different schools out there.” 

Saint mary’s top golfers in­cluded both senior captains Alexi Brown and paige pollak who scored a 176 and a 177, respectively, on the two days of the invitational. All of the Belles’ active golfers at the invitational were able to im­prove their scores from day one to day two. 
“i feel that our team is more than capable of being the best in the miAA confer­ence, and i feel that we have a legitimate chance to qualify for our NCAA championship,” moore said. “it will require intense focus and determi­nation during practice and the confidence that our hard work will pay off.  Once we get an opportunity to practice outside i know we will get our short game feel back, which will allow us to post bet­ter numbers. i know that all the hard workers we possess on this team, along with the leadership our seniors bring, will give us a great chance to experience play beyond our regular season.” 
during the fall season last year, the Belles finished sec­ond in the miAA behind No. 10-ranked Olivet. 
The Belles will continue their quest to qualify for the NCAA championship when they take on some of the top programs in the country at the washington university in St. Louis invitational this weekend. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

Football 
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 20 
proper stance to where their eyes should be, to how to take the first step, and then they’ve got to process what the offense is doing and then react based on what the scheme is,” Cooks said. “So they’re starting from square one. But you’ve seen improvement from day one to …  now.” 
Cooks said junior cornerback KeiVarae russell and graduate student safety Austin Collinsworth have shined the brightest during spring practice. russell has started all 26 games at cornerback in his career, and Collinsworth made 11 starts in 2013 after missing the entire 2012 season because of shoulder and back surgery. 
“i love KeiVarae russell. i’m a little spoiled with him. And Austin Collinsworth,” Cooks said. “Those two guys right now — and they’ve got experience, they’ve been in our system for a while, they’ve been around the program 
— they’re at a different level. The other guys have got to keep coming.” 
in practices open to the media, sophomore safety max redfield has seen the majority of reps as the first-team safety playing alongside Collinsworth. redfield was the No. 23 player in his high-school class, according to ESpN. com. The four-star recruit didn’t crack Notre dame’s starting lineup until the pinstripe Bowl, when the 6-foot-1, 194-pounder tallied two of his 12 tackles. 
“max redfield is going to be a heck of a player, he’s just got a lot to learn. Very talented kid,” Cooks said. 
Cooks said sophomore cornerback Cole Luke is similar to redfield in that sense. Luke has been slotted opposite russell at the other cornerback position, the one former captain Bennett Jackson manned for the past two seasons. Luke appeared in all 13 games last season as a freshman and notched 15 tackles. Cooks said Luke is one of the smoothest athletes he’s ever been around. 
“he’s just got to piece it all together,” Cooks said. 
Senior matthias Farley boasts 19 career starts at safety but has switched to cornerback this spring. Cooks said Farley gives the irish depth at several positions. 
“matthias is a smart kid, so he can pretty much do anything that we ask,” Cooks said. “he’s played safety. he’s played nickel. Obviously he’s playing a little corner for us right now. So we just plan on using him in a lot of different areas, not one specific, but we know that he’s got value at safety, he’s got value at nickel. he’s probably been the best nickel that we’ve had in the last year or two right now just through [10] practices, through spring.” 
And through 10 practices, Notre dame’s defense seems more aggressive than that of years past, a shift new defensive coordinator Brian Vangorder said last week starts on the outside with the cornerbacks. Cooks said while the old system under former defensive coordinator Bob diaco was “awesome” and successful, the new system brings a mindset of constant attack. 



“The new system that we’re under right now is just something that we want to challenge all routes,” Cooks said. “we want to be on attack mode. And the whole philosophy is that we don’t want the offense to dictate how we play defense. So everything that we do … we’re aggressi`ve, we’re competing, we’re physical, and that whole mindset of challenge every route, challenge every route…” 
“So just being more aggressive when the ball is in the air, being more aggressive when you’re engaging a blocker, being more 
aggressive ball.”  flying  through the  
Quick hits Cooks  said  they  see  

sophomore safety James Onwualu, who played receiver last season, providing value at safety as well as in some of the sub packages in the nickel, dime and at linebacker. 

Sophomore cornerback devin Butler, who had offseason shoulder surgery, has yet to participate in contact drills, but Cooks said he’s been working with Butler for 10 to 15 minutes after practice doing all the individual work not including contact. 
“he’s staying into it mentally. he’s locked into our meetings. he’s asking a lot of questions,” Cooks said. “So he’s doing everything you can ask a kid who’s injured to do.” 
Cooks said junior safety Elijah Shumate is still showing the athleticism, physicality and toughness he’s always displayed and said he’s making “small steps,” but Cooks said Shumate has been in the system long enough to where he needs to make “a big jump.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

pAid AdVErTiSEmENT pAid AdVErTiSEmENT 


Baseball 
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 20 

and over again, is landing in the left fielder’s glove. Sooner or lat­er, there will be a high enough percentage of those kids that will say, ‘i’m going to go play la­crosse or soccer.’ They will want to switch sports to one where the failure isn’t so oppressive.” 
This weekend, when the irish travel to Tallahassee, Fla., to face No. 1 Florida State, the irish and the Seminoles will combine to have only six players with 20 or more at-bats and a batting average of .300 or better. 
“if you think of any corpo­ration, if seven out of the 10 things they try to bring to mar­ket every time are failing, they would be out of business. it doesn’t matter the company,” Aoki said. “it’s not like i worry about it for the college player. park], hit by four players who baseballs starting in 2015. in a They are already here; they’ve will absolutely be drafted,” recent NCAA study, flat-seamed achieved and they are going Aoki said. “All four were outs. baseballs traveled, on aver-to grind at it. i think it’s those The name of the game now, in age, 20 feet further than their kids who are good athletes, a lot of ways, is making produc-raised-seam counterparts. who haven’t developed physi-tive outs. if you can make pro-“i’ve been in college base­cally yet, who are going to have ductive outs, steal a base, play ball for over twenty years now,” a hard time getting the ball out hit and run, get a guy in scor-Aoki said. “i’m not advocat­of the infield. when they do, it ing position with less than two ing for a change back to the will be caught.” outs or score a guy with a bunt minus-5’s and the 21-19 uSC 
in last year’s College world or a groundball, that’s what it’s versus Arizona State show-Series there were only three all about. in this day and age, case game, but i think this bat home runs hit in 14 games, the if you can get to four or five change is really incredibly bad 
Though Smith has had fewest since there were just two runs, that gives you a pretty for college baseball. Baseball is 

Smith 
a lot of personal success in 1966. in the 2013 CwS, the good chance to win a baseball a harsh, brutal and unforgiv-
CONTiNuEd FrOm pAgE 20 

since joining the irish 
cumulative batting average of game.” ing teacher with regards to fail-squad, her favorite mo­
.234 was the lowest it had been Last fall, in a survey of coach-ure. Baseball, probably more is deeper, we have a lot ment of her career came 
since it was .227 in 1974. es, 87 percent said they wanted than any other game, is a harsh of talent and our need is earlier this season, when 
“if you look back, i can think to make a change to the game. enough teacher as is.” on the defensive end,” the irish took a close 9-8 
of four balls hit in last years in response, the NCAA an-halfpenny said. “it’s been victory over Northwestern, 
College world Series [that nounced that they are plan-Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at neat to see she’s turned national champion in sev­
should have gone out of the ning on allowing flat-seamed asantmil@nd.edu into a player who will do en of the last nine seasons, whatever is needed at this on march 5. 
pAid AdVErTiSEmENT point. She’s been one of our “That’s something our top matchup defenders and program hasn’t done in a she’s continued to lead the long time,” Smith said. “it young kids to show them was a complete team ef­how we play defense, how fort, and it was something we play midfield so that’s not just us but the alumnae been huge for us.” have worked toward over Smith is the only senior the last several years so starter for the irish this that was just an amazing season and was recent-moment.” ly named a second-team halfpenny said Smith’s midseason All-American, leadership and skill are the along with freshman at-key impacts the senior has tack Cortney Fortunato. made to the team. Smith said her success is in “She’s such a huge leader part due to the influences by example,” halfpenny of former players. said. “She is probably one “i’ve had a lot of older of our top creative play-players who have helped ers. She has an incredibly me develop along the way unique skill set.” and a great coaching staff,” Smith said her leading Smith said. “without my role as the only starting teammates and coaches senior has been fully sup-i wouldn’t be as good as a ported by the rest of her player.” teammates. despite the success she “i think i’ve have good has found with the irish, support from my other se-Notre dame was not origi-niors and the other upper­nally on the top of her col-classmen so that’s been lege list. really helpful,” Smith said. “it wasn’t my first choice “Even the younger kids when i started looking are really willing to lis­originally,” Smith said. ten to the leadership so “it’s just something about it’s an all-around effort to when you get here and then contribute.” you leave and you know Smith and the irish are you’ve just felt something. back in action against i had a great experience Virginia at 3 p.m. at Arlotta with the team and the en-Stadium. vironment as a whole. it’s really different from any Contact Katie Heit at other place.” kheit@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | wiLL ShOrTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChriSTOphEr BruCKEr SUDOKU | ThE mEphAm grOup 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hiLLAry mANgiAFOrTE HOROSCOPE | EugENiA LAST 

Happy Birthday: your ability to be proactive yet cautious will be your ticket to success this year. Separating your emotions from whatever task you face will enable you to reach your goals and impress those who have something to contribute. Building a solid base will ensure long-lasting success. your desire to experiment, coupled with your innovative ideas, will enhance personal relationships. your numbers are 8, 14, 24, 27, 33, 36, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take the plunge and get into the groove. it’s time to get fit and fabulous. Sign up for a rigorous routine that will help you look and be your best, both mentally and physically. Any challenge should be welcomed. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Share your feelings. Taking care of the needs of others will help you put your life in perspective. dealing with matters concerning older or younger people in your life will be rewarding. An important partnership will develop.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): prepare to make last-minute changes based on what others do or say. don’t expect everyone to be honest or give you a proper assessment of a situation you face. do your own fact-finding and make your choices based on your needs.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take on an interesting project or challenge that someone presents. your ability to think outside the box will help you grab the attention of someone with clout. discussions will help put you in control. Avoid taking on too much. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Jumping from one thing to another may suit you just fine, but it will make those around you nervous. A deal or contract will favor you as long as you keep your emotions hidden. home improvements will make your life more entertaining. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Turn up the volume and take on whatever comes your way. Show your mental and physical abilities. you can stabilize your position among your peers and colleagues. A change in an important relationship will add to your happiness. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) Feeling free to come and go as you please and to enjoy friends who offer excitement and adventure will keep you satisfied and enthusiastic about the future. Overspending will be your downfall. Find a way to have fun without being extravagant. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make important changes at home that will help you accomplish personal goals and expand your interests and friendships. A different lifestyle will help you manage what you want to do with what you are responsible for. use your imagination. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): get your work out of the way and get on with more enjoyable pastimes. An investment may interest you, but the information you are given will not divulge how high a risk you will be taking. proceed with caution. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t leave anything to chance. if you leave anything unfinished, you will face complaints and opposition. Stick close to home and work hard to complete what’s expected of you and you will avoid a dispute. Accomplishment will make you feel good. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put what you want in writing. draw up contracts and negotiate your position. you will win in the end if you have a solid plan of action. Socializing is highlighted. getting together with an old friend will bring back fond memories. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A money matter or joint venture will cause upset. Back up and view your situation from a different angle. use your imagination, and you will come up with a solution that will be acceptable. Listen, observe and take a smart position. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative, active and clever. you are innovative and open-minded. 
JUMBLE | dAVid hOyT ANd JEFF KNurEK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
p.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, iN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

ThE OBSErVEr | THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2014 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
ND SOFTBALL | Nd 11, miChigAN STATE 4 
ND stymies Spartans 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports writer 
After falling behind ear­ly, the irish took control of wednesday’s contest against michigan State, winning 11-4. 
The Spartans (8-20, 1-4 Big East) controlled the game early when freshman catcher Lindsey Besson hit a three-run homer to left field to give michigan State a 3-0 lead. The irish were unable to get their offense started until the bottom of the sec­ond when senior shortstop Chloe Saganowich hit a sin­gle to right field to bring in sophomore designated hitter Casey Africano and junior catcher Cassidy whidden. 
“it is no fun to get down early, and it’s tough,” irish coach deanna gumpf said. “it’s not an easy thing, so i’m really proud of the way we came back and started hitting the ball really well in the second inning. i knew 
see Nd SOFTBALL PAGE 15 

BASEBALL 

dead-bat era 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports writer 
in 2010, NCAA teams averaged .94 home runs a game and 6.98 runs per game. Just one year lat­er, those averages dropped to .52 home runs per game and 5.58 runs. in one year, homeruns de­clined by 42 percent and total runs by 20 percent. 
“i think this has become the era of the dead bat,” irish coach mik Aoki said. “i don’t think it’s necessarily good for college baseball, to be honest with you, but it’s the reality of the situa­tion. if you look at team ErAs now, if you’re not in the mid-to-low threes, your team has a bad pitching staff. As a team, if you’re hitting .270, you’re pro­lific. if you’re hitting anywhere near .300 as a team, you’re the college baseball version of the New york yankees’ murderer’s row. i think that’s what it is now.” 
These changes are a result of new bat policies employed by the NCAA, as stricter “Bat-Ball Coefficient of restitution” (BBCOr) standards reduce ball exit speeds. According to NCAA Baseball rules Committee, the changes were made to maintain the integrity of the game while enhancing player safety. 

“At the end of the day, i think it’s going to be really bad,” Aoki said. “This is where we really shot ourselves in the foot as a coaching group, by allow­ing this change to have swung so far to the other way of the pendulum.” 
As a consequence of the changes at the collegiate level, changes have been made at the high school level as well. The National Federation of State high School Associations (NFhS), which establishes the official rules of high school sports, has mirrored the NCAA’s move to BBCOr bats. 
“Baseball is a game that is filled with failure,” Aoki said. “you take a young kid who is a decent athlete and a decent player, who maybe makes his varsity team as a freshman or a sophomore, but he’s not really that strong. his best bolt, over 
see BASEBALL PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Smith exemplifies Irish culture 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports writer 
Four-year starter and 2013 All-American senior defend­er margaret Smith has been making an impact since she was a freshman. 
“i think she’s single hand­edly elevated the program’s iQ and their ability to play the high pressure we want to play,” irish coach Christine halfpenny said. “She’s one of a few players who have been playing and mak­ing a massive impact since her freshman year, so that alone has been a great thing for our program. Since i’ve come here, it’s been really nice to see her support the direction and the culture the program is going in.” 
Smith entered her fresh­man year as a defender, but halfpenny said she saw more potential in her when she arrived. 
“As a freshman, he was a defender and when i got here her sophomore year, we moved her into a midfielder role, seeing some explosion,” halfpenny said. “She did a good job learning the game as a midfield defender. her junior year she really start­ed seeing the other side of the ball and did a lot for us. She was on fire against Ohio State last season, which was a pinnacle to our offensive season.” 
with a deeper team this year, halfpenny said she again needed to put Smith back on defense. 
“This year we’ve moved her back because our team 
see SmiTh PAGE 18 
FOOTBALL 

russell, Collinsworth stand out in spring practice 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports writer 

Notre dame only lost one starter from last year’s secondary, but defensive backs coach Kerry Cooks doesn’t look at his group and see polish and experience all over. 
“it’s a very young group, very raw group,” Cooks said wednesday after Notre dame’s 10th spring practice. 
what’s missing, at least for Cooks, in terms of age and refinement, is made up for in talent, according to the fifth-year irish coach. The focus in the spring is on individual improvement, however basic the learning might be. 
“i think that it’s a talented group, but right now these guys are learning everything from 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 16 

WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish junior KeiVarae Russell runs through drills during spring practice March 3. Russell will be a third-year starter in 2014. 

ND Softball vs. Michigan State  W 11-4  Men’s Tennis at Wake Forest  Fri., 3 p.m.  ND Women’s Golf  Fri.-Sun.  
SMC Lacrosse vs Kalamazoo  L 16-9  ND Women’s Tennis vs. Maryland  Fri., 4 p.m.  Men’s Lacrosse vs. Duke  Sat., 12 p.m.  
ND Women’s Soccer vs. Chicago Red Stars  W 11-1  ND Softball at DePaul  Fri., 6 p.m.  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Virginia  Sat., 6 p.m.  
Baseball at Florida State  Fri., 6 p.m.  Baseball vs. Florida State  Sat., 6 p.m.  
SMC Softball vs. Anderson  3:30 p.m.  Track & Field at Stanford Invitational  Fri., All day  Men’s Soccer vs. Western Michigan  Sun., 2 p.m.  






