The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 96 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2014| ndsmcobserver.com 
‘The Revolution of Human Dignity’ 
Nanovic Institute sponsors discussion on emerging conflict in Ukraine 
By ANNETTE SAYRE 
news writer 
in light of the recent violence and turmoil in ukraine, the nanovic institute for european studies hosted a discussion monday eve­ning in the lafortune student center. 
The panel, titled “euromaidan: revolution in ukraine?,” was led by yury avvakumov, nanovic faculty fellow and assistant professor of theology. 
The slideshow prepared by avvakumov began with a slide that changed the title of the discussion to say “euromaidan: revolution in ukraine!,” which he said reflected the emerging conviction that the situation in ukraine is indeed one of revolution. 
“i thought that i would start with this title because when we discussed this event and its title, three days ago, a question mark after the title was still appropriate. now you have to replace the ques­tions mark with an exclamation mark,” avvakumov said. “The rev­olution in ukraine has happened. This is absolutely clear.” 
avvakumov said the term “euromaidan” originated from a hash tag used on Twitter in refer­ence to the protests. The “euro” refers to the ukrainian people’s demands for an alliance with the european union and “maid­an” refers to the name of the independence square in ukraine’s capital, Kiev, where the protests have taken place. 
since november of last year, ukrainians have been pro­testing the corruption of their 
see uKraine PAGE 5 



Pilot DART reform launches 


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 
Michael Gekhtman, chair of the mathematics department, and Yury Avvakumov discuss the recent revolutionary action in Ukraine. 
alumna addresses body image 

By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
in an email to the sopho­more class last week, the stu­dent government department of academic affairs said the class of 2016 will take part in a pilot pro­gram for the darT registration process that condenses course registration into one three-hour time window this march. 
“a proposal has been brought forth for an adjustment to the reg­istration period for sophomores in march 2014,” the email said. “instead of the normal spread of two days, all sophomores would register on a single day within a succinct three-hour period. 
“additionally, the sopho­more class time tickets would be scheduled from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. to minimize conflicts with classes, department exams, etc. Time tickets are spread out across the three-hour window to avoid system overload.” 
Junior max brown, the direc­tor of academic affairs, said the course registration process will remain the same, aside from the 
see darT PAGE 5 


By RONI DARLING 
news writer 

Editor’s note: This is the second installment in a five-part series exploring the events and discus­sions of Saint Mary’s Love Your Body Week, which aims to foster self-confidence and positive body images. 
love your body week at saint mary’s kicked off monday with cotton candy in the dining hall, followed by a discussion with christina grasso, an alumna of the class of 2011, about her strug­gle with anorexia. 
The week, initiated four years ago by saint mary’s students, aims to promote self-esteem and to educate students about main­taining healthy lifestyles. 
in her talk, grasso said she started struggling with anorexia as a freshman in college, but it wasn’t until her junior year that her friends confronted her about the problem. 
“The vast majority of those who struggle with eating disorders are normal weight or overweight, and i wish i would have known that then,” she said. 
by her junior year at saint mary’s, grasso had stopped eat­ing altogether, she said. 
grasso said an eating disor­der can be deadly, regardless of weight, and those who deprive themselves or abuse their bod­ies in any way need and deserve help. 
“i returned home from gradu­ation with a plan to move to new york in mid-July,” grasso said. “instead, during a routine visit to my doctor, it was decided that i would be admitted to a hospital across the country specializing in the treatment of eating disorders, where i would spend the next few months getting help. i was heart­broken, but i knew it needed to happen.” 
grasso said, at first, she was very resistant to treatment. 
“i fought tooth-and-nail to keep anorexia close simply be­cause it became something with which i could curl up and always feel safe, even if it was killing me,” she said. 
now, grasso has been out of treatment for two-and-a-half years, and, despite occasional setbacks and lapses, she said she 
see body PAGE 3 


graduate to study as gates scholar 

By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news writer 

adam cowden, a 2012 notre dame graduate, has received one of 40 gates cambridge scholarships to study at the university of cambridge start­ing oct. 1. 
“an opportunity to study at 

cambridge wouldn’t have been possible without the scholar­ship,” cowden said. “There’s a really cool opportunity [at cambridge] to build commu­nity and collaborate to solve the world’s issues.” 
cowden, a political science major and philosophy, poli­tics and economics minor, de­scribed the intensive, thorough selection process that narrows a field of 800 to a final group of 40. 
according to cowden, the de­partments at cambridge create a shortlist of applicants of about 
200. The gates committee then review and select about 100 for interviews in seattle. cowden said that the gates committee only selected 90 this year. 
at the interviews, cowden said the experience was friendly. 
“They go out of their way to encourage you to enjoy seattle and engage with the other final­ists,” he said. 
“you have a panel interview­ing you. mine was social scienc­es. [The panel] includes some professors from cambridge, past gates cambridge scholars and others,” cowden said. “They asked what i thought about pol­icy and if i drafted a policy, what would it be and why.” 
cowden said his initial 
see cowden PAGE 3 






ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew defranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What did you learn today? 


Tess Siver 
junior 
le mans hall 

“That plants can talk back to you #animism.” 

Itzxul Moreno 
freshman 
mccandless hall 

“how much i love, admire and appreciate my older sister.” 

Clare Durent 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“how to upload a photo to instagram!” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Lauren Osmanski 
juunior le mans hall 
“That i’m blonde.” 


Katie Nickol 
junior le mans hall 

“The challenges of a phone interview.” 

Nikki Charter 
junior le mans hall 

“learning about the empirical bases of mature/minor statues.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
christian myers mary green Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Katie mccarty mike ginocchio henry gens vicky Jacobsen 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
erin rice erin mcauliffe 

Photo Viewpoint 

Q&A on human rights Men’s basketall Women’s basketball Blood drive Culture Show: 
austin Taliaferro Karla moreno 
Hesburgh Center for Joyce Center Joyce Center Hammes Bookstore Fiestang International Studies 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. Stepan Center 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Sign up for an 6 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 


Corrections 

With ND grad Vienna Georgia Tech Yellow North Carolina Tar appointment at Come celebrate 
in the feb. 24 issue of The observer, the article Colucci. Jackets. Heels. givebloodnow.org Filipino culture at ND. “students attend immigration summit” incorrectly used the term “immigrants” as 
Town hall meeting for Journalism lecture Show Some Skin Men’s tennis Clybourne Park 
a synonym for “dreamers.” “dreamers” 
undergraduates Hesburgh Library DeBartolo Performing Eck Tennis Pavilion DeBartolo Performing 
actually refers to undocumented immigrants 
Washington Hall Carey Auditorium Arts Center 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Arts Center 
who were brought into the country as 

7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. The Irish take on the 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 
children and have lived in the united states 
Father Jenkins speaks With Justin Gillis of the Student-written Virginia Tech Hokies in Pulitzer prize-winning 
for 5+ years. The observer regrets this error. 
to students. New York Times. monolougues. a marquee match-up. play’s area premiere. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25,2014 | The observer 



students stand withvenezuela 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
on monday, students gath­ered in the dooley room of the lafortune student center to raise awareness about the ongo­ing venezuelan protests against president maduro that have be­come increasingly violent over the past weeks. 
venezuelan university students began protests against the govern­ment feb. 12, sophomore and or­ganizer of the notre dame event daniela nunez said. 
feb. 12 was a national youth day, and college students started pro­testing against the oppressive gov­ernment [that has been in place] for 15 years,” she said. “since then, some have been wounded and some have died.” 
students were able to take pictures with posters saying “i care venezuela” and “i am your voice, venezuela,” as well as with the venezuelan flag, nunez said. 

“we’re going to post these pic­tures and create a video that can be shared, to show that, even in south bend, we care,” she said. “There have also been campaigns by venezuelans in other cities that are using the hashtags ‘sos venezuela’ and ‘pray for venezuela’ because, even if you can’t do much, you can still pray.” 
nunez said students joined with the notre dame peace fellowship on friday to say a rosary for venezuela. 
“it was student-led and it went well,” she said. “we started stand­ing in front of stonehenge and pro­cessed to the grotto to finish the last decade [of the rosary].” 
nunez said she and other 


paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 
students are motivated to inform notre dame students about the cri­sis because the media censorship in venezuela makes it more diffi­cult for the protestors’ message to reach outside audiences. 
“much of the media in venezuela is controlled by the state, and most of the information is coming from social media like Twitter, facebook and instagram,” she said. “we want to raise awareness and point eyes towards the situation in venezuela. There’s no respect for human rights by the military and police force.” 
nunez said she has family in venezuela, and feels strongly about supporting venezuelans. 
“i grew up with a strong sense of venezuelan culture,” she said. “i am american, but i am also venezuelan.” 
Junior diana gutierrez said she attended the event because she 
believes it is important for stu­
dents to understand the unrest in 
venezuela. 
“They are doing their best to 
create a better country, and the 
student movement has mostly 
been nonviolent,” she said. 
freshman Jessica pedroza said 
she believes it is important to 
show support for students partici­
pating in the movemens. 
“as students, we have a social 
obligation to support students 
fighting for justice,” she said. “my 
heart goes out to all who are suf­
fering and all whose voices are be­
ing silenced.” 


Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

Body 
conTinued from page 1 
has continued to recover on an out­patient basis. 
“life began to get in the way of my eating disorder, rather than vice versa,” she said. “i began checking off boxes on my bucket list and seizing opportunities [of] which i had always dreamed. i began to really live life for the first time in years.” 
Junior sam moorhead, social concerns committee chair for the student government association (sga), helped to bring grasso to campus for love your body week. moorhead said grasso is involved with a nonprofit organization, project heal, dedicated to the is­sue of eating disorders. 
Junior mackenzie woods said project heal, which stands for help to eat, accept and live, was founded in 2008 by two new york teens who met while battling an­orexia. project heal raises money for people who are unable to afford treatment and promotes healthy body image among teens and young adults. 
moorhead said grasso speaks regularly about her experiences with eating disorders and body im­age at middle schools, high schools and colleges nationwide on behalf of project heal. 
grasso said she was never the type of person interested in public speaking, but she presents across the country in the hopes of show­ing others struggling with eating disorders that recovery is possible. 
“i have always been a pretty private person, so i don’t know where all of this outspokenness 

Cowden 
conTinued from page 1 
reaction was a mix of surprise and relief. 
“i didn’t think that my inter­view went well,” he said. “i was really surprised and happy. i studied in london while at notre dame, and i’m excited to go back.” 
at university of cambridge, cowden will pursue a master of philosophy in planning, growth and regeneration. he said he wants to apply his studies in the future. 
“in the short term, i could be interested in going on to a ph.d. right now, i’m living at su casa catholic workers,” he said. “i think i would like to work in public policy that regenerates economically desperate neigh­borhoods. or else, i could end up finding something else and be­ing completely surprised.” 
cowden thanked specific members of the notre dame community for helping him along his journey to cambridge. 
“i would say that certain peo­ple as opposed to classes or a ma­jor helped me the most,” cowden said. “i took a latin american politics class with fr. Tim scully. i had to write a paper in that class that became the inspiration of my senior thesis. 
“dr. Jeff Thibert at cuse really helped me through the actual scholarship process.” 
and honesty comes from [in] this area in my life, but i do know that it helps immensely to have someone who endured and survived this horrendous illness, letting other sufferers know that it’s okay, there’s nothing to be ashamed of, there’s help, there’s hope and, most impor­tantly, it is possible to become fully recovered,” she said. “i have seen it and i believe it. 
“it takes, on average, five to seven years to recover from a full-blown eating disorder, and by the stan­dard, i am almost halfway there.” 
moorhead said sga invited grasso to speak at saint mary’s be­cause health issues relate to young women’s self-perception. 
love your body week is a week that strives to emphasize the unique beauty of each individual on our campus and the impor­tance of a healthy and positive self­imagr,” moorhead said. “eating disorders affect so many women, and we hope that [grasso’s] talk can provide hope and encouragement to those who may be strugglin..” 
woods said she hopes to start a chapter of project heal at saint mary’s sooe. 
“i decided that this issue doesn’t get talked about enough hers,” woods said. “i believe this will keep the conversation going and reduce stigmas right here on our own campus.“we plan on hosting fundraising events, and those will contribute to the project heal na­tional scholarship fun..” 
more information about project heal is available at theprojectheal.org 
Contact Roni Darling at                 rdarlin01@saintmarys.edu 
beyond the application pro­cess and classes, cowden said the community aspect of dorm life at notre dame helped him along the way. 
“we had a housekeeper in sorin, senja begic. she was basi­cally my second mom,” he said. “There was one time that i fell on god Quad and she tended to my wounds for two weeks. she 
“I was really surprised and happy. I studied in London while at Notre Dame, and I’m excited to go back.” 
Adam Cowden 
Class of 2012 

helped us get through college.” 
cowden said he would encour­age other students to apply for scholarships following college. 
“number one, make sure that you have a good reason for ap­plying to the program,” he said. “second of all, if you do have those reasons in place, don’t sell yourself short. don’t think there’s no chance at getting it. i thought i had a very small chance, and it worked out for me.” 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzig@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2014 | The observer 




DART 
conTinued from page 1 
shortened registration period. 
“it’s going to be exactly the same as it was before, but the time slots [for registration] will be compact­ed,” brown said. “absolutely noth­ing is changing about the darTing process other than the time slots being closer together.” 
brown said the decision to try this new system came from a close analysis of the current system and the feedback student government received regarding time conflicts with the darT system. 
“we asked ourselves, ‘how can we make this system administra­tively more efficient and opera­tionally more user-friendly so that students get the best possible out­come?’” brown said. 
“some of the feedback we’ve got­ten about the darT process was that there were conflicts with class, exams or other activities.” 
brown said student government has analyzed the darT system via student comments over the past few years. 
“students clearly feel that two days for registration time tick­ets is outmoded,” the email said. “specifically, minimizing time tick­ets between 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day for two days due to frequent conflicts with a variety of activi­ties would benefit students.” 
brown said a student population as large as notre dame’s will inevi­tably have conflicts whenever the university holds registration, but student government felt it could still improve upon the current system. 
“The fact of the matter is that whenever we darT, there will be some conflicts,” brown said. “[student government] has re­ally analyzed the system, and it’s an imperfect system, but we want to make it as fair as possible for as many students as possible.” 
brown said student govern­ment chose the sophomore class for the new pilot program because second-year students have enough experience with the process, but still have enough room in their schedules to take a wide variety of classes. 

“This is probably the best group to give [student government] good feedback,” brown said. 
he said new technology, specifi­cally additional software, allowed student government to try the new registration process. 
“now that we have the software, we can condense the times and not worry about overloading the sys­tem,” brown said. 
The email said the registration process will remain the same for all non-sophomore students, but if the pilot program is successful, it may expand. 
“if the sophomore registration in march is successful, then the office of the deans, registrar and student government shall consid­er expanding the concise window to other classes for fall 2014,” the email said. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

Ukraine 
conTinued from page 1 
government, avvakumov said. mass protests began after for­mer ukrainian president viktor yanukovych, who recently fled ukraine, abruptly rejected a landmark association agree­ment with the european union in november 2013, just one week before the anticipated signing of the agreement. 
avvakumov said the rejection came as a direct result of russian pressure exerted on ukraine in order to prevent the nation from starting the process of integration into the european union. 
although this issue has greatly angered the ukrainian people, avvakumov said, they are dem­onstrating against the corruption of their current government as much as they are protesting their former president’s reluctance to sign an agreement with the european union. 
avvakumov said such 
paid adverTisemenT 


corruption includes everything from nepotism and bribery to dis­respect of human dignity and the authoritarian style of the former president and the ruling party. 
“in the eyes of millions of ukrainians, russia, in its present condition, embodies these vices 
“The revolution in Ukraine has happened. This is absolutely clear.” 
Yury Avvakumov 
Nanovic fellow 
of the political system. by con­trast, potential membership in the european union can help fight the new authoritarianism and promote transparency, the rule of law, independent media and re­spect of human dignity,” he said. 
avvakumov said the protest began with young ukrainians, though it includes a broad spec­trum of middle-class citizens who are students, intellectuals, artists and representatives of small and mid-sized businesses. 
“These are people who perceive that the political system forc­ibly takes away their freedom and their professional and personal future. These are people for whom facebook, Twitter and youTube are indispensible everyday tools,” he said. “These are intelligent peo­ple with a clear sense of human dignity and civil courage. They call the revolution ‘The revolution of human dignity.’” 
The euromaidan protest has swelled in number from 700,000 people in november to one million people more recently, avvakumov said. The demonstra­tions began peacefully, but have since turned violent. 
on feb. 17 the ukrainian gov­ernment called for the use of mili­tary weapons, in an attempt to put an end to the rioting. avvakumov said over 70 people have been killed and hundreds have been injured, but the protests have nev­ertheless continued. 
“euromaidan will not go away until they are convinced that the whole thing really functions and really works, and they get real transparency with their govern­ment,” avvakumov said. 
michael gekhtman, chair of the mathematics department and a ukrainian citizen, also spoke briefly about the crisis in Kiev. gekhtman said he is worried the protests will have the same result as similar protests in 2004, which occurred in response to perceived corruption in a presidential elec­tion, and is concerned for the safe­ty of his parents. 
“what i am worried about is that it’s going to revert to what happened shortly after the orange revolution because the main players are the same — same poli­ticians,” he said. “These are very dangerous times. my parents still live in Kiev. i was there in october 
— no one expected this to turn out this violent this fast.” 
Contact Annette Sayre at asayre@nd.edu 

a senior reminisces 

INSIDE COLUMN 

ollie, the cab driver 

Rebecca O’Neil 
news writer 

The night was hazy and slightly dull. my friend and i were receiving attention from all the wrong sorts at a random party. we needed to blow that popsicle stand — quick. in typical smick/domer style, my friend hit up her beloved cab­bie, ollie. 
“he’s teaching me french,” she said. The two of us are planning to move to paris post-graduation, so any opportu­nity to practice the language is too wel­come. The smiling driver said he would be happy to help us out in our bilingual endeavors. in the 15 minutes back to le mans hall, i discovered that ollie was from rwanda. his schooling from kin­dergarten to high school was in french. 
although his easygoing personality was likeable enough, he earned the po­sition of my friend’s favorite cab driver because they had exchanged life stories. once she revealed to him that she had arthritis, ollie offered to drive her wher­ever she needed to go. although most notre dame fans trek from one parking lot to the next on foot, my friend’s auto­immune disease has made her averse to walks of over a few blocks. she was a committed tailgater and ollie had her back. 
a semester later, on my allotted bian­nual outing, i found myself off campus again without a ride home. i called up ollie and our chat picked up where it had left off. he had no memory of me, but i knew him and asked questions over a thumping T-pain and chris brown song. 
on my ride to stadium club, ollie re­vealed that he was six years old when the rwandan genocide occurred. although both of his parents and most of his ex­tended relatives were killed, he and his younger brother managed to survive by staying with their grandmother. The rwandan genocide, which ended after three months in august of 1994, killed 800,000 men, women and children — roughly three quarters of the Tutsi popu­lation. in 2009, ollie left his country to get an education in the states. 
for those of us who are not majoring in peace studies, the genocide feels far away, and yet, i have a classmate whose parents were killed in the rwandan genocide as well. 
now, 26-year-old ollie attends southwestern michigan college and is studying pre-pharmacy. The cab driver has a year and a half left to complete his degree, and he is considering med school. 
i have a habit of making my inside columns really preachy. To continue the trend, i encourage members of the notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross campuses to get to know the person who is getting you home safe — you might just learning a thing or two. 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
James Vignali 
viewpoint columnist 
choosing to attend notre dame was hard for me — not because i didn’t think it was a great school — i’m just really bad at making decisions, and this one felt like life-and-death. in the end, i decided that the notre dame community really won out. at all the schools i had visited, i had been preoccupied with how people met each other, who they were friends with, where they lived, etc. i thought notre dame would be the best guarantor for a great community — it’s really all anyone seemed to talk about. 
That summer, my family was on vaca­tion when residential life emailed me to check the website for my room assign­ment. my brother had graduated the year before, and Keenan hall had seemed to be the focal point of his time at notre dame. i didn’t know much about the oth­er dorms; all i knew is that i didn’t want to be in Zahm. That name just meant bad things to me. not only had i heard it used like a curse for four years, but i had witnessed public debauchery at its worst when i visited and saw some degenerates play bookstore basketball. 
when i logged online to bear witness to my eternal fate, i felt like harry potter putting on the sorting hat. “not Zahm,” i kept repeating in my head, “anywhere but Zahm.” you can guess what happened, but don’t worry — this isn’t another story about Zahm. i’d like to say that it isn’t another story about notre dame either . those always made me cringe . but it really is. it’s a bit of my notre dame story. 

my first year at notre dame was rough. not academically .—  sadly it was my best .— but i just never felt like i fit in. it wasn’t that i was really different from anyone else — in fact it seemed like a lot of us were the same. and it wasn’t that i didn’t give Zahm or notre dame my full effort. my brother had secretly convinced me that Zahm was a great dorm to be in, maybe even the best. i simply wasn’t getting that college experience that high school had always seemed to be leading to. i’m not saying that in the past four years there weren’t bright spots, but it always felt like i was on the outside look­ing in. 
Thinking back, i can come up with all kinds of reasons and excuses why things didn’t work, but that’s not what i want to focus on. This isn’t an article about what college students do wrong or how to be successful here. frankly, i have no idea. i simply want to take this page and say thank you. someone might say it’s all the struggles i went through that gave me some perspective, but, honestly, it just feels like it’s my turn to have it really good and that goodness has given me the op­portunities to appreciate the best of the notre dame community. 
i would like to thank all the people, in and out of Zahm, who have made these past months a special time for me. every day, someone amazes me with their intel­ligence or kindness or wit or beauty, and i really do feel blessed to be here. 
lastly, i would like to talk to any stu­dent who feels like they’re not having the time they thought they would or should, who thinks that all the pieces are here, but somehow they’re just not fitting in. it seemed like i’d never have a taste of those great experiences and friendships i had always hoped for and heard about, but i have. i wish i could give you some advice or words of wisdom — i know i would have appreciated that — but i can’t. i also can’t promise you that things will turn out all right in the end. beyond luck or providence, i can’t explain why this time has been given to me. Just know that there’s nothing exceptionally wrong with you and enjoy the good that does come your way. 
notre dame isn’t a perfect place — no place is. and these kinds of moments don’t happen at this university alone. but notre dame is a special place, and the people here are some special people, and i am grateful that i got to know that for myself by the end. Thank you. 
James Vignali is an off campus senior. He can be reached at jamesvignali@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘pick up the phone’ 
John Sandberg 
sandman’s musing 
The pen may be mightier than the sword, but for president obama, it is the phone that reigns mightiest of all. 
it was just over a month ago that obama reiterated his willingness to bypass regular legislative channels and rely on executive action to achieve his legislative priorities. 
“we’re not just going to be waiting for legislation in order to make sure that we’re providing americans the kind of help they need,” obama said. “i’ve got a pen and i’ve got a phone. and i can use that pen to sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that move the ball forward.” 
critics and supporters alike have had much to say about that pen since obama made those remarks, but it is the lat­ter half of his arsenal upon which the president should be focused. interacting with congress is ultimately the only way obama is going to achieve meaningful legislative victories in the remaining years of his presidency, and a phone call might just be the way to get the ball rolling. 
while i argued two weeks ago that obama ought to approve the Keystone Xl pipeline (a move which, coinciden­tally, would certainly receive wide con­gressional backing), a minimum wage adjustment, immigration overhaul and education reform are much weightier is­sues that will not see action without con­gressional support. 
critics have pounced on the president’s preference for unilateral action, saying it disregards the spirit of the constitution. for the most part, i agree with the critics. but a more immediate consequence of obama’s go-it-alone rhetoric is that it leads to unrealistic expectations among those americans who view such consequen­tial topics as much more than political footballs. 

Take immigration reform as the latest example. The new york Times reported hundreds of youths gathered in phoenix this past weekend for an annual meet­ing of the network united we dream. frustrated by congress’s lack of action on the issue, the young immigrants and children of immigrants marched to press obama to use his executive power to uni­laterally stop deportations. 
The president admitted in november that he can’t do this when he was inter­rupted by a protester during a speech he gave on immigration reform in san francisco. 
when the protester told obama he had the power to “stop deportation for all un­documented immigrants in this country,” the president responded, “actually, i don’t. and that’s why we’re here ... if, in fact, i could solve all these problems without passing the laws in congress then i would do so. but we’re also a nation of laws, that’s part of our tradition.” 
i respect the president’s sense of ur­gency to address national issues. but each time he touts his power to act unilaterally, he reinforces an unrealistic set of expecta­tions for what he alone can achieve. it is unfair to the low wage worker expecting a raise, or the young immigrants march­ing in phoenix, or the single mother eager to find a preschool for her child, to expect their concerns to be adequately addressed 
in a stroke of the president’s pen. 
so what is the president to do? 
put down the pen and pick up the phone. 
rather than tell the american people that you’re going to act alone, show them that you will do whatever it takes to work with congress and make real progress on these issues, rather than setting yourself up to fail by pushing ahead alone. 
admittedly, 2014 is not the most condu­cive environment for legislative achieve­ments. an election year might make for political theater, but for the majority of americans who are more concerned with public policy than electoral battles, it can be a miserable experience. 
nonetheless, obama has a responsibil­ity as president to take the lead in mak­ing 2014 a “year of action,” as he himself described it. don’t allow members of congress to put the business of governing on hold for their reelection campaigns. Keep the important issues relevant. promote national debates and search out allies and opponents in congress to work with in even the toughest political environments. 
in simple terms — be a leader. 
at the very least, stop telling americans that solutions to poverty, immigration and education, among other issues, can be achieved through the actions of one man. 
John Sandberg lives in Fisher Hall and is a senior studying political science. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

For the love of puns 
There is a startling problem at our lady’s university. it is an issue that fr. John Jenkins, c.s.c. and his entire administration have been criminally negligent in response to: The rate of pun usage in general conversation at the university of notre dame is far too low. recent studies suggest that the student body may be on its way to using fewer puns than it has in over 70 years. but the issue does not stop there. it isn’t just that students at notre dame do not use enough puns, it’s that many do not even realize when they have inadvertently set up one. i myself recently walked past a couple who made not one, not two, not three, but four inadvertent puns and did not recognize a single one. This is truly a sad state of affairs for the university of notre dame du lac. 
has the administration done anything to address this problem? no. why are there no pun awareness posters on campus? why aren’t there “pun for fun” 
i would like to congratulate mr. gianfalla on his column “The left’s intolerant ‘tolerance’” (feb. 18), in which he nailed the democratic party. you have thoroughly demoralized me and my fellow liber­als, who are always waving our so-called tolerance in your face and not making off-hand misogynistic comments while doing so. 
i simply cannot argue with mr. gianfalla. it is quite clear that the democratic party is not toler­ant of the bigoted and intolerant, and ipso facto the party is intolerant, since the meaning of tolerance is obviously accepting all views with no opposi­tion and thereby having no real stance on any­thing. 
That’s just fair and balanced logic. for years, we have clearly been blind to the effects of our bigoted ways of opposing those who hold prejudiced beliefs, which call for the exclusion of certain groups from the full enjoyment of their human rights. you are right, mr. gianfalla, to show us that this vehement opposition to conservatives has only introduced groups meeting late on wednesday nights to trade chortles and swap cackles? not a single faculty member is even dedicated specifically to the pro­motion, research or teaching of proper pun forma­tion and delivery. This is outrageous. 
but unfortunately this phenomenon is not unique to our bubble here in south bend. This trend is hap­pening across our great country. The united states has fallen behind many of our peer countries in pun production and recognition in every age group. our standards have deteriorated to the point that we are in danger of being passed by germany. who on earth has ever heard of a good german pun or a good german sense of humor? in 1950, we led the world, and it wasn’t even close. now, south Korea, australia and sweden are fighting at the top, and we don’t have a shot. 
notre dame thinks of itself as a great institu­tion and as a leader in education. i challenge our 
a liberal apology 
more hate and bigotry into the world in the form of the civil rights act of 1964, voting rights act of 1965, the 19th amendment and brown v. board of education. 
i cannot believe liberals don’t recognize it as sup­
port for traditional marriage when someone vilifies 
homosexuality. from now on, we will not be so bel­
ligerent towards those who persecute homosexuals, 
who are so obviously out to sabotage conventional 
marriage. my parents have often told me their so 
many years of traditional marriage would mean 
nothing if another form of marriage was permitted 
to coexist with traditional marriage. 

i am so glad mr. gianfalla condemned the liber­
als’ “war on the wealthy” because all that bloodshed 
has to stop. oh wait, there’s no actual violence? or, 
rather the seizing of wealthy individuals’ accounts 
— oh wait, that’s not happening either? well, the 
calls for a truly progressive tax system and for ad­
dressing income inequality, which definitely merit 
the term “war,” must end. and if anyone still doesn’t newly-elected student body president and vice-president to make pun promotion a key part of their first 100 days in office. we have such a bright future and such potential, but it will be squandered if we do not step up to the plate and get serious about puns. i call for a cognizance of puns week to take place from march 2 to march 8. Tell a pun, share a pun, whether it be good or bad, humorous or awk­ward, annoying or invigorating, timely or untimely. if we want to be a city upon a hill, we must be will­ing to accept the mantle of responsibility. we are the fighting irish, and we are “punny.” 
John McMackin 
sophomore Keenan hall feb. 25 

think this has become a war, then please tell me why the liberals enlisted the help of a foreign theo­crat who rules from his golden Throne in rome to spread their un-american message? 
mr. gianfalla also made great points about other issues that i do not have the space to cover here. overall, it is clear the democratic party does not “spew tolerance” in the way we often claim to spew it. i am glad our eyes are now opened to our intol­erance. democrats should definitely return to the constitution and bill of rights, but not as much those new parts with the “tolerance” of universal suffrage and equal protection under the law be­cause it would be intolerant of us to oppose the in­tolerance of our founding fathers. 
Tyler Bowen 
junior stanford hall feb. 25 

it’s not me, it’s revue 
one of the best aspects of notre dame is the com­munity. however, instead of serving as a witty and tasteful social commentary on the notre dame community, much of the Keenan revue divides us. many people argue that the revue is meant to be all in good fun and anyone who gets upset is tak­ing it too seriously. The fact is that the revue deals with issues like gender, sexuality and relationships 
— things that are actually at the very core of many peoples’ identities. To create skits that deal with such material and to advise people to not take them seriously dismisses the groups and individuals who do, in fact, take these things seriously. 
i felt exactly this way during the final skit, “revuepoint,” which presented a “typical” notre dame girl complaining about the revue in The observer. of course, the girl was portrayed as ri­diculous and over-reacting. as i actually agreed with some of the points in this recited viewpoint, i got the message loud and clear that i, too, am over-reacting. but i don’t think i’m over-reacting. more often than not, i think people are under-reacting, laughing off matters that are in fact pretty important. 
you see, i’m not anti-revue. i actually think it has a lot of potential. humor can be used well, especial­ly as a way to draw attention to things that we, as a community, should be talking about. we should be making jokes about the spectacle of domerfest, the assumptions built into dining hall dates or what it’s like to be at finny’s and drunkenly confront “your person” that you see walking to and from class ev­ery day. making jokes points to the fact that much of what we do is socially constructed; humor invites us to think about the things we say and do and to consider why we say and do them. at the very least, we can bond over shared awkwardness. but the ma­jority of the revue does not use humor in this way. 
The thing is, i think most of you — including those of you involved with the revue — agree with me. i don’t think that you truly believe that notre dame girls aren’t beautiful, fro-yo is something to be ashamed of or that sex is meaningless. so why do these jokes exist, year after year, skit after skit? perpetuating these stereotypes interferes with your ability to be insightful, creative and fresh. 
ultimately, i wrote this article to challenge, not to condemn. i wrote it because i love my notre dame community, the traditions we uphold and the mes­sages that we send. so i want to challenge all of us as one student body to pay attention, to think, to be creative and to question. and like all good and valiant knights, the men of Keenan hall can lead the way. 
Jessie Kusina 
senior welsh family hall feb. 25 



By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

harold ramis, famous actor, writer, director and direc­tor, died on feb. 24 at age 69 after losing his battle with a debilitating autoimmune disease. 
i was lucky enough to have parents who allowed me to watch somewhat raunchy movies at a young age. in fact, sometimes my parents would even entice my sis­ter and me to watch these films. we were children and therefore thought anything our parents would champion for us to take part in, even — or maybe especially — pop culture-wise, should be avoided. so, against our woefully ignorant judgment, our parents had to force us to watch “ghostbusters” as a family. now, every year on their re­spective holidays, to this day, we have the tradition of digging out “groundhog day” and “national lampoon’s christmas vacation.” 
harold ramis, director of “national lampoon’s christmas vacation”, was the center of a comedic move­ment, surrounded by other talented, likeminded actors, writers and directors. he was the comedic brain behind many influential and popular films — films that have maintained their lasting power over multiple decades. 
beginning with his work on second city Tv and the script of critical classic “national lampoon’s animal house,” ramis cultivated a brand of oddball comedy that was rather zany, but still appealed to the masses. what other gross-out movie gag is as universally enjoyed and cited as the candy bar in the pool incident from “caddyshack”? 
ramis’s movies were undeniably weird, but it was the weirdness he celebrated and found emotion in, making his work so widely accepted. he married his writing to the likes of John belushi, bill murray, chevy chase and rick moranis. as much as their acting elevated his mate­rial, his writing and direction helped form what became each of their signature styles. 
The distinguished writer and director’s impact was so prominent that his groundbreaking work is now com­monplace. harold ramis crafted his own influential class of humor from groundwork laid by predecessors such as mel brooks. he ably combined this humor with underlying depth; a style used by many filmmakers today, especially Judd apatow and seth rogen. 
ramis’s influence on mainstream, commercially ap­pealing comedy can be traced to everything from the “american pie” series, to adam sandler’s and the farrelly brother’s older classics, to comedy central’s most recent successes “workaholics” and “broad city.” while he ap­peared quite understated both on and off the screen, there is no doubt harold ramis’s legacy on comedies will extend far into the future. 
Thankfully, my parents were as stubborn in getting me to watch ramis’s movies growing up as i was about not wanting to conform to their tastes. it speaks to the genius of the filmmaker that multiple generations can find laughter and satisfaction from the wacky aspects of his movies. This overarching blanket of recognition is hard to attain due to diverging comedic preferences, but ramis consistently found a sweet spot. i look forward to sharing his work with my own children, as i know his movies will continue to provide definite comedy com­mon ground. 
Contact Matt McMahon at  mmcmaho7@nd.edu 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

everything is awesome in the wake of “The lego 
movie,” the brilliantly hilarious animated film crush­
ing the box office over the past two weekends. The film 
features a variety of celebrity voice actors, a purpose­
fully glitchy animation style and a furious pace of end­
less jokes, from the obvious to the subversive. what most 
people don’t realize is that the film’s creators have had 
prior success with another hilarious youTube series, 
“clone high.” 

The film’s writer-director partners, chris miller 
and phil lord, have made a name for themselves in 
hollywood by adapting existing properties for the big 
screen, raising the quality of the origin and bringing 
surprisingly fresh twists on expectations in each of their 
films. 

Their first film, “cloudy with a chance of meatballs,” 
in 2009 combined cartoon slapstick with insightful and 
quirky humor. in 2012 they followed that debut. an ani­
mated children’s movie. with a hard-r action comedy re­
make of a 1980s television show, “21 Jump street.” 
combining self-mocking and tongue-in-cheek humor 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 

with outrageous physical and visual gags brought the best out of the directors and the film’s stars, Jonah hill and channing Tatum, who played the least detestable role of his career that involves no stripping. 
after that no-holds-barred r-rated comedy, the pair put out “The lego movie,” the no. 1 movie in america for two straight weeks and hands down the funniest movie i’ve seen in the last year. if you haven’t seen it, at least one of your friends has told you that you just absolutely have to. 
but the writer-directors’ smashing worldwide success in the past few years can be traced back to a cheap-look­ing and short-lived cartoon, “clone high,” that aired ful­ly only on canada’s Teletoon network in 2001 and 2002, just eight episodes of which were broadcast on mTv in america in 2003. 
The duo’s comedy sensibilities are on full display from the first seconds of the show, which establishes it as a sendup of over-dramatic high school shows like “dawson’s creek” and later “The o.c.” The pilot, “escape to beer mountain: a rope of sand.” The show opens with a very-young-sounding will forte announcing that “this is a very special episode of ‘clone high’” followed by the show’s theme song, an emotional, 90s pop-rock anthem that introduces the characters and central concept: 
“way, way, back in the 1980s / secret government em­ployees / dug up famous guys and ladies / and made amusing genetic copies / now the clones are sexy teens / They’re gonna make it if they try / loving, learning, sharing, judging, / a time to laugh and shiver and / cry / Time to watch / clone high / energetic and engaging, / clone high / our angst is entertaining, / clone high / our lives are never boring, / who am i?” 
The show proceeds to follow abe lincoln as the tall and awkward one, Joan of arc as abe’s overlooked fe­male friend, cleopatra as the girl of abe’s dreams, John 
f. Kennedy as the popular jock and gandhi as the hard-partying comic relief. on the surface, it’s a perfect paro­dy of high school dramas with humor that hits hard and often, but it goes above and beyond easy parody jokes, making for a consistently funny, frequently brilliant comedy. 
most of the series is on youTube and can be found with a little work. it is definitely worth watching for anyone who enjoyed “The lego movie” and wants to see more like it. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

grandpa: music t’day is just bleepities and bloopers! no notes and that hullaballoo. 
dad: man, back in my day, we listened to real music with real instruments. real music is made by people us­ing electric guitars, not by people using electric other things. 
lil’ bro: electronic music? i don’t listen to that stuff, it’s too weird and has no vocals. i just listen to what’s on the radio. swag, yolo, peace out. 
if i were a hippo, hearing these things would make me a sad hippo. i would wallow around in my large african lake with some sorrowful headphones in my drooping hippo ears. but i’m not a hippo, so i’ll just go ahead and explain why these people are so thankfully, completely wrong. 
To grandpa: electronic music today is much differ­ent than it used to be. programmers and sound tech­nicians have been working with music for over four decades now, so the bleepy-bloopy music of Kraftwerk has been left far behind. synthesizers have been crafted to create a huge variety of new sounds, including many that model acoustic instruments. so-called electronic music often lives and breathes the life and vibrancy that bleeps and bloops of the past lacked. 
if you want to check out some truly rich and lively synthesizers, you need to check out wunderkind-beat­maker slugabed. songs like “new worlds” and “sex” from his lp “Time Team” are so rich and melodic that it’s truly difficult not to be wrapped in their lush em­brace. a similar artist is bonobo, who shapes synthe­sizers into worldly soundscapes grounded by groovy hip-hop beats. Kiara and Kong from bonobo’s “black sands” lp grant an awesome glimpse into such a world. 
To dad: electronic music today is often focused heavily on sampling, or capturing and manipulating recorded acoustic sound. This means that standard instruments like electric guitars and even brass and woodwinds appear quite often in electronic music. electronic music can, but certainly doesn’t have to be, simply made up of synthesizers and drum machines. 
There are a plethora of amazing producers who sample out the wazoo. The first that comes to mind is flying lotus, an experimental hip-hop beatmaker with an ear for jazzy arrangements. Just check out the smexy acoustic bass lines fluttering throughout his “cosmogramma” lp. if you’re more interested in the electric guitar, you can find a million riffs scattered throughout producer baths’ “cerulean” lp. if you’re re­ally interested in the jazzier side of things, you should check out colin stetson’s history of warfare releases, which combine electronic production techniques with single-take saxophone pieces. 
To lil’ bro: everyone loves vocals, even those anti­social electronic producer types. Just look at the host of producer/singer/songwriters there are today. grimes. how to dress well. James blake. Zola Jesus. laurel halo. many of today’s up-and-coming songwriters are turn­ing to the computer instead of the guitar, given how easy it is to get access to production software these days. 
all of the above artists are awesome as far as solo art­ists go. There are, however, many electronic bands that offer fuller sounds and often more standard, approach­able songs. check out animal collective’s classic record “merriweather post pavilion” or friendly fire’s lively “pala” for a great, electronic-style party. 
all in all, most of the people who don’t like electronic music simply haven’t been listening to the right kind of electronic music. The electronic genre is huge and ex­pansive; there’s something for everyone. i mean, if you were a hippo and electronic music a foreign place, let’s say north america, you might see a picture of south bend and be all like, “i’m a hippo. There’s nothing for me in north america for me.” and then you’d never see disney world or san francisco or the san diego Zoo. you’d be a sad hippo indeed. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
associate scene editor 

if you missed bear hands at legends this month, you missed out on a chance to hear new tracks from the up­and-coming alt-rock group before their album release. but fear not — even if you didn’t catch bear hands’ new music in person, their newest lp, “distraction,” is finally out this week. along with two singles released last year, the group’s biggest hit to date, “giants,” and new single “agora,” the new album, “distraction,” features 11 tracks from the brooklyn-based band. 
“distraction” opens on a slightly disappointing note with “moment of silence,” a quiet, minimalistic song with little melody or, unfortunately, allure. The song does build up by its last third, but fails to accomplish the ca­thartic release it aims to reach and instead sets the album on the wrong track. 
The next two songs do manage to pick up the energy, however, with “giants” followed by “agora.” strangely, despite “giants” being the band’s most successful single thus far, it feels out of place on the new album. it’s catchy and high-energy, but is reminiscent of the group’s 2010 lp “burning bush supper club” both melodically and lyrically. it feels slightly juvenile compared to the rest of the album’s darker, more introspective themes. 
“agora,” is clearly the stand out track however, setting the bar for the rest of the album. on par with this are a few of the tracks in the middle of “distraction,” includ­ing “bad friend” and “The bug.” it’s on these tracks that rau’s repetitive and deprecating lyrics work, and the group manages to incorporate interesting chord progres­sions and instrumentals to hold the listener’s attention. 
“bad friend” starts with ringing guitar, rather than their usual heavy drum and vocal intros, but manages to work as the chorus begins and incorporates bear hands’ distinctive sound into the guitar-driven track. “The bug” also initially doesn’t sound terribly compelling until a funk-inspired bass emerges, turning it into a standout track. 
but while “agora” gave “distraction” promise and the previously mentioned tracks managed to deliver, the album has its share of confusing missteps. while “The bug” and “bad friend” pick up by their chorus, “bone digger,” which sounds like youth lagoon with rau’s low, distorted vocals, does just the opposite, falling flat after a promising intro. 
similarly, “peacekeeper” and “vile iowa” don’t seem to fit into the album. Though they are drastically different songs, they both stand out on the album almost to a fault. The former is the band’s obvious turn into a more rock-driven direction, with heavy guitar and quick drums throughout that make you want to bite your bottom lip and nod your head. The latter is an experiment in slow­ing things down, with rau whisper-singing the ballad that isn’t dynamic enough in its lyrics or melody to pull off such a mellow sound. 
The album closes out fairly strongly, however, and the more mellow sound not accomplished in “vile iowa,” is in “party hats,” a toe-tapper that sounds beck-inspired in the best way, and “Thought wrong,” which shows bear hands’ ability to use experimental electronic instrumen­tals and integrate them with acoustic guitar for a sad, but nice ending to the album. 
what bear hands definitely has down is dylan rau’s clear-as-day vocals over a catchy, uppity beat, and it’s clear from “distraction” that the group can still do that well, while also offering more. however, what i was hop­ing to find on “distraction” was an exploration in melody and lyricism that simply didn’t happen. instead, the al­bum is a confusing collection of tracks that sometimes get it right and other times miss the mark completely as the band experiments with instrumentals, tempos and themes. perhaps it will just take time and another album for bear hands to get it right. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
“Distraction” 
Bear Hands 
Label: Cantora Tracks: “Agora,” “Thought Wrong” If you like: Grouplove, MGMT, Miniature Tigers 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

collins, sam not the problem 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
by the time you read this, it will be old news. on sunday, forward Jason collins signed a 10-day con­tract with the brooklyn nets, played his first game since april 17, and became the first openly gay man to com­pete in a major american professional league. 
in some ways, it was an almost anti-climatic mile­stone. The crowd at the staples center in los angele. greeted collins with polite applause, and he grabbed two rebounds and one steal in 11 minutes of play. if collins was a “distraction” to his new teammates, it cer­tainly did not show in their 108-102 win over the lakers. on the contrary, nets coach Jason Kidd compared collins to Jackie robinson and told the media that many mem­bers of the team wanted collins on the squad. 
granted, collins is signed to a 10-day contract, and he is a 35-year-old veteran who has played for six nba fran­chises. The stanford gradu­ate is respected across the league, and Kidd, his new coach, was his teammate when the two both played for the new Jersey nets. aside from being the first athlete from one of the four major sports to announce he was gay before retirement, collins is about as far from a locker room distraction as anyone in the nba. 
within the next few months, michael sam, a de­fensive end from missouri, will almost certainly become the first openly gay athlete to play in the nfl. although both collins and sam have received overwhelming support (sam came out to his teammates before last season, apparently without negative effect), there are still nfl players and offi­cials who seem to think their league “isn’t ready” for a gay player. 
Take Terrell Thomas, a cornerback for the new york giants, who said he worries about jokes and pranks that might offend a homosexual teammate. 
“you don’t know if you’re offending him,” Thomas said. “it changes a lot of things, and i don’t know if the nfl is ready for that.” 
polls show a wide major­ity of nfl players say they would be comfortable shar­ing a locker room with gay teammates, but many team coaches and executives expressed concern after sam told the press he is gay. “it’d chemically imbalance an nfl locker room and meet­ing room,” one team official told sports illustrated. 
it is not entirely clear why sam’s sexuality would “im­balance” an nfl locker room when the missouri locker room remained stable in every sense of the term (af­ter all, the Tigers did go 12-2 and beat oklahoma state in the cotton bowl), but i find it hard to believe that sam will be nearly as disruptive as many of his future col­leagues. even if we look at the issue from the perspec­tive of Terrell Thomas, who believes homosexuality is a sin, that would hardly pre­clude sam from joining the nfl. 
in the past year, we have seen aaron hernandez, formerly of the patriots, implicated in multiple mur­ders. The eagles kept wide receiver riley cooper on the team even after video surfaced that showed an intoxicated cooper directing racial epithets and threats of physical violence at a concert security guard. and just this month, police in atlantic city arrested ravens running back ray rice after he allegedly knocked out his fiancée with a blow to the head and then attempted to drag her out of an elevator. 
both rice and his fiancée, Janay palmer, were charged with simple assault-domes­tic violence, and though the nfl could suspend rice, ravens coach John harbaugh has said he ex­pects rice to remain on the team. 
we all know nfl teams are willing to make room for athletes accused of vio­lence, substance abuse and general bad behavior, and yet the delicate locker room environment endures. either nfl executives vastly under­estimate the ability of their players to get along with teammates who are differ­ent from them, or they truly believe a man who happens to be attracted to other men is more disruptive or morally objectionable than a man who beats his girlfriend, picks fights in bar, or tor­tures dogs. maybe it is these scouts and coaches — not the players — who are not ready for a gay teammate. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Gators latest team to claim AP no. 1 slot 
Associated Press 

gainesville — The florida gators are taking their turn as the newest no. 1 in what coach billy donovan calls a revolving door atop the ap college basketball poll, their first time on top of the rankings since they repeated as national champions in 2007. 
The gators (25-2) moved up one place monday, replacing syracuse (25-2), which lost twice last week and dropped to fourth. 
wichita state (29-0) and arizona (25-2) both moved up one place to second and third. florida, the fifth school to hold the no. 1 spot this season, received 47 first-place votes from the 65-member national media panel. The gators were ranked no. 1 for eight weeks in 2007. wichita state was no. 1 on 14 ballots with arizona receiving the other four first-place votes. 
donovan called the rankings a revolving door before his gators took over the top spot, and he said being no. 1 is an honor and compliment. 
“but let’s be honest right now: The only reason we have garnered no. 1 and we would have never, ever been no. 1 if it had not been for the teams in front of us losing,” donovan said. 
To donovan, a lot of teams could be considered the nation’s best right now with undefeated wichita state having a strong ar­gument. donovan also said he’s impressed by syracuse winning 25 straight games along with what arizona did before brandon ashley’s foot injury. 
“it’s not like all of a sudden florida is no. 1 or you get a rank­ing and we’re the best team in the country,” donovan said. “we’ve been given a number, and that’s about the extent of it.” 
These gators have won a school record 19 straight games com­ing off a 75-71 win at mississippi where they shut down marshall henderson in the second half. They can clinch at least a share of the southeastern conference title on Tuesday night with a win at vanderbilt before having a chance to wrap up the championship against  lsu on saturday. 
playing at memorial gym means dealing with the unique layout with the benches on the end lines. even though vanderbilt is playing short-handed with only seven scholarship players and even used a couple walk-ons, the gators with their new ranking will be tested quickly. 
florida senior forward will yeguete thinks the gators will handle the challenge well. 
“our lives aren’t really chang­ing,” yeguete said. “we’re no. 1. That’s a really good accomplish­ment, especially for us being no. 
1. but i think coach d will use that to motivate us. we’ve been no. 2 before. we know what it is to be ranked really high. we know you just take one game at a time.” wichita state coach gregg marshall told The associated press that being ranked no. 2 means the shockers are being recognized for an outstanding season so far, and they plan to keep pushing to see how high they can go. 
“florida is an outstand­ing team,” marshall said. “i’ve watched them, i really think they’re good, there’s a lot of good teams out there. but i just think this continues to be a carrot for our team. it continues to be a goal and it’s a very lofty goal, and it’s something to strive for.” 
Kansas jumped three places to fifth and was followed by duke, louisville, villanova, creighton and saint louis. 
syracuse, which was no. 1 the past three weeks, lost to boston college and duke last week, the orange’s first losses of the season. 
north carolina, smu and new mexico all returned to the Top 25 this week replacing connecticut, ucla and gonzaga. 
NFL 

Vikings pursue QB in draft 
Associated Press 

minneapolis — The minnesota vikings spent the weekend at the nfl scouting combine pouring over quar­terbacks, as thoroughly as any other team in the league. 
They’re among the frustrat­ed few — well, there’s more than a few clubs without a quarterback solution — who badly need this draft to pro­duce a long-term answer at the most important position. The good news for them is that this year’s class is considered a deep one. 
The vikings are also in a 

FOR RENT 

Fully furnished rental. Please call 574-360-6910 or email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime location next to campus. Walk to everything. email nd-house@sb­cglobal.net for additional info and photos. 
potentially awkward place with the eighth pick in the first round. none of the top three prospects, Johnny manziel, Teddy bridgewater or blake bortles, is likely to still be available to them unless they find a willing partner and use other selections to move up. 
as evidenced by the perfor­mance of christian ponder, the 12th overall pick in a simi­larly quarterback-deep 2011 draft, there’s a risk in reaching even if the position is the big­gest need on the roster. 
so the vikings, if they deter­mine the top three are either impossible or unsatisfying for them, are sure to be giving the second and third tiers of 2014 quarterback prospects a hard look as well over the next 2½ months. 
“obviously, the position is a big need in this league. but it’s going to be fun, really. i get to look at some of the best guys and try to figure it out,” coach mike Zimmer said. “let’s hit on the right one, and let’s go to work.” 
he added: “i have the ut­most confidence in the scouts and the front office people. i feel really good about it. if i didn’t, i’d be worried but i’m not.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
Circling your, circling your, circling your head, Contemplating everything you ever said Now I see the truth, I got doubt A different motive in your eyes and now I’m out See you later I see your fantasy, you want to make it a reality paved in goldSee inside, inside of our heads (yeah)Well now that’s overI see your motives inside, decisions to hide Back off I’ll take you on Headstrong to take on anyone I know that you are wrong Headstrong we’re headstrong Back off I’ll take you on Headstrong to take on anyone 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2013 | The observer 

SMC TENNIS | aQuinas 6, smc 3 
belles struggle in doubles, drop decision to aquinas 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s dropped its second consecutive match, falling to aquinas by a 6-3 decision saturday. 
for the second straight match, the belles (1-2) failed to pick up a victory in the three doubles matches, giv­ing the saints (2-0) the early advantage. 
senior co-captain mary catherine faller and junior Kayle sexton dropped the no. 1 doubles match, 8-6, while juniors shannon elliott and co-captain audrey Kiefer also dropped their doubles match — at the no. 2 flight — by a break. 
“They served a bit better than us and [our opponents] are still volleying slightly better,” belles coach dale campbell said. “we have to be more consistent in all phases of our doubles games. [aquinas] was strong in dou­bles, but with these close matches, i know we have the ability to pull them out.” 
ultimately, it was those two top doubles matches that proved to be the difference saturday, as saint mary’s and aquinas would go on to split the singles matches. The belles got their first victory of the evening at the no. 2 singles spot when sexton dis­missed her opponent, saints freshman Tiffany Tuori, in straight sets, 6-1, 6-3. 
“i think [sexton] is growing in her ability to play singles at the no. 2 position,” campbell said. “when she moves her feet well, she can play some 

paid adverTisemenT 

outstanding singles. she ex­plodes into her shots when she is moving well.” 
The belles were then able to get a victory at the no. 6 singles spot for the second week running when sopho­more andrea fetters dis­patched her opponent, saints sophomore Jennelle miller, 6-2, 6-4. 
“[fetter’s consecutive wins at no. 6 singles] just shows depth in our lineup,” campbell said. “andrea’s fight in those matches can only help to give our team confidence. i think we know you can have a battle in all positions and you never know where the victories will come from.” 
The third and final win of the day for saint mary’s came in three sets when elliott racked up her first victory of the spring season, defeat­ing aquinas junior ariana Kabodian, 6-2, 1-6, 6-4. 
“[elliott] battles well and took some pride in winning her match in the third set,” campbell said. “her oppo­nent was a great runner, but shannon controlled her and made her move all over the court. her shot-making even­tually wore down her oppo­nent. it was nice for her to finish the match with a win as she was the last one on the court.” 
The belles return to action march 9 when they travel to orlando, fla., to kick off a five-match trip with contests against cornell college. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

CLUB SPORTS 
Nordic ski team races “Birkie” 
Special to The Observer 
The notre dame nordic ski team joined over 10,300 cross-country skiers saturday in north america’s largest ski race: the american birkebeiner, also called the “birkie.” The race takes place in western wisconsin, over a trail connecting the cities of cable and hayward. The annual event is the american version of norway’s birkebeinerrenet and began in 1973. 
Ten skiers from notre dame traveled into the tundra to com­pete in various events over birkie weekend. races ranged from 12 to 54 kilometers in length, and the cumulative length of the team’s races totaled to over 250 miles. for most of the team’s skiers, the event was a first-time experience, but for sophomore iciar ocariz, this event is a family tradition. This year was her fourth time competing in the 27k Kortelopet race, finishing third in her age group with an impressive time of 
1:59:18. senior Kevin bednar also performed well in the 54k classic, finishing his first ski-marathon as third in his wave with a time of 4:01:41. 
after the race, sophomore adrienne hushcke said, “i’ve wanted to do the birkie ever since i began skiing in high school, and now that i’ve done it, i want to come back every year because it was just such an amazing ex­perience.” every 5-7k, volunteers greeted the skiers with water and snacks to refuel because in races of this length, replenishment is critical — skiers can burn up to 1,000 calories per hour while racing. because of the proxim­ity to the Twin cities, many of the team’s members from minnesota were able to reunite with their families at the finish line and share the achievement with them. 
each year, the event brings together skiers from all over the world to tackle the most elite trail in the midwest. “what’s cool about the birkie is that it draws such a variety of skiers; competi­tors range from olympic-level athletes to novices,” said bednar. “it’s amazing that as a third-year club, we were able to bring such a great representation of the university to the event. when we first dreamed up this trip, we never imagined so many students would be interested in going and doing something so crazy.” 
The skiers spent the weekend at the nearby cabin of alumni michael daugherty, class of 1982. senior mara stolee said, “we are so thankful for the support of the notre dame family. it was only through the generosity and assis­tance of this community that we were able to achieve such a lofty goal.” 
Women’s Ultimate Frisbee 
The notre dame women’s ultimate club traveled to north carolina this weekend to com­pete in the asheville invite, play­ing against teams from many different regions. both a and b teams played in the tournament, enjoying a weekend of warm weather while seeing some new competition. 
notre dame a started off the weekend very well, coming out with a 13-1 win over unc ­greensboro in their first game on saturday. in their second game of the day, the team faced a tougher george washington university team. They were trailing 4-7 at halftime, but came out of half to score nine unanswered points, taking the game with a score of 13­
7. in game 3, notre dame a faced tournament hosts unc-asheville in the showcase game, taking the lead from the outset and winning 13-3. 
on day two, notre dame a enjoyed a first round bye and opened play with a semifinal game against elon university. The teams traded points for a while, and notre dame trailed 6-8 at half. elon gained momen­tum and took a 10-7 lead, but notre dame fought back to tie the game at 10-10. freshman Julia butterfield caught the game winning point from sophomore heather fredrickson, and notre dame a was officially in the fi­nals. They faced long-time com­petitors indiana university, and once again, the teams traded points and notre dame a found itself down at the half by a score of 8-6. but the team came back, and freshman mary hermann caught a hammer from Kelsey fink to bring the game to an 11-11 tie. in the last few minutes of the game, iu took the lead, and notre dame suffered a heavy loss in the cham­pionship by a final score of 13-11. 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Softball 
conTinued from page 16 
The irish played just one game on friday and earned an eighth consecutive win in a wild 12-11 victory over uc­davis (5-13). The irish ran out to a 10-3 lead behind a tor­rid offense. Koerner hit her third leadoff home run of the season, and winter, junior third baseman Katie haus and sophomore first baseman micaela arizmendi added two rbi each. however, the aggies clawed their way back into the game when a three-run home run by senior catcher caitlin voss tied the game at 11 be­fore wester scored the game’s winning run for the second time in as many days, coming home on an errant throw from short. 
on saturday, the irish bat­tled but ultimately lost to california 5-3 before earning a third shutout of the weekend against cal state-fullerton, 8-0. against the golden bears (7-6), a three-run home run courtesy of arizmendi brought the game back within striking distance in the seventh and final frame, but a pair of pop­ups ended the chance and the notre dame win streak. 
however, the irish bounced back against cal state­fullerton (11-5). laura winter tossed her second shutout of the weekend, giving up just one hit and striking out seven and allowing zero walks. The victory was her 89th moving her into third place on the program’s all-time victories list. 
“[winter] was strong, as she usually is,” gumpf said. “she is a real leader for us, and we always expect she’ll pitch well.” 
The weekend’s final game came as the biggest test in the young season so far for the irish, against no. 6 oregon (13­1). notre dame fell just short of a potential statement win in a 2-0 nine-inning loss, hand­cuffed by ducks’ sophomore pitcher cheridan hawkins (7­1), who threw 150 pitches and yielded just three hits. winter threw eight more scoreless frames for notre dame, but was ultimately dealt her sec­ond loss of the season (6-2). 
still, gumpf said there was plenty to be taken from the heart her team showed. 
“i think we have the mak­ings of a really, really good team,” gumpf said. “There are things we have to improve on, but it’s so early in the season. we have time to practice, to get some work in and fix them. but we’re battling, and i like that.” 
The irish are back in action this weekend at the diamond 9 citrus classic at the espn wide world of sports com­plex in Kissimmee, fla. action begins friday at 1:15 p.m. against fordham. 
Contact Evan Anderson at      eander11@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | georgia Tech 4, nd 3; miami (fl) 6, nd 1 
nd falls in pair of acc openers 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 22 notre dame got a rough introduction to acc play over the weekend, dropping its first two conference games at home to no. 25 georgia Tech and away against no. 17 miami. 
The irish (5-4) came heart­breakingly close to a win friday but came up short in the eve­ning’s last three matches before falling, 4-3. 
The match started poorly for the irish as georgia Tech (4-2) handily won the doubles point. The irish duo of sophomore Quinn gleason and senior britney sanders fell to the country’s top-rated doubles pairing, yellow Jackets sopho­mores Kendal woodard and megan Kurey, by a score of 8-5. 
shortly after that defeat, notre dame’s pairing of senior Jennifer Kellner and freshman monica robinson were downed, 8-5, by yellow Jackets sophomore natasha prokhnevska and senior muriel wacker. 

The irish started strong in the singles portion, winning the first sets in five of the matches. Kellner was the first to wrap up a point, as she knocked off Kurey in decisive fashion, 6-0, 6-1. The irish then took a 3-1 lead as two freshmen, mary closs and robinson, won 6-2, 6-4 and 6-1, 6-2, respectively. 
from there, the irish dropped three gut-wrenching three-set­ters. sophomore Julie vrabel was the lone notre dame competitor to drop a first set but fought back to win the second before falling to wacker, 6-3, 2-6, 6-2. 
sanders started fast against woodard but could not quite close it out. she fended off multiple set points in the second set before dropping the tiebreaker headed into a dramatic final set. sanders fought off two match points in the closing action, one with a sensa­tional return winner, but still fell in the final set, 1-6, 7-6(2), 6-4. 
with the match tied at 3, all attention turned to gleason’s match. gleason failed to capital­ize when she had match point opportunities and eventually dropped the last four games of the set as prokhnevsk won, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5, to earn the overall victory for georgia Tech. 
in coral gables, fla., on sunday, notre dame’s struggles in doubles continued as miami (6-2) jumped out to big leads and eventually won all three matches. 
closs and senior Julie sabacinski lost first, falling to miami senior brittany dubins and sophomore stephanie wagner, 8-5. The hurricanes top tandem of junior monique albuquerque and soph­omore clementina riobueno then knocked off sanders and gleason, 8-4, and miami senior melissa bolivar and sophomore Kelsey laurente closed out the doubles portion with a domi­nant 8-2 win over Kellner and robinson. 
The irish got their only point of the day from robinson, who beat miami junior lina lileikite, 6-2, 6-4, but the irish fell to the hurricanes, 6-1
 The irish will look to rebound as they visit top-ranked duke on friday, with matches starting at 6 p.m. 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2014 | The observer 



Track 
conTinued from page 16 
know i made the right deci­sion to run at [notre dame].” 
in the men’s 400-meter dash, junior chris giesting claimed first by nearly a full second with a time of 45.89 seconds. That time ranks him fifth in the nation this year heading into the conference and national championships and claimed the notre dame record from feeney, a fellow all-american. 
feeney said his and giesting’s friendly rival­ry has made both runners better. 
“about two hours after we broke his distance medley record, he took down my indoor 400-meter record,” feeney said. “i still believe there will be a few more re­cord exchanges as we end this indoor season. not many all-americans are privileged enough to train with another all-american. i would not be running the times i do to­day without having him as a training partner.” 
irish coach Joe piane said last week after the spire invitational that his chief goal was ensuring his men’s distance medley team qualified for the ncaa championships next month. 

with a time of 9:29.43, grad­uate student Jeremy rae, feeney, freshman Jacob dumford and graduate stu­dent nick happe accom­plished just that saturday, setting a school record in the process. The group fin­ished third behind indiana and arkansas, but the sub­
9:30 time was fast enough to qualify nationally. 
feeney said qualification in the distance medley was very important to him and his teammates. 
“my first time ever going to nationals was my freshman year as part of the distance medley,” feeney said. “it’s nice to end my career the same way.” 
among other top perform­ers on the men’s side was graduate student J.p. malette, whose time of 4:00.17 in the mile run was first among collegiate athletes and left him just milliseconds from breaking the elusive four-minute mile. 
freshman nate richartz and junior david schipper finished first and second in the pole vault at 4.75 and 4.60 meters, respectively, and ju­nior dominick padovano threw 18.58 meters to claim a third-place finish in the weight throw. 
The irish 4x400 relay of giesting, feeney, senior 
paid adverTisemenT 
Jarrod buchanon and fresh-

SMC BASKETBALL | albion 77, smc 65 
man harvey smith finished at 3:07.58 and in third place behind acc foes florida state and north carolina, 

Belles drop final setting another record mark. 
The distance med­ley shone on the women’s 

game to Brits 
side, as well. seniors Kelly 
curran, michelle brown and alexa aragon and sopho­more danielle aragon, each an all-american, eas­ily claimed first place with a time of 11:05.07. That time is 10th best in the nation this year. 
The irish women earned four other first-place finish­es. in the pole vault, senior Kelly burke earned a victory at 3.60 meters with sopho­mores libby schichtel and allie sullivan finishing in a tie for second at 3.45 meters. senior vivien devaney eas­ily took first in the weight throw at 19.60 meters, fresh­man Taylor driscoll came in eighth in the mile with a time of 4:51.38, and sopho­more margaret bamgbose ran the 400-meter dash in 
53.40 seconds to claim a first-place finish. 
The irish are back in action Thursday and friday when the acc championships be­gin in clemson, s.c. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 



By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
despite a solid start and a late scoring run, saint mary’s streaky offensive efforts were not enough to overcome an emo­tionally charged performance by albion in both teams’ final game of the season saturday at Kresge gymnasium in albion, mich. 
although the game was with­out postseason consequences since both teams sit in the bot­tom half of conference stand­ings, it was nonetheless a meaningful way for the players to wrap up their seasons, or in some cases, their careers. 
it began with a touching ges­ture, as the belles (7-18, 5-11 miaa) allowed injured brits senior guard Taylor nugent to drive for an uncontested basket to begin her senior day matchup before being subbed out. The brits (9-16, 5-11) remained with­in striking distance of the belles to start, and a series of scores from saint mary’s senior guard and captain shanlynn bias made the game 16-15 in favor of albion midway through the half. 
however, the belles were un­able to contain the scoring abil­ity of senior guard brett debear, who led albion on successive 10-2 and 9-0 runs to help take an eventual 43-29 lead into halftime. 
“albion was fired up and ready to go for their senior day,” belles coach Jenn henley said. “we had problems trying to contain their leader debear, who killed us in the first half especially.” 
saint mary’s fought back in the second half, but another 9-0 run by the brits extended their lead to 56-35, a lead which they maintained comfortably for the rest of the game. 
“i think my team played hard,” henley said. “we made some runs in the second half, but time was against us.” 
an energized 11-0 run by the belles late in the half was not enough as the game was already out of reach, ending 77-65 in fa­vor of the brits. 
debear, who averaged 18.0 points per game, was 13-19 from the field and ended up with 29 points on the day to cap off her career as the second-highest scorer in albion’s history. brits sophomore forward emily dewaters helped out on the boards, snagging 17 rebounds. 
for the belles, bias finished out her career as a four-year contrib­utor with a 19-point performance to finish the season at a team-high 14.7 points per game. The belles’ other graduating senior and captain, forward Katherine wabler, added eight points. 
saint mary’s junior forward ariana paul had her third con­secutive double-double with 18 points and 14 rebounds. she fin­ished the season averaging 13.9 points and a team-high 8.1 re­bounds per game. 
despite the team’s losing re­cord, henley said she was positive and hopeful when evaluating the season and looking to next year. 
“moving forward, we look to build on how much our program has grown this past season,” she said. “we should return a lot of players who gained valuable ex­perience this season.” 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


Fortunato 
conTinued from page 16 
north carolina, virginia, florida, maryland and northwestern. but after a visit to south bend, fortunato knew where she wanted to be. 
“i visited the top-10 schools for lacrosse, and it’s just different,” fortunato said. “it’s just a differ­ent place, and it’s hard to explain unless you come here. The com­bination of athletics and academ­ics, and the tradition of the school, and everything about notre dame, other schools just can’t match it.” 
coming from the high school level, though, even the nation’s top recruit had a learning curve to deal with. 
“The pace is a lot faster,” she said. “i definitely had to adjust during fall ball to the faster pace of the game and get used to the different players i’m playing with and their tendencies. but i think everything else is pretty similar, so it wasn’t too hard of an adjustment. “ 
but now that the season has ar­rived, fortunato has thrived in the elevated level of competition, which she credits to the fact that there are no easy games. 
“every game is a big game,” she said. “every game is exciting. in high school there were the big games, but there were the few in between that weren’t too crazy. everyone is on the same level here. everyone is here for the same reasons and wants to put in the same effort as you to achieve the ultimate goals.” 
That competition will only get better, as the irish will head to north carolina on Thursday to take on the Tar heels — the defending national champions and the na­tion’s unanimous no. 1. fortunato has lofty goals for her four years un­der the dome, but fortunato said she isn’t looking any further than Thursday night in chapel hill. 


“The number one goal is to win the national championship, but my goal for the season is to take it one game at a time, to play the best of my ability and to help this team as much as i can.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at   wheffero@nd.edu 

Bouts 
conTinued from page 16 
partners. 
“i’ve gone to both nights,” boomer said. “i wasn’t able to stay for all the fights each night, but i was able to see some friends and support them.” 
because of the small size of their division, all of the heavyweights have sparred against other weight classes, especially the 202-pound di­vision, in the closest thing the fighters can come to ex­periencing a normal bout. 
“i actually haven’t sparred against any of the other guys in my bracket,” boomer said. “all of the guys i have fought against are in the weight class below me or had to drop out due to injury.” 
This has not stopped the boxers from sparring. daniel yi said he has sparred more this year than any other year in the program and that the freshmen are getting more time in the ring than he used to. 
despite the small size of the remaining field, boomer said he is not overly familiar with his competition, espe­cially the novice fighters. 
“i know dan yi well because of the past two years [that i’ve been in the program],” boomer said. “i’ve met both of the other guys, and i know who i’m fighting, but we don’t know each other particularly well.” 
yi is the heavy favorite to win the bracket after a domi­nating victory over former varsity basketball player mike broghammer last spring for his third championship. yi dispatched broghammer in just 17 seconds, sending him to the canvas and caus­ing the referee to stop the bout. he will face israel in the first semifinal, while boomer and Jegier will square off in the second. 
The semifinal round of the 84th edition of the bengal bouts takes place tonight in the Joyce center fieldhouse, starting at 7 p.m. all pro­ceeds benefit the holy cross missions in bangladesh. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2014 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 37 Byproduct of an 68 Does fantastic exhausted dairy stand-up 
1 Not so likely to cow?

be fooled again 69 Mex. miss 42 Cry often made 
6 [Mercy!] 70 Film ___
after a whistle 
10 Avoid 71 Paintball sound 
43 Kohl’s 14 Make a competitor 
running start at 45 Tehran tongue DOWN marriage? 

49 Suffix with 1 Part of WWW 15 Mixed bag 
cavern … or 
2 Down with a16 “Is you is or is gorge? 
bug, say you ___ ma’ 51 Turkish V.I.P.’s 

3 Whiskey 52 Byproduct of an distillery supply baby?” 
17 Byproduct of a 

irate dairy cow? 
4 Sword you 56 ___ Poke score pointssad dairy cow? 
19 Ming museum (caramel withpiece, maybe candy) 5 Part of a show 20 Is a bookworm 

57 What a that begins 21 Place in society magician pulls “Previously on a rabbit out of …”
23 Tartan cap 58 Janet of 6 Attacks 
25 Byproduct of a “Psycho” 

homely dairy 7 Ginger ___
cow? 60 Fit to serve 8 Start of a cheer 28 Oman man 61 Byproduct of 9 Verses, 

a portly dairy 
30 Capote, to pals collectively
cow? 31 Rogers 10 Cannibal, e.g. 
66 Fruit in a still­32 Old Carl Sagan life painting 11 Temporary gap series 
67 Brand in 12 Waffling 35 “I would say Road Runner 
13 ’40s beach …,” in texts cartoons 
blasts, briefly 18 Good

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
cholesterol, for short 
22 Camry maker 
23 Tic ___ (breath mint) 
24 In ___ (lined up) 
26 Metal between osmium and platinum on the periodic table 
27 Senseless 
29 Alternative to Ascap 
33 Kia model 
34 Place to get a facial 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaforTe 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

PUZZLE BY JAY KASKEL  
36 Gilligan’s island home  47 “___ after me …”  59 Traction  
38 Gen. follower 39 ___-la-la 40 Shade of white 41 Legitimate 44 Chinese menu general 45 Lens settings 46 Repentant one  48 Much of Libya and Algeria 50 Expensive filling material 53 One of the Coen brothers 54 Science writer Willy 55 Thrills  62 Prefix with friendly 63 “What ___, chopped liver?” 64 ___ king 65 Winter Denver hrs.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 



2/26/13 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2013 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Taking on too much will be what drags you down. set your priorities and convince the appropriate people to help. emotional issues and partnerships can be dealt with, but honesty must be implemented and equality your goal if you want to avoid resentment. consider what you want to keep and what you want to discard. your numbers are 5, 12, 22, 29, 31, 36, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make plans, but don’t share your ideas. act in secret and you’ll make a much larger impact when the time is right to present or promote. don’t let impulsiveness be your downfall. strategize every move you make and avoid interference and criticism. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put greater focus on yourself and the personal improvements you can make. dedication and presenting the best possible picture will be what captures the interest of someone looking for a partner or a service you can offer. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Time and energy spent trying to accomplish the tasks you’ve been given will pay off. don’t let anyone confuse or sidetrack you with criticism or meddling. Take special care of your health. proper diet and exercise will help you stay strong. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): let communication lead the way. interaction will lead to interesting information and good connections that will be valuable to you when it comes to legal, money or health issues. ask questions and strategize to make sure you get your timing perfect. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t be afraid to make changes. Taking the initiative will help you gain respect, even though you are likely to face opposition from a jealous onlooker. an unusual set of circumstances will surround a money, health or legal issue. get the facts straight and proceed. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take pride in what you do. say what’s on your mind and enjoy socializing and being a participant. partnerships will flourish and romantic encounters will lead to a close bond with someone who supports your efforts and boosts your confidence. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Try not to get bent out of shape if someone overreacts or gives you a hard time. head in whatever direction looks promising and give your all until you get the results you desire. a new friendship or activity will be exhilarating. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make adjustments at home that will motivate you to be more creative. Taking part in an unusual event will broaden your outlook and help you expand your friendships. an unusual lifestyle will capture your interest. love is in the stars.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep your emotions under control. you don’t want to give anyone the upper hand. Know what’s in your bank account and how much you can afford before you spend on something you don’t need. someone you deal with has ulterior motives. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): a partnership will turn out to be prosperous. enjoy the company of someone you’ve known for a long time. listen to what’s being said, but don’t be too quick to divulge your personal secrets. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put more emphasis on money, contracts, legal matters and getting back on track. what you do to encourage positive change will bring good results, but that doesn’t mean you should be excessive. greater security will help build confidence. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take part in an event that is geared toward a cause you believe in and you will form an alliance with someone who is able to help you advance. make a difference by going above and beyond what’s expected and you will reap rewards. 

Birthday Baby: you are quick, insightful and dedicated. you are a competitive doer.inventive and imaginative. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
VUCER  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
OLPIT  

SCINEK PLOIWL  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: DODGE SKUNK REVIVE AFFIRMYesterday’s 
Answer: When the does met, they knew instantly theywould become — “DEER” FRIENDS 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

ND SOFTBALL | mary nuTTer collegiaTe classic 
irish win four of six in california 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
no. 24 notre dame traveled to cathedral city, calif., this week­end for a six-game slate against west coast competition at the mary nutter collegiate classic. The irish won four of six games over four days, including three shutout wins and a 12-11 thrill­er over uc-davis, though the weekend culminated in a nine-inning, 2-0 loss to no. 6 oregon sunday. 
on Thursday, the notre dame staff tossed 14 shutout innings to earn a pair of victories over pacific (3-8) and brigham young and stretch the winning streak to seven games. in the afternoon game against pacific, the irish bats remained silent until the bottom of sixth inning, when they manufactured the game’s only run. Junior second base­man Jenna simon recorded an infield single, stole second base and moved to third on a sacri­fice bunt by junior center fielder emilee Koerner. freshman left fielder Karley wester made the most of the scoring chance with a sacrifice fly to left. freshman pitcher rachel nasland, who re­placed sophomore pitcher and starter allie rhodes in the sixth inning, earned the first win of her notre dame career (1-0). in the second game, senior pitcher laura winter, fresh off her selec­tion as one of 30 candidates for the 2014 senior class award, gave up just a pair of singles and a walk and recorded eight strikeouts against byu (6-9). 
irish coach deanna gumpf said her team’s pitching is emerging as a clear strength. 
“our pitching has been ex­tremely consistent, and it has given us a chance to win every game we have played,” gumpf said. “That’s always our goal.” 
see sofTball PAGE 12 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Fortunato finds success in early-season matchups 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 

The ncaa instituted a new rule this year, stating that goalscor­ers must immediately drop their sticks after a goal so that officials can inspect them. 
and just three games into her notre dame career, cortney fortunato’s stick has already seen a lot of the turf. 
The highly touted freshman at­tack from long island starred for the irish (2-1, 0-1 acc) this week­end, contributing four goals — in­cluding the game winner — and an assist in a tight 8-7 win over stony brook. 
fortunato didn’t just score, however. she contributed all over the field, tying for the team lead in ground balls and caused turn­overs, and she stepped up for a key draw control down the stretch to put the game on ice. 
irish coach christine halfpenny said the game was a huge step for the freshman, and she praised fortunato as part of a group of young players who took charge against the seawolves (2-1, 0-0 america east). 
“seeing [cortney] really step in to a strong leadership role was huge for us today,” halfpenny said. 
adjusting to the college game 

TRACK AND FIELD | aleX wilson inviTaTional BENGAL BOUTS 
Records fall at final Notre Dame home meet 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
Three school records fell saturday as notre dame hosted nearly 50 schools from across the country for the alex wilson invitational, a final tune-up for the irish before their first visit to the acc championships in clemson, s.c., next week. 
saturday also marked the final home meet for notre dame’s senior class, as the irish do not host dur­ing the spring outdoor sea­son. senior and captain patrick feeney said his fi­nal meet at notre dame was bittersweet. 
“it was a pretty sad mo­ment once i realized that the alex wilson was going to be the last meet i ran at loftus in an nd uniform,” feeney said. “The past four years have gone by extreme­ly fast. … after four years, i 
see TracK PAGE 13 

ZACHARY LLORENS | The Observer 
Senior Patrick Feeney races in the 400-meter dash at the Notre Dame Invitational on Jan. 25. Feeney competed in two relays Saturday. 
has come in stride for fortunato, but that was to be expected. coming out of northport high, she was rated as the no. 1 recruit in the class nationwide. The offer letters rolled in from the elite of the college game, including duke, 
see forTunaTo PAGE 14 

heavyweights to debut in semis 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
The 84th annual bengal bouts started feb. 17, but for four fighters, all this meant was another week to train, watch their friends and ner­vously wait for their turn in the ring. Tonight, that wait will come to an end for the heavyweight division. 
only four boxers — sopho­more matt boomer, fresh­man erich Jegier, first-year law student brian israel and senior captain and defending champion daniel yi — are competing in the division, eliminating the need for a preliminary or quarterfi­nal round. Two other boxers started out the season with the heavyweights but were forced to pull out after injury. 
as the other weight class­es have narrowed down the field to the final four, the heavyweights have contin­ued to train and prepare. 
“i’ve been training hard and trying to keep up the in­tensity,” boomer said. “The other guys have been taper­ing off now that they’re fight­ing. i’ve just tried to use the extra time to become a better athlete because that’s ulti­mately what it comes down to.” 
The wait, though, has ratcheted up the nerves for some fighters. 
“There is definitely a cer­tain anxiousness [in wait­ing],” boomer said. “you want to get out there. you see your friends out there, and you want to be in the ring, too. at the same time, i’m not disappointed that i’m in the semifinals already. it just brings you that much closer to the title.” 
even though they were not fighting, most of the heavy­weights still attended both the preliminary and quar­terfinal rounds to cheer on their friends and training 
see bouTs PAGE 14 


Men’s Basketball vs. Georgia Tech  Wed., 7 p.m.  Women’s Lacrosse at North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  Women’s Tennis at Duke  Fri., 6 p.m.  
Men’s Swimming — ACC Championship  Wed.-Sat.  Track and Field — ACC Indoor Champ.  Thurs.-Sat.  Men’s Tennis vs. Virginia Tech  Fri., 6 p.m.  
Women’s Basketball vs. North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  Softball vs. Fordham  Fri., 1:15 p.m.  Baseball vs. UCLA  Fri., 6:30 p.m.  





