tHe inDepenDent to uncover newspaper serving tHe trutH notre Dame anD anD report saint mary’s it accurately 

volume 48, issue 9 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 
NDFS provides new food options 
By BIANCA ALMADA 
news writer 
say goodbye to greenfields and irish ink and welcome au bon pain express, einstein bros. bagels, starbucks coffee and a new catering service of­fered by notre Dame Food services this school year. 
greenfields, the cafe formerly located in the Hesburgh center for international studies, ceased operations aug. 22, as­sociate director of retail Food service operations mark king said. an au bon pain (abp) express will take over the loca­tion at the end of this month, following minor renovations. the location will offer many of the same pre-packaged sand­wiches, salads and fresh pas­tries available in the Hesburgh library branch and the hours — 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on weekdays — will remain the same. 
“the greenfields change was in response to continuing declining customer transac­tions and a change in patron dining patterns over a num­ber of years,” director of notre Dame Food services, chris abayasinghe, said. 
some students were excited about the expansion of abp but voiced their disappointment at the loss of greenfields 
“greenfields offered diver­sity in food to campus, and al­though i like abp, greenfields will be sorely missed,” junior laura lebrun said. 
“the best grilled cheese on campus is now gone,” junior lisa wuertz added. 
the space that served as greenfields' kitchen area for 23 years will be converted for abp catering, which will make a new catering menu available for campus events. box lunches for events will be replaced by abp bag lunches, abayasinghe said. this change is in con­junction with the university’s launching of the center for culinary excellence (cce), which is set to release new ca­tering menus on monday. 
“we serve over 8,000 events per year, and a majority of these events were coming out of our kitchen at north Dining Hall,” abayasinghe said. “the catering program outgrew the infrastructure at nDH, and we made the investment at cce af­ter careful thought and review.” 

Food service changes also are underway at two loca­tions of the Hammes notre Dame bookstore. einstein bros. bagels will replace irish ink in the campus bookstore 


smc panel discusses feminism 

by EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
the controversial online campaign, #womenagainst­feminism, was discussed at the women against Feminism panel held wednesday at saint mary’s. sponsored by the gender and women’s studies department, professors marne austin, Helen Ho and bettina spencer and senior payton moore engaged with students and faculty to talk about the campaign and its un­derlying motivations. 
austin, the first speaker, ap­proached the dialogue from a communications perspective, austin said. 
“we have many competing discourses," austin said. 
see panel PAGE 7 
with an expected opening date of nov. 10, abayasinghe said. renovation of the space is scheduled to begin oct. 20. when completed, the branch will offer a full menu, and its hours will align with those of the bookstore.  David werda, 
see FooD PAGE 6 



University updates academic policies 
Professors granted discretion over excused absences 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
this semester, the university initiated a new excused absence policy to include religious holy days, official military duties and mandatory off-campus legal pro­ceedings and to exclude mild ill­ness, such as a headache or cold, cathy pieronek, assistant dean for the college of engineering said. 
pieronek, who worked with a group of faculty members to re­vamp the policy, said it is “a near-complete rewrite of the old policy.” under the new rules, professors maintain discretion over what con­stitutes an excused absence, except in cases explicitly mentioned in the updated code. these cases fall under three categories: 
see policy PAGE 6 




Arts and Letters grants credit for internships 

By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
this year, the college of arts and letters created a new policy that permits student internships to count for credit hours. 
the university reassessed its in­ternship policy to assure that the college fulfilled its commitment to academic rigor as more students participate in internships that could prove vital to their education, Joann Dellaneva, associate Dean of undergraduate studies, said. 
“we certainly think that [intern­ships] can be an important part of [students’] degree program,” Dellaneva said. “at the same time, the college is committed to offer­ing a rigorous undergraduate cur­riculum, and this is one of the 
see internsHips PAGE 7 


news PAGE 3 viewpoint PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 Hockey PAGE 20 nD women’s soccer PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre Dame, in 46556 024 south Dining Hall, notre Dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian Hartnett                          alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
Dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south Dining Hall notre Dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre Dame and additional mailing offices postmaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south Dining hall notre Dame, in 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Which Super Smash Bros. character do you play as? 

Erin Bishop 
junior 
walsh Hall 
“100 percent captain Falcon.” 

Ryan Busk 
sophomore Dillon Hall 
“ike.” 

Douglas Ansel 
graduate student “kirby.” 


Maggie Blake 
sophomore 
walsh Hall 

“Jigglypuff. she/he’s so underrated.” 

Josh Dempsey 
junior Duncan Hall 
“pikachu.” 


Erin Reilly 

sophomore welsh Family Hall 
“yoshi.” 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil Zach klonsinski Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Haleigh ehmsen casey karnes emilie kefalas mary green 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
keri o’mara erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Second Annual Fro-ND Band: Trumpets Notre Dame Football La Misa en Espanol Blood Drive 
karla moreno  rex shannon 

Yo Social under the Dome Notre Dame Stadium Dillon Hall Chapel Hayes-Healy Center LaFortune Student Main Building 7:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. Center 4:10 p.m. - 4:20 p.m. Final matchup Mass is celebrated in Supports Relay For 
Corrections 

1 p.m. Kick off for home between storied rivals. Spanish. Mass will be Life. 
the observer regards itself as Open to the public. football weekend. Saturday Vigil Mass followed by a lunch. Workshop: Getting a professional publication and 
Mindful Meditation Football Pep Rally Basilica of the Sacred Film: The Great Started in Research 
strives for the highest standards 

Coleman - Morse To Be Announced Heart Gatsby Brownson Hall 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Center 6 p.m. - 7 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Cheer on the Irish as Mass preceding Arts Center Discuss strategies 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
All faith traditions are they prepare to face football game. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. for discovering your 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
welcome. Michigan. $4 entry for students. scholarly interests and 
we can correct our error. 
passions. 



nDsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | tHe observer 
NDSP arrests four, Excise issues tickets 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
notre Dame security police (nDsp) arrested four individuals saturday in the midst of festivi­ties surrounding the notre Dame football team’s season opener against rice, police chief phil Johnson said. 
“police made three custodial arrests saturday at or near the sta­dium,” Johnson said. “one man was arrested for theft and public intoxication, the other two for public intoxication. postgame, a man was arrested for shoplifting, [or] theft.” 
indiana state excise police of­ficers issued tickets to 17 people in south bend during the week­end, according to an excise police report. police also cited belmont beverage on south bend avenue for two counts of allowing a mi­nor to loiter, the report stated. 
“three minors were ticketed for illegal possession, consumption or transportation of alcohol. two adults were charged with furnish­ing alcohol to minors,” the report stated. “excise officers also issued 13 traffic tickets, including two for open container violations.” 
Johnson said nDsp saw no traf­fic-related incidents. 
“traffic ran smoothly and there no reported crashes,” he said. 
Despite “challenging weather” throughout the weekend, the university welcomed thousands of fans to campus starting Friday, according to mike seamon, as­sociate vice president for campus safety. 
“it was great home opener weekend capped off by a big vic­tory for the irish,” seamon said. “…the weather on saturday con­tinued to be challenge as rain and storms continued to just miss campus all afternoon. 
“we felt that our lady on the Dome was watching out for us as we were able to get the game in without incident.” 
seamon said more than 8,000 people gathered in front of the rockne memorial for the season’s first pep rally, which was held de­spite rain showers in the hours immediately before the event. 
“the first rally of the season has been held in front of the rock for the past several years and it was great to see another strong student turnout to cheer on their classmates,” he said. 
other football-related special events enjoyed similarly high at­tendance, seamon said. 
“Despite the persistent rain on Friday afternoon we had over 3,600 fans and visitors go down the tunnel to catch a first glimpse of the new Fieldturf,” he said. “the traditional Friday foot­ball luncheon held in the north Dome of the Joyce [athletic and convocation] center had over 850 people in attendance.” 

“overall it was a very success­ful first home game weekend and we are eagerly looking forward to this upcoming weekend and the game against michigan,” seamon said. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 

power outage darkens campus 
email. “the result of this loss re-on wednesday night another junior thom behrens, a Duncan sent to the hall. 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

news editor quired the shedding of electrical outage was not expected. Hall resident, said. Junior kyle in the event of a second out-loads affecting a portion of cam-“the problem we had this mccaffery said generators also age, “your iD [cards] will not be 
a power outage across cam-pus. our systems are currently morning isn’t totally explained supplied electricity to o’neill able to swipe you into any build-pus left several dorms and class-stable, but the cause of the issue yet,” kempf said. “… we’re trying Hall during the outage. ing,” elaine Debassige, Farley rooms in the dark wednesday still remains unexplained.” to avoid the disruption to classes, the Hayes-Healy center and Hall rector, said in an email to morning, but campus officials university spokesman Dennis and this evening is when we’re o’shaughnessy, galvin, and residents. have not yet determined the brown said only parts of campus trying to work on it.” geddes Halls lost power, ac-kempf advised students to cause, according to an email were affected by the power out-breen-phillips, Farley, Zahm, cording to students present in limit their use of electronics from paul kempf, director of age, which began just before 9:30 cavanaugh, alumni, pangborn, the buildings during the outage. wednesday night. utilities and maintenance. a.m. Dillon, lyons, carroll, Duncan, Debartolo Hall was not affected. “if you’re doing something and 
the email was sent to build-“about 50 percent of the cam-welsh Family, mcglinn and brown said main building you don’t necessarily need to ing managers and rectors pus was without power for 10 o’neill were reportedly among and the Joyce athletic and have it on after nine o’clock, you wednesday afternoon. minutes,” brown said. the affected dorms, according to convocation center also lost can turn it off,” he said. 
“while performing a minor workers were scheduled to in-hall residents. power. brown said the outage was maintenance activity this morn-vestigate the cause of the outage the outage went unnoticed by rectors cautioned their not related to the aug. 20 par­ing at our electrical substation by testing the electrical system some west Quad residents be-residents to take precautions tial collapse of a cooling cell in an unexpected and currently after 9 p.m. wednesday, which cause of backup generators kick-throughout wednesday night’s the university’s steam genera-unexplained anomaly resulted would cause “some risk of a re-ing in, according to students. testing period. tion system, which provides cool in the loss of our interconnect peat occurrence,” kempf said in “we had backup generators “as tests are conducted this water and air conditioning to with the grid,” kempf said in the the email. He told the observer so it was pretty hard to notice," evening, the campus may ex-campus. 
perience rolling power outages paiD aDvertisement 
after 9 p.m.,” morrissey rector Contact Lesley Stevenson at ronald vierling said in an email lsteven1@nd.edu 
Charge dismissed against professor 
in march, the prosecutors ran out 
Observer Staff Report 

of time to bring to trial the felony 
prosecutors dismissed a misde-battery charge involving smith’s meanor charge of battery against wife, due to indiana's two-year stephen smith, a notre Dame law statute of limitations. However, the professor who was accused of as-court of appeals ordered that the saulting his son, according to a re-misdemeanor battery charge re­port in the south bend tribune on garding the alleged assault against wednesday. his son would stand, the tribune 
smith appeared in court last reported. week, expecting to go to trial on the case was further delayed by a the misdemeanor battery charge, change in the judge overseeing the when he learned prosecutors had case and the son opposing a sub-dismissed the case, the tribune poena to come testify in indiana, reported. the tribune reported. 
the case has been in progress for in may, a judge acquitted smith more than three years now. in June of one of the two invasion of privacy of 2011, prosecutors accused smith charges he faced in connection with of battering his wife, a class D felo-the alleged protective order viola­ny battery charge, the tribune re-tion, according to the tribune. ported. later, the state charged him smith is scheduled to appear in with misdemeanor battery for alleg-court wednesday for the one inva­edly fighting with his son when the sion of privacy charge that remains. then 23-year-old reportedly tried to according to the notre Dame law intervene. website, smith holds a bachelor’s de­
later, prosecutors charged smith gree from Dartmouth college and a with two misdemeanor counts that Juris Doctor from the university of accused him of violating a protec-virginia. He came to notre Dame in tive order which was in place after 2009 and teaches courses on crimi­the allegations, according to the nal law, criminal adjudication and tribune. federal criminal law. 

paiD aDvertisement 



SMC art gallery explores globalized landscape 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
the moreau art galleries of saint mary's launched a new exhibit wednesday featur­ing four distinct art pieces by collaborating artists ryan griffis and sarah ross. 
the art pieces are in­spired by globalization and 
industrialization  of  rural  
towns, griffis said.  
ross  and  griffis  agreed  
the  exhibit  takes  a  "poet­ 

ic" angle on metropolitan, cosmopolitan, urban landscapes. 
the largest installation, "global cities, model worlds" is located in little theater and sister rosaire gallery. ross said the multidimensional and interactive piece  focuses on "the spatial and social im­pacts of mega-events, specifi­cally olympic games." 
three videos that make up "From the bottomlands to the world (an excerpt)" play on a loop in Hammes gallery: "granular space" (2012), "submerging land" (2012) and "moving Flesh" (2014). 
“the artists write that the host cities of these international spectacles seek to transform themselves into 'global cities' through plan­ning, architecture and ideolo­gy," tiffany Johnson bidler, the director of the galleries, said. "locally, these events pave the way for redevelopment proj­ects that can create new pub­lic resources such as parks, stadiums or transportation infrastructure but often result in significant displacement of residents or industry, rein­forcing existing inequalities.” 
according to ross's web­site, the video trilogy is an experimental take on a rural midwestern town of 6,000 people, "a place of glob­al exchange and international mobility." 
small midwestern cities are a hub for industries hoping to avoid urban regulations and immigrants seeking employ­ment, ross said. 
this exchange is evident in beardstown, ill. the city's major industry, a slaughter­house, hired migrants from mexico before turning to im­migrants from the Democratic republic of the congo, togo, senegal, puerto rico and oth­er caribbean locales for new workers, ross said. 

the exhibition is a result of time and effort on the parts of griffis and ross, bidler said. 
“the artists installed their own show for the most part in this case, and it took them two days," bidler said. "they drove in from chicago. the gallery assistants and i were respon­sible for wall text, labels and promotion of the event." 
this exhibition is free and available to the public until oct. 31. 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 

Professor analyzes Brazil’s political climate 
on one particular reaction, bottom, a root cause of much said. so on.” 
By ELENA GACEK 

news writer “the rise of [the citizen as a] of the discontent in brazil,” when taxes are interpreted brazil is witnessing the 
dissatisfied or disgruntled melo said.  “these days, we as prices, they suddenly enter emergence of “a new fiscal, 
as brazil prepares for its customer.” find taxi drivers talking about into everyday conversation, social contract where people oct. 5 presidential elec-presidential hopefuls blame taxes being very high, and melo said. the coalitions be-would be prepared to be taxed tion, the kellogg institute brazil’s social unrest at least that was completely unheard hind the taxes have piqued in exchange for services,” welcomed marcus melo in part on current institu-of in brazil … and now, this is public interest too — govern-melo said, but the current ex-yesterday, professor of po-tions, but other factors like pretty common.” mental corruption is second change rate is highly unpalat­litical science at the Federal public attitude contribute to melo described how, in only to healthcare as a con-able. brazil already has “a tax university of pernambuco in the changing political land-more than 800 cities across cern of the average citizen, al-burden higher than the u.s., brazil, to discuss his prelimi-scape, melo said. the country, illuminated signs though increased government closer to [that of] the u.k.,” nary analysis of the country’s “political malaise in brazil outside of businesses show spending has led to social im-but the government continues increasingly visible popular is not primarily a problem of current levels of taxation, provement, he said. to raise taxes, he said. political discontent. dysfunctional institutions, which has in a sense translat-“all the social spending cat-“i personally predict that 
“my point is that brazil although there is clearly ed the issue of taxes into the egories have been growing there will be, for the first seems to be at the verge of some institutional sources of language of the people. at almost 3 percent a year,” time, massive low turnout something important — frustration,” he said. “there “there is this thought that melo said. this has generated [at the upcoming election],” there’s something big going are also a number of factors brazil has incredibly high “very impressive outcomes in melo said. “i personally know on here,” melo said. “there’s that are non-institutional … prices, everything has outra-terms of reducing inequal-people, who have always vot­this massive extractive ca-[which] should require more geous prices, so everybody ity and poverty. … in fact, so-ed, who have said, ‘this time, pacity in the political system attention than the literature talks about that — so they cial spending has never been i will not vote.’” here, and this has generated or even the public discussion don’t talk about taxes, you at the current level, meaning all sorts of reactions.” has recognized.” know? but they talk about the poor have never had it so Contact Elena Gacek at 
melo focused his discussion “civic cynicism is, at the the prices being too high,” he good in terms of transfers and egacek@nd.edu 
lab for economic opportunities receives grant 
By KAYLA MULLEN news writer  empowering women, chil­dren, and families to perma­ alleviating poverty, improves the ways that such services are  withwith   economists partnering catholic charities to  at the same time," sullivan said. "we will be able to scale  
nently improve their quality  provided and their respective  provide the evaluation of their  up our operations, have a  
the  wilson  sheehan  of life, which is exactly what  policies, associate professor  innovative local anti-poverty  much  broader  impact,  in  
Foundation  has  made  a  [leo] hope[s] to do for fami­ of economics and co-founder  programs,” evans said.  terms of the size and diversity  
$15-million gift to the wilson  lies most in need,"  william  of leo, James sullivan, said.  of our projects, and also do a  
sheehan  lab for  economic  evans,  keough-Hesburgh  “what we do is work di­ both  undergraduate  and  much better job of dissemi­ 
opportunities (leo), a new  professor of  economics and  rectly with service providers  graduate  students  conduct  nating  this  information  to  
university  initiative  aimed  co-founder  of  leo,  said.  to set up a rigorous evalua­ research, write grants, man- the research community and  
at reducing poverty in the  "[leo] could not ask for a bet­ tion of the programs and use  age projects and analyze data  organizations."  
united states.  ter partner in this endeavor.”  that evidence to identify ef­ for  leo,  evans said.  evans  the  endowment  by  the  
“the  wilson  sheehan  leo evaluates the effective­ fective  programs,"  sullivan  said  the  wilson  sheehan  wilson  sheehan  Foundation  
Foundation is interested in  ness of programs focused on  said. "once we’ve identified  Foundation gift will increase  will help leo become a seri­ 
effective programs, we dis- the number of undergraduate  ous force in poverty reduc­ 
paiD aDvertisement  seminate  that  information  students currently employed  tion, sullivan said.  
broadly across the network of  by leo, which is currently  “this gift will allow us to  
service providers so that it has  eight.  establish  leo  as  a  nation- 
a broad national impact.”  “most of the money initially  wide leader in poverty re­ 
leo started out of a partner- will be used to expand our  search," John mcgreevy, i.a.  
ship with catholic charities  staff," evans said. "we hope to  o’shaughnessy dean of the  
usa, the largest private pro- add some phD economists, a  college of  arts and  letters,  
vider  of  anti-poverty  pro- managing director, and some  said, according to a press re- 
grams in the  united  states,  recent graduates as research  lease.  "leo  exemplifies  the  
sullivan said.  associates.”  university’s  commitment  to  
“most local social service  the money will also go to- use research and scholarship  
organizations  that  assist  ward tackling more projects,  to make real changes in the  
the poor spend most of their  sullivan said.  lives of the disadvantaged by  
time and energy providing  “with  the  support  of  the  improving  the effectiveness  
basic services, like rental as­ wilson sheehan Foundation,  of the programs  that serve  
sistance,  which  are  really  we  will be able to consider- them.”  
programs that treat the symp­ ably scale up the size of our  
toms of poverty and not the  staff, which will allow us to  Contact Kayla Mullen at  
root cause ... leo was started  implement a lot more projects  kmullen2@nd.edu  



tHe observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 
SENATE 

senate meets to discuss pe changes 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news writer 
senate met wednesday night to discuss the new freshman re­quirements for physical educa­tion with Dean Hugh page of the First year of studies program. 
it recently was announced 
Policy 
continueD From page 1 
university-excused absenc­es, planned absences and unplanned absences. 
pieronek said the most sig­nificant change for students is the process for obtaining an excused absence for per­sonal illness. 
“we have completely changed the way student personal illness is managed,” she said. “For non-acute ill-that a class focusing on overall wellness will replace the physi­cal education requirement for freshman. 
“it is important that academic programs at every university un­dergo review every so often to make sure that you are on point with goals, able to serve evolving 
Health services (uHs), the university counseling center (ucc) and off-cam­pus medical providers “can provide a medical confir­mation note only if those medical professionals are involved in the medical care of the student.” the medi­cal note must be presented to the student’s professors within two days of his or her return to class, the code states. 
additionally, students 

“We have formalized a policy to allow excused absences for seniors who are going for job interviews or grad school interviews that the student is unable to 
reschedule .” 
Cathy Pieronek assistant dean College of Engineering 
nesses such as a mild cold or stomachache or head­ache, students are expected to attend class. For acute or contagious illnesses, the ab­sence must be excused if a treatment provider indicates that the student should not be in class. 
“For chronic illnesses the Disability services office will determine the appropri­ate action. also, rectors are no longer allowed to notify faculty of a student's per­sonal illness. only a treat­ment provider may provide documentation of a personal illness.” 
the new policy, which is part of the undergraduate academic code, speci­fies that the university 
Food 
continueD From page 1 
director of retail operations, hopes the brand’s popularity will bring new life to the store. 
the bookstore location on eddy street now includes a starbucks coffee, which opened aug. 18. the branch includes a new full-service cafe with notre Dame-themed decor. 
“we are looking at a retail study to review all of our restau­rants on campus,” abayasinghe said. “stay tuned.” 
Contact Bianca Almada at bianca.g.almada.1@nd.edu 
must provide professors with at least a week’s notice for a planned absence. 
pieronek said students who miss class for official university business will not see any change in proce­dure. the office of student affairs still will handle all university-business absence requests, as well as excused absences for death or serious illness in the family. 
the old policy included needs for students and that deep and sustained learning of all kinds is able to take place," page said. 
page said the still-develop­ing course will re-brand the university's wellness initiative, an undertaking necessary be­cause the landscape, challenges 
only death in a student’s im­mediate family but has been expanded to include a family member’s serious illness. 
pieronek said the new policy also formalizes the procedure for seniors miss­ing class for job or graduate school interviews. 
“we have formalized a policy to allow excused ab­sences for seniors who are going for job or grad school interviews that the student is unable to reschedule,” she said. “this policy was in place informally for several years, but we have made it formal by including it in the undergraduate academic code. it also restricts this particular excused ab­sence to two class days per semester.” 
seniors are expected to minimize these types of ab­sences and use fall, winter and spring breaks to sched­ule interviews. 
pieronek said the chang­es became necessary after professors and other faculty members observed a star­tling spike in student ab­sences in recent years. 
“we were noticing a ma­jor increase in the number of excused absences for ill­nesses,” she said. “in engi­neering, for example, the number of excused absences for illnesses tripled between and stresses of being a student today are different than they were 10 years ago. 
the group addressed page with its questions and concerns about the new course. Jake wittenburg, representative for st. edward’s Hall, raised concerns regarding the level of student involvement 
2011-12 and 2012-13. the number of students didn't triple, but the number of ab­sences did, and it caught our attention. 
“i know business experi­enced something similar. it was clear that excuses for 
“The new policy require students and faculty to commuicate directly about absences, rather than relying on an e-mail or memo from a dean to communicate an absence.” 
Cathy Pieronek 
assistant dean 
College of Engineering 
personal illnesses were be­coming an epidemic.” 
other professors, pieronek said, said they did not need as many excused absence notifications from deans of­fices and student affairs. 
“professors who didn't have absence policies were telling us that they didn't need the excuses, so we were doing unnecessary work 


paiD aDvertisement 
in the decision-making process. 

“as we move along with plans, we hope to continue and deepen student involvement and involve student government at a higher level,” page said. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 

notifying them, but we didn't know who did and who didn't need the excuses, so we noti­fied everyone,” she said. 
pieronek also said pro­fessors complained that students did not give them absence notifications in a timely manner, and there­fore the time limits went into effect in the new policy. 
in essence, pieronek said the new rules aim to stream­line the excused absence policy by focusing it on the relationship between profes­sors and students. 
“the new policy requires students and faculty to com­municate directly about ab­sences, rather than relying on an e-mail or memo from a dean to communicate an ab­sence,” she said. “Faculty are in charge of classroom poli­cies at all times, so it only made sense to have faculty directly involved in manag­ing absences in their own classes. 
“From an educational per­spective, we want students to know that the sum to­tal of any excused absence policy is the policy as writ­ten in the undergraduate academic code, plus what­ever the instructor puts on the syllabus.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 


nDsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | tHe observer 

Internships 
continueD From page 1 
stated goals of Dean mcgreevy [Dean of college of arts and letters]. our new policy reflects our desire to balance these needs by offer­ing our students opportuni­ties to pursue internships for credit while maintaining an intellectually sound course of study.” 
Dellaneva also said the pol­icy brings the college of arts and letters in line with the internship policies of other academic departments at the university. 
the policy introduces two distinct kinds of internships: one-credit and three-credit, according to an email sent to Journalism, ethics and Democracy minors. 
Dellaneva said one-credit internships cannot be ap­plied to a student’s major and are graded satisfactory/ unsatisfactory. 
“[one-credit internships are] characterized by men­tored learning opportunities achieved through the com­pletion of assigned tasks,” the email said. “the student does not typically take a lead role in determining daily activi­ties or long-term projects." 
the vast majority of intern­ships fall into the category, and while students may do as many one-credit intern­ships as they would like, only one will count toward their degree. 
the second type of intern­ship is the three-credit, or major, internship, according to the email. 
Panel 
continueD From page 1 
"the misunderstanding is 
i really wanted to understand the psyches behind that." 
spencer said she examined how people are stereotyped in american society in order delve into the reasons as to why women my age tend to stay away from the ‘f-word.’ i also want to illustrate how 
idea of feminism." 
moore, an english literature and history major, brought to the table the perspective of a young, college-age woman living and learning in a world immersed in social media, young women in relation to feminism.” 
moore said her initial reac­tion to the campaign was one of horror and frustration. she was especially dismayed by her peers' presence on social 
“major internships are characterized by indepen­dent, creative work that will be assessed by a notre Dame faculty member and will be assigned a letter grade,” said Dellaneva. 
like the one-credit intern­ships, only one major intern­ship will be counted toward a student’s degree, Dellaneva said. the letter grade serves as a reward for the intensity and passion with which the student completes their in­ternship, Dellaneva said. 
“the distinction between these two kinds of intern­ships will ensure that stu­dents who put extraordinary effort into an internship will be properly rewarded for their work,” Dellneva said. “at the same time, the intel­lectual integrity and rigor of the arts and letters degree will be highlighted and is cer­tain to be appreciated in its own right by prospective em­ployers and graduate/profes­sional schools.” 

Contact Emma Borne at emma.g.borne.2@nd.edu 
posts and see such wrong, misguided information cir­culating around the web. it makes me wonder how and why it has come to this. Have we forgotten in 2014 said. "yet even more than that, in today's age, we need feminism. yes, things have gotten ‘better,’ but without the push of feminism, we will 

not achieve true equality." that there is one type of femi-to understand why women re-has evolved and will continue 


to evolve," moore said. "the success­nism. it marks feminism as a ject feminism. what feminism has done and Despite improvements, 

singular entity." "as you can imagine, wom­stands for?” much remains to be done for 
spencer said she was not en who are considered femi-For moore, feminism is col-women's rights, as well as for 
surprised by the online nists are considered selfish, lective and highly personal. related equality movements, 
campaign because the idea, and a lot of women who are “the definition of feminism moore said. Feminism can 
however contentious, is not in this position tend to face 
equality. in today's day and age, that equality means be­tween all sexes, all genders, all races and all sexualities.” 
moore said the tumblr page likely was created in part by women who believe feminists 


help motivate those working revolutionary. penalties for being 
“when i first saw this, it ful," spencer said. "Different one thing that stays constant wasn’t new, this idea of ‘i’m a people are going to reject this much the media impacts is that feminism strives for 


moore said. media. are man-haters "who like to for such causes. “i am 21 and a feminist, yet “all the time, i look at these paint women as victims." "Feminism empowers and it i know many women my age posts online, and i cannot “i think that this page inspires," moore said. "some 
woman, and i reject feminism 

for reason x,'" spencer said. who do not identify as a femi-help but be very frustrated," "as a psychologist though, ... nist," moore said. "i want to moore said. "i look at these 
paiD aDvertisement 


serves as an outlet for these women to discuss their – wrong but right in their eyes – facts about feminism," moore said. "secondly, i believe that this page was formed and/or fueled by the men's rights ac­tivists and their female sup­porters who relentlessly try to find new ways to tear down feminism. of course, i'm only speculating.” 
moore said feminism must continue as long as gender in­equality persists. 
“all you have to do is look at history to see why," moore like to say that feminism isn't important anymore since we can go to work and vote and so on, but to them i counter with, 'what about violence against women? what about the wage gap? what about lgbtQ issues?' i could go on and on with what is still wrong in this society. until my list of what needs fixing has not one single item on it, to me, feminism is important and needed.” 

Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekafala01@saintmarys.edu 




tHe observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

the lesson of “Jane” 
Emilie Kefalas 
news writer 

college is essentially the average student’s brush with academic and social freedom. no one tells you to go to bed at 11 or do your homework. Depending upon how students are raised, their habits tend to carry over into their newfound independence unless they feel oppressed, in which case they “rebel.” a close friend of mine, “Jane,” rebelled once she was left alone in her middle-of-nowhere campus, but not the way you’re probably imagining. 
enrolling in a tiny liberal arts college in the midwest, Jane’s self-assurance ignited a philosophy that if she ate two small meals a day, she could lose at least 20 pounds by the time her parents came up for her birthday in six weeks. she was desperate to prove herself as an individual, but even more as a body. 
unfortunately, the battle for a slim body cost her much of her individuality in addi­tion to her mental health and self-image. Jane lost her weight and much of her cheery disposition by fasting for multiple days.  after 20 pounds and her parents’ shock, she per­severed for 25, 30, and 40 pounds more, dire to do anything and everything drastic for the sake of being thin by christmas. these extremes were subtle to the outsider, but in hindsight, their presence was prevalent. 
by second semester, Jane’s hair had dried and thinned, resembling the coarse hair of a horse’s tail. Her skin was an unhealthy pal­lid white. binging and purging isolated her, triggering terrible bouts of anxiety and de­pression that had already existed from four months worth of fasting. no one approached her or asked if she was genuinely well, for she had an uncanny ability to wear a fake face. Her breaking point came after spring break when she begged her academic advisor to discuss the option of a health leave with her parents. after meeting with two counselors, Jane decided, on her own terms, to finish the semester and complete her courses. 
when i first began, i briefly broached the topic of the freedom college offers for stu­dents. this freedom is an opportunity for character development. what all students should assess from Jane’s experience is that the true application of academic and social freedom involves self-improvement and growth. Jane thought her efforts would make her more popular, which she concluded in hindsight to be a petty and shallow goal. she was blind to the deterioration of her eating disorder.  she saw it as a chance to redeem her confidence. what Jane didn’t understand when she first entered college, was that ap­pearance is different from confidence. she never had to be anything but herself, but she believed she was defined by a size. therefore, i encourage you, student, professor, citizen, to raise up fellow community members when you sense they feel degraded. we are all privileged to be here in this community. we have a responsibility to help our own. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefala01@saintmarys.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Make death your profession 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

when students first read how athens put socrates to death they either balk at the injustice of the athenians or at the uncalculating stubbornness of socrates. socrates was charged with corrupting athens’ youth and refused to yield when faced with death. i myself sided with socrates as my pls great books seminar grappled with the story. my profes­sor helped me to understand the other side: “if your children were abandoning their jobs and educations to follow an old man around, asking bothersome questions to strangers, what would you do? what would notre Dame do if a professor convinced a bunch of students to stop attending class and, instead, sit out on the quad and talk about being all day?” 
of course, this is exactly what we were doing in that class, except the course’s department was careful to abide by contemporary academic and university policies. the revo­lutionary nature of the liberal arts education was masked by regular classroom meetings, hiring according to the stan­dards of other departments, publishing according to com­mon academic expectations and the students partying about as much as any other students (even though these parties often included sophisticated jesting and occasional poetry readings). but the philosopher’s secret can’t be kept forever. 
in 1970, three professors at the university of kansas started the integrated Humanities program, known as iHs. students in the program were not allowed to take notes in class. instead, they read great literature, learned the state song, and went stargazing with their professors. students were asked questions that in polite company and contemporary curriculum are either avoided entirely or made so techni­cal and complex as to be rendered practically meaningless. Questions such as: “what is truth? How do we cultivate won­der in our lives? why are we here?” 
the professors learned their lesson: disturbing questions lead to disturbing lives. as the professors cultivated won­der, students began to convert to catholicism (some say more than 200 students converted), with dozens entering the priesthood or religious life. no longer content with the temporal and changing, students turned to mysticism and contemplation. one should only expect that their parents, having thrown tens of thousands of dollars at the institution­al gatekeepers of the middle class, would protest against their children spending the rest of their lives sitting on spiritual quads contemplating “who is?” after decades of cultivating the life of the mind with these disturbing results, the pro­gram underwent, as one founding professor put it, a “discreet and slow euthanasia” by university officials. 
thus, we have the odd position of the contemporary uni­versity. should the university pursue the life of the intellect, or should it train us for material prosperity, leaving the more transcendent parts of our humanity untouched? what led the great John Henry newman to proclaim that a university which “had no professors or examinations at all, but merely brought a number of young men together for three or four years, and then sent them away” was better than a “so-called university, which dispensed with residence and tutorial superintendence, and gave its degrees to any person who passed an examination in a wide range of subjects”? can we really be fooled into believing, as did the disciples of socrates and the iHs and newman and christ, that one thing is nec­essary, that to sit and listen at another’s feet is to choose the better part? 
most of us will never know. college leaves little time for the leisure of stargazing. most of us are anxious and worried about many things, burdened with much serving, studying and extra-curricularing. we find no time to examine what so many claim is “the better part.” perhaps we are deterred by the threatening danger of the choice. perhaps it is the dazed madness of those we have seen choose it that deters us. perhaps it is the small fortune our parents have spent to keep their children safe and employable, which keeps us from pursuing the better part. 
but perhaps the greatest deterrent is the realization that, for those who have chosen “the better part,” life is lived as though death has already come, and we are not quite ready for death. socrates taught his disciples that “true philoso­phers make dying their profession.” For many, college will be a time to eat, drink and be merry. many hope this will be just a preparation for future food, drink and merriment. but for those of you so daring as to choose the better part, a daily dy­ing of self will prepare you for death, and death will be your profession. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



commencement at a crossroads 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

when our university’s administration makes changes that nobody is going to like, they tend to announce them when the students’ minds are elsewhere. 
an august football weekend when nD’s newest senior class was occupied with the existentially troublesome series of “last-firsts” was the perfect time for the office of the registrar to announce that due to the campus crossroads project, commencement 2015 is moving indoors to the purcell pavilion. this is obviously an inferior venue to notre Dame stadium, where the ceremo­ny has been held since 2010. 
the office of the registrar was careful in its email to frame the move as a “return to tradi­tion,” citing the fact that from 1969 to 2009 commencement was held in the Jacc. the email continues, saying that “the vast majority of commencement weekend events are open to all guests, and all are welcome to fully participate in the many joyous experiences of the notre Dame commencement weekend.” 
nobody finds this argument persuasive despite its earnest tone. at least in the moment, much of the “pomp and circumstance” that makes gradu­ation what it is occurs during the commencement speech, the valedictory, and the mass conferral of degrees. 
the primary advantage of moving commencement to the stadium was to do away with the limited ticketing that comes with hold­ing the event in the Jacc. as the observer reported on Friday, the purcell pavilion seats 9,149 people. assuming 2,250 students receive diplomas and about half of the faculty attend the ceremony, there will be less than 7,000 seats for parents and family members – only about three tickets per student. 
serious questions arise when distributing a lim­ited resource that every rational person wants. How should the university distribute the 7,000 tickets? i might argue that whoever becomes valedictorian should have unlimited tickets. Her whole family should be able to see her address the class in a once-in-a-lifetime moment. but what about the 15 or so runners-up who achieve astro­nomical gpas and are interviewed for their prow­ess but aren’t selected as valedictorian? 
one might also persuasively argue that children of alumni or kids whose parents have donated great sums of money to the university should receive a greater number of tickets. their contri­butions, both tangible and intangible, make this university tick and impart our trademark air of tradition. this surely wouldn’t seem fair to the first-generation college students, students from working class backgrounds, or kids whose parents attended one of america’s 4,000 other colleges. 
more concretely, let’s say i manage to get three tickets. within my own family, who gets to go? my mom and Dad seem like a lock for the first two tickets. i certainly could not be here without their emotional and financial support. but then what? Do i give my third ticket to my grandpa ward who has called me at least once a month since i stepped on campus? Do i give it to my grandma mary who pushed me through flashcard after flashcard in kindergarten and first grade to help me learn how to spell and read? Do i give it to my kid brother Jack to send him a message about the value of work? or do i give it to my little sister to show her what lies on the other side of an aca­demically up-and-down first year of college? 
i hope nobody has to make these decisions, and with a little creativity and the right weather, the university can ensure that we do not have to. i propose two alternative sites, either of which would eliminate or at least mitigate the seating problem and therefore be a better choice than the Jacc. converting these sites over would almost certainly cost more than holding the event inside, but the $400 million construction project which prompted this move indoors would seem to sug­gest that money is not an issue. 
First, we could hold commencement on south Quad facing the main building or o’shaughnessy Hall. the section of south Quad between the south door of Hurley Hall and the south door of coleman-morse is approximately 151,000 square feet (i estimated this with the mobile app mapmyrun). with appropriately-placed bleacher seating and screens, we could graduate on a his­toric quad within view of the the golden Dome and, more importantly, within view of all of our families. 
i’m even more excited about the prospect of holding the event on library Quad, where espn college gameDay was held two years ago and where the 9/11 anniversary mass was held my freshman year. the university could construct a stage over the reflecting pool, leaving 61,000 square feet of empty space to the south for chairs and bleachers. any concerns about temporary aluminum bleachers looking too rugged for the occasion would quickly dissipate as Fr. Jenkins took the podium in front of of the “touchdown Jesus” backdrop. 
on a 1,250 acre campus, there are almost cer­tainly other solutions i have neither thought of nor listed. i think the class of 2015 would agree that every additional family member who can be accommodated by moving commencement out­side is an improvement, and well worth a second look by the office of the registrar. 
in the words of Father Jenkins, “let no one ever say we dreamed too small.” 
Alex Caton is a senior studying Political Science and living in St. Edwards Hall. He can be contacted at 
acaton@nd.edu. 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The printing predicament 
with the new print system at notre Dame, many students may be unsure how to print correctly. instructions for printing can be found at http:// oithelp.nd.edu/print/. the quota works as fol­lows: each student starts with 1000 points, or roughly 500 sheets of paper worth of printing. a double-sided black and white (b&w) sheet costs two points, while a single-sided b&w sheet costs four points. a double-sided color sheet costs 12 points, while a single-sided color sheet costs 24 points. most of you are probably wondering why it costs you double the amount of points to print a single-sided sheet. this policy seems to be ludi­crous as it charges students twice the points for less printing. 
in typical printing, the paper costs less than a penny per sheet, while the ink costs about one to two cents per page. these prices do not even account for bulk-purchase discounts or con­tracts with suppliers. according to notre Dame’s oit page, the main goal of the dubbed “Duplex printing initiative” is to reduce printing for envi­ronmental reasons. that said, if students want to print, they are going to print. 
environmentally speaking, there is a strong rea­son to limit printing. according to international paper: “every day the forest products industry plants more than 1.7 million trees in the u.s. today, there are 12 million more acres of forests in the u.s. than in 1987.” clearly it is beneficial to use paper, as the companies who process trees plant just as much if not more than they take down. wood is a renewable resource and should not be treated as a non-renewable one. in addi­tion, there are recycling bins located in every building across campus, allowing for even more environmental consciousness and the reuse of pa­per when it is no longer needed for class. 
charging double for single-sided sheets will potentially reduce some use of paper if people switch to double-sided printing. on the other hand, the policy makes little sense for students who need to print a single page paper, reading, or article for a class. in this case they are penal­ized for printing less than two pages. in the same sense, students printing lengthier papers, read­ings, or articles are also being penalized by print­ing less than an even number of pages, while they are already using a large amount of points to print in the first place. while the policy may help re­duce some printing, overall, it penalizes students unnecessarily. one way to reduce your personal printing is by printing two pages per one side. this can easily be done for pDF documents on either a mac or pc. a way to not be penalized for these single-sided pages is to add a blank page to the pDF, making the total number of pages even. 
ultimately, there is little reason or evidence for why students should be charged more for single-sided printing. there is virtually no environ­mental benefit and students are being unjustly penalized. truly, students will print whatever they want or need, so there really should be no quota in the first place. However, the quota is what we have, so make the best of it by adding blank pages to documents. Happy printing! 
Justin McCurdy 
freshman 
Dillon 
sep. 3 


tHe observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 

By Jimmy Kemper 
scene editor 

Festival season may be over, but the music scene in south bend still is going strong. this Friday, the gridiron, at the old location of the college Football Hall of Fame, will host a student expo featuring local and student bands. the event is put on by the bridge project, who or­ganized the south by south bend music festival this past may, as well as the Downtown south bend, the state of south bend and the music village festivals. 
Dan courtney and will murray founded the bridge project last semester to “address a need to connect area colleges with the city of south bend through the creation and promotion of cultural events.” Dan also said, “the gridiron show will be a great way for south bend resi­dents to interact with students from notre Dame and oth­er area colleges in a fun and welcoming environment.” 
this is absolutely the event to be at Friday night – it provides notre Dame students an awesome opportunity to interact with and experience the greater communi­ty at its finest. what better way to get hyped up for the michigan game than rocking out in a venue that looks like a football field? 
the lineup for the show is solid, featuring a number of genres and representatives from south bend, indiana university south bend and notre Dame. the concert kicks off with Joshua schleer, an acoustic musician from 
By Kevin Salat 
scene writer 

ever since Hbo’s game-changing drama, “the sopranos,” ended with a famous cut to black in 2007, the internet has debated ceaselessly the fate of tony and the rest of the soprano family. many believe that, on a show so riddled with death imagery and foreshadowing, it was fairly obvious that the italian gangster antihero was shot in the final scene at Holsten’s diner. others are on the “tony lives” team, asserting creator David chase never wanted to provide a decisive conclusion to tony’s story; his life simply “goes on and on and on,” just like Journey sings in the diner jukebox playing “Don’t stop believin’.” 
Fast-forward seven years to last wednesday, when vox published a new interview with chase in which he la­conically states tony soprano is, in fact, not dead at the end of that controversial scene. in the interview, chase sounds frustrated with the endless questioning and gives a simple response in order to move on to his other cre­ative pursuits. as typical of pop culture media, headlines blew this out of proportion, stating that this was the de­finitive reveal fans had anticipated for years. 
KERI O’MARA |The Observer 

indiana university south bend. Following this will be notre Dame group Jon schommer and the town cuties, a folk band reminiscent of of monsters and men or John mayer, infusing acoustic and electric guitars, ukule­les, harmonicas and coolly-harmonized vocals. if you haven’t checked out their bandcamp site yet, you should. 
also featured in the lineup is the tides, a jamming indie-pop, surfer-rock group also based out of indiana university south bend. inspired by the likes of modest mouse and wavves, the tides put the indie in indiana. Further down the lineup is simple twist, a jazz/blues group based out of south bend, and ratboys, a group that the event’s Facebook page describes simply as “in­credible.” carp rock band the rutabega and hard rock/ progressive metal band Half Fiction also are set to play. 
wrapping up this one-of-a-kind show is sober sinners, an awesome punk rock band based out of notre Dame. garrity mcosker, lead singer for the band, is thrilled about the event. 
“it’s the first show for sober sinners since we’ve been back for the school year, so i’m just excited to get on the mic and lose it again,” mcosker said. “i like to get active with the crowd when i perform, and the fact that i’ll be doing it in front of some new faces this time makes it all the better. i hope we can convert a few people in the au­dience and, through viewing the audacity of this band, they’ll realize they can start a band too. that’s always been my goal since i started sober sinners.” 
However, chase’s publicist since has cleared up what now appears to be an inaccurate misinterpretation: “David has said numerous times on the record, ‘whether tony soprano is alive or dead is not the point. ... the fi­nal scene raises a spiritual question that has no right or wrong answer.’ ” 
all of this news coincidentally came just a few weeks after i decided to finally cross “the sopranos” off my own television bucket list. i was very aware of the finale debate before i began, but i had to see for myself and form my own thoughts (and in turn entertain myself on my train commutes to work). there were highs (“college”, “pine barrens”, “long term parking”) and lows (“christopher”, the first half of season 6) over the course of this 86-epi­sode saga, but what i found in the finale was easily the greatest ending to a television drama i’ve ever watched. Despite my desire for closure, it’s clear chase executed exactly the abstruse ending he wanted. 
thanks to commercial television, our brains have be­come wired to play detective and crack the case that’s presented to us on screen. there always has to be a tidy answer – one absolute ending to tony’s journey as a mob boss. but that’s not what great art is about; the answer is 
garrity was also excited about what this event means for the community. 
“this event will be another opportunity to push the concept of the bridge project,” he said. “at Friday’s show, we will be exposing local music to students, while also exposing student bands to more south bend locals. this is another great step for the project, and all those in­volved have done an excellent job executing it, so thank you to them.” 
the sheer amount of diversity in this show is reason enough to go, plus you’ll make all your hipster friends back home jealous with your newfound knowledge of the sweet indie scene in south bend. beyond the music, however, this event is about developing culture and com­munity, of which south bend has plenty. if you haven’t had a chance to get past eddy street and the notre Dame bubble, embrace the wonder that is south bend. there is no better time than now. 
according to the event’s Facebook page, notre Dame students can get to the event for free using the transpo bus system. students should board the no. 7 transpo bus that arrives at 4:58 p.m. and every half hour thereafter – be sure to show your student iD to ride for free. to get to the gridiron, students should then get off at the chase tower at main street and washington street, then walk one block east. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
whatever you want it to be. chase himself recently told the associated press he created the finale “not to make you think, but to make you feel.” 
sure, there are many ways to interpret the events at Holsten’s Diner; some theories have more supporting evidence than others. but those who have spent the past seven years obsessing over unraveling such a purpose­fully ambiguous show like “the sopranos” are watching it wrong. they’re trying to solve the mystery of a show that embraced the mysteries of life all along. believe whatever you want, as long as you admit your interpretation isn’t the only true and correct one. 
Don’t watch the sopranos to solve the puzzle. watch it because it’s one of the most influential achievements in television. watch it because James gandolfini was one of the greatest actors of our lifetime. and like chase said, watch it to feel. 
so, ignore the internet headlines you saw this week and dive in to see for yourself. if you start now and watch an episode a day, you’ll have your own finale theory to dis­cuss by thanksgiving dinner. 
Contact Kevin Salat at ksalat@nd.edu 

tHe observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 

By Erin McAuliffe 
scene editor 

i am lucky to have a dad ezra koenig would consider cool. in typical “cool dad” fashion, he never types out vowels but makes awesome meatloaf and – speaking of meatloaf – exposed me to good music at a time in my life when my friends were bumpin’ britney and hum­ming High school musical. 
i would sit on the bed in our guest room while he would sort through music, old and new, on our fam­ily’s desktop computer. He would open my ears to the white stripes and talking Heads but never would insult my juvenile taste – even agreeing “Hollaback girl” was a great jam. He taught me the value of music, compar­ing the price of albums and songs to the candy i could buy with my limited sixth-grade income. 
eventually it all started to sink in, and i began to identify my tastes – founding a modest mouse club in sixth grade. 
one of the first songs i remember gravitating to dur­ing one of our listening sessions was “naïve” by the kooks. the sunny pop rhythms and luke pritchard’s unique voice charmed me. i delved into the rest of the band’s albums during their subsequent releases and found the kooks to be a reliable source of jubilant mel­odies. to this day, the kooks are one of the few bands i can set on shuffle and not skip through half their songs. 
the band’s 2011 album, “Junk of the Heart (Happy),” was not a critical success– perhaps the reason behind their change of sound on their album out september 9, “listen.” 
the british pop artists made an unexpected decision 
By Jared Clemmensen 
scene writer 

navigating the convoluted realm of the fashion world can be exhausting. keeping up with the latest trends is often an exercise in futility. but one lasting trend has taken over the fashion industry. it’s not a particular print, style of pant or accessory, but rather the concept of androgyny. while this more conceptual trend does have a number of specific manifestations, it’s less about wearing specific garments and more about a general approach to dressing. while androgyny has been an element in high fashion for a while, more accessible re­tailers such as H&m, Forever 21, american apparel and Zara have been embracing the progressive aesthetic as well. 
you may wish to take this article with a grain of salt — it comes from a man who recently bought two pairs of women’s pants and a pair of women’s shoes within a 72­hour span. so here are some high-fashion names to back up my ramblings: Fairly-new label baja east has gone so far as to offer only one line of clothing, selling the in hiring inflo, a 25-year-old london-based hip-hop producer they found via soundcloud, to produce “listen.” this teaming may induce worry, but don’t fret – the kooks will not be featuring Juicy J or the like. instead, inflo worked to expand the band’s sound. the kooks did not shy away from featuring different influ­ences on their new album: r&b, gospel and jazz all make appearances, united by pritchard’s particular vocals. pritchard describes the album as one of “pure expression.” 
in case the listener picks up “listen” unaware of the band’s shift in sound, the first track, “around town,” takes them to church. no, really. it starts off with a fe­male gospel choir chanting, “oh, yeah,” as if the choir loftily affirms the band’s new sound. the effect is equivalent to supplying a laugh track to assert the hi­larity of a joke, as the voices echo in confirmation of the reinvented band. 
the gospel influence is reiterated in “sweet emotion,” a track featuring a piano riff reminiscent of something you would hear in the basilica on sunday. 
the album also features r&b stylings, summarized in “Down” which features pritchard repeating, “down down diggy diggy,” resulting in a groovy track which brings to mind the clapping songs schoolgirls perform on the playground. 
“Dreams” features egyptian snake-charmer-style music in the background, creating a captivating effect. also contributing to the alluring, ethereal effect are the lyrics, for example: “i was playing the flute in front of the eiffel tower to a man in a starlit suit.” 
not only have the stylistic influences of the kooks evolved with this album, but their lyrics have taken on 
exact same loose-fitting styles to both men and women. other high fashion labels such as J.w. anderson, who recently sent male models down the runway wearing platform heels in their spring/summer 2014 show, have been gender-bending for a while. corollary trends, such as boyfriend jeans for women and skinny jeans for men, also come to mind. However, the androgyny trend takes this even further into a realm of clothing designed as unisex, rather than women adopting traditional mens­wear items as their own or vice-versa. it’s also definitely not exclusive to the high fashion world. one of the disci­ples of the androgynous movement, street-wear brand Hood by air, is favored by hip-hop musicians such as Drake, le1f, kanye west, rihanna and a$ap rocky. 
so what exactly is “androgynous fashion,” espe­cially to a college student? it’s whatever you want it to be, and therein lies the beauty. subscribing to a conceptual trend such as this allows room for signifi­cantly more liberty and personal expression. For me, the androgynous movement means looser fits, lighter-weight fabrics, neutral colors and simple sneakers. it’s definitely a comfort-and-convenience-driven approach more weight, as well. “see me know” serves as a letter to pritchard’s late father, asking if he would be proud of the life his son has led thus far. the song is intimate and a change of pace for the band. “it was london” serves as a social commentary on the london riots, but the heavy lyrics clash with the upbeat, sing-songy vibes of the track, making for a somewhat uncomfortable listen. 
the variety of genres incorporated into the album make for a unique, yet somewhat hectic, cluttered sound that relies on pritchard’s vocals as the uniting force. the shift in lyricism from the sing-along, bubbly tracks of albums past to the heavier topics addressed throughout this album display maturity that may not impress fans expecting a more lighthearted vibe. but through the transformation, the kooks have managed to remain true to their essence, and the diversity of mu­sic will be a welcome change for most listeners. 
For those of you who unfortunately do not have a “cool dad” to give you music advice, i offer my own: give “listen” a listen. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
“Listen” 
The Kooks 

Label: Virgin EMI Tracks:  “Down,” “Around Town” If you like: Arctic Monkeys, The Black Keys 

to dressing, as self-proclaimed “loose luxury” label baja east proclaims. think elastic-waist jersey harem pants instead of straight-jacket skinny jeans. can i get an “amen” for high fashion sweatpants, anybody? additionally, the benefits of the prevalence of neutral colors need not be mentioned — emphasis on the all-black outfit. when it comes time for you to do laundry, ask not what dark colors can do for you, but what you can do for dark colors. 
as someone who has long been frustrated by strict delineations between men’s and women’s clothing, a fashionable scarf is a fashionable scarf. i find this new direction a lot of designers and retailers are taking re­freshing; it’s right in line with our generation’s changing ideas of gender equality and the move away from tradi­tional gender roles and values. it’s hard not to appreci­ate the prospect of wearing looser-fitting, exponentially more comfortable clothing while being fashionable. so go buy some baggy, neutral, wide-neck t-shirts and start celebrating. 
Contact Jared Clemmensen at jclemmen@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA |The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NCAA botched its big chance 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 
this is it. the year when all those bcs flaws are eliminated and college football has a season finale it was meant to have. Four teams, most likely from the five power conferen… 
wait. Four … and five … 
uh oh. 
that’s right. there are four play­off spots, but, as has been in the news for the last few months, ev­eryone has decided there are five power conferences. Five confer­ences, competing for four slots. 
i can tell already this year will bring all the headaches the bcs has provided at the end of every year. except this time, instead of computers and algorithms taking all the flak for who did and did not make it into title contention, it will be a special “selection committee” who has to decide who has, and has not, earned a shot at one of those four slots. i already feel sorry for them. 
take a quick look at what the situation would have been last year: 
the top four schools in the rankings at the end of the year were Florida state, auburn, alabama and michigan state. three conference champions, another a fluke-play-of-the­century from being one. left just outside were two-loss, pac-12­champion stanford and one-loss, big 12-champion baylor. 
so. who would the committee have put in, and who would they have left out? better yet, why? 
throw in wrinkles like oklahoma smashing alabama and central Florida finishing its one-loss season with a win over baylor, and suddenly four slots are not enough to decide a national champion. Here’s how to fix it: 
eight teams make the playoffs. yes, eight. automatic qualifiers for the champions of the power-five conferences. “but wait,” you say, “that leaves three at-large” 
— nope. throw in an automatic qualifier for the highest-ranked school from a non-power-five conference. Doesn’t matter what it ends up being ranked. throw in another automatic qualifier if another non-power-five team is in the top 16. i might be talked down to top 12 — maybe. that leaves one at-large, minimum, although it will almost always be two. seed the teams however you wish and play them, no. 1 vs. no. 8, no. 2 vs. no. 7, etc. Draw them out of a hat, even — i don’t care. anytime, anywhere. 
use the previous bcs bowls as the venues for each game, then rotate which two host the semifi­nals, and use any location for the national championship. 
boom: my “perfect” college football playoff. now, before you simply dismiss 
this, hear me out. 
i do not really feel the need to defend giving an automatic bid to each conference champion. they survived their “power” conference and have earned the right to take on the other champions. 
many people would complain about the extra game teams would have to play. so what? of the 65 teams covered by the power-five conferences, only five do not play a game against an Fcs team this year: oklahoma, texas, penn state, ohio state and notre Dame. Five teams out of 65. tell me even five of those games against weaker Fcs opponents combined would bring in nearly the same revenue as one playoff game. i could go out and buy a ticket to an ole miss thrashing of presbyterian for a whopping eight dollars. How about a 10-dollar beating of sam Houston at lsu? tell me those bring in more money than a play­off game would. 
you say i will destroy the pres­tige of the rose, Fiesta, sugar and orange bowls? the ncaa already has done that with this new fail­ure of an attempt at playoffs. the two bowls that host the semifi­nal games will be known as the semifinal games, and the two that do not will just be there. at least my system keeps the postseason mystique of bowl games alive by rotating playoff games to more former-bcs-bowl sites. 
Finally, we have arrived at the little guys. i love the little guys. america loves the little guys, which is what makes march madness so special: they at least get a shot. i would bet my entire future career earnings that a non-power-five team would never make the four-team playoff we have this season. probably not even an eight-team playoff with­out a spot for them. How can we fairly decide a national champion without giving everyone a fair shot? How good was the 2004 utah team? the 2006 boise state team? the 2009 boise state and tcu teams? last year’s ucF team? 
we will never know. 
as for the second conditional bid, if there are two non-power­five teams ranked that high in the polls come tournament time, it usually means they are both un­defeated. it would be an injustice if we ever finish a season with an undefeated team that is not the national champion, especially if we are going to have a playoff. let’s be honest anyway: there will be very few years where this rule actually would be used. 
there you go. love it or hate it, that is what the ncaa needs to do with college football. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | seattle 2, oaklanD 1 
Mariners out-pitch A’s, edge closer to wildcard spot 
Associated Press 

if the seattle mariners can get into the al wild card game against Jon lester and the oakland athletics, they’ll be plenty confident with king Felix on the mound. 
kyle seager and corey Hart homered leading off the sev­enth inning to back Felix Hernandez’s stellar start, and the mariners rallied to beat the a’s 2-1 on wednesday to win the three-game series be­tween playoff contenders. 
“i think we match up well,” mariners manager lloyd mcclendon said. “we’ve got a few bullets to throw at them that toe the rubber. we like our chances.” 
mcclendon and the mariners were in a light-heart­ed mood after the victory. 
the manager pointed out that Hernandez looked well rested despite his much-maligned move to push his ace back a day before his last start against the washington nationals — which was Hernandez’s worst outing of the season — by referencing a profanity-laced quote from former indiana basketball coach bobby knight. 
mcclendon could crack jokes mostly because of the homers that erased an other­wise brilliant performance by lester (13-10) and helped Hernandez (14-5) win for the first time in four outings. 
adam Dunn’s homer in the fourth accounted for the only run Hernandez allowed in eight innings. the right-hander gave up three hits, struck out four and walked two to outduel lester in a matchup of two of the al’s best pitchers. 
the mariners tagged lester for seven hits in eight innings. Fernando rodney pitched a perfect ninth for his 41st save in 44 chances. 
“it was special,” said Hernandez, adding that he promised his wife a win for her birthday. “we came here to win the series and that’s what we did.” 
Hernandez improved to 19-7 against oakland, in­cluding 4-0 in five starts this season. He said he’s just hap­py to finally be pitching in a playoff race. 
“it feels great. it feels really good. it’s fun to do that,” he said. 
the a’s have lost seven of nine, including a four-game series at the al west-leading los angeles angels before dropping two of three to seattle at the coliseum. the mariners remain right be­hind Detroit and oakland in the chase for the al’s two wild cards. 
and for most of the sun-splashed afternoon, it looked like a possible preview for that game. 
OLYMPICS 

olympic golf course faces another complication 
Associated Press 

rio de Janeiro’s olympic golf course faces an uncer­tain future after a court pro­posed wednesday that the under-construction layout should be modified to meet environmental concerns. 
Judge eduardo klausner, hearing a lawsuit brought against the city of rio de Janeiro and the course devel­oper, said the defendants had to return on sept. 17 to say if they could accept the propos­al. klausner said work on the course could continue, but no new areas of vegetation could be plowed under. 
in recent months, golf ar­chitects have been putting down grass on the course, hoping to finish by the end of the year and avoid delays. that would give the grass two growing seasons to mature — a minimum for a top course. 
golf’s return to the 2016 olympics for the first time in 112 years was to be a 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSING TWNHM For Rent 2015-16 yr from ND Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. Text or call John 281-635-2019 
centerpiece of the rio de Janeiro games. but the course has been plagued by legal challenges over land ownership, questions about its location in a nature re­serve, and other delays that date back almost five years. 
mario andrada, a spokes­man for the local olympic or­ganizing committee, tried to find an upside. 
“we are happy the con­struction on the course has not been stopped,” he told the associated press. He de­clined further comment. 
in a raucous, at times cha­otic two-hour-long hearing, klausner heard the concerns of environmentalists, biolo­gists and rio city hall’s top environmental official, as well as attorneys from both sides. 
klausner played the role of mediator, nudging the public prosecutors, who brought the suit, to offer a proposal that would preserve as much of the atlantic rainforest area as possible while allowing the golf course to continue. 
“it is in society’s interests that the olympics take place and it’s also in society’s in­terests that the environment be preserved,” he said. “what has to be observed is legality, and within legality is respect for the environment.” 
a forest engineer with the state environment secretar­iat, isabela lobato da silva, who visited the forested area before construction on the golf course began, said that while some forested areas have already been destroyed, the damage was not irrevers­ible. she proposed the cre­ation of a 400 meter-(yard-) wide corridor to allow for the circulation of animals be­tween the wooded areas on either side of the golf course. 
lawyers for the defendants repeatedly stated that be­cause land was broken on the golf course about a year and a half ago, any changes at could prove catastrophic. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
for the 2015 season. All coaches 
WANTED 

are paid as well as reimbursed 
for travel expenses. Season runs 
Paid High School Boys from March to May. Please con-Lacrosse Coaches Needed: St tact Head Coach Mike Williams Joseph HS (1 mile from campus) at mwilliams@saintjoelacrosse. is looking for lacrosse coaches com 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Schnurrenberger takes on leadership role 

By Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
as the irish continue to prepare for their first match of the season, the upperclass­men — including junior eric schnurrenberger — are look­ing to make leadership a focal point this year. 
notre Dame finished last season no. 13 in the country, which is its highest national ranking since it finished no. 6 in 2007. schnurrenberger said the irish want to be a bet­ter team this year than last season, and he wants become a role model for the younger players on the team. 
schnurrenberger, who is 
the lone international athlete 
on the squad, finished last 
paiD aDvertisement 


season with an overall record of 25-17. schnurrenberger was also able to participate in the round of 16 for notre Dame before the team was eliminated by virginia. 
throughout his life in switzerland, schnurrenberger said he has been influenced by tennis and the opportunities it has given him. His entire family played tennis, and for as long as he can remember, he said he has always had a tennis racquet in his hand. 
“i’ve never played in any other sport competitively,” schnurrenberger said. “i al­ways knew i was leaning to­wards my academics, so i never really looked to it make it a profession, but i’ve played in tournaments all my life sacrificing time and money to make it a passion." 

"my whole family has played tennis," he said. "through it, i have had so many opportu­nities. i wouldn’t have been here at notre Dame without being a tennis player.” 
schnurrenberger also said tennis has helped him when­ever he struggled off the ten­nis court. 
“the lessons i’ve learned through the game,” schnurrenberger said. “you can compare it to life. you have your bad moments and your good moments, so it pre­pares you very well for what life sort of shows.” 
schnurrenberger said he believes that being an inter­national athlete has helped him bring a different perspec­tive of playing the game to the rest of his teammates here. 
“there’s a big differ­ence in terms of tennis in switzerland and college ten­nis,” schnurrenberger said. “Here, you’re encouraged to be rowdy, energetic, and en­thusiastic. in switzerland, i played in a couple of tourna­ments over the summer, and it isn’t the same feel as be­ing in a college environment, but having both experiences helps me be a more well-rounded player. Here, you’re really proud of being a part of the university, and that’s something i want the other players to recognize.” 
schnurrenberger is now an upperclassman as a junior, and he said he’s ready to step into the leadership role to push his team to the next tier of elite college teams. 
“as a leader, i want to al­ways go to practice with high energy and ideal attitude,” schnurrenberger said. “it’s the most direct effect to your teammates. if you have good energy that helps electrify your teammates, if you really buy into your game and be the best player you can be, it helps push your teammates to want to be the best as well. by help­ing yourself, you’ll also end up helping your teammates.” 
the tone in schnurrenberger’s voice quickly changed from en­thusiastic to seriously deter­mined as he gave the final and most important part of his outlook as a leader. 
“it’s important to not be too result-oriented,” schnurrenberger said. “it’s better to be process-oriented. when you focus on doing the right things in practice with a strong drive, and focus on the process of improving your game, the consequence of it all will be winning.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu. 


tHe observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 

MLB | ariZona 6, san Diego 1; Houston 4, los angeles (al) 1; cHcago (nl) 6, milwaukee 2 
Hudson wins in return from injury 
Associated Press 
san Diego — Daniel Hudson returned from two reconstructive elbow op­erations to pitch in the big leagues for the first time in more than two years, and David peralta drove in two runs to help the arizona Diamondbacks beat the san Diego padres 6-1 wednesday night. 
Hudson became the fourth pitcher to undergo tommy John surgery in con­secutive years and return to the majors. Hudson, who won 16 games for arizona in 2011, retired the side in the eighth on 13 pitches and was warmly greeted by his teammates when he reached the dugout. 
Hudson hadn’t pitched since June 26, 2012, when he originally tore his ulnar col­lateral ligament. He under­went surgery 15 days later, performed by the late Dr. lewis yocum. Hudson tore the ligament again during a rehab start with Double-a mobile on June 4, 2013, and was operated on two weeks later by Dr. James andrews. 
Josh collmenter (10-7) won his third straight start, holding san Diego to one run and five hits in seven innings. He struck out three and walked two. 
Diamondbacks scored three runs, two of them unearned, against andrew cashner (2-7) in an eventful fifth inning that included two hits, a walk, two fielder’s choices, a call at the plate that stood after a 2 1/2-min­ute review, a botched run­down and a runner called out on interference. 
collmenter came up with runners on second and third and one out and hit a grounder to rookie second baseman corey spangenberg, whose late throw to the plate was just enough to allow alfredo marte to score. padres man­ager bud black challenged, but the call was confirmed. 
that put runners on first and third. ender inciarte grounded to first base­man yasmani grandal, who threw home to catch Didi gregorius in a rundown. but third baseman yangervis solarte appeared to be going for a quick tag and missed the throw from catcher rene rivera. the ball rolled into left field for an error, allowing gregorius to score. 

with inciarte on second and collmenter on third and the infield in, chris owings hit a grounder to shortstop alexi amarista, and inciarte was called for interference. the umpires got the call right, but instead of send­ing inciarte off the field, he was sent to first and owings headed to the dugout. peralta then singled to cen­ter to bring in collmenter. 
peralta tripled in owings in the first. 
cashner allowed four runs, two earned, and five hits in seven innings. 
carter leads astros to 4-1 win over angels 
Associated Press 
Houston — chris carter homered twice and drove in three runs, collin mcHugh pitched into the eighth in­ning and the Houston astros beat the los angeles angels 4-1 on wednesday night. 
the first-place angels lost both games in the series af­ter sweeping the a's in a four-game set before arriving in Houston. 
it was the second straight win for the astros since manager bo porter was fired on monday and replaced by interim manager tom lawless. 
carter has 35 home runs, and his seven multihomer games this season are a fran­chise record. it's the most homers by an astros player since lance berkman hit 45 in 2006. 
the designated hitter, who also singled on wednesday, leads the majors with 22 homers and 52 rbis since July 1. 
carter put Houston on top 1-0 with his homer to the crawford boxes in left field in the second inning. His two-run, opposite-field shot made it 4-1 in the eighth. 
mcHugh (8-9) yielded four hits and a run with eight strikeouts in 7 2-3 innings for his fourth straight win, ex­tending a career high. chad Qualls pitched a perfect ninth for his 17th save. 
angels starter Jered weaver (15-8) allowed five hits and two runs in six-plus innings for just his second loss since June 16. 
Dexter Fowler walked with one out in the fourth and stole second with two outs. Jason castro's single scored Fowler to put Houston up 2-1. 
the angels tied it at 1 in the third when efren navarro scored on an error by short­stop Jonathan villar that al­lowed mike trout to reach. the play pushed trout's rbi total to a career-high 98. 
mcHugh retired the next 10 batters, with the next hit by los angeles coming on a single by Josh Hamilton with two outs in the sixth. Howie kendrick grounded out to end the inning. 

that was the first of six in a row set down by mcHugh be­fore he was replaced by Jose veras. 
Jose altuve, who had four hits in each of his previous two games, doubled in the eighth to extend his hitting streak to 11 games. He has a major league-leading 194 hits this season. 
Soler continues hot streak 
garza to put it ahead 2-1
Associated Press 
in the second. the blast 

cHicago — rookie Jorge to deep left field followed soler had a two-run double logan watkins' two-out to become the second play-single. er in cubs history with as in his first start in 31 days, many as 10 rbis in his first garza (7-8) failed to get past seven games as chicago the third inning. the right-beat milwaukee 6-2 on hander allowed six runs on wednesday night. eight hits and one walk. He 
soler joined mandy had been on the disabled brooks, who had 12 rbis in list since aug. 4 because of a 1925, as the only chicago strained left oblique. players to accomplish that the cubs batted around in feat. the third, when they scored 
kyle Hendricks pitched four times to take a 6-1 lead. five-plus innings to hear his soler began the onslaught fifth straight win. Hendricks with a two-run double, his (6-1) allowed two runs on ninth and 10 rbis of the nine hits in 5 2-3 innings. season. welington castillo the right-hander did not followed with a run-scoring, walk or strike out a batter. ground-rule double, and one 
with five rookies in the out later, watkins hit an rbi lineup, the cubs completed single to cap the rally. their first three-game sweep milwaukee took an early of the brewers since aug. lead in the second, when 23-25, 2004. khris Davis singled, ad­
milwaukee concluded a vanced on a groundout and 1-8 road trip with its eighth scored on logan schafer's straight loss to fall three two-out base hit. games behind st. louis in milwaukee was miss-the nl central race. ing ryan braun, who was 
chicago never trailed af-with his wife larisa in ter chris valaika hit a two-milwaukee, where she was run homer off ex-cub matt expecting their first child. 

GOLF | women’s worlDamateur team cHampionsHip 
canada wins team tournament 
Associated Press 
karuiZawa, Japan — teen star brooke Henderson shot a 6-under 66 on wednesday to help canada take the first-round lead in the women's world amateur team championship. 
the 16-year-old Henderson, the low amateur at the u.s. women's open and u.s. women's amateur runner-up, had six birdies in her bogey-free round on karuizawa 72 golf east's oshitate course. 
"it was a great day today," said Henderson, no. 2 in the world amateur ranking. "i hit the ball really well and had a lot of opportunities to make bird­ies and i capitalized on a lot of them. it's good to get a run on the first day and i'm really excit­ed to play the next couple days." 

augusta James added a 69 to give canada a 9-under 135 total, the lowest first-round score in the history of the event. 
two-time defending cham­pion south korea was second at 7 under. so-young lee opened with a 67, Hye-Jin choi shot 70, and gyeol park had a 75. 
the united states was tied for eighth at 2 under. alison lee opened with a 68, u.s. women's amateur champion kristen gillman shot 74, and emma talley had a 77. 




MLB | kansas city 4, texas 1; new york (nl) 4, miami 3 
Royals sweep Rangers behind Vargas, Gordon 
Associated Press 
kansas city, mo.  — alex gordon hit a two-run hom­er, Jason vargas pitched into the seventh inning and the kansas city royals beat the texas rangers 4-1 on wednesday night to finish off a three-game sweep. 
vargas (11-7) stranded four runners in scoring position before turning over a two-on, two-out mess to kelvin Herrera, who escaped the jam. louis coleman gave up a run in the eighth before wade Davis finished off the inning, and greg Holland worked a perfect ninth for his 42nd save. 
the victory along with Detroit’s 7-0 loss to cleveland allowed the royals to extend their lead to 1 1/2 games over the tigers in the al central. they are off thursday be­fore a crucial trip that takes them through the wild card-chasing yankees and into a three-game set in Detroit. 
nick tepesch (4-9) al­lowed all four runs over 6 2-3 innings for texas. 
the royals grabbed the lead in the fourth when omar infante led off with a single and gordon hom­ered to deep center. in the seventh, salvador perez and billy butler doubled to pro­vide a bit of cushion, and pinch runner terrance gore scored on a stolen base and a throwing error. 
that was more than enough to doom texas to its fifth straight loss. 
the biggest problem for the injury plagued rangers lately has been situational hitting, and it manifested itself again in three close losses to kansas city. they were 1 for 15 with run­ners in scoring position wednesday night, mak­ing them 3 for 28 over the course of the series. 

the sweep of texas was the first at home for the royals in seven seasons. 
tepesch, who grew up in nearby blue springs, missouri, kept giving the rangers a chance. He re­tired his first eight batters and then bounced back from gordon’s homer to re­tire eight of nine. 
vargas proved to be just a little bit better. 
the veteran left-hander, winless in his last six starts against texas left runners on the corners in the first inning, and somehow navi­gated leadoff doubles in the third, fourth and sixth. 
by the time he trudged off the mound on a humid night at kauffman stadium, a small but festive crowd of 15,771 had risen to its feet to give him a parting ovation. 
stanton homers for third straight game 
Associated Press 
miami — travis d’arnaud hit a go-ahead rbi double in the eighth inning to lift the new york mets to a 4-3 win over the miami marlins on wednesday night. 
kirk nieuwenhuis hit a two-run home run, and matt den Dekker had three hits for the mets, who won two of three in the series with the marlins. 
miami’s giancarlo stanton homered for the third con­secutive game to give him 36 on the season and bring the marlins within 4-3 in the eighth after the mets took a two-run lead in the top half of the inning. 
carlos torres (6-5) pitched 1 1-3 innings in relief to earn the victory. Jenrry mejia got the final three outs in the ninth, following a leadoff walk, for his 23rd save in 26 opportunities. 
Den Dekker led off the eighth with a single off mike Dunn (10-6), who also al­lowed a hit to lucas Duda. Dunn was replaced by bryan morris, who immediately allowed an rbi double to d’arnaud to right field to give the mets a 3-2 lead. Dilson Herrera’s groundout then scored Duda. 
Jacob degrom allowed one run and six hits in six innings for the mets. He struck out six, walked two and left with a 2-1 lead. 
marlins starter tom koehler struck out a career-high 10 batters in seven in­nings and allowed two runs, five hits, and four walks. 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 


the marlins tied it 2-2 in the seventh inning. adeiny Hechavarria doubled to deep center field off reliev­er buddy carlyle, and lefty Dario alvarez came in to face christian yelich, who singled to right to score Hechavarria. 
miami opened the scor­ing in the third with an rbi single by casey mcgehee. nieuwenhuis’ third home run of the season gave the mets a 2-1 lead in the fourth. 
Juan lagares led off the game with a single for the mets, stretching his on-base streak to six consecutive plate appearances. He fin­ished the game 2 for 5. 
a day after mets captain David wright had three hits to break out of a 7-for-50 skid, he struck out four times and went 0 for 5. 

tHe observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Armstrong leads Irish into new season 
By Andrew Robinson 
sports writer 
after three seasons as a standout performer, senior captain ashley armstrong has fully assumed a veteran leader­ship position on the young irish squad — and irish coach susan Holt has high expectations for the upcoming season, both for armstrong and for the team. 
“ashley has been a leader on this team from day one her freshman year,” Holt said, speaking highly of armstrong as an example for the younger golfers to follow. 
upon her arrival at notre Dame in 2011, armstrong found success on the course and made an immediate impact, achiev­ing the big east championship medalist honor, as well as be­ing named the big east rookie of the year with a 75.62 stroke average. 
“Her work ethic is one of the best in my 25 years of coach­ing,” Holt said. “she is always looking to improve, which is the mark of a great competitor.” 
armstrong did, in fact, con­tinue to improve. During her sophomore year, she cut down her stroke average to 74.64 strokes per round, which con­tributed to the irish winning the big east championship and earned her a spot on the all-big east team for the second year in a row. 
Her performance last season as a junior, armstrong said, was not her best, though by al­most most standards she had a strong season, leading the team with a 75.59 stroke average and finishing in second place in the season-opening tournament. However, armstrong said she was not satisfied — she is con­stantly reevaluating her mental approach and practice routine. 
“last spring i was struggling, and my approach was to push and practice as hard as possi­ble, pursuing a ‘perfect’ game,” she said. “i was spending more time on the practice range, [but this year] i am going to practice smarter by focusing on weak­nesses and playing warren golf course more often.” 
to help achieve the team’s goal of qualifying for the ncaa national tournament, armstrong said she has made an effort to create an envi­ronment where she and her teammates collaborate on mental and physical approach­es to the game, but also on how they push each other and focus on their own performances, es­pecially during competition. 
“of course, i want everyone to do well,” she said. “but i want to encourage all of my team­mates to follow a similar mind­set: that during tournaments, my teammates are my playing competitors and i am going to beat them ... because it will benefit the overall team score at the end of the day.” 
“ashley has assumed the role of leader on the team over the past year, and now that she is a senior she needs to really be comfortable in that role to make sure all her teammates [follow her lead],” Holt said. 
armstrong said she is con­
fident  that  the  team  has  a  
shot at reaching the  ncaa  
championship.  

she will begin her fourth and final season when the irish begin their fall slate with the mary Fossum invitational on sept. 13-14. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
paiD aDvertisement nDsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | tHe observer 





SMC VOLLEYBALL | alma 3, smc 1 
Belles lose conference opener to Alma 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
in their first miaa game tuesday, the belles' fell to alma in a 3-1 loss. 
belles coach toni elyea said the belles must im­prove across the board if they want to play at a level that can win conference games. 
“we just have to play bet­ter to beat a team like alma,” elyea said. “they’re a very good team, and we just did not play well. we didn’t hit well, and we never found a rhythm offensively. we made too many offensive er­rors, and our passing has to be more consistent. it’s just got to get better.” 
the belles (1-4, 0-1 miaa) kept the opening set close and held a late 21-20 lead. However, alma (5-0, 1-0) closed the set out by win­ning five of the final six points to take the first set. the scots never trailed on their way to a 25-17 second-set victory. saint mary’s fought hard in the third set to rally from five-point defi­cits on two separate occa­sions, but the scots steadied themselves and closed out for a 25-20 win. From there, the scots cruised to a 25­13 win in the fourth set to clinch the match. 
Despite the disappoint­ment of the loss, elyea said she saw some positives in the performance, especially from a couple younger players. 
“our blocking has really looked good — it's come a long way and [freshman middle hitter] rachel bonek has really done a nice job,” elyea said. “[sophomore setter] clare mcmillan has done a great job as well. she has really made good choices setting for us. we just have to get into a bet­ter rhythm to support her. we’re excited to hopefully see that come together this weekend.” 
the weekend slate sees the first two matches of a five-match home stand, as saint mary’s will face olivet and albion. 
olivet (2-3, 1-0) is coming off a sweep of miaa foe kalamazoo, while albion (0-5, 0-1) was swept in its last outing against calvin, the no. 1 team in the avca coaches’ poll . 
elyea says she is confident in her team but is empha­sizing a team-wide focus on staying focused and main­taining a top-flight effort throughout the course of a match. 
“the main thing will be consistency,” elyea said. "we have to play our game and be at the level we are capable of. the teams we’re playing are scrappy, and we have to stay focused and play the way we know we can.” 
while a few belles have 
paiD aDvertisement 


posted solid stats in the season so far, elyea said be­ing back at home could be the biggest factor for saint mary’s this weekend. 
“we’re very excited for this weekend,” elyea said. “it will take some pressure off to be back home, and we can relax and just be ener­gized to play back on our home court with our home fans, friends and family. we have a lot of people coming this weekend, and we defi­nitely feel the excitement.” 
the belles face olivet at home Friday at 7 p.m. before taking on albion at noon on saturday. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 
Welsh 
continueD From page 20 

records in total. He coached 45 big east individ­ual and relay champions and 12 all-americans. 
in his final season, he was honored by the college swimming coaches association of america (cscaa) with its high­est award, the national collegiate and scholastic swimming trophy. in 1993, he won the richard e. steadman award from the cscaa, given to a coach on the scholastic, club or colle­giate level who has done the most to spread happiness in swimming. 
at the time of his retire­ment, welsh was the second-longest serving head coach at notre Dame behind now-retired track and field coach Joe piane. 
the irish are coming off a season in which they took sixth place in the acc and 16th place in the ncaa championships, tied for their highest finish in 15 years. senior emma reaney led the squad by capturing the first individual ncaa title in pro­gram history and breaking the american record in the 200-yard breaststroke. 
notre Dame’s season be­gins oct. 3, with a dual meet against michigan state. 



Bohaboy 
continueD From page 20 
2-1 decisions to no. 10 texas tech and usc and dropped in the rankings from 11th to 25th. bohaboy recorded the team’s lone goal against usc and had another score waved off af­ter a penalty. 
the road ahead only gets tougher, as notre Dame travels to no. 16 santa clara and no. 4 stanford over the weekend. bohaboy said she is confident, however, that the irish can rebound. 
“that’s great motivation for our games to come,” bohaboy said. “this next weekend is going to be good for us, and we’ll respond well.” 
on a notre Dame squad with 11 freshman and 19 un­derclassmen, bohaboy is the sole senior on the attacking line and said she prefers to guide the younger players by the way she plays. 
“i’m not the most vocal person,” bohaboy said. “[my leadership style] is leading by example, working hard in practices [and] working hard in games.” 
the santa margarita catholic High school gradu­ate also has a personal con­nection with the freshman class. midfielder taylor klawunder and forward kaitlin klawunder both at­tended santa margarita and also played for the so cal blues, bohaboy’s high school club team. 
“we went to the same high school, so i knew them be­fore,” she said. 
the klawunders’ arrival on campus coincided with the start of coach theresa romagnolo’s first season at notre Dame. Despite the de­parture of bohaboy’s long­time coach randy waldrum and the introduction of a new staff, the turnover has been relatively smooth, bohaboy said. 
“getting the new coach­es has been awesome, and they’ve been great with the team,” she said. “both [waldrum and romagnolo] seem like they like to … move the ball around, keep it on the ground [and] focus on possession.” 
the irish will try to snap a two-game losing streak this weekend when they travel to santa clara, calif., to take on no. 16 santa clara on Friday, followed by no. 4 stanford on sunday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


Captains 
continueD From page 20 
the ice, he was one of our hardest workers, if not the hardest.” 
Fogarty and schneider bring prior leadership experience to their new posts. Fogarty cap­tained edina High school in minnesota to the state semifi­nals during his senior year, and schneider has been an alternate captain for austria’s under-18 and under-20 teams in several international tournaments. 
Fogarty said the best leader­ship strategy he knows is al­ways giving 100 percent effort. 
“i’m more of a lead-by-exam­ple kind of guy,” Fogarty said. “i’ve always been kind of a qui­et, quiet guy, but obviously now that i’m a captain, i’m going to need to get out of my comfort zone at times and speak up. i try to do things the right way ... and always be one of the hard­est workers.” 
all three players made sig­nificant contributions last year for the irish. Fogarty notched three goals and eight assists in 33 games while also excelling on faceoffs. Herr had the third-most goals for the irish, with 14 in 40 games and also added 13 assists. schneider was a steady presence on the ice in 39 games and recorded eight goals and eight assists last year. He also was named to the Hockey east all-academic team. 
Fogarty said he is confident the three can work together to help this young irish team start the season right. 
“we all kind of complement each other well,” Fogarty said. “peter [schneider] is kind of that rah-rah guy, ... and sam [Herr]’s a little bit of both, [rah­rah and lead by example]. it’s kind of a group thing — we’re not going to make any deci­sions without ... talking to each other.” 
the first duty facing the cap­tains is getting the irish ready for oct. 5 when notre Dame faces waterloo in an exhibition matchup at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
Robinson 
continueD From page 20 
of difficulties. the irish compiled a 20-10 overall record and a 13-2 big east record two seasons ago, but their overall record slipped to 13-18 last year, and the team went just 7-13 in the acc. 
the irish were inconsis­tent and often out of sync, losing seven consecutive matches at one point, in­cluding five consecutive conference losses. 
this year’s preseason poll lists the irish as 11th out of 15 acc teams, which is where they finished last season. 
the team is relatively young and lacks experience 

—
 the six incoming fresh­men make up the largest class on the team. there is no official captain. notre Dame does not have as much star power as some of the top acc teams. 

yet, there are signs of promise. the 3-0 loss to minnesota was deceptive 


—
 the irish played well and actually pushed the golden gophers to set point in each of the first two sets, though they were unable to close out a set. 


the freshmen have al­ready shown they can contribute. middle blocker sam Fry had a team-high nine block assists against minnesota, and she has tallied nine kills and 15.5 points to go along with it. against wisconsin, fresh­man libero natalie Johnson led the team with eight digs, while outside hitter sydney kuhn added four kills, four digs and a block assist. 
graduate student out­side hitter nicole smith, who has team-highs with 19 points and 16 kills, and senior middle blocker Jeni Houser, who is a preseason all-conference selection for the third consecutive year, provide some power at the net, and give the irish some veteran presence to keep them on track. 

in the upcoming invitational, the irish will take on washington state (2­1), iupui (1-2) and western michigan (2-1). 
are these the most for­midable teams notre Dame will face this year? not at all. the irish won’t get into the meat of their schedule for another three weeks when they take on their conference opponents, no. 8 Florida state, no. 19 Duke, no. 20 north carolina and no. 24 louisville. 
this weekend, however, is much more important than it may seem — for notre Dame, it’s about setting a tone. 

the three games offer a chance for the irish to come together as a cohesive unit and to work out the kinks of inexperience before they face acc opponents. it is a chance for individuals to step up and showcase what they can contribute to the team this year. it is a chance for the team to prove to themselves and others that they aren’t to be taken lightly. 
the irish were thrown into the flames last week­end. this weekend will be a second test, a gauge of where their season might be headed. so if you’re still wondering if this irish team has what it takes to compete in the acc — ask me on monday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

paiD aDvertisement nDsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | tHe observer 



CROSSWORD | will sHortZ 

ACROSS 37 Something you 68 Relatives of 1 Vulnerable one might pick in currants 9 “That’s your Hawaii offer?!” 38 Self-gratifying DOWN 15 Start of a small episode 1 “___ wise guy, sundae 41 Response that’s eh?” 16 Armpit often doubled 2 What a keeper
keeps
17 Racing legend 42 ___ Alto 
3 Annual

who voices a 44 Camera setting conferencecharacter in 
45 Doodlebug, e.g. with the slogan
“Cars” 
“Ideas worth

47 More than shout
18 Take turns spreading”
49 Open-___

skiing? 4 Original
50 Platypus-like, in
19 Bean and Dungeons & 
Combs a way Dragons co. 53 Disney 5 Go in circles, in
21 Memorable 2011 

character with a way?
hurricane 

long eyelashes 6 Classroom
22 Makes like 
writing

Chuck Berry 54 “Catch Me If You 
7 #1 Ray Charles
Can” airline

26 Dish often R&B hit “I’ve served with 55 “That’ll do me” ___ Woman” hoisin sauce 58 Presented an 8 Something short 28 First name on address found in an alley the Supreme 60 Precisely 9 “Illmatic” and Court 
“Stillmatic”
65 Revolution 
rapper
29 Exchange units brings it 
10 Strong, say
31 Kickoff 66 Sarcastic reply 
11 Anne Frank, e.g.
32 Get to work? to the obvious 
12 Actress Page of

33 Like a plane, for 67 Somewhat “Juno” short formal 13 Together (with) 14 Kind of session
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
20 Word with house 


or song
22 A cinch 
23 Candy man
played by Depp 
24 PhotographerAdams 
25 Piece of fiction 
27 “… ___ saw 
Elba” 
29 Question of self-doubt 
30 Give ground-ballpractice, maybe 
34 Hospitaldivisions 
35 “Oh brother!” 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  62  63  64  
65  66  
67  68  

Puzzle by Xan Vongsathorn  
36 Toast, with “a” 39 Air force? 40 Non-deluxe sofa covering 43 Monasteryresidents who have not taken monastic vows 46 Young Skywalker, informally  48 Glue with a bovine logo 50 Centerpiece ofmany a park 51 Not so well stocked 52 More than impressed 53 Raison ___ 56 Animal in a Kipling story  57 One who’s always lookingdown 59 One revolution 61 Organ that’ssensitive to vibrations 62 Half of MCII 63 Soccer stadium cry 64 Cobb and Treadway  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

SUDOKU | tHe mepHam group 
Level: 



8/30/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia last 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: shaun white, 27; garrett Hedlund, 29; paz de 
la Huerta, 29; charlie sheen, 48. Happy Birthday: a change in the way you handle your money or how much you have is heading your way. keep personal finances a secret to avoid having others take advantage of your generosity. invest in your skills and knowledge. this is a year to excel, and spending time and money on self-improvement will pay off. your numbers are 4, 13, 17, 21, 29, 34, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): take action if something isn’t going right. Do what­ever you can to bring about a better understanding with regard to an important partnership. be willing to make changes if it will help the situation. romance will enhance your love life.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make sure that everything is in order at home. Discuss any problems you face with friends, relatives or colleagues before the situation heats up. being proactive will encourage others to help find workable solutions. work as a team player. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): what you do to help others will bring you great satisfaction. take action in good faith and you will counter the negative criticism you face from those who don’t like change. you can make a difference if you follow your heart. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Discuss private matters and you will get answers that will help you pursue new avenues. Don’t live in the past or try to change the impossible. take the road less traveled and enjoy the ride. make peace and keep moving. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): passion, excitement and making changes to your life will boost your confidence and bring favorable results. opportunities that are within reach and a change of location or a trip will encourage you to explore new people, places and pastimes. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): apply what you know to a worthwhile cause. your abil­ity to act on behalf of others will enhance your reputation and your prospects for future opportunities. Don’t be shy when your talent can be put to good use.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): keep life simple and your plans moderate. Don’t let the past discourage you or the future overwhelm you. balance will be required to make the best choices. Don’t let anyone push you in a direction you don’t want to go. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t get angry; get even. success is the sweetest revenge, so get down to business and do whatever it takes to eliminate your competition. use your keen vision and ability to add extra detail and you will excel masterfully. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put some thought into ways you can earn more cash or turn something you have into a profit on the open market. bring about change that will enhance your home life and ensure that you connect with people you find exhilarating. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): consider ways to add value to your home, your investments or even a hobby you enjoy doing. a look at how you have excelled in the past and what you enjoy doing most will result in a plan that has potential. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have to deal with institutions, government agencies or authority figures in such a way that you don’t compromise your freedom to move forward with your personal goals. Don’t let anger lead to a poor decision. think before you act.  

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): let your intuition guide you. you will pick up on any nuance portrayed, allowing you to make an offer that is too hard to refuse. enjoy your ability to play the game of life to the max. gains are within reach... 


Birthday Baby: you are adaptable, curious and intelligent. you are impulsive and fun loving. 
JUMBLE | DaviD Hoyt anD JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre Dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

tHe observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2014 | nDsmcobserver.com 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Bohaboy paces Irish attack 
By Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
she says it’s just pure luck, but there’s no denying it — august is lauren bohaboy’s month. 
in the past three years, the senior forward has scored eight goals and notched two assists in just 10 games during that month. last season, four of bohaboy’s team-leading seven goals came in august. she also has three scores to start this year, leading the no. 25 irish (2-2-0). 
“i think it’s just a coin­cidence,” bohaboy said. “i’m just focusing [so that] in games, when i get good chances, i’m putting them away.” 
the mission viejo, calif., native has been one of notre Dame’s premier goal-scorers since she came to campus in 2011. in her first three sea­sons, she netted 20 goals, more than any of her class­mates. she has ranked in the top two on the squad in goals as well as points. 
“she’s a great goal-scor­er,” irish coach theresa romagnolo said. “she knows how to find herself in criti­cal areas of the field to put herself in position to score. she’s got a great shot with ei­ther foot, and she brings a lot to the table.” 
now, the senior will serve as notre Dame’s prime of­fensive threat as she tries to lead the irish back to the college cup for the first time since the program’s ncaa ti­tle in 2010. 
“[i want to get to the college cup] more than words can really say,” bohaboy said. “especially because we’ve never been in my three years here, i’d love to go there, and i know that we can do that.” 
notre Dame’s march to the ncaa tournament hit an ear­ly snag over the weekend at the notre Dame invitational. the irish dropped a pair of 
see w soccer PAGE 18 
HOCKEY 

Jackson names captains 
By Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
with the season quickly ap­proaching, notre Dame an­nounced a brand new trio of captains wednesday. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson named junior center steven Fogarty as team captain, while senior right wing peter schneider and junior left wing sam Herr will serve as alternate captains. they re­place a quartet of graduated captains, Jeff costello, bryan rust, t.J. tynan and stephen Johns, the last three of whom were alternate captains. 
Fogarty said he plans to apply many of the lessons he learned from his former teammates and captains. 
“[we want to emulate] the way they went about their business,” Fogarty said. “i was fortunate enough to room with Jeff costello, so i got to see how he carries himself or handles himself in differ­ent situations. off the ice, he was a real smart guy; he was a good citizen, ... and then on 
see captains PAGE 18 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish junior center Steven Fogarty races down the ice Feb. 7 during Notre Dame’s 2-1 loss to Maine at Compton Family Ice Arena. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame prepares for crucial weekend 
Andrew Robinson 
sports writer 
this weekend is huge for notre Dame. the irish are playing at home, with their reputation on the line. the result could greatly impact the direction of their season. 
and no, i’m not talking about the historic matchup against michigan on the gridiron this saturday night 
— i’m talking about the im­portance for the irish vol­leyball team to have a strong performance as it hosts the golden Dome invitational at purcell pavilion, Friday through sunday. 
after dropping its first two matches 3-0 against no. 18 minnesota and no. 4 wisconsin, we are left to wonder when the time comes, will this irish team be ready to match up with its high-level acc opponents? 
in its transition from the big east to the acc, notre Dame encountered its share 
see robinson PAGE 18 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Welsh takes over for Barnes 
Observer Staff Report 

twenty-four hours after brian barnes suddenly re­signed as head coach of the women’s swimming and diving team, notre Dame announced wednesday that former men’s team coach tim welsh will run the team on an interim basis. 
barnes, the women’s coach for the past six years, stepped down tuesday, saying he needs to spend more time with his family. barnes has two children, Jack, 7, and caroline, 5, and his wife died two years ago after battling cancer, ac­cording to und.com. 
His interim replacement, welsh, retired as head coach of the men’s pro­gram at the end of the 2013­2014 season, his 29th year at notre Dame. He served as head coach of both the men’s and women’s teams in his first 10 seasons with the irish before switching over to lead only the men. 
“in one sense i had been looking forward to step­ping away from the day-to­day challenges of coaching, and yet i truly look forward to this assignment,” welsh said in a press release. “i’ve obviously worked closely with brian the last half-dozen years, so i have a familiarity with the team. the program has made great strides in recent years, and i hope i can help lead that group to contin­ued success.” 
notre Dame Director of athletics Jack swarbrick said in the press release he is confident welsh will be able to continue the recent run of success the irish swimmers have achieved but gave no indication of how long he expected welsh to stay on as coach or how quickly he would name a permanent replacement. 
in his 29 years with the irish, welsh took the team to new heights, winning 22 conference titles and set­ting over 200 program 
see welsH PAGE 17 



