The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 90 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
1st Source Bank to replace NDFCU in LaFortune 
Evaluation committee appoints new bank in response to student survey results 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
on-campus banking op­tions are set to look different for students and staff next year, with changes in the laFortune student center and aTms around campus. 
a branch of 1st source bank will replace the notre dame Federal credit union (ndFcu) branch currently housed in laFortune. an announcement of the change was sent to all 
students and  staff  via email  
Thursday.  
sophomore  drew  carmona,  

the student government 
representative on the evalua­tion committee responsible for the decision, said the university chose 1st source from an initial pool of 13 financial institutions. 
“we put a lot of thought into what was best for the university and what was best for our stu­dents and staff,” carmona said. “we selected 1st source as the new campus branch bank part­ner because 1st source has the ability to offer flexible solu­tions that best meet our unique needs. 
“we wanted a financial in­stitution that could meet the needs of the university’s ca­shiering services, as well as offer quality services and con­sumer banking.” 
carmona said, as the new partner bank, 1st source will take over several duties former­ly performed by ndFcu. 
“1st source is going to ad­minister various functions, like student account payments, de­partment deposits, event/start­up cash and cashing checks,” he said. 
The transition likely will be completed over the summer, carmona said. The new 1st source branch will open July 1, and there will also be several 1st 
see banK PAGE 4 



Week promotes positive body image 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
This week, the gender issues committee of student govern­ment is trying to promote con­versation about body image and understanding through love your body week. 
“we have a lot of students here who are perfectionists,” monica daegele, director of the gender issues committee, said. 

“everyone is well-rounded and talented at a number of things. but with that kind of perfection­ist mentality can sometimes come dangerous behaviors and obsessions. The point of love your body week is to bring into perspective this mentality that a lot of students have.” 
daegele said the events planned for the week will em­phasize that body image issues are relevant to both men and women. 
“eating issues, body-image is­sues, they are not just a female problem. a lot of men struggle with them, as well,” daegele said. “a lot of research done in the past 10 years has illustrated that there are so many undiscov­ered body image issues for men. i think people would be surprised at the number of men who feel 
see body PAGE 3 

Festival celebrates chinese new year and culture 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
on sunday, the college’s china night celebrated the sights, sounds and senses of the chinese new year. 
college provost and senior vice president patricia Fleming said the free event, hosted by the chinese cultural club in o’laughlin auditorium, fea­tured 15 acts open to the pub­
lic. The club served chinese 
see china PAGE 4 



By ABI HOVERMAN 
news writer 
after months of preparation, an entirely student-run pro­duction of “legally blonde: The musical” opens this weekend as pemco’s main-stage winter show. 
pemco, the primary student musical-theater group on cam­pus, chose the pop musical for its upbeat nature and vocally de­manding female parts, director and sophomore Jacob schrimpf said. 
“This seems like a traditional fit for the actors and resources of pemco,” he said. “The overall vibe of our group right now is very fitted to the show. we defi­nitely have the right performers. we have a lot of energetic peo­ple in the group, which is great because the show is very high energy.” 
after former producers and di­rectors chose the winter show’s production team in may 2013, schrimpf said he and the pro­ducers chose “legally blonde” from a list of four musicals. 
“The rights for the show just came out a few years ago, so there hasn’t been a lot of time for amateur groups to perform it yet, 
see blonde PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Where’s Waldo? 

Omar Hunter 
freshman 
sorin hall 
“where isn’t waldo?” 
Carrera Brown 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
“not at north dining hall. no one goes to north.” 
Maddie Caballero 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“with carmen sandiego.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Ning Zhou 
sophomore 
off campus 
“at the bottom of lake du lac.” 
James Mullen 
freshman 
Keough hall 
“he’s the statue on top of the dome.” 
Jill Chipley 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“he’s under the lyons arch because that’s the best place to be.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

meg handelman mike monaco Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Kelly Konya a.J. godeaux emily mcconville alex wilcox 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
maria massa Kevin noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood drive Tunnel Tours LGBTQ 101 Zen Meditation Men’s Hockey 
Jodi lo caroline lang 
LaFortune Ballroom Power Plant LaFortune McNeil 102 Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. 8 a.m. - 3 p.m. Room Center Arena Sponsored by the For grad students 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 7:05 p.m. - 9:05 p.m. 
Corrections 

Graduate Student only, part of Graduate Two-hour interactive Meditation practice The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as Union. Appreciation Week. presentation. open to all. BU Terriers. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Bengal Bouts prelims “The Naked Truth” Special Friends Play: Clybourne Park Notre Dame 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Joyce Center 155 DeBartolo Autism Conference DeBartolo Performing Symphony Orchestra 
however, recognize that we will make 
6 p.m. - 10 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library, Arts Cener DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Proceeds go to Holy On advertising’s image Carey Auditorium 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Cross missions in of gender, with Jean 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Race and generational 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Bangladesh. Kilbourne. Reception will follow. issues in Chicago. Winter concert. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2014 | The observer 


Body 
conTinued From page 1 
uncomfortable with their body, who are trying to fix parts of their body. 
“in the past, the eating disor­der fact sheets we’ve used have largely focused on women, and this year we have one for women and one for men.” 
daegele said love your body week will address the stereotype that men don’t have eating issues or body issues.
 “it’s really quite the opposite 
— i think one of the statistics is that 43 percent of teenage boys have said they feel uncomfort­able with their bodies,” she said. 
daegele said events for the week include free recsports classes and presentations by the university counseling center and the office of alcohol and drug education. a talk Tuesday night will focus on how adver­tising portrays male and female bodies. 

on wednesday, there will be a screening of the documentary “happy,” which analyzes happi­ness in various parts of the world. 
“essentially what it looks at is what really makes people happy,” daegele said. “it does a great job of putting everything into perspec­tive and allowing a greater mes­sage to be received.” 
daegele said representatives from the university counseling center and office of alcohol and drug education will discuss dis­ordered eating Thursday evening. 
“They’re going to make it very applicable to notre dame,” she said. 
‘The title of the presentation is ‘eliminate the F word’ — ‘F’ be­ing ‘fat.’ That’s a common theme that will also be present through­out the week, getting students to understand the negative effects it can have on everyone.” 
on Friday afternoon, there will be free massages in the sorin room of the laFortune student center, daegele said. recsports will host a workshop sunday that teaches women how to utilize weight rooms. 
“There’s a huge stereotype that women shouldn’t lift weights or build muscle,” daegele said. “This will walk women through the dif­ferent weights available and show how lifting weights is actually very good for you.” 
daegele said the events of the week will take a holistic approach to body appreciation. 
“we want to show why our bodies are important to us and why taking care of our bodies is so important,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Students sell Nicaraguan goods in bookstore 
By CHARLIE DUCEY 
news writer 
The nicaraguan-based custom elevation, a company founded by three notre dame students in 2012, continues to expand its sale of handicrafts to improve the lives of artisans. 
co-founder and senior christian estrada, who is from nicaragua, said custom elevation bases itself on the principle of fairness. 
“it is about giving the artisans a chance,” he said. “it is about letting them do what they love and getting paid fairly.” 
estrada said the company has developed new handmade products since it began selling its goods at the hammes notre dame bookstore in april 2013. 
“we expanded our product line to fit the likes of our various customers,” estrada said. “in the collegiate market, we have added the salbeke hand-woven bag. we introduced this product in early december and have re­ceived quite a bit of attention.” 
The company introduced the new products after assessing the marketability of the amaka hammocks featured in the company’s first product launch. 
“The hammock has proven to be a very tough product to sell because of the lack of sum­
“It is about giving the artisans a chance. It is about letting them do what they love and getting paid fairly.” 
Christian Estrada 
co-founder 
Custom Elevation 
mertime activities around notre dame and the high price point due to royalty expenses, transportation and packaging,” estrada said. “This is why we in­troduced the salbeke.” 
estrada said the artisans em­ployed by custom elevation work out of a renovated build­ing in the nicaraguan city of masaya, where the production of handicrafts stretches back many generations. 
“The conditions in masaya in general are still very bad. given that the artisan community is extensive, it will be hard to fix this problem right away, but our vision is to help change the lives of as many artisans as possible,” estrada said. “by eventually ex­panding to more and more uni­versities and institutions, we will be able to increase the size of our facility and the number of workers we employ.” 
between business classes and collaboration with recent 
“The conditions in Masaya in general are still very bad. Given that the artisan community is extensive, it will be hard to fix this problem right away, but our vision is to help change the lives of as many artisans as possible.” 
Christian Estrada 
co-founder 
Custom Elevation 
notre dame alumnus roberto pellas, estrada said he has met with officials from Texas christian university (Tcu) and the university of Texas at austin to market custom elevation’s products bearing the logos of each institution. 
“i just met with Tcu’s licens­ing director and it went very well,” estrada said. “we have basically secured a license with them and will most probably start selling at their bookstore around June.” 
in addition, estrada said custom elevation has set its sights on the corporate logo market. 
“This will be pretty much like the collegiate market in that we will personalize our prod­ucts with institutional logos,” he said. “we are also selling our generic products [without logos] at different boutiques in nicaragua and here in the states.” 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey1@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

the co-presidents of chinese 
China 
cultural club because i think 
conTinued From page 1 

chinese culture is just like any cuisine in the dining hall after other stunning culture in the the performances. rest of this world,” she said. 
alice siqin yang, advisor for “They are all so beautiful. the chinese cultural club, said children and saint mary’s this year’s event featured folk students who attended the dances, music using traditional event received red envelopes chinese instruments, songs, as a traditional chinese new theater and games meant to in-year’s gift, yang said. in china, corporate the audience into the celebration of the new year festivities. often includes the use of fire-
The chinese new year, also crackers at midnight and the known as the spring Festival, exchange of red envelopes with began Jan. 31, yang said. she monetary gifts from relatives. said as a native chinese per-“The red color of the enve­son, it is one of the most impor-lope symbolizes good luck and tant festivals she celebrates. 
“it is the time for family re­union, like Thanksgiving and 
“It is very imprtant 
christmas in the united states. 
for all of us to 
people away from home would 
learn multiple 
try their best to go home for the holiday and for reunion,” about it, so people make it a pri-movie. 

languages and 
Blonde 

ority, but it requires a lot of time “The premise of the movie is yang said. “it is hard for most 
diverse cultures 
conTinued From page 1 
chinese overseas to do that. 

management to balance the so ridiculous and fun-spirited 
in today’s 
it is nice that we can celebrate production and schoolwork,” that putting it in a musical set-

interdependent 
the festival here, together at 

which is exciting,” he said. schrimpf said. “it’s a demand-ting, … adding over-the-top saint mary’s. 
schrimpf said cast selection ing process.” theater elements, takes it to an­“it is like a family reunion for 
world.” 

was particularly difficult be-as a Film, Television and other level that makes it even 
Alice Siqin Yang 
chinese international students cause more than 100 people au-Theatre major, schrimpf said more fun,” nash said. 

advisor 
and many others.” 

ditioned for only 25 parts. working on the show offered the beyond unique elements like 
Chinese Culture Club 
yang said the event was a cul­

“it was amazing because we opportunity to apply what he two live dogs as on-stage char­tural learning experience for 
could have cast the show two or learned in his theater courses to acters, nash said the pop genre saint mary’s students and the 
three times over with the amaz-a real production. although he of the musical offers a relatable south bend community. is supposed to ward off evil 
ing talent we had come in,” he receives no academic credit, he style of music and dance that is “china night is a show that spirits,” yang said. 
said. said he enjoys the chance to ex-familiar and accessible for stu­celebrates chinese new year yang has been the show’s 
senior emily nash, who plays plore future career possibilities. dents, both on stage and in the and diversity on saint mary’s advisor since 2008 and teach-
the lead role of elle woods, said “i find that things in my class-audience. campus,” yang said. “it offers es mandarin chinese at the 
she joined pemco her fresh-es inform my decisions as a di-“it’s a show where the music a platform for international college. she also coordinates 
man year when she auditioned rector, and my experience as a encourages you to let loose,” cultural exchange and an op-the asian and african study-
for the company’s main-stage director is informing my learn-she said. “it’s really fun that way portunity for saint mary’s stu-abroad programs, including the 
winter production. she said she ing,” he said. “This is helping me and makes the dancing more dents, faculty and staff and china summer program and 
is excited to see the growth in figure out if this is something modern. … it’s fun that we can local community people to the china semester program 
the quality of the group’s pro-i’m looking at pursuing profes-relate really well and bring that interact and learn more about in shanghai and nanjing. yang 
ductions over the years. sionally or not.” to the stage.” chinese language and culture. said she has taken saint mary’s 
“The fact that it’s students not everyone in the produc-schrimpf said pemco’s hard “it is very important for all of students to china three times 
having put together this entire tion studies theater academi-work for the past three months us to learn multiple languages in the past few years. 
show without any professional cally, schrimpf said. makes the production exciting and diverse cultures in today’s yang encouraged students 
assistance is a big deal,” she choreographer maggie miller to watch. interdependent world.” to study abroad in china dur­
said. “it’s cool to see the cos-majors in chemical engineer-“it’s a special group of people, First-year student yaqi song, ing her presentation at china 
tumes, props, staging and set ing. miller, a junior, has been and the show is a joy to watch,” co-president of the chinese night. 
come together, knowing it’s all active in dance company and he said. “if people are look-cultural club, said saint “it is becoming more and 
put together by young adults, recently discovered musical ing for a few hours to escape mary’s first hosted china night more important to learn the 
makes it really unique.” theater, although she began their stresses, this is a great in 1967 and again in 1969 in chinese language and culture 
nash said she appreciates the dancing when she was five. opportunity.” celebration of chinese new in the interdependent global 
unique opportunity she has had “i didn’t do theater at all until miller said she looks forward year. she said the festival has society that we live in today,” 
to participate in musical theater last year,” she said. to sharing the production with been rebooted since the cre-yang said. “saint mary’s strives 
even though she has no formal although audiences may students. ation of the chinese cultural to bring together women of 
vocal or theatrical training. be familiar with the film ver-“it’s a hilarious show, you club in 2008. different nations, cultures 
“audition, and keep audition-sion of “legally blonde” and can’t watch it without smiling,” The club and its 20 registered and races so that students 
ing, because you never know have expectations for the main she said. “it’s really upbeat. it’s members held a dumpling par-can have a richer educational 
what they’re looking for, who characters, nash said the musi-so much fun. if you want to be ty on chinese new year’s eve of experience. 
they might need, and what spot cal features a more developed, put in a good mood, you should 2013 and 2014, song said. she “as part of the sophia 
they need filled. … it’s a really quirky role for elle. come. i still am laughing at said the club also has coordi-program, the college’s new gen-
low-key, accepting, relaxed en-“Knowing that there are cer-rehearsals.” nated with the dining hall to eral education program, saint 
vironment,” nash said. “There’s tain expectations from the peo-performances of “legally serve a chinese-themed din-mary’s encourages students to 
nothing to be afraid of.” ple who originated the role and blonde” will be Thursday, ner near the chinese new year. understand the aspects of cul­
schrimpf said the cast has taking those expectations and Friday and saturday at 7:30 p.m. song said she receives turally diverse environments 
been rehearsing for four hours trying to live up to the role at the in washington hall. Tickets support from the chinese in order to communicate more 
a day, five days a week, since same time has been really chal-are available in advance at the Friendship association at effectively across cultures.” 
Thanksgiving, making partici-lenging but fun,” nash said. laFortune box office. notre dame, notre dame stu­
pation a serious commitment nash said she loves the musi­dents and holy cross students. Contact Emilie Kefalas at      
for students. cal version of “legally blonde” Contact Abi Hoverman at “i’m honored to be one of ekafal01@saintmarys.edu 
“people are really passionate even more than she likes the ahoverma@nd.edu 

Bank 
conTinued From page 1 
source aTms around campus. 
carmona said students are free to do their personal bank­ing with any financial institu­tion. he said the main office of ndFcu on moreau drive will remain open and there will still be several ndFcu aTms around campus to serve those who have accounts with ndFcu. 
“if anyone has an account with ndFcu, they can keep it. They can still bank with them,” carmona said. 
carmona said the evalua­tion committee also reviewed results from a student-banking survey conducted in the fall and found most students do their banking with large, national banks. The university plans to add aTms for some of these banks, in addition to the other campus banking changes. 
“we’re looking into expand­ing our aTm offerings to fulfill the needs of as many students and employees as possible.” carmona said. “we are reach­ing out to a few national banks to see if they would be will­ing to place an aTm on cam­pus to service consumers who already have accounts with them, to help minimize bank fees — such as aTm withdrawal fees. That’s something very im­portant to our students.” 
The process behind these decisions began in october 2013 with the formation of the evaluation committee, led by procurement services and composed of representatives from Treasury services, the controller’s office, human resources, the student activities office and student government. 
after establishing the com­mittee, members sent a request for proposal to 13 banking in­stitutions, carmona said. The committee used the proposals to narrow the group down to a few finalists and heard a pre­sentation from each of them in January. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


THE NAKED TRUTH: 
ADVERTISING’S IMAGE OF GENDER 
Presented by: 

JEAN KILBOURNE 
“LECTURER OF THE YEAR ,” NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
“OUT OF THE BANAL AND COMMON-PLACE ADS WE ABSORB EACH DAY WITHOUT BELIEVING OURSELVES INFLUENCED, JEAN KILBOURNE CREATES A POLITICALLY SOPHISTICATED AND FRIGHTENING TAPESTRY. HER PRESENTATION IS FASCINATING, FAST PACED AND EXTREMELY FUNNY.” 
— MARGE PIERCY 
“JEAN KILBOURNE’S WORK IS PIONEERING AND CRUCIAL TO THE DIALOGUE OF ONE OF THE MOST UNDEREXPLORED, YET MOST POWERFUL, REALMS OF AMERICAN CULTURE — ADVERTISING. WE OWE HER A GREAT DEBT.” 
— SUSAN FALUDI, AUTHOR OF 
BACKLASH 
“JEAN KILBOURNE’S ARGUMENTS ARE AS FOCUSED AND UNASSAILABLE AS THOSE OF A GOOD PROSECUTOR. PIECE BY PIECE SHE BUILDS A CASE FOR AN AMERICA DEEPLY CORRUPTED BY ADVERTISERS.” 

— MARY PIPHER, AUTHOR OF REVIVING OPHELIA 
ADVERTISING IS AN OVER $250 BILLION A YEAR INDUSTRY. 
“WE ARE EACH EXPOSED TO OVER 3000 ADS A DAY. THE ADS SELL A GREAT DEAL MORE THAN PRODUCTS. THEY SELL VALUES, IMAGES, AND CONCEPTS OF SUCCESS AND WORTH, LOVE AND SEXUALITY, POPULARITY AND NOR­MALCY. SOMETIMES, THEY SELL ADDICTIONS.” 
JEAN KILBOURNE, ED.D., INTERNATIONALLY ACCLAIMED MEDIA CRITIC, AUTHOR, AND FILMMAKER, IS KNOWN FOR HER ABILITY TO PRESENT PROVOCATIVE TOPICS IN A WAY THAT UNITES RATHER THAN DIVIDES AND THAT ENCOURAGES DIALOGUE. WITH EXPERT KNOWLEDGE, INSIGHT, HUMOR AND COMMITMENT, SHE MOVES AND EMPOWERS PEOPLE TO TAKE ACTION IN THEIR OWN AND IN SOCIETY’S INTEREST. 
THE AWARD-WINNING FILMS “KILLING US SOFTLY,” “SPIN THE BOT TLE,” AND “SLIM HOPES” ARE BASED ON HER LECTURES. SHE 
HAS TWICE RECEIVED THE LECTURER OF THE YEAR AWARD FROM THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR CAMPUS ACTIVITIES AND WAS NAMED BY THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE AS ONE OF THE THREE MOST POPULAR LECTURERS ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES. SHE IS THE AUTHOR OF CAN’T BUY MY LOVE: HOW ADVERTISING CHANGES THE WAY WE THINK AND FEEL AND SO SEXY SO SOON: THE NEW SEXUALIZED CHILDHOOD AND WHAT PARENTS CAN DO TO PROTECT 
THEIR KIDS. 

FEBRUARY 18, 7-8:30 PM 

Co-Sponsored by: 
- University Counseling Center 
-
 Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

- Department of Gender Studies 

-
 Student Government Gender Issues 


Committee 

155 DEBARTOLO HALL 





INSIDE COLUMN 

Swoonin’ for the Sixties 

Kelly Konya 
saint mary’s editor 

i know what you’re thinking: the sixties is possibly the most controversial decade in history, and this girl is probably obsessed with the revolution of  the careless, bob dylan-loving hippies. (and i am, in a way.) 
i, too, had my own preconceptions about this era, but they were uprooted while study­ing the decade this semester. 
my class recently finished reading Tom wolfe’s “The electric Kool-aid acid Test,” a non-fictional account of Ken Kesey and his comrades, the pranksters, as they frequently trip on lsd. 
The pranksters tour the west coast in a technicolor van, hosting a series of “acid tests.” The gang would spike gallons upon gallons of Kool-aid and — to put it simply — trip, sometimes with hundreds of people. 
The basic movement of the story seemed much like Jack Kerouac’s “on the road” on lsd: travel somewhere, take acid, meet new friends, repeat. 
but by the end of the tale, i sympathized with Kesey and the pranksters, despite their relentless desire to haze the world around them. we talked in class about how they hoped to find the means to transcend into an altered state, an idea people practice every day by meditating, listening to music, watching certain movies and even by doing extra-thrilling sports, like skydiving. i had never considered this sort of transcendence being possible without drugs, and Kesey didn’t either, which was why, for me, the ending was so sad. 
The group continually “entered the door” of a distorted, spiritual reality, only to be thrust backward once their lsd trips had ended. at the closing of the book, not to spoil anything, Kesey and the tiny number of remaining pranksters are in a dark garage, playing the electric guitar and repeatedly singing, “we blew it.” 
even though i knew their adventure would have to end somewhere, just like most fads of the sixties, i couldn’t believe Kesey had come to this conclusion after all the transcendental ideas and insight he had obtained and preached. 
grateful dead soundman owsley stanley, the man behind the group’s best-cooked lsd, even told Kesey all of his self-pro­claimed discoveries and religious experi­ences only happened because of the drugs. 
it’s true, obviously, and while it’s fun to read about the pranksters’ adventures, i think it’s a story that needs to be read cau­tiously. a part of me wishes the crew could have sustained the values they learned from their trips, but in reality, none of it would have been possible without the drugs. 
Just like the hippies of the sixties, Kesey and crew came face-to-face with the realiza­tion that they had to find a way to nourish the blurred, drug-inspired realms of love and happiness without the drugs, which, to me, boosts the fact that we make our own happiness. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
dreaming of summer 
Christian Nofziger 
ask the greenman 
i love winter — just not after valentine’s day. after a while, the initial amusement of making little crunching sounds everywhere i go is literally overshadowed by the south bend permacloud. in light of my win­ter depression, i thought a little day­dreaming was in order. you see, while my love of winter comes with a few caveats, my love of the summer is truly unconditional. 
as the temperatures in the bend rise above freezing, winter’s blanket will pull back to reveal innumerable op­portunities for fun in the sun. summer is coming (eventually), so i am count­ing down my favorite spots to enjoy the return of the sun this semester. 
south bend is home to more than 70 beautiful parks. Think about that for a moment. you could enjoy a differ­ent park every single sunny day of this semester. i can’t talk about all of them here, but i’d like to highlight two. The first is the potawatomi Zoo. The zoo is located approximately two miles south of campus. The zoo is indiana’s oldest and is home to 400 animals. it is an of­ten overlooked, yet excellent, spot for a date. The second park is the white wa­ter rapids course downtown. no, i am not kidding. unfortunately, the course does not open until June this year, but underclassmen and any students stay­ing here this summer should definitely check it out. The east race waterway is less than two miles away from campus and costs $5 per person, per run. 

The indiana dunes state park is an interesting natural landmark that combines the sights and feel of a beach with thousands of acres of hike-able landscape. The dunes are a bit of a haul from notre dame. The 52-mile trek will require a car, but rest assured, the trip is worth it. The dunes are a beautiful place to spend the weekend appreciating the natural beauty of lake michigan. 
my final recommendation is the potato creek camp grounds. The grounds are home to the 327-acre worster lake and offer a host of ser­vices, including canoe rentals, hiking trails, volleyball and, most impor­tantly, a flushing toilet. The park is 12 miles southwest of campus and is well regarded. 
now, you might be thinking, “aw, man, why did i leave my eight-room jumbo tent at home.” well, have no fear! recsports offers a service that, in my opinion, is under-marketed. via the outdoor adventure tab on the office’s website, you can obtain all forms of camping equipment, including tents. 
spring, summer and warm days are just around the corner. i realize by giving you all of these ideas so early in the semester i am being a bit of a tease. however, i hope that you will use the time to plan some adventures for your­self. occasionally, the midwest gets a bad rap. sure, the winters are rough, and the temperature doesn’t always stay at a balmy 75 degrees, but we do have many natural wonders to explore. get out and experience it. 
Email your predicaments to the GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“i shall not waste my days in trying to prolong them.” 
Ian Fleming British novelist 





LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

health care requires more than just doctors 
as a result of the particular challenges pre-medicine majors face, these stu­dents are often viewed as some of the most ambitious students on campus. i don’t disagree. unfortunately, the flip side is that students who drop pre-med­icine or do not decide to go to medical school are too often seen as “not good enough.” 
i am saddened to think there are former pre-medicine students who were pushed out of pursuing a health-care career because they saw a track in the sciences as a medical-school-or-bust degree. however, this issue permeates the administrative level, emphasizing our narrow view of health-care provi­sion. There is extensive support for pre-medicine students and a severe lack of support for students pursuing health-care careers outside of medical school. deceivingly, though, the pre-professional major, the “preparing for health professions” class and the center for health sciences advising nominally ap­pear to support these students. 
i understand that if there isn’t a significant demand for health-care advising outside of pre-medicine students, then there won’t be as many resources avail­able. however, if notre dame claims to support students pursuing “health pro­fessions,” it is fair to expect support and even encouragement from both fellow students and administrators for students pursuing other careers in the health care field. 
There is a growing shift that will hopefully expand notre dame’s support for students interested in health care beyond pre-medicine. at the graduate level, this will be the second year for the master of science in global health program at the eck institute. “u.s. healthcare policy and poverty,” a recently added seminar within the center for social concerns, is expanding students’ ideas of health care into policy. nationally, the 2015 mcaT will expand pre-medicine students’ exposure to liberal arts classes, hopefully broadening the perception of healthcare beyond the physician-patient relationship. 
i do not intend to diminish the role of physicians in health-care or pre-med­icine majors at notre dame. These are integral people who shape much of the health-care environment, but i want to invite students and staff to consider emerging health-care careers and to respect the function of these jobs, both at notre dame and within the health-care system. 
Emily Mediate 
junior lyons hall Feb. 16 

Do you believe in science? 
i was thinking about global-warming nudge science in general. science takes a theory for how something works in the world and either proves it, disproves it or says that, currently, the answer is not known. This is usually done with evidence. 
so, what do people using the scientific method say about whether or not global warming is happening? are they credible? is science credible? 
if you don’t think or believe global warming is happening, you don’t think the scientists are correct. by the scientists, read almost every scientist who has stud­ied this particular question. if you don’t believe these people, these scientists, these experts in the field, then you don’t believe in science. 
if you still don’t believe in global warming and thus don’t believe in science, then do me a favor, give me your cell phone. give me your clothes. give me your accessories. give me your home and everything you own. without science, none of the modern conveniences would be possible. in fact, without science, more than half of the people reading this would be dead by college age, due to some curable disease, lack of food or general violence. 
name one thing in your life science did not contribute to. oh, the bible, you say? what’s it written on? what is used to write it? paper and ink are the result of science, trial and error, testing the hypothesis or the theory. what else do you have? 
you are free to overlook the wonders of science and, thus, global warming; you are the hoax. you’re hoaxing yourself into believing manure (which also turns out to be a result of elementary science when it comes to farming). also, give me your phone, seriously, especially if it is new and has more memory, because my phone doesn’t have enough. 
Rob McKeon 
ph.d class of 2010 ambridge, penn. Feb. 16 
UWIRE 

The power, potential and purpose of the human mind 
Aishwarya Gogoi 
The daily cougar 

To call it a beast would be de­riding it for its potential, but it is definitely powerful enough to drastically change millions of lives. it has always remained and shall continue to be the most influential weapon of all time. This beast is so potent yet underrated because ev­eryone has it. 
The beast is, of course, the power of the human mind. The mind can create millions of ideas to change worldwide systems and practices — and above all, change you. deepak chopra, an indian-american author who writes on holistic health, be­lieves one should prioritize develop­ing the mind rather than the brain. 
The difference is subtle but crucial. 
it is how we differentiate between a blood pumping organ called the heart and another that feels emotions. 
This beast that lies within all of us is tame and, if worked upon, can turn out to be one’s biggest strength. it makes a powerful speech stir a crowd or an opponent fold in a game of cards. The biggest challenge is recognizing your own ability and nurturing it. 
we have some of the best minds rotting in basements playing video games and watching adult movies. There is no one to blame but them­selves for wasting the gifts they possess. 
The mind can be one of the most lethal weapons of all. The biggest events in history — from the down­fall of empires to the bombing of cities — are outcomes of a few sharp but destructive minds. in “The art of war,” sun Tzu said, “The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting,” explaining how victory is a result of strategy, not strength. 
unexpected results may also baffle us in sports. an underdog overthrows a top-notch player and emerges as the winner. it is shock­ing all the more because it takes courage and a balanced mind to outperform someone who is con­sidered the best. half of the game is played in the minds of the players, making them dominate or surrender to an opponent. 
it is a playground for the battle of the sexes. women are often blamed of playing mind games, but the contrary is also true. men have also proven to play their cards bril­liantly, gaining insight as to how and why girls behave as they do. because of the glass ceiling that women face in the corporate world, they are compelled to be assertive and shrug off intimidation from their peers. 
many successful people dropped out of college before graduating but later proved others wrong, confirm­ing the belief that every individual has the capability to do more — but it does not mean that academic in­stitutions fail to identify and nur­ture talent. 
perhaps a human mind’s capabil­ity is beyond the understood norm. grades have never proved to be the yardsticks of measuring compe­tence in the real world. if one has faith in what they do and why they do it, nothing can stop them from excelling in it. That is the strength the mind gives us. no tribulations or odds can make a determined per­son fall back. 
humanity has seen the best and worst outcomes of this beast. what you think can make you or even break you. it depends on how a per­son wants to tame it. 
This article was originally posted Feb. 16 for The Daily Cougar, the student-run news organization for the University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Erin Thomassen 
scene writer 

i was running out of time to find a valentine, so i did what any self-respecting, self-empowering woman would do. i ran to rolfs. 
as soon as i stumbled in, they knew i didn’t belong. was it my mascara-laden lashes? my sneakers that were six-inch wedges in disguise? no matter. i ignored the stares and feigned interest in my fingernails. 
seeing that the house was packed, i realized that it was not the best time to make my workout début. i should have seen it coming. every place on campus has its moment in the sun. The bookstore is the place to be in late august, the library during finals. The cardio room is curiously popular right before valentine’s day. 
once the pack of ponytails realized that i was not going to hop on an elliptical and try to pedal faster than them, they whipped out their phones and logged back onto pinterest. if synchronized searching were an olympic sport, these girls would take the gold. 
i wandered into the weight room to weigh my options. They weighed more than i could bench-press, so i swiv­eled around and headed back into the lobby. 
i walked with purpose to make up for my lack of pur­pose. i stumbled upon a flight of stairs, or more accu­rately, stumbled down a flight of stairs. i sprung up and glanced around the basketball courts, hoping no one witnessed my downfall. a gaggle of guys in bro-tanks seemed slightly concerned. hmmm. maybe falling down wasn’t such a bad idea. 
i wasn’t about to interfere with fate, so i flung myself back on the floor, groaning dramatically. i could play the damsel in distress. i hadn’t graced the stage since i played Townsperson number Two in “romeo and Juliet,” but the talent was still there, waiting to surface and shower my fans with shakespearian sonnets. 
The blonde with blue eyes jogged over to play my knight in shining armor, and i mentally raised the roof. but he was approaching too quickly — curse those bulg­ing calves. i had to scramble to scoot around so that he would get a view of the more attractive half of my face. he must have glimpsed my right, less photogenic side, because he sprinted past me and headed straight to the water fountain. 
i clutched the handrail and dragged myself up to a standing position. i wasn’t about to fall out of character, so i limped slowly up the stairs, hoping one of the other lads would come offer a hand. nada. i looked over to find that my audience was too distracted with a game of knockout to notice the knockout right in front of them. i huffed and marched up to the third floor, forgetting to limp the rest of the way. 
Then i found the track. after semesters of searching, i finally found a place where it was completely acceptable, even encouraged, to chase after boys. i spotted a tall one in front of me. come on legs, you can go faster. 
i set my eyes on the prize and sprinted until i was only three feet away. i slowed down for a second to fix my ponytail and mentally prepared myself to meet my future valentine. 
i ran up beside him to find that he had earbuds in. no matter. he probably has exquisite taste in music. i coughed conspicuously to attract his attention. he glanced my way, turned up his music and picked up his pace, leaving me in the dust. i tried to cheer myself up by telling myself that he couldn’t have been my soul mate, because he was listening to miley cyrus. 
Five minutes later, i was breathless. not because a boy had taken my breath away, but because i hadn’t run since the fitness test. i decided to call it a day, Feb. 12, to be exact, and headed back to my dorm. 
The wind stung my ears, but not as much as the pain of rejection did. i envisioned another valentine’s day spent alphabetizing my tea collection. it just wouldn’t be as exciting the second time around. 
Then i realized: st. valentine was single! it may have something to do with a vow of chastity, but that’s a mi­nor detail. The only way to honor st. valentine on his special day is to abstain from dating culture, like he did. it would be cruel to enjoy a romantic evening, since he was not allowed to. 
so, that’s the reason why i was color-coding socks on valentines day. it was not at all because i could not find a date. 
Contact Erin Thomassen at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By EMILY McCONVILLE 
scene writer 

“The graduate” has long since entered the canon of pop culture as the quintessential cougar story — benjamin brockman, a recent college graduate lacking direc­tion, begins an affair with his father’s colleague’s wife, mrs. robinson, before falling in love with her daughter, elaine. The 1963 novel by charles webb was adapted four years later into a film starring dustin hoffman and anne bancroft, propelling both hoffmann and the duo simon and garfunkel (with their song “mrs. robinson”) to greater fame. 
For the novel’s 50th anniversary, radio theatre compa­ny l.a. Theatre works has taken its stage adaptation on tour, including three dates at the debartolo performing arts center (dpac). as with most productions by the 
l.a. Theatre works, the cast contains seasoned stage and screen actors, with matthew arkin (“law & order”), heidi dippold (“The sopranos”), brian Tichnell (“The newsroom”), Tom virtue (“even stevens”), diane adair, Jill renner and darren richardson. but l.a. Theatre works is not a traditional theatre company. according to its website, the company, with its radio-theatre style, re­cords plays for national public radio, the bbc and a host of international broadcasting organizations. 
in one sense, i imagine watching the live performance is something like watching a dressed-up version of one of their studio recordings — on Friday night, several micro­phones lined the stage, surrounding a table containing a range of objects, from zippers to fabric to beer bottles. during a scene, the actors stood at the microphones and spoke their dialogue facing forward, speaking to each other but at the audience. There was limited physical action and almost no props, and when an actor mimed pouring a drink or unzipping a dress, technicians used the objects at the table to create sound effects. The result is an intensely audial experience, the unquestionable emphasis on hearing, as opposed to sight. 
except that’s not quite true. while the adaptation of “The graduate” did not have normal sets and staging, its lack of visual material actually created an extremely in­teresting visual experience. 
The show did have costumes and some props — a sheet, for instance — so it was not completely like a speech event, where business-attired high schoolers at­tempt to recreate a movie scene. still, because the actors faced forward most of the time, i was forced to determine for myself where each character was supposed to be in the scene — for example, whether benjamin and mrs. robinson were lying side-by-side in bed or facing each other from opposite ends of the room. 
reorganizing the concept of space in such a way al­lowed for a tremendous amount of innovation, both in terms of acting and staging. sometimes the sound-effects people became part of the performance. For ex­ample, in a scene in which mr. robinson breaks down a door, actor matthew arkin was not holding an ax — but the sound-effects guy was. sometimes the actors would break their own rule about facing forward, physically interacting with each other at just the right moment to add extra gravity (or comedy) to a scene. it’s an intelligent kind of theatre and theatre-watching, one that i found enjoyable and rewarding. 
The show’s run ended saturday, so there won’t be another opportunity to see “The graduate” on cam­pus. l.a. Theatre works does, however, come to notre dame fairly often, so look for their next tour. in addition, notre dame seems to host a number of non-traditional shows — the recent performance of “as you like it” at washington hall and the “intergalactic nemesis” series, a “live comic book” at dpac, come to mind. so, in the ab­sence of the play, go watch “The graduate” movie if you haven’t seen it yet — it is hilarious. and keep an eye out for l.a. Theatre works and all audio-based shows that will challenge and delight you. it’ll be worth your while. 
Contact Emily McConville at emmconv1@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 




By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 
don’t sit in the front row at an im­prov show. 
well, don’t sit in the front row at an improv show if you’re alone. 
well, actually, don’t sit in the front row at an improv show if you’re alone and it’s valentine’s day. 
That lesson learned aside, though, holy moly — The second city’s redco touring company put on an unbeliev­able show Friday night at washington hall. 
redco, one of the three touring companies from the famous chicago improvisational comedy theatre, per­formed a two-hour set combining “best of” sketches from The second city’s archives, original material and live improvisation based on sugges­tions from the audience. 
my role in the fun came after the in­termission, when two members of the cast sat on the edge of the stage play­ing old women and asked audience members what they were doing at the show. since i was lucky enough to be at the show courtesy of The observer, my seat was located in the very front row, just right of center stage, at the perfect location for this kind of inter­action with the cast. 
being the soundly ethical, married-to-my-job journalist that i am, i was, of course, alone at the show, regard­less of it being valentine’s day, and the cast members turned the whole thing into a hilarious bit. i had fun, the cast seemed to have fun and the audience found my aloneness gener­ally hilarious. 
That personal experience with public humiliation aside (don’t get the wrong idea, i was out of breath laughing at the whole thing), the whole show was fast-paced and fun, even with sketches that could’ve been pulled from anytime in more than 50 years of archives. The second city tends to shy away from pop-culture references, which leads to mate­rial that’s less easily dated and more rooted in human nature that holds up throughout decades. 
in some cases, according to redco member Jasbir singh, the cast up­dates an old sketch to make sense in contemporary society, and with great success. 
“There’s a scene where i get to play this guy who’s really lonely, and he listens to a podcast,” singh said. “it’s a back and forth with this podcast, but the podcast is obviously not listening, and that’s really cool. That’s actu­ally an adaptation from a sketch from second city from 1961, where it was a guy who listened who listened to a vinyl and tried to make friends with the vinyl.” 

one of the most memorable sketch­es from the night featured eddie mujica, who, according to stage man­ager dan grimm, is only on tour until the beginning of march when he’ll join the next second city eTc revue in chicago, as a corrupt senator with a distinct JFK-style accent. Facing an ethics investigation, he grows more and more ridiculous in responses to moral and ethical situations that had the audiences in tears with laugh­ter. material and characters like this have a timeless quality and may have been performed in the past by fa­mous second city cast members, like John belushi, amy poeher, stephen colbert, gilda radner, bill murray, Tina Fey or chris Farley. singh said current cast members look to these former performers for inspiration but put their own spin on characters and performances. 
“when we do the ‘best of,’ we study the people who originally did it, and then we try to respect that and put our own twist on it. not even our own twist, really — there’s just one way that you can do it. you end up making it your own, which is kind of an honor to get to do,” singh said. 
redco only stopped at notre dame for the one night, but there are plenty of chances to see them again across the country, as grimm says they are almost always on tour. 
“we tour all the time,” grimm said. “we’re not like reo speedwagon and have like a concert leg. That’s a pretty dated reference. let’s just say we’re not Kanye and doing the yeezus tour.” 
Take an evening and go catch redco next time they play in driv­ing range of south bend, or, if that’s not you’re thing, take the south shore line to chicago and see “The second city’s 102nd revue” on the mainstage or “a clowncar named desire” on the eTc stage, both featuring new material and currently playing every weekend. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
MARIA MASSA | The Observer 




GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

all-star games not worth hype 

Mary Green 
sports writer 
wait, why have there not been any nba games on Tv for a few days? 
oh, that’s right. yesterday was the nba all-star game, aka the most boring day in professional sports. 
i’m not saying the all-star fes­tivities for the nba specifically make for the most uninterest­ing day — rather, all of these games in professional sports combine to create one massive snoozefest. 
in theory, all-star games should be great. They bring the best players together on one court or field for a contest with loads of talent and fun. neither team has a weak spot because each squad features the best its league has to offer. 
but that’s never how all-star games turn out because they just do not matter. 
in the grand scheme of things, what do the players get out of the game? sure, their first selections are usually spe­cial and another piece of rein­forcement that their hard work has paid off. 
but besides the selection, they get nothing. They only play a few minutes, when they might throw up a few 3s, maybe get one at bat, push someone into the boards or run a route or two. That’s about it. 
what do the fans get? nearly nothing, as well. 
They pay way too much to see a game into which way too little effort is put, just so they can say, ‘i saw lebron James or peyton manning or derek Jeter or sidney crosby compete in person.’sure, and one time, i saw gisele bündchen pose for a photo for the paparazzi, so let’s call it even. 
Take a look at the nba all-star game, where they play less defense than they would in a normal game — which is really saying something for the nba. on the other end of the court, players put up uncon­tested shots and throw down unguarded dunks. but what is the thrill of a jam if you cannot posterize anyone? 
The nba tries to make its all-star weekend a little more captivating with the saturday­night festivities, including the dunk contest. but even that has declined in recent years from the days of dwight howard throwing the ball through the hoop while dressed as superman. 
The event is no longer excit­ing because no noteworthy players are part of it. The dunk contest would be much more worthwhile for viewers if it had at least one player the average fan would want to see. give me James or Kevin durant and a few no-names, and i would watch. but give me a handful of nba b-listers, and i’ll change the channel, if i even tune in at all. 
The nhl all-star game, quite frankly, is better in years when it does not take place. in those years, the league skips the festivities so its players can use their break to play in the olympics, as they are doing this year. competing for a gold medal is much more interest­ing than competing for — wait, do players even get anything for winning an all-star game? 
hockey tried a new approach with its draft format for team selection, but in reality, the league only created that to add another event to the all-star slate that can be televised and bring in more ad dollars, so its conception certainly was not for the fans’ benefit. 
The nFl pro bowl is probably the worst of all four leagues’ games because it is held so late in the season that not even the fans really care. previously, it was played after the season ended, so fans were already done with football after the super bowl. now, it is played the week before the big game, so the players that fans really want to see are not allowed to compete. 
For an all-star game to attract interest at all, it needs to be played in the middle of the sea­son and not at the end, when fans are ready to move on to the next sport. but that sched­ule is not feasible in the middle of the nFl’s 16-game regular season of grueling matchups and too many injuries to count, so an all-star game just would not work in football. 
The one exception to this general disinterest in any­thing all-star related is the mlb’s game because it does everything right that the other leagues do wrong. mainly, the “midsummer classic” has something at stake, as the win­ning league’s world series rep­resentative earns home-field advantage in october. plus, its sideshow, the home run derby, features star players competing in the next day’s game, so fans have an interest in watching. 
so, forgive me because i watched olympic ice dancing instead of the nba all-star game, but at least its victors actually won something. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority  column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TRACK AND FIELD | husKy classic; spire inviTaTional 
Happe qualifies in Seattle; Irish compete in Ohio 

By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 

while most of the team rested from competition, notre dame sent athletes to geneva, ohio, this weekend for the spire invitational. 
graduate student nick happe also went to seattle for the husky classic in an attempt to qualify for the ncaa championships. 
one week removed from hosting the meyo invitational and with just less than two weeks before the acc indoor championships in clemson, s.c., irish coach Joe piane elected to rest many of his athletes, including gradu­ate student Jeremy rae. rae’s time of 3:57.25 in the meyo mile last week set school and personal records and set him solidly atop the acc in his signature event. however, happe, whose solid time of 
3:59.58 claimed third in the event, went to washington in the hopes of qualifying na­tionally in the 3,000-meter run. 
happe’s fourth-place fin­ish in the race with a time of 7:54.39 accomplished just that. 
piane said his main goal for the weekend was to qualify happe for ncaas and that 

FOR RENT 

Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/ mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
he was very happy to see that happen. 

“nick happe qualified in the 3,000 … for sure,” piane said. “That time ranks him 10th in the country. he’s defi­nitely in.” 
while happe went west, the irish sent most of their athletes — 20 on the women’s side and 16 on the men’s — to ohio for a second-to-last tune-up before conference championships. among the female athletes who traveled were senior Kelly curran, whose event record time of 
4:37.10 in the women’s meyo mile also ranks first in the acc, sophomore margaret bamgbose and senior michelle brown. brown won the 400-meter dash and set a meyo invitational record with a time of 53.15 seconds. 
among the men were senior all-american patrick Feeney and fellow sprinter and ju­nior chris giesting, who also took home first in the 400-meter dash last weekend with a time of 46.38 seconds. 
individually, the irish got strong performances from a number of athletes. Feeney and giesting finished sec­ond and third, respectively, in the 400-meter with times of 46.39 and 46.44 seconds, just behind pittsburgh senior brycen spratling. 
bamgbose also took home a second-place finish in the women’s 400-meter with a time of 54.24 seconds. however, the irish fell just short of qualifying the wom­en’s distance medley relay piane had targeted. 
“what we wanted to ac­complish was to qualify a number of relays,” piane said. “we have another meet next week, and that goal remains the same.” 
however, piane also said his focus was starting to shift toward readying his teams for acc and ncaa champi­onship competition. 
“we have two main things we are focused on right now: getting kids qualified for ncaas and getting ready for accs,” piane said. “we have a lot of kids that are very tal­ented but a little banged up right now, and we want them to be fully healthy heading into those events.” 
The irish are back at home saturday to host the alex wilson invitational at the loftus sports center as a final test before the acc indoor championships begin Feb. 27. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2014 Winter Olympics Medal Count Winter Olympics Gold Medal Count 
1. 
Netherlands -17 1. Germany -7 

2. 
Russia -16 2. Netherlands -5 


2. USA -16 2. Norway -5 
4. Norway -14 2. Sweden -4 
4. Canada -14 5. USA -4 
6. 
Germany -12 5. Russia -4 

7. 
Sweden -9 5. Canada -4 

8. 
Switzerland -7 5. Poland -4 


8. Austria -7 9. China -3 
10. France -6 9. Belarus -3 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2014 | The observer 

ND SOFTBALL | nd 6, louisville 3; nd 9, JacKsonville 1; nd 11, louisville 4 
Notre Dame sweeps weekend tournament 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
The irish earned a per­fect record in the Jacksonville university Tournament this weekend with two victories over no. 23 louisville and one victory over Jacksonville. 
The irish (6-1) started the weekend with a 6-3 comeback win saturday morning over the cardinals (4-5). after falling be­hind by two runs in the top of the fourth inning, notre dame scored five unanswered runs to claim its first victory of the tour­nament. That was also the only time the irish would play from behind during the weekend. 
irish coach deanna gumpf said last weekend’s 3-2 comeback win over auburn was important for saturday’s win against the cardinals. 
“That wasn’t the first time we had to make a comeback dur­ing this early part of the season,” gumpf said. “we did it last week­end, and it’s good that we’re get­ting practice with this.” 
senior right-hander laura winter tossed the first four in­nings before freshman right-hander rachel nasland took over in the circle. Freshman outfielder Karley wester led the team with two runs and three rbi, including a two-run, game-tying single in the fourth inning. 

senior shortstop chloe saganowich led the team over­all in the tournament with four runs. saganowich scored one in the first win against louisville, one in the 9-1 victory against Jacksonville (4-4) and two in the 11-4 rematch against the cardinals. 
gumpf said the weekend fea­tured many impact players who helped lead the team to its unde­feated weekend. 
“we had some kids really show up and make an impact,” gumpf said. “The pitching staff really hung in there and came through.” 
The irish used its three pitchers 

—winter, nasland and left-hand­er allie rhodes — throughout the tournament. rhodes, who threw a no-hitter during last weekend’s auburn plainsman invitational, pitched five innings of one-run ball in the 9-1, five-inning victory over the dolphins on saturday. 
although the irish jumped out to a 6-0 lead in the second in­ning and slowed the scoring pace throughout the rest of the game, gumpf said the team never re­laxed its intensity. 
“[The lead] allowed us to take a deep breath, but you don’t want to take too deep of a breath,” gumpf said. “i’ve seen [Jacksonville] 
paid adverTisemenT 
come back many times, and we really couldn’t take our early lead for granted.” 
The irish rounded out their triumphant weekend with a sunday win over the cardinals. notre dame jumped out to an early lead once again, scoring seven runs in the first inning. Junior outfielder emilee Koerner, who was named to the preseason espnw all-america First Team, contributed a lead-off home run and two rbi in that decisive first inning. 
although individual impact players were important to notre dame’s success in the tourna­ment, gumpf said teamwork was also critical. 
“one thing i like was that we were really playing together well,” gumpf said. “everyone was feeding off of each other and picking each other up.” 
The irish will look to ride this weekend’s success into the mary nutter collegiate classic in cathedral city, calif. The irish will face six teams over the course of four days, start­ing Thursday with pacific and byu. notre dame will also face uc davis, california, cal state Fullerton and oregon. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 

BASEBALL | nd 9, Fau 2; Fau 16, nd 6; Fau 13, nd 3 
irish drop opening series 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
The irish won the first game of their opening-weekend series against no. 24 Florida atlantic in boca raton, Fla., but lost con­trol of the final two, losing both games by double-digit margins. 
“it was kind of a tale of two different teams,” irish coach mik aoki said. “i thought game 1, we did a good job of making the pitches when we needed to and making the plays when we needed to and getting some timely hit­ting. The other two games were disappointing, person­ally. we didn’t pick the ball up and make simple plays.” 
senior right-hander sean Fitzgerald, one of just three seniors on the team, earned a win in his third opening-day start saturday after­noon. notre dame (1-2) took an early 2-0 lead when junior right fielder robert youngdahl knocked in freshman second baseman cavan biggio with a home run to left-center in the first inning. 
The owls (2-1) pulled even in the bottom of the first, but Fitzgerald held Florida atlantic hitless for the next three innings. he did not give up another run before leaving after the fifth inning. 
“sean Fitzgerald did a re­ally good job,” aoki said. “i think a recurring theme of the weekend is we’d like to see our pitchers be in the strike zone a little bit more, but … sean was able to make the pitches when he needed to, and when sean was on the mound we were able to make the plays we needed to. he was the beneficiary of a couple of well-turned double plays.” 
The irish had little trouble getting to Florida atlantic starter austin gomber. biggio earned his first col­legiate rbi in the third in­ning, when he scored senior catcher Forrest Johnson on a sacrifice fly. Junior ryan bull immediately followed with a solo home run. The irish added two more runs in the fourth and three more in the seventh to finish the afternoon with a 9-2 win. youngdahl and bull both went 2-for-4 with a homer on the day, while Johnson notched the first three-hit game of his career. 
“i think robert youngdahl did a really good job in right field and at the plate,” aoki said. “cavan biggio, new to our program, obviously, as a freshman, i thought he was really good at the plate. he made a couple of errors that were of that unforced vari­ety, but overall, i was pleased with the way he played. 
“ryan bull is playing a brand new position this year; i thought he acquitted himself very well. so there are some positives.” 
but the irish could not keep the owls off the base paths or the scoreboard in saturday’s nightcap, which the irish lost, 16-6. 
sophomore right-hander nick mccarty gave up sev­en runs (three earned) and left the game during the third inning. The bleeding, though, was far from over. Freshman right-hander ryan smoyer allowed two runs of his own during the remain­der of the third inning, and Florida atlantic scored three more in the fourth and add­ed runs in the sixth, seventh and eighth innings. 
notre dame committed six errors in the loss and added three more sunday. 
“i think the most disap­pointing thing about the way in which we went about play­ing defense in games 2 and 3 is that they weren’t difficult plays, and they really were unforced errors,” aoki said. “They kind of compound­ed, and in both [mccarty’s] and [junior pitcher] scott Kerrigan’s cases, they com­pounded and the innings got away from them. instead of coming up in a situation where we gave up two runs, we gave up five.” 
Kerrigan, who did not play in 2013 because of shoulder surgery, faced many of the same problems as mccarty during his own start in the series finale sunday after­noon. Kerrigan gave up eight runs (three earned) in less than three innings in an eventual 13-3 loss. 
“i think for both nick [mccarty] and scott [Kerrigan], things just kind of got away from them a little,” aoki said. “but you learn. it’s a learning experi­ence. it’s a tough way to learn a lesson, but they’re a little better having gone through it. if this helps those guys have 12 more really good ap­pearances, then it was worth the couple of blotches that we took as a result.” 
The irish only have a few days to regroup before head­ing back down south for the irish baseball classic, which will be held at nelson wolff stadium in san antonio, be­ginning Thursday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

HOCKEY | nd 2, providence 2 (oT); nd 3, providence 0 
summerhays key in nd’s unbeaten weekend 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
Four years ago, notre dame brought in one of its largest re­cruiting classes ever, a group that has shaped the program ever since. 
on the strength of its se­niors, particularly, goaltender steven summerhays, notre dame dug itself out of a rut and grabbed two key late-sea­son results. 
summerhays stopped 83 of 85 shots and the irish se­niors accounted for four of the team’s five goals as notre dame earned a 2-2 tie Friday and a 3-0 win saturday against providence at schneider arena in providence, r.i. 
The weekend didn’t get off to the start the irish (17-12-2, 6-9-2 hockey east) wanted, as the Friars (15-9-6, 7-7-2) jumped out to a 1-0 lead late in the first period Friday. but it could have been much worse for notre dame early on, as providence launched 33 shots in the first two periods alone. 
but summerhays held off the onslaught, allowing the irish to tally the next two goals to get back in the game. senior center T.J. Tynan came streak­ing out of the penalty box in the second period to score the first goal. roughly six min­utes later, Tynan recorded the 100th assist of his career when he fed sophomore left wing sam herr. providence did sneak in a second goal before the time expired, sending the game to an overtime that end­ed scoreless, giving each team one point in the standings. 
summerhays finished the game with a career-high 47 saves, and irish coach Jeff Jackson credited him with a great effort in goal. 
“steven summerhays had a really good weekend for us in goal,” Jackson said. “Friday, he gave up too many re­bounds, but he made some big saves for us, which allowed us a chance to get back into the game after we fell behind 1-0. he was tracking the puck re­ally well.” 
The tie came after notre dame had lost four of its last five, and the irish carried the momentum into saturday’s game. senior forward david gerths got them started six minutes into the game when he one-timed a slapshot over the shoulder of Friars sopho­more goaltender Jon gillies, breaking a 35-game goalless streak. 
The irish followed that goal up with another rare sight of late — a power-play goal. 
with the man advantage, senior winger Jeff costello held the puck at the point, then made a pass down to the opposite side of the crease. herr passed up a shot and, in­stead, found senior forward bryan rust across the crease for the easy, pretty goal. 
The goal was notre dame’s only conversion on 10 at­tempts over the weekend. Jackson said he hopes the man-advantage goal will help his power-play units get back to basics. 
“getting a goal will help them,” he said. “we’re look­ing for consistency, and try­ing to get a goal per game of the power play is huge for us. we just need to keep getting pucks through to the net.” 
summerhays was once again huge in net for the irish as the senior made 36 stops to blank the Friars for his sixth shutout of the season. Though his team provided a pair of goals, summerhays could never relax until costello’s empty-netter with 39 seconds remaining iced the game. 
“saturday night, [summerhays] was even bet­ter,” Jackson said. “he was taking those shots into his body and did a really good job of controlling those rebounds.” 
with three regular-sea­son games remaining — two against boston university at home this weekend and one against league-leading boston college on the road — the irish are tied for seventh in the hockey east standings. 
“we need to keep play­ing with the desperation we played with this weekend,” Jackson said. “we made a real effort to do the little things, the gritty things, that help you win games. we have to continue to battle in those ar­eas on the ice, where the game is won and lost.” 
The irish host boston university at compton Family ice arena on Friday and saturday at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2014 | The observer 



MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 19, JacKsonville 7 
irish roll in season opener vs. Ju 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
no. 5 notre dame opened up its regular season sunday with a dominant 19-7 win over Jacksonville at everbank Field in Jacksonville, Fla. 
The irish (1-0) stormed out to a 3-0 advantage six minutes into the game and would never re­linquish the lead. The dolphins (0-2) managed just three goals on seven shots in the first half, as notre dame rolled to a 12-3 halftime lead. 
“it’s easy to get sloppy in a game like this, when you go up big early, but we didn’t do that,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “The boys played smart and with good discipline.” 
early in the game, the irish dominated possession and put heavy pressure on dolphins se­nior goalie pete deluca. notre dame unloaded 24 first-quar­ter shots and 56 in total. irish sophomore attackman matt Kavanagh and junior attack-man conor doyle led the way with three goals apiece, but corrigan said the entire offense played exceptionally well. 
“[matt and conor] did what our whole offense did,” corrigan said. “They moved really well without the ball. it wasn’t just that they got the ball and beat their guy to the goal, although they did that too. it was their play off the ball that created op­portunities for themselves and for the midfielders.” 
Thirteen different players scored for the irish, but argu­ably the strongest performance of the night came from senior midfielder and face-off special­ist liam o’connor, who won 19 of 25 face-offs and added a goal. 
“if i had to pick just one thing that we did really well today and that was very heart­ening, it would have to be liam o’connor’s play,” corrigan said. “he’s battled his way back from knee surgery. he didn’t play at all in the fall and was limited in the preseason, but he had a great game today and it was the product of a lot of hard work that he put in.” 

Jacksonville was plagued with possession issues all game, turning the ball over 22 times and losing 77 percent of face-offs. The dolphins struggled to get shots off, recording just 18 and only forcing five saves from the irish goalies. 
notre dame’s defense, which ended last season ranked 10th in the nation in goals allowed, surrendered four goals in the first three quarters before tak­ing out the starters. 


“i think we played very well,” corrigan said. “at the end of the day, three of the seven goals we gave up were man-down and we played a lot of people. i think we played most of our roster to­night, at least on the defensive end of the field.” 
in goal, junior conor Kelly earned the start over fresh­man shane doss after the two spent the preseason competing for the starting job. Kelly yield­ed four goals but added four saves, while doss came on in the fourth quarter. he allowed three goals and had one save. 

corrigan said Kelly would remain the starter in the near future but said doss could con­tinue to see playing time. 
“Those two guys have been battling throughout the fall and spring,” corrigan said. “conor is our starter right now but we have great confidence in shane as well. it’s a good position for us to be in.” 
The irish host no. 7 penn state on saturday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
Boxing 
conTinued From page 16 
has tried to emphasize the im­portance of sparring and gaining fight experience. 
“over the past few years … the captains, especially this year, have been trying to really send out the message to the novices and also to the returning guys, that the best way to get better at boxing is to actually box,” yi said. “we’ve also tried to make a much more controlled environment for sparring. we’ve been emphasiz­ing safety a lot. 
“overall, most of the novices have sparred far more than i did when i was starting out, and i think a lot of that comes back to the coaches and the captains really emphasizing the impor­tance and the tone of sparring.” 
The program would not be the success that it has become without the dedication and com­mitment of its coaches, most of whom are volunteers, yi said. several coaches are bengal bouts veterans who have champion­ships to their name. 
“we have some great coaches that have been here a long time,” yi said. “nate walker works for recsports and has been here for four or five years. in that time, his role has grown from beyond an administrator to more of a coach. he even hops into the ring and spars sometimes with the younger guys. i couldn’t even tell you how long Fr. brian daley has been with the club, but he’s a great coach who works person­ally with a lot of the guys. 
“none of what we do would be possible without all of our coaches.” 
The finals take place in purcell pavilion, and espn3 will televise the championship round online, as the network did last year. 
The bouts begin tonight at the Jacc Fieldhouse, continu­ing through the quarterfinals Thursday and the semifinals Feb. 25, before concluding with the finals march 2 in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | bosTon college 15, nd 10 
Irish drop ACC opener to BC 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
after months of excitement and anticipation heading into a new conference, no. 11 notre dame dropped its acc opener to no. 17 boston college, 15-10, saturday at the loftus sports center. 
The irish (1-1, 0-1 acc) and the eagles (1-0, 1-0) battled back and forth throughout the first half, which featured six ties and three lead changes, as both teams went into the locker room tied 7-7. 
boston college opened the second half on the offensive, as eagles junior midfielder mikaela rix scored one of her six goals of the day just 10 seconds into the half. while the next 10 minutes of the game featured the same back­and-forth action the first half saw, the eagles never trailed in the second half. 
irish junior midfielder caitlin gargan scored her fourth goal of the game with 20:56 remaining to pull notre dame within one and make it 11-10. gargan’s goal proved to be the last surge for the irish, and bc took advantage and pulled away. 
after a free-position goal by rix at the 19:33 mark put the eagles up 12-10, irish coach christine halfpenny pulled junior goalie allie murray in favor of freshman 
W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
in 1996, notre dame defeated georgia Tech, 76-69, in atlanta. mcgraw said with the long gap between games, she is not quite as familiar with the yellow Jackets as she otherwise would be. 
“They’re going to be a big challenge for us,” mcgraw said. “we’ve never played them before, so we’re watching film trying to learn as much as we can about them.” 
georgia Tech enters the match-up on a four-game winning streak that has pulled it from the bottom of the acc to sixth place in the conference. 
senior guard Tyaunna marshall has led the way for the yellow Jackets and earned a spot on the midseason watch list for the naismith Trophy, given to the top player in college basketball. marshall became georgia Tech’s all-time leading scorer Feb. 6 and was named espnw’s national player of the week on Feb. 10. 
marshall and freshman guard Kaela davis are the only yellow Jackets to average at least 10 points per game. They also lead the team in minutes per game and steals. 
“[georgia Tech has] some re­ally good players,” mcgraw said. “Tyaunna marshall is one of best in the conference, and Kaela davis is an outstanding freshman.” 
Three irish players joined marshall on the naismith watch list. notre dame’s three players liz o’sullivan. 
“i think [o’sullivan] did a good job,” halfpenny said. “i think her strengths played a little bit into those low-angle shots that bc likes to take. 
“They weren’t pressing the goal as much when liz came in, so, to be fair, it was a totally different style of offense that liz saw when compared to allie, but we were thrilled with the two huge saves she made coming in cold late in the game. so we’re excited to see that depth at the goalkeeper position.” 
o’sullivan immediately came in and made the two big saves, but boston college’s dominant ball-control offense proved too much for notre dame to handle, as the eagles added two more goals before the 15-minute mark to stretch their advantage to 14-10. 
From there, boston college bled the clock and tacked on an insurance goal by rix with 7:17 to play. 
halfpenny said she was not surprised with how well boston college played. 
“i thought they were a little bit underrated, watching them play last season, but we didn’t underrate them by any means,” halfpenny said. “we feel that they pose a lot of problems offensively, the same way we do. credit to bc, they took advantage of all posses­sions and wanted it a little more on the draw control to get some of those important ones when the game was still tight.” 
while it is unusual for the team to play conference opponents so early in the season, halfpenny refused to blame the schedule for her team’s performance. 
“This is what conference we are in, this is what our season is going to look like, so this is where we take this one and move on,” halfpenny said. 
The loss will prove to be a learning point for the young irish, halfpenny said, and pointed to parts of the game the team has to improve. 
“Just the little things,” halfpenny said. “picking up the ground balls, playing a little more mature when scouting our one-on-one matchup in the draw circle. we need to mature. we feel good about where we are, and now it’s just early in the season, and it’s an awesome opportunity to take this game, learn from it and get better from it.” 
The irish next play saturday in a noon home contest against stony brook. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 

JOHN NING | The Observer 
Irish sophomore guard Kayla McBride looks to drive in Notre Dame’s 101-62 win over Syracuse on Feb. 9. McBride scored 18 points in the win. 
trailed only no. 1 connecticut, half. which had four players named. georgia Tech upset no. 11 senior guard Kayla mcbride, se-north carolina on Feb. 6 but has nior forward natalie achonwa not defeated a top-five opponent and sophomore guard Jewell loyd since 2009. The yellow Jackets are lead an offense that ranks first in 4-4 on the road this season. the ncaa in 3-point shooting, The irish take the court against shooting percentage, second in the yellow Jackets tonight in an scoring margin and assists, and acc matchup at purcell pavilion. third in points per game. against Tipoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. boston college, all three players scored in double figures to help Contact Greg Hadley at the irish hold on in a close second ghadley@nd.edu 


M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 

team-high 17 points, despite enduring a scoreless streak in the middle of the game spanning nearly 25 minutes across both halves. irish senior guard eric atkins added 16 points and shot 4-for-5 from behind the arc. graduate student forward Tom Knight posted 10 points and nine rebounds in 19 minutes off the bench for the visiting team. 
“our offensive efficiency was really good through­out the game,” irish coach mike brey told und.com. “i think we’ve got a feel for how to play better offensively than we did in January, and that efficiency helped us. i thought we got big defen­sive stops, and in the second half we didn’t let them bang down any threes. we were alert to guarding the arc.” 
The irish shot 50.9 per­cent from the field and held boston college to 43.4-per­cent shooting for the game. The eagles hit only one of five attempts from long-range in the second half after nailing six of nine in the first period. sophomore guard olivier hanlan led the eagles with 18 points in the losing effort. 
The win is notre dame’s first in a true road game this season. The irish had lost all six of their away games, with the lone win away from home coming in a neutral-site game against indiana in indianapolis on dec. 14. The victory also gives notre dame back-to-back wins since it beat canisius and duke on dec. 29 and Jan. 4, respectively. 
connaughton and atkins each played 40 minutes in the contest, but the irish also received 42 combined minutes from three players off the bench. in addition to Knight’s strong perfor­mance, freshman forward v.J. beachem scored five points in 11 minutes and sophomore forward austin burgett logged 12 minutes in just his third game back 
after  heart-related  health  
concerns.  
“Tom Knight and  austin  

burgett gave us great energy and minutes, and so did v.J. beachem,” brey said. “you know, rotating those guys in with our two ironmen really helped us, and we’ve got to continue to do that.” 
brey said he was impressed with the performances put on by connaughton and irish sophomore forward Zach auguste, who hails from marlborough, mass. auguste scored 10 points four-of-six shooting from the field. 
“That’s really being a man,” brey said. “you’ve got everybody here and you de­liver. most guys wilt a little bit. he delivers, and i’m just as proud of Zach. with all their people here, to come back and win in boston, very important. but connaughton set the tone for us.” 
accompanying sunday’s game was the announcement that irish freshman guard demetrius Jackson would re­join the team monday after not being with the team in consecutive contests for aca­demic issues. 
“he had a great week,” brey said. “he’s caught up. we’ll see him tonight when we get back to the locker room. he’ll be back in practice. he’ll travel with us to miami [for wednesday’s game]. he needed time to catch up and get back into good hab­its. he’s done that in the last week. i’m very proud of him and i’m thrilled he’ll be re­joining us.” 
looking to extend its win­ning streak to three games, notre dame will travel to face miami on wednesday in coral gables, Fla. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2014 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Thoughts must be followed by actions. don’t hesitate to put your plans into motion. The more you do, the less regret you will have. don’t hold back when you know you should be moving forward. not everyone will be pleased with the choices you make, but it’s clear that the people standing by your side are meant to be in your life. your numbers are 3, 5, 13, 26, 31, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take time to assess important relationships. put more time and energy into finding out more about someone’s background. Feeling self-assured will enable you to make a personal decision that can alter the way you live and who you live with in the future. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): getting away from home and the trials and tribulations that are worrisome can help you reassess and make adjustments that will improve your outlook. make the changes necessary to your happiness. love is in the stars. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Think outside the box. Take the initiative to do things differently. don’t limit what you can do because others lack ingenuity. Turn a negative into a positive. Trust in your abilities and pursue your goals. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): you will be offered an unusual opportunity if you take a trip or attend a conference or event that utilizes your skills. romance is on the rise, making this a good time to rekindle a relationship or meet someone special. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you may be disillusioned about your current financial status. price out any item you want to purchase or expenditure you plan to make. look for the cheapest alternative, but don’t go into debt unnecessarily. a poor investment will drag you down. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): explore new hobbies or social activities that will introduce you to interesting people. combine helping others with making an impression on someone you think is special. put love and romance at the top of your to-do list. make an emotional promise. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): observe events and circumstances that are occurring at home or with someone putting demands on you. consider your choices and plan to make changes that will ensure your happiness. a serious talk will help you establish your position and options. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you can prosper by expanding your interests and friendships and by taking part in community or cultural events. The ideas you get from the company you keep will help you initiate positive changes to the way you live and do things in the future. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick to the truth. any deviation you make will be considered meddling or deceptive. protect your reputation and personal relationships from outside influences. play it safe. strive to be organized, prepared and upfront. success depends on you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): open up about your thoughts and plans, and make your choices based on the reaction you get from others. let go of the past and you will move forward with lightning speed, ensuring that you reach your destination on time and without regret. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): wheel and deal until you get what you want. don’t let anyone or anything stand in your way. make your intentions clear and move forward with those willing to stand by your side. change is required, and plans should be played out. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a prosperous partnership that eluded you in the past can now be assembled. offer a fair deal and make concessions for past mistakes. once you’ve established your position, the investment will help you resolve pending financial problems. 


Birthday Baby: you are responsive, passionate and determined. you are precise and productive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 73, bosTon college 69 
Break out the brooms 
Irish sweep season series with BC behind Connaughton, Atkins 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
associate sports editor 
irish junior guard/forward pat connaughton had spoken about sunday’s game against boston college as a sort of homecoming for himself. 
but come game time, the real­ity was boston college would re­serve the home-court advantage for itself against a notre dame team still seeking its first road win of the season. 
but connaughton started off feeling right at home, and the irish took it from there. The arlington, mass., native hit his first five shots from the field and scored 11 points in the game’s first 11 minutes, as notre dame (14-12, 5-8 acc) defeated boston college (6-19, 2-10), 73-69, in chestnut hill, mass. 
connaughton finished with a 
see m basKeTball PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
irish welcome gT to purcell 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 

no. 2 notre dame is off to its best start in program his­tory and returns to purcell pavilion on monday, looking to extend both its conference and home winning streaks against georgia Tech. 
The irish (24-0, 11-0 acc) are coming off an 82-61 win over boston college on Thursday, which pushed them past the 2000-01 national-champion­ship squad’s 23-0 start. They also have won 31 consecutive regular-season conference games, a streak that stretches back to the 2011-12 season, when notre dame was still in the big east. at purcell pavilion, the irish have not lost since december 2012, a stretch that includes 23 wins. 
still, irish coach muffet mcgraw said she saw room for improvement against the eagles. 
“i think rebounding was the problem [against boston college],” mcgraw said. “we need to rebound better.” 
The irish outrebounded boston college, 28-26, far below their average rebound margin of 10.3 per game. The yellow Jackets (17-8, 7-5) average 7.8 more rebounds per game than their opponents, including 18.1 offensive rebounds per game, nearly six more than the irish surrender to their opponents. mcgraw said notre dame needs to be tough on the glass, especially on the defensive end. 
“it’s going to be up to our de­fense [whether we get the win],” mcgraw said. 
This matchup will be only the second game between the yellow Jackets and the irish. 
see w basKeTball PAGE 14 
BENGAL BOUTS 

84th bengal bouts kick off this week 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
months of intense training and years of tradition will collide monday at the Joyce athletic and convocation center Fieldhouse in the preliminary rounds of the 84th installment of bengal bouts. 
each fall, hundreds of men be­gin training for the annual box­ing tournament, which raises funds for the holy cross missions in bangladesh. This year, 135 boxers are set to compete in the tourney, which begins monday. 
in order to compete, each box­er begins training in the early fall, must spar at least three times before fight night and raise $500 for the missions in bangladesh. every year, several senior fight­ers travel to bangladesh on a service trip to teach english. last year, the fights raised more than $100,000. 
The fights themselves are a unique tradition of camaraderie and competition, bengal bouts president and captain daniel yi said. in training, conditioning is a constant point of emphasis for all fighters. 
“conditioning is pretty con­stant throughout the year,” yi said. “we do mostly body-weight workouts. That includes a lot of pushups, squats and other things like that.” 
yi is the defending heavy­weight champion and has boxed throughout his college career, but most boxers come into the program with no prior fighting experience. For these younger and more inexperienced boxers, coaches spend most of their time focusing on the basics, yi said. 
“we’re all working towards a common goal, and that’s to learn boxing,” yi said. “we go over and over the basics. no one in this program has worked too hard on maintaining the basics of box­ing. when you’re in the ring and it’s the third round and you’re tired, it’s the basics that save you.” 
Those basics are tested early and often in the ring. The club 
see boXing PAGE 13 


Observer File Photo 

Senior captain and Bengal Bouts president Daniel Yi lands a punch during a heavyweight fight in last year’s Bengal Bouts. This year’s Bouts begin this week, with the preliminary round tonight. 

ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Boston College L 15-10 Men’s Tennis vs. Virginia L 4-2 ND Women’s Golf, Central District Invitational All Day Men’s Tennis vs. Mississippi State W 4-1 
Baseball at Florida Atlantic W 9-2 Men’s Tennis vs. Florida W 4-0 ND Women’s Basketball vs. Georgia Tech 7 p.m. L 16-6 L 13-3 Hockey at Providence T 2-2 (OT) 
W 3-0 ND Softball vs. Louisville W 6-3 ND Softball at Jacksonville W 9-1 Men’s Basketball at Boston College W 73-69 Men’s Basketball at Miami Wed., 9 p.m. ND Softball vs. Louisville W 11-4   

Men’s Lacrosse at Jacksonville W 19-7 Men’s/Women’s Swimming, ACC Championships Wed., All Day ND Women’s Tennis at Michigan L 6-1 

