The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 97 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Fr. Jenkins introduces renovations 
University plans to build two new residence halls, renovate the Hesburgh Library, construct research facility 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
in an undergraduate town hall meeting featuring university president Fr. John Jenkins, vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding and dean of First year of studies and associate provost for undergraduate affairs hugh page on Tuesday evening, Jenkins announced plans to build two new resi­dence halls, renovate the hesburgh library and con­struct a new multi-disci­plinary research facility on campus. 
Jenkins said the new dorms will be built directly east of mod Quad and open in the fall of 2016.  This development has become a necessity due to the overcrowding of existing residence halls and the sparse availability of on-campus housing for transfer students. 
“one of the most impor­tant aspects of notre dame, we feel, is the residence halls. here tonight, you will be the first to know that we will have two new residence halls,” Jenkins said. “The reason we’re going to have that is be­cause the halls are overcrowd­ed … some transfer students can’t get into the dorms, and we need more space so that we can make space for study halls and social space.” 
see Jenkins PAGE 4 




SMC Love Your Body Week inspires true beauty 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the third installment in a five-part series exploring the events and discussions of Saint Mary’s Love Your Body Week, which aims to foster self-confidence and positive body images. 
love your body week at saint mary’s continued Tuesday night with yoga and frozen yo­gurt in angela athletic Facility, 
see body PAGE 4 



professor discusses mumbai 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
marc belanger, associate professor of political science at saint mary’s, lectured on the religious, linguistic and ethnic diversity in india on monday at the cushwa­leighton library. 
“For everything you can say is true about india, you can say the opposite,” belanger said. “it ought to impress us. we don’t appre­ciate how democracy has survived there.” 

belanger based his lec­ture, titled “encountering mumbai,” on his two-week trip sponsored by the council on international educational exchange (ciee). ciee sponsors un­dergraduates’ trips abroad and hosts approximately 20 international faculty de­velopment seminars in the summer from shanghai to mexico city, belanger said. 
belanger said he attended a seminar titled “Twenty­first century mega cities and villages” in mumbai. he said democracy faces unique issues in india be­cause of the country’s 
see mumbai PAGE 5 


Mendoza College announces new cap 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
in order to maintain stu­dents’ ability to pursue both business and non-business courses, the university will cap enrollment in the mendoza college of business to 550 students per graduat­ing class, starting with in­coming freshmen in the fall of 2015. 
associate vice president of undergraduate enrollment donald bishop said the poli­cy shift was due to concerns by the admissions office and the administrations of the colleges that “evidence of po­tential growth” in the num­ber of business major intents could shut out non-busi­ness students from business courses. 
under the current policy, there is no limit to the num­ber of students who can be­come business majors at any point after their sophomore year. but under the new poli­cy, students intending to ma­jor in business must apply for “pre-approval” through the admissions office to enroll in the business school at the end of their first years, bishop said. 
Those who are not pre-ap­proved will be able to com­pete for a limited number of spots after the beginning of their sophomore year. This process will be open to stu­dents who transfer from other universities, who were previ­ously not allowed to transfer into mendoza, he said. 
“The notre dame phi­losophy is we want all of our students to be as liberally educated as possible, which means some of our non-busi­ness majors taking business courses can be viewed as a strong good,” bishop said. “To restrict those opportu­nities because of expected growth in business beyond traditional business class size 
— we think that’s a negative trade-off.” 
dean of the First year of studies and vice president and associate provost for undergraduate affairs rev. hugh page said capping en­rollment will keep business 
see mendoZa PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 bengal bouTs PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is your Bengal/Baraka Bouts nickname? 

Riwan Pelissier 


Daniel Pedroza 
freshman 

freshman 
duncan hall 

dillon hall 
“The boy wonder.” 

“el luchador.” 
Ryan Glenn 


Emily Garden 
graduate student 

freshman 
carroll hall 

pasquerilla west hall 
“Flex.” 

“The garden knome.” 
Maggie McInerney 


Matt Diehl 
sophomore 

junior 
mcglinn hall 

Fisher hall 
“ice pick.” 

“The real.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kelly konya katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: haleigh ehmsen conor kelly kayla mullen alex wilcox 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily hoffmann allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Basketball Show Some Skin Blood Drive Vigil Mass Bengal Bouts 
karla moreno Tabitha ricketts 
Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing Hammes Bookstore Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. Heart 2 p.m. - 3 p.m. The Irish take on 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Register online at 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Men’s boxing finals. 
Corrections 

Georgia Tech. Student theater GiveBloodNow.com Worship service. The observer regards itself as production. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Theology on Tap Women’s Basketball Clybourne Park Jazz Festival Immigration Lecture 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Legends Joyce Center DeBartolo Performing Washington Hall McKenna Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 7 p.m. - 11 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Michael Heintz speaks The Irish take on North 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 56th annual jazz Bishop Alvaro 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
on truth vs. relativism. Carolina. Theatre performance. festival. Ramazzini lectures. 
we can correct our error. 



‘Show Some Skin’ encourages boldness 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
“show some skin: be bold,” a show comprised of anonymous monologue per­formances submitted by members of the notre dame community, will take place on Thursday and Friday of this week. 
The show, now in its third year, allows students to anon­ymously share their views on topics revolving around per­sonal identity.
 The “show some skin: be bold” production team prompted those who sub­mitted monologues with 
Mendoza 
conTinued From page 1 
class sizes small. This way non-business students can continue to take business classes. 
“we’re ensuring ... that we have both a way to provide educational opportunities for those who have early on identified business as their desired intent, and also suffi­cient seats for students at oth­er colleges who would like to explore business or who have a supplementary business ed­ucation in addition to the ma­jors or minors that they have already declared,” page said. 
dean of mendoza dr. roger huang said the enrollment cap will also allow faculty to maintain close relationships with students, as well as pre­serve cross-college programs such as the science-business major and the business economics minor. 
“one half of our required credit hours are taken outside the business school,” huang said. “if the business school questions designed to engage writers on how race, culture, nationality and sexuality intersect with identity, the show’s producer edith cho said. (Editor’s note: Edith Cho is a former Viewpoint colum­nist for The Observer.) 
however, the anonymous submissions shape the theme of the event more closely than those involved in its produc­tion, cho said. Junior abigail hebert, a performer in the show, said “show some skin” is unique in its direct connec­tion to the faculty, students and staff of notre dame. 
“The plays i’ve performed in [as a Film, Television and Theater major] were written decades or centuries ago, so the playwright seems very removed, but for the mono­logues we’re using it could be written by someone sitting next to me,” hebert said. 
The show’s director and sophomore clarissa schwab said she hopes the show will ignite discussion within the notre dame community. 
“we don’t want their expe­rience to start and end with the top of the show and the end of the show, with the cur­tain rising and the curtain falling,” schwab said. 
“we want these topics to become integrated into the average notre dame con­versation. we don’t want these stories or topics to be taboo anymore, we want to have them out in the open,” schwab said. 
hebert said she hopes those who come to see the show will see the common human­ity between themselves and those who submitted the monologues. 
“There are levels on which we can connect and come to­gether as a community and support each other, because we all feel lost,” hebert said. “we all may be different but the bottom line is we are all a notre dame family.” 
“show some skin” is the first independent student group to be invited to per­form at the debartolo center for the performing arts, cho said. academic departments such as First year of studies and the center for social concerns have also been uti­lizing the monologues sub­mitted for this event, she said.  
“The fact that [students] are willing to come gives us a lot of hope that they will bring these issues to action,” cho said. 
Contact Madison Jaros at   mjaros@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 
working to provide more in­formation to high school stu­dents and freshmen on the different paths to a career in business besides a business major. 
“we want to map our more clearly students’ relationship with the university,” page said. “we want to make infor­mation more clear and put a greater emphasis on mentor­ing, to discourage decisions out of fear.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emconv1@nd.edu 

grows to such a point that other schools are impacted, students won’t have the same choices. even within the busi­ness school we’d like students to have not just one major.” 
bishop said the increas­ing demand for the business school, with 1,888 students enrolled in the 2011-2012 school year, could be due to misperceived career options for the various undergraduate majors as a result of the 2008­2009 economic recession. 
“what we’re seeing ... is this student cohort that’s a little more determined to identify more specific career path planning, and to some degree that can be channeled in a very positive way, provided that they have the sophisti­cation and the information to look at all their choices,” bishop said. “we think that most high school seniors don’t have the access yet to the information they need to make career choices.” 
To remedy this, page said the admissions office and the First year of studies are 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Jenkins 
conTinued From page 1 
Jenkins said the new halls will be built “through the gen­erosity of a couple of benefac­tors,” but did not specify who the donors are or how much the buildings will cost. 
The renovations to hesburgh library are long overdue and will include a more open area on the first and second floors and a new entrance on the north side of the building, Jenkins said. 
“when i was an undergrad­uate a long, long time ago, it looked pretty much like it does now, so it probably needs some renovation,” he said. 
“The entrance will allow you to see upstairs and downstairs when you enter,” Jenkins said. “it’s a better gathering place. we also are planning group study spaces.” 
The university also plans to erect a new research facility to the east of the library, he said. 
“one of the important things at notre dame in recent years has been the ever-expanding research work of our faculty,” Jenkins said. “They’re doing important work for labs and research centers. 
“it will be a multi-disciplin­ary facility, so various faculty from various fields can come together on research work.” 
Jenkins also addressed the 
“One of the important things at Notre Dame in recent years has been the ever-expanding research work of our faculty.” 
Fr. John Jenkins 
University president 
campus crossroads project and said the motivation be­hind the proposed stadium renovations is to provide much needed class and social space while maintaining the walkability of campus. 
“The challenge is we need some more buildings and we’re running out of space,” Jenkins said. “we have this wonderful facility that is used maybe eight times a year. Through a lot of work and a lot of planning we said, ‘okay, look. This structure is here and it just sits there. why don’t we use that space to add some needed buildings?’” 
he also said the university plans to continue to strength­en its global connections and provide more opportunities to study abroad and inspire faculty collaborations “so that the world can know about notre dame and we can know about the world.” 
after Jenkins concluded his remarks, hoffmann harding began her portion of the presentation and said the university plans to eliminate the hall tax from the dorms. 
“what we learned through part of our interview pro­cess with students is first of all, [the hall tax] didn’t dem­onstrate the hospitality we wanted to welcome you into our residential communities,” hoffman harding said. “we want to program and offer things for you in our halls, but there were better and more ef­fective ways that we could do that.” 
hoffmann harding also highlighted last summer’s renovations to lyons hall and announced st. edward’s hall will undergo renovations this 
upcoming summer. 
page then took the stage and addressed issues related to the core curriculum. he said the university is currently in the process of reviewing the re­quirements for undergraduate students. 
“as you know, we have a set of requirements for students at the undergraduate level, and the purpose of those re­quirements is not to make you jump through hoops,” page said. “The purpose is to make sure that there is a rich and full and meaningful under­
“The challenge is we need some more buildings and we’re running out of space.” 
Fr. John Jenkins 
University president 
graduate education for every­one that gives you the skill sets that you need and imparts the virtues that are necessary for responsible citizenship in the 21st century.” 
when the panel took ques­tions from students in atten­dance, several students raised concerns over the university’s ongoing legal proceedings against the department of health and human services’ (hhs) mandate for employ­ers to include contraception in their employees’ healthcare plans. 
Jenkins said following the most recent rejection of the university’s appeal, the university will temporarily comply with the mandate or else face a fine of one million dollars per day. Jenkins said the university plans to con­tinue its legal action, calling this just “the first inning” of the court battle. 
Jenkins also fielded student questions on the campus crossroads project, the board of Trustees’ audience with pope Francis and the university’s role in the ongoing conflict in israel and palestine, par­ticularly  Jenkins’s condemna­tion of the american studies association’s boycott of israeli academic institutions. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
Body 
conTinued From page 1 
followed by a discussion titled, “True beauty: a definition from god” in vander vennet theater.Junior sam moorhead, social concerns committee chair for the student government association (sga), said Tuesday’s events were meant to promote a healthy lifestyle and positive body image, which are two key goals of the week. 
“exercise and nutrition are important factors that influ­ence the way a person views him or herself,” moorhead said. “yoga will be a great event to strengthen muscles and promote practices to im­prove health and happiness.” 
This was the second year having a yoga and frozen yo­gurt event sponsored by urban swirl, which is a popular event and positive representation of love your body week’s goal, moorhead said. 
“we like to include this event because while exercise and a healthy body are essential to a positive self-image, we want students to know that it is okay to indulge in a treat occasion­ally,” she said. “it is important to find the balance in our lives between exercise and a healthy diet.” 
moorhead said the “True beauty: a definition of god” presentation challenged stu­dents to consider the ways the media defines beauty in or­der to gain new perspectives on what being beautiful truly means. 
“a new definition of beauty should help students and peo­ple of the community develop a more positive body image with a more attainable definition of beauty,” moorhead said. 
senior wendy oduor and notre dame sophomore peace maari presented the discus­sion, which was an important dialogue of the religious ele­ments of beauty, moorhead said. 
wendy oduor said she vol­unteered to give a presenta­tion on true beauty to inform students that everyone is beautiful. oduor is the ceo and founder of the faith-based agency heshima couture, an agency that advocates beauty, god and modesty. 
maari said heshima couture’s mission is to encap­sulate a new definition of what true beauty is. 
“heshima couture takes pride in modesty and know­ing that it is deeper than how we dress, but rather portrays daily respect to god,” maari said. “Therefore, heshima couture aspires to dress to­day’s men and women in confi­dence and with an objective to respect god’s temple.” oduor said beauty shouldn’t count on clothing or the newest trend, it should count on inner beauty. 
“every day you are beauti­ful,” odour said. “god fearful­ly and wonderfully made you … when he created you, he created you fearfully and won­derfully … you are wonderful in every aspect.“you have to start thinking [you’re beauti­ful, and] you have to train your mind in a sense that i know that my god created me beau­tifully. when you start think­ing it, it becomes a lifestyle and you start seeing it in your everyday life.” 
maari said it’s important to remember our bodies are not that even though you are busy, remember that you are still beautifully and wonderfully made. love your body week motivates and inspires.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander01@saintmarys.edu 
our own but are gifts from god. 
“we don’t own [our bodies] this is just a loan to us from god,” maari said. “he has giv­en us the privilege to take his image and dress it and take care of it.” 
odour said the main point she would like students to un­derstand is true beauty comes from the word of god. 


“i wish love your body week was the whole year,” odour said. 
“it puts things into perspec­tive for saint mary’s students, 
paid adverTisemenT 



SMC prepares all-female ‘Henry V’ performance 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
when audiences first see direc­tor mark abram-copenhaver’s spring production of “henry v” at saint mary’s, they might be surprised at the lack of male actors. 
The play, which takes place april 3-6, is the first of its kind to premiere at saint mary’s. every role from the servants to the king herself is portrayed and brought to life by an all-female ensem­ble at o’laughlin auditorium, sophomore cast member claire bleecker said. 
abram-copenhaver is the vi­sionary behind the unusual con­cept of an all-female production of this shakespearean history. by cutting and rearranging the text, he hopes to open its context for creative and thematic interpre­tation, bleecker said. 
bleecker said she is excited to say she is part of an all-female production of a shakespeare play, especially one so fueled by masculinity. 
“There are three or four actual girl parts, so this is a play that i would never get a chance to be in outside of saint mary’s,” bleecker said. “back in my hometown, i played hermia in a ‘midsummer night’s dream’ and luciana in ‘comedy of errors,’ and they’re both basically the same peo­ple. They’re not funny or tragic, they’re just objects of love for the people in the play.” 
bleecker said although she has a rather small part, playing the character of bardolph, she thinks the male role will be a great experience for her. 

paid adverTisemenT 

“[bardolph is] complex and has actual characteristics, whereas the female parts that i played in the past really don’t have actual characteristics,” bleecker said. 
critics of shakespeare often point out that the major flaws in the female characters are their lack of depth and layers, bleecker said. 
“when women are put into sticky situations in shakespeare plays, their narrative is gone about in this light, sort of funny way,” she said. “There’s this di­chotomy where the women are light and the men are taken very seriously.” 
in addition to playing with the script, abram-copenhaver has brought in various speakers to better inform the cast about what they are saying and per­forming, bleecker said. 
professor of shakespeare studies christopher cobb re­cently assisted the ensemble in understanding the historical background of the play’s time frame and setting, bleecker said. 
The cast also consists of wom­en who are not saint mary’s stu­dents, bleecker said. 
“we have one of the employees of the college … one of the ladies 
Mumbai 
conTinued From page 1 
complex cultural and eco­nomic make-up and its role as an influential world power. 
who works in the husking center … [and] a math teacher who graduated from saint mary’s,” she said. “it’s a good range from freshmen to seniors.” 
one significant character trait abram-copenhaver wants each of his actresses to focus on in their performances is that they 
“There are three or four actual girls parts, so this is a play that I would never get a chance to be in outside of Saint Mary’s.” 
Claire Bleecker 
sophomore 
are not women playing men but women playing women, bleecker said. 
“essentially our characters are the same as men, as in we’re not just purely comical or love ob­jects,” she said. “we’re tragic and sad and funny and everything else too. [mark] says, ‘you’re not playing men. you’re playing 
“india presents a challenge in terms of its size, its im­portance in the world, its in­equalities, its wealth and its poverty,” belanger said. “but it’s also complex in terms of the number of cultures and languages.” 
as of last week, indian parliament demarcated Telangana as a new state, and since states in india are usu­ally created around linguistic groups, there are 22 official languages recognized across india’s 29 states, belanger said. 
“Just to be clear, we’re us­ing the word language, not dialects, because these are not variations on hindi,” belanger said. “They are languages as different from hindi as european languages are.” 
For example, mumbai lies in the state of maharashtra, and the dominant language spoken there is marathi. language affects a region’s identity, belanger said. 
“while mumbai paints a picture of hindu national­ism, it’s sort of a marathi na­tionalism,” belanger said. 
belanger compared the ur­ban landscapes of india to the united states. mumbai and new york are similar in their unusualness, belanger said. 
“mumbai is not typical of india,” belanger said. “if you only came to new york, you would experience a very american city, but also a very unique city. it is typical and not typical of the united states. you could say the same thing about mumbai.” 
women. you’re women playing these characters.’ 
“That re-enforces the fact that we can play men [and] women can play complex characters. we’re not going to pretend to be men, because we can’t fool any­one there. it’s a major interpreta­tion decision that he made and i agree with,” she said. 
in performing in an all-female “henry v” bleecker said she feels there is a need for this interpreta­tion of a classic play to showcase the strength women can bring to such a story. 
“in history, we as wom­en look back and men have always ruled,” she said. “men were always the leaders, always, always, always, always. but now we’re at a time in history where we have an all-women’s cast in a show. 
“here’s a real example of a time when women are making the de­cisions and acting all the parts and being complex and beauti­ful. a little girl in the audience seeing king henry? yes, that’s going to have an impact. This is a ‘her’ story of king henry v.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at           ekefala01@saintmarys.edu 
mumbai, the fifth most populated city in the world, is home to approximately 20 million people. This density results in an eclectic variety of lifestyles, belanger said, with both squatter communi­ties and gated communities. 
belanger said when he vis­ited dharavi, the neighbor­hood featured in “slumdog millionaire,” he was sur­prised at the bustling activity of the locals, belanger said. The recyclers there also took apart computers in order to melt down the metal and plastic parts. 
“everyone was working really hard — to recycle,” belanger said. “you’d see bag after bag of plastic bottles, you’d see bag after bag of tops of plastic bottles, bags and bags of other kinds of indi­vidual pieces of plastic.” 
urban areas are often segmented, and people of different socioeconomic classes tend to live in sepa­rate worlds, but that is not the case for mumbai, belanger said. 
“you talk about zones in mexico city or guatemala city in terms of safety,” belanger said. “well, in mumbai it’s all jumbled to­gether. a real estate agent told us, ‘when you buy a lux­ury apartment, even if you’re the highest paid star in the world, you’re still going to be overlooking slums.’ you’ve got 15 million people living in a space smaller than new york city.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

The csi of literature 
Charlie Ducey 
news writer 

“The hunger games,” “Twilight,” any­thing written by James patterson — these are the kind of sensational page-turners, complete with love triangles and predictable plots, that i wouldn’t want to be caught read­ing even in an airport bookstore devoid of any other print media. really, i’d sooner read a dictionary. 
in my mind, page-turners are to books as crime scene procedurals are to Tv shows. They’re formulaic, flashy and unfairly suc­cessful. They do a disservice to quality litera­ture, but people want to read them. 
as it turns out, there’s an indiana author and youTuber John green who has written a number of novels like this — all large print with short chapters and plenty of teenage romance. “The Fault in our stars,” green’s most recent book, features the same generic love story found in his other books, but this time around the teenagers have cancer. despite my aversion to books like this, i ended up reading it the whole way through. i can’t say that i totally regret doing so. 
The thing about green is he knows his way around literature. he’s well-read. he quotes emily dickinson and shakespeare (the title, “The Fault in our stars,” is taken right out of a monologue in “Julius caesar”). he alludes to greek mythology and abstract French painters. green even goes out of his way to research cancer treatment for the premise of the novel. but unlike the great literature it quotes, “The Fault in our stars” doesn’t sustain any kind of profound exis­tential engagement, despite its grave subject matter. again, these teenagers have cancer. 
now, i wouldn’t be criticizing the book for this shortcoming except it actually does try to be profound. The phrase “existentially fraught” is used more than once. The prob­lem is as soon as green has his characters make mention of oblivion or true love, they stop midway through the idea, offering only a glimpse where great authors flesh out the whole expansive view. 
The real fault of “The Fault in our stars” may be its inability to probe its existentially-ripe content to any great depth, but this very fault gives rise to its greatest strength: it’s eminently readable. The book is not weighed down by inscrutable metaphors or drawn out cogitations. its sentences are terse and often pedestrian in construction, its language colloquial and humorous. in many ways, it’s a lean book, thin like the emaciated cancer patients it describes. sometimes, this figurative thinness is good. not “perfect in every way” (as per an excerpt from the sacramento bee on the book’s back cover), but good. 
maybe page-turners aren’t to be so easily dismissed. maybe they serve their role in the literary world as a light side dish beside the dense richness of the main course of literary greats. i don’t expect to be picking up any side dishes any time soon, but if i have to, i think i’ll prefer the green variety. 
Contact Charlie Ducey at cducey@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A call to end discrimination 
There has been a lot of discussion amongst notre dame students lately about whether states should have the right to discriminate against gay people, but perhaps we should take a look inward before criticiz­ing others. we attend a university that reserves the right to discriminate against someone on the basis of his or her sexual orientation alone. notre dame claims it wants to foster an atmosphere of love and respect towards gay people, but it insists on the right to fire a faculty member solely because he or she is gay. 
The student and faculty senate both passed resolu­tions calling for the university to add sexual orienta­tion to its non-discrimination clause last year, but the university refused, declining to provide an ex­planation. even the catholic catechism states, “every sign of unjust discrimination in their [gay people’s] regard should be avoided.” This begs the question, why is the university of notre dame so homophobic that it even violates the catholic catechism? 
This mystery may as well be resolved during closed-door conversations, when the politically-incorrect homophobia of the university bares its ugly face. The amount of times someone at this university has told me it is “f***ed up to be gay” is innumerable. There is a widespread disgust of homosexuality that permeates our catholic culture, and the consequenc­es of it are devastating. 
many students choose not to come out to their dorm mates because they are afraid they will not be accepted, and their fear is not baseless. we miss out on many talented faculty members because they are either gay and fear discrimination, or because they are morally opposed to the university’s lack of a non­discrimination clause. and most unfortunately, we harm our gay peers by repeatedly telling them there is something so wrong with them we might want to kick them out of notre dame. 
it is outright disrespectful to deny a request made by both the student body and the faculty without even offering a reason. it is truly depressing that we have allowed our beloved university to deny some of our most basic human rights. but we can change it. 
we must shout in the university’s face and continue shouting ad nauseam until something is done. we must do what people our age do best: protest to effect a necessary change. it is not good enough to be satis­fied with the progress of the gay civil rights move­ment at the national level. we must first protect the basic human dignity of our friends at the place we call home. 
Stephen Hawn 
junior o’neill hall Feb. 24 

It’s Revue: Challenge accepted 
dear ms. kusina, 
Thank you for challenging us in our favorite setting, The observer viewpoint section, which has always served as a beacon of reason, wisdom and truth for the notre dame community. before we even get going, we respect that you called us out in the exact forum we made fun of in the sketch, revuepoint. bold move. That being said, we were thrilled to read your rela­tively positive review. 
in years past, we have dealt with potential lawsuits, the threatened firing of university officials and multi­ple res-lifes in response to the content of the revue. The keenan revue is used to hearing that we’re not funny, insightful, creative or fresh, so when this was all we got, we were pretty pumped. 
we take your constructive criticism to heart (more like fart!), and recognize the legitimacy of your reac­tion. The revue is an evolving tradition that continu­ally seeks to better itself. Therefore, we accept your challenge. we hope to see you again next year. 
Forever yours, 

The revue writing staff 
Jc sullivan 
jsulli18@nd.edu 
mattie conaghan 
mconagha@nd.edu 
seamus ronan 
sronan@nd.edu 
Seamus Ronan 
sophomore keenan hall Feb. 25 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Beyond the crossroads 
Robert Alvarez 
man on a nag 

i was procrastinating on my senior thesis this past sunday when i found Fr. miscamble’s irish rover article in my Facebook newsfeed. it was en­titled, “notre dame at a crossroads: misplaced priorities and a Flawed vision.” intrigued, i clicked on the link and read the article. 
i was struck by the end of the ar­ticle, when Fr. miscamble questioned the linkage between the new campus crossroads project and notre dame’s mission, “shaping our students to be true missionary disciples who understand well what truly matters in life and who can keep the pursuit of wealth and corporate power in proper perspective.” he suggests this project forms a figurative crossroads for a university deviating from this fundamental mission. 
i disagree. i think notre dame came to this crossroads a long time ago and has already chosen the path to becoming a factory university. 
education at notre dame — and in the rest of america for that mat­ter — has been reduced to an eco­nomic function. it is only seen as valuable insofar as it can result in money. my peers and i have been taught our entire lives that educa­tion is for the purpose of getting us a job, which has lead to an increas­ingly preprofessional undergraduate student body. outside the First year of studies, there are 2,013 under­graduates enrolled in the college of arts and letters, while there are 1,971 enrolled in mendoza, 1,118 in engineering and 1,225 in the college of science. This doesn’t even take into account students in the college of arts and letters who also pursue majors in one of the other colleges, or those who major in economics, which, if we want to be frank, is seen by many as a more rigorous alterna­tive to mendoza. 
even in the college of arts and letters, though, this economization of education can be seen at the ad­ministrative level. The two depart­ments that make the most money in any arts and letters college at any university in the country are the his­tory and economics departments. These departments can produce lit­erature for popular consumption and most frequently win prestigious and lucrative grants for the university. because of this, the history depart­ment just got a swanky new office in o’shaughnessy, knocking out a couple of former classrooms, and the economics department has recently been on a hiring tear, hiring five new professors in the past year. 
This is the modern factory univer­sity, a phenomenon seen not only at notre dame, but at every major university in the country. The goal of these universities is to offer its students and the public a product for consumption; its end is funda­mentally utilitarian, not to create “true missionary disciples.” i am not speaking pejoratively here, nor am i making value judgments about the various disciplines. i am speak­ing of how administrations across the country now run their schools; if it seems pejorative, that is only because you, the reader, don’t like something about the facts. 
Fr. miscamble, i’m afraid the type of education you are seeking for us, the student body, is becom­ing increasingly rare in our modern society. i’m not saying it is gone — there are many great professors and people here at notre dame who have provided me with a true education — but it is being increasingly neglected and besieged by administrative mod­els that treat education as a business. i’m looking at going into secondary education after graduation, but i am increasingly asking myself if the type of educator i want to be has a place in modern factory education. 
when Jesus was doing his earthly ministry, the only human job title that was fit to describe him was rabbi, or “teacher.” Jesus, however, was not trying to seek job opportuni­ties for his students; he was trying to awaken them to their world, to their actions, to their god and to the calling of love that is our purpose. To borrow from paulo Freire, Jesus practiced, “conscientização,” or conscientization. with the modern emphasis on test scores and econom­ic utility, is there room for this type of education in our modern educa­tion system? 
in conclusion Fr. miscamble, i agree with you. i believe this campus crossroads project is a tool for economic competition, not for the type of education of which you speak. i want to up the ante, though. i believe notre dame is so caught up in the competition for money and prestige that pervades the culture of higher education that it cannot real­ize its full potential as a transforma­tional force for good, a good which is founded upon the radical gospel message that forsakes the prestige and wealth notre dame has been so relentlessly pursuing. 
notre dame has been playing the game of the world and if we catholics are not the ones who stop and say, “no,” who else will? Jesus christ said, “it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of god.” The same applies to universities as well. 
Robert Alvarez is a senior studying in the Program of Liberal Studies. He is living in Zahm House. He welcomes all dialogue on the viewpoints he expresses. He can be reached at ralvare4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

What will it take for ND to remember? 
if you drive around my neighborhood in north suburban chicago around christmastime, you see a wonderful assortment of lights and decorations. you get the icicles, the beautiful wreaths, the big, bright colored bulbs, but then every few houses or so you see something different. warm pink lights, wrapped around a bush or two, contrast the typical reds and greens of the seasons and piqued my curiosity back in 2010 when they first began to ap­pear. i asked my mom why all these houses had pink lights, to which she solemnly responded, “They’re for lizzy.” 
i write this article due to the recent statements by prince shembo, a for­mer linebacker for notre dame, claiming himself innocent of the alleged sexual battery of a saint mary’s student named lizzy seeberg in fall of 2010. Ten days after the events, she committed suicide. lizzy lived and grew up in my hometown of northbrook, ill., which is why i heard the story in the first place. i never knew lizzy, but i did know some of her relatives through my school and my community. 
The death of this young woman and following inquiry into the events left my community devastated and heartbroken. i’m sure some were wondering how this could’ve happened, why notre dame was being portrayed in such a bad light, what texts like, “messing with notre dame football is a bad idea” mean in the context of a girl’s life. 
and here’s the truth: i don’t know. i don’t know the details. i can’t and won’t pass judgment on shembo, on how notre dame should have handled the issue, what the culture of football at this university means, who said what, what the big story is. all i really know is that lizzy is gone, and this tragic fact is the only thing that matters in the end. 
but the reason why i’m really concerned is this: i was talking with a few friends the other day, and someone in conversation said something along the lines of, “oh, did you hear that they found out more about the football player involved in the sexual assault a few years ago?” i responded with an “oh, really?,” didn’t give it a second thought, and moved on with my day. 
only later when i found out that this was lizzy seeberg in question did i care to give it a second glance. 
am i that quick to forget? i clearly remember the details as they occurred back in 2010, i remember how distraught the community was and i remem­ber thinking about how close to home the whole situation felt, despite my obvious distance from the events. i heard what my friend said about a foot­ball player and threw it away like it was nothing. i strongly feel this is not something our community as a whole can simply forget, but i didn’t care until it directly related to me. but what about people who this didn’t relate to? is our community as a whole so numb to alleged forms of violence such as this? 
i’m referring not just to athletes and the football program, but the campus as a whole after several sexual assault incidents this year. i would hope that for the amount we talk about the notre dame family we actually support this claim when people’s lives and dignity are at stake; this suicide is not something we should forget. The “one is Too many” movement is an excel­lent start, and is something that i fully put my weight behind. but it doesn’t change the fact that any kind of disregard for these events is a crime against the victim and her family, and is something of which i myself am guilty. 
no, i never knew lizzy seeberg or prince shembo and maybe this article is just a useless reminder of a terrible tragedy from which notre dame and the seeberg family would like to move on. but right after reading shembo’s statement, i remembered the pink lights that i saw this year and that i will see every time i return home during christmas. i have a reminder of lizzy. what will it take for notre dame to remember as well? 
Danny Martin 
freshman knott hall Feb. 26 



By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

yesterday, coldplay dropped a new single, “midnight,” right out of the interweb vortex with no warning what­soever. as i type, the video has yet to reach over a half-million views on youTube, a mere drop in its ocean of music videos by major bands. it’s yet unknown if the track is part of an upcoming album. given that the band hasn’t released a full-length in three years, it certainly wouldn’t be surprising. The single, however, is a differ­ent story. 
“midnight” doesn’t sound like a single. it has no mem­orable chorus. its lyrics are obscured by chris martin’s breathy, soaring delivery. its one build-up is acutely re­strained and controlled. instead, a pulsating, soft beat and an airy, persistent guitar line stand at “midnight”’s heart. glimpses of coldplay’s past material — a gor­geous, sparse guitar line and a melody that echoes paradise — peer out of the atmosphere, but never hang around for long. instead, the song slowly and subtly shifts from place to place. The song alternates between 
Dan Barabasi 
scene writer 

Think back for a moment to the last time you tuned in to a fashion show, picked up “gQ” or “elle” or strolled in new york city. ignoring the few runway models with a cage or other uncomfortable object on their body, the clothing often looks pretty dapper. 
unfortunately, there’s a strong bias in the fashion industry. Fashion weeks, the oscars of the style indus­try, occur in cities, namely milan, paris, new york and london. in this way, trendy shops congregate in such niche capitals, tailoring their wares to the moneyed individuals and weather patterns of the area. 
This leaves the beautiful midwest, as well as many other parts of the world, completely cut out of the de­bate for the hottest items of the year. if we take a second to look at the male fashion trends as of now, they’d be: skinny suits and pants, lightweight bomber and denim jackets, wool ties and boots worn with tailored clothes. all of these look great in the city, but throw them in the notre dame climate for a few days and you’re looking at a useless wardrobe. EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer pure atmosphere and angelic vocal verses before finally building into a subdued instrumental trance, which disintegrates back into a last verse. 
it would be easy to say that coldplay is piggybacking here. The vocal effects on chris’s voice sound very, very similar to those James blake and bon iver have brought to prominence. but given the instrumentation, the form and the consistent beat at the heart of “midnight”, that just wouldn’t be fair. coldplay’s new single is simply a piece of very accessible, restrained ambient music craft­ed by a rock band. every obvious element of coldplay’s pop songs has been trimmed away to leave a pulsing heart — one of energy and smooth aesthetic beauty. 
it’s an extremely bold maneuver. if released by a band any smaller, this song would have zero chance of being played on the radio. it has no “logo,” no recognizable trademark like a catchy chorus or intro to help sell it to an audience. it’s calm and patient, two elements in op­position to the dance and rap so commonly found on today’s Top 40. no matter what is said about “midnight,” it’s hard to claim this is any sort of sell-out or cash grab, because “midnight” is in no way a pop song. 
so here it is, what you’ve all been waiting for, a plea to the fashion industry to remember the midwest, espe­cially when the arctic vortex traps us here. 
First, i’d like to ask for some real boots. my favorite part of my boots right now is how i can do ring-dating analysis (think age of trees) on them based on the num­ber of salt lines along the side. i sometimes even ques­tion what color my shoes started off, because by now i can only describe them as a solid meh. 
To counteract this, i’d like to see boots that embrace the beauty of salt lines. i’m thinking some black or grey boots with white rings already on them, thus trudging around in the knee-deep slush will only add to the pat­tern at hand. 
next, we need address the issue of the sub-arctic tem­peratures in the morning turning to saharan heats by the middle of the day. as of now, there’s no intermediate. you throw on a warm coat in the morning, and you have to head back to your dorm to shower by noon. Forget your coat in your rush, and you’ll be struggling with hypothermia as you step in to your 8:20 a.m. 
The magic solution: inflatable light jackets. air could work as an insulating layer by having thermal-lined bubbles inside jackets that could be filled in the 
There’s only one thing stopping me from proclaim­ing “midnight” an extremely important piece of mu­sic in today’s pop scene: it’s not that memorable. what coldplay is doing here is certainly going to be new to many of their fans. but in the genre of electronic music, “midnight” doesn’t stand out. There are many artists making songs featuring beautiful airy vocals, smooth atmospheres and almost-danceable beats. The songs that are prominent in the genre – “hiders” by burial and kindness’s cover of “swingin’ party” come to mind 
– exude strong emotions, whereas “midnight” seems to just roll along on some vaguely epic, but inexpressive, adventure. 
coldplay’s single marks a new step for the band, one in a rather interesting direction that would bring a new type of music to mainstream spotlight. however, “midnight” as a song is somewhat unspectacular, pre­senting an interesting sound without especially re­markable elements. hopefully we’ll get the best of both worlds on an album soon to come. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
mornings, but then drained by midday. a perfect way to achieve that sleek look in the dining hall without having to sacrifice a frostbitten limb for it. 
lastly, i ask the lords of fashion to grant the midwest skinny pants with long johns built in. This sort of thing already exists if you’re into wearing 80s jeans padded with flannel, but what i’m thinking of would be slim-fit jeans or cords with a warm base that helps you slip into that pesky pant leg that’s gotten too small. 
if you’re interested in the warm fancy pants category, there has actually been development in this area. betabrands put out gray dress pants that actually are sweatpants, and they’re relatively cheap considering the cost of a nice pair of suit slacks. 
but this does not mean the battle for recognition in the style industry is over. it’s just a nice shout out to the slightly lazy, a bit fancy and very cold midwestern fashionistas. 
don’t let us be forgotten. notre dame deserves a new class of fashion. 
Contact Dan Barabasi at  dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Allie Tollaksen 
associate scene editor 

Last weekend, indie-pop duo MS MR, consisting of singer Lizzy Plapinger and producer Max Hershenow, performed at Legends. Associate Scene Editor Allie Tollaksen had a chance to ask them a few questions. 
Allie Tollaksen: You released your debut studio album last year, what can we expect in this upcoming year? 
ms mr: we’ll be spending most of this year work­ing on writing and recording the next record, as well as touring with our dear friends grouplove on our longest 
u.s. tour to date, as well as hitting a slew of festivals this summer including coachella, bonnaroo and Firefly. 
AT: I had heard your music and known MS MR, of course, as a duo, so I was surprised to see a four-piece band on stage. What was the process of turning into or touring with a larger group? 
ms mr: we always knew we never wanted to be the 
By ANNETTE SAYRE 
scene writer 

after nearly 30 hours of dedicated practice and concen­trated application, the notre dame symphony orchestra graced the stage of the leighton concert hall last Friday night to perform in their annual winter concert. The first half of the concert featured mendelssohn’s “piano concerto no. 1” and mozart’s “Flute concerto no. 2,” followed by mendelssohn’s vibrant overture for “a midsummer night’s dream.” These classic pieces were succeeded by beethoven’s “symphony no. 3” in the sec­ond half. 
The notre dame symphony orchestra’s performance was inspiring, and the orchestra itself a representation of seamless collaboration and unanimity. each person was visibly and audibly attuned to the sound they were producing as well as that of the orchestra as a whole, re­sulting in a harmony that displayed the talent of the per­formers while honoring the composers of these pieces. The program kept everyone in the audience engaged and on the edge of their seats for two hours, beginning with mendelssohn’s riveting piano concerto. 
The concert opened with pianist alyssa varsanik in sparkling gold sequins, who took the stage to play the two of us on stage with a laptop — that would have undermined the ambition of the music and also didn’t seem like a fun way to perform. we wrote the music be­fore ever having played live so the transition to the live show took a lot of time. but we knew we were going to build a band around it from the start and it was exciting to see the music take on a new life with live instrumen­tation that highlighted both the organic and electronic elements of the production. 
AT: What is your songwriting process like? 
ms mr: we’re somewhat new songwriters so for us writing is all about experimentation and it can begin in a number of ways. we often start with either the two of us sitting down together and attacking a new song, but increasingly we divide and conquer songs — max will have a track for lizzy to write over or lizzy will have a vocal idea that max will write under. we’re incredibly collaborative with one another so no song feels more like one of ours than the other. 
AT: You’ve been known for your presence on Tumblr. Do you think that engagement with internet culture influences your music or how you came 
concerto that made her one of the winners of the orches­tra’s concerto competition in november of last year. The elegance and precision with which she delivered her emotional performance seemed remarkably effortless, and the orchestra accompanied ms. varsanik with great energy and exactness. 
The piano concerto was followed by an equally pas­sionate performance of mozart’s flute concerto, per­formed by Jessica meaux, the other winner of the orchestra’s 2013 concerto competition. her delicate yet buoyant touch allowed for incredibly precise and fluid trills that made her performance breathtaking. 
mendelssohn’s overture for “a midsummer night’s dream” and beethoven’s symphony performed by the orchestra followed these fabulous solo performances. These two pieces were selected for the concert because they are two of the most famous symphonies of the en­tire symphony repertory. in the words of the notre dame symphony orchestra director daniel stowe, “They are meant to be experienced as monuments of symphonic music.” 
additionally, both of these pieces have interesting background stories. mendelssohn’s reputable overture has an explicit story behind it, as it is a musical repre­sentation of shakespeare’s renowned play, and was 
about as musicians? 

ms mr: absolutely! we often say we could have never made this album in any other time period. our engage­ment with the internet had a huge influence on the mu­sic itself but also the way in which we shared it with the world. 
AT: Lizzy, I was so surprised and impressed to hear you started Neon Gold as an undergraduate. How did that come about? Do either of you have any advice for young undergrads looking to get involved with music? 
lp: i have always loved music and dreamed of starting a label so when my now business partner derek and i heard “sleepyhead” by passion pit for the first time we knew we had hit upon something really special, and we should just throw ourselves into doing what we love. we just followed our gut which is similar to the ms mr process, stay true to what we love, don’t over think things and follow our instincts. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at  atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
composed when he was just 17 years old. 
“symphony no. 3,” also called “eroica,” has historical context, as it was written by beethoven during a period of personal crisis. beethoven’s piece was a good choice for the concert because of the rhythmic vitality and playful­ness present throughout. The piece raises expectations in the listener and then turns them aside, described by stowe as being “like a roller coaster ride in the dark — you don’t know what’s coming.” 
The notre dame symphony orchestra’s performance on Friday night was truly phenomenal, from the passion­ate performances of the soloists, to the orchestra’s in­credible vibrancy and accuracy throughout each piece. i thoroughly enjoyed the evening and i would highly encourage attending the orchestra’s spring concert on april 11 at 8 p.m. in the debartolo performing arts center, especially if you have never been to a perfor­mance before. 
“it’s amazing. it’s always remarkable to me the ex­traordinary gifts of the students here,” stowe said. 
“i think it’s always great for us to get a chance to share this with the campus. it will be worth the trek down to dpac to come hear us.” 
Contact Annette Sayre at asayre@nd.edu 
EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bring back two-sport stars 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
Jackie robinson. Jim brown. Jim Thorpe. michael Jordan. 
each of these athletes was king of their respective sport at one point in time, a true legend of the game 
— but they have something else in common. each also played at least one other sport and excelled in that as well. robinson ran track and played football at ucla, brown is a hall of Famer in lacrosse, Thorpe played just about everything and michael Jordan starred in baseball … sort of. 
There are more modern examples, namely bo Jackson and deion sanders, but their primes passed well over a decade ago. The era of the multi-sport athlete has seemingly come to an end, where the closest thing to a second sport an athlete will pick up is “dancing with The stars.” 
There are a several factors that can be pointed to as explanations for this phe­nomenon. For one, kids are pressured to start special­izing at younger and younger ages, and more than ever play just one sport. in addi­tion, the time dedicated to training has gone up in ev­ery sport and at every level, precluding an athlete from adding other commitments. and once arriving in college or the pros, scholarships and contracts often forbid participation in other sports entirely for fear of injury risk, even banning activities like pick-up basketball. 
That’s not to say that the potential isn’t there for a two-sport athlete, but it no longer seems to be some­thing our culture values. For example, seahawks quarter­back russell wilson tweeted last week that he will attend spring training with the Texas rangers in the offsea­son, this announcement just a few weeks removed from winning the super bowl(!). The result was a widespread questioning of wilson’s commitment, as well as his loyalty to the seahawks franchise. 
whether this anger is a byproduct of fans’ increasing investement in their teams or maybe just the failed michael Jordan experiment, it is clear that the atmo­sphere is no longer friendly to these cross-sport stars. but some are still toeing the line. 
Just yesterday, Florida state quarterback phenom Jameis winston laced up his cleats for an exhibition against the new york yankees as part of the seminoles baseball team. golden Tate and pat connaughton both moon­lighted for notre dame baseball as well when they weren’t on the gridiron or the hardwood. and many of the nFl’s best tight ends have come from college basketball backgrounds (antonio gates and Jimmy graham to name two). 
sure, there’s been some sideshows in recent years, like chad ochocinco trying out for the mls or lolo Jones making a run at the women’s bobsled team (a la the origi­nal multi-sport sideshow, “cool runnings”). 
but at the heart of it, fans want to be entertained, and crossover athletes are flat-out entertaining. who wouldn’t want to see lebron James at tight end, or usain bolt on manchester united or manny pacquiao as an nhl enforcer? 
sure, injury risk might be a concern for some teams, but franchises could loan out players with injury in­surance clauses, even for one night only exhibitions, and share some of the ticket revenue. 
is it feasible? probably not. is it dumb? possibly. but a dumber exhibition than, say, the pro bowl? i don’t think so. 
so, athletes of the world, let’s do this. it’s time to get in (another) game. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NBA 

wall leads nene-less wizards over magic 
Associated Press 

washingTon — John wall scored 27 points, and the must-make-playoffs washington wizards sur­vived their first game after nene’s latest injury, beating 
the  road-hapless  orlando  
magic  115-106  Tuesday  
night.  

Trevor ariza added 22 points and hit all five of his 3-point attempts, and marcin gortat had 21 points and 10 rebounds for the wizards, who made 10 of 16 3-pointers and have won a season-high four in a row to move one game above .500. They also improved to 2-6 this season without nene, who sprained the mcl in his left knee sunday in a 96­83 win at cleveland. 
victor oladipo scored 26 points for the magic, who tied a single-season fran­chise record by losing their 16th consecutive road game. They remain without lead­ing scorer arron afflalo, who missed his second game with a sprained right ankle. 
in case there was any thought that nene’s injury would give the wizards a convenient excuse to miss the postseason for the sixth straight year, owner Ted leonsis began the day with a wakeup call via his blog, posting “our goals have not changed in any way” and that the team must over­come injuries and “whatev­er else comes our way.” 
leonsis has made it clear that another year in the nba lottery would not be acceptable. The wizards sit in fifth place in the weak eastern conference, and coach randy wittman and team president ernie grunfeld are both in the last season of their contracts. 
The wizards are 60-61 when nene plays and 9-34 when he doesn’t since he was acquired in a trade two years ago. washington also played Tuesday’s game without forward kevin seraphin, who has a sore right knee. 
Trevor booker started in nene’s spot and fin­ished with three points and seven rebounds. The team planned to sign drew gooden to a 10-day con­tract in time for the next game, Thursday against the Toronto raptors. 
The magic are one team that the wizards can han­dle without nene, although orlando managed to hang around well into the fourth quarter. wall had 11 straight wizards points early, and washington had a 17-point lead in both the second and third quarters, but oladipo and nikola vucevic led an 11-0 run to cut the deficit to six late in the third. 
ariza’s turnaround jump­er gave the wizards a 93-80 lead headed into the fourth. The magic got as close as eight in the final period, but ariza got a fortuitous bounce on a 3-pointer to restore a comfortable lead with less than five minutes to play. 
NBA 

league-leading pacers handle lakers 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — paul george scored 12 of his 20 points in the third quarter, evan Turner had 13 points in his pacers debut, and indiana beat the los angeles lakers 
118-98 on Tuesday night.  
indiana  improved  its  
league-leading  record  to  
43-13.  

kent bazemore finished with a career-high 23 points and Jodie meeks added 15 for the lakers (19-38), who have the worst record in the west. The loss also ended los angeles’ three-game win­ning streak at bankers life Fieldhouse. 
The lakers stayed closer 

FOR RENT 

Fully furnished rental. Please call 574-360-6910 or email nd-house @sbcglobal .net 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 
than expected through the first 2 ½ quarters and trailed just 59-58 early in the third 
but george then scored 10 points in a decisive 14-5 spurt that gave indiana an 80-68 lead with 2:58 to go in the period. The pacers finished the quarter on an 11-2 run to make it 91-70, and the lakers couldn’t get closer than 19 the rest of the way. 
it was a huge night for george and indiana’s contin­ually evolving bench. 
george had seven rebounds and six assists despite spend­ing the entire fourth quar­ter on the bench with most of indiana’s starters. david west had 11 points and 12 re­bounds, roy hibbert finished with 10 points, six rebounds and four blocks, and the pacers got 50 points from the bench with their newest play­er, Turner, leading the way. 
lavoy allen, who came with Turner from philadelphia last Thursday in a trade deadline deal, played the final minutes. andrew bynum, who signed with indiana on Feb. 1, did not play against one of his former teams and still has not suited up for indiana. 
it didn’t matter Tuesday, even on a night that bazemore produced a career-high total for the third straight game. he’s had career bests in all three games since being trad­ed to los angeles from golden state. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ location next to campus. Walk to ev­
mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net erything. email nd-house@sbcglobal. net for additional info and photos. 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, 
WANTED 

paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
Typist sought to type manuscript. COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime Call 574-631-5491. 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

o’connor battles injury bug 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
with a little more than eight minutes left in no. 11 notre dame’s 19-7 rout of Jacksonville, irish senior midfielder liam o’connor lost his final faceoff of the night to dolphins freshman sam rosengarden. 
it was a small blemish on a dominating night that put an ex­clamation point on o’connor’s long road back from injury. 
“last year, i blew my knee out against st. John’s,” o’connor said. “Then it happened again over the summer, so i was limit­ed throughout the fall. i couldn’t play at all. coming back, there was a question of whether i would be on the field at all, but i was lucky enough to work with our trainer, mandy merritt, and some other faceoff guys to get my leg back to full strength for Jacksonville.” 
o’connor won 21 of his 25 fa­ceoffs, picked up 15 groundballs and scored the seventh goal of his career. afterwards, coach kevin corrigan singled out o’connor’s performance as the most encouraging development of the game for the irish (1-1). For o’connor, it was simply a relief to be back out on the field. 
“it was great to be out there playing again,” o’connor said. “i love lacrosse and i love facing-off, so while it’s unfortunate that i got hurt, i’m very fortunate to have the support of my team­mates and coaches and the training staff.” 
injuries have been a common theme throughout o’connor’s career, even as he has emerged as notre dame’s faceoff spe­cialist. he played in 38 games throughout his first three sea­sons and as a freshman, ranked 18th in the nation in faceoff percentage. 


“when i was a sophomore, i got a concussion against duke, but i came back from that,” o’connor said. “i had thumb surgery at the end of my sopho­more year as well.” 
despite the obstacles, o’connor has established him­self not only as a faceoff special­ist but also as a part of the team’s transition offense. he has re­corded nine points on his career and leads the team in ground-balls this season. 
“i really love playing the tran­sition game,” o’connor said. “i don’t get many chances to play settled offense because we have great guys who also play mid­field like [senior] Jim marlatt. but anytime i win the faceoff war and clear the ball, we’re on offense and pushing it towards the cage so we can get it to our attackmen for a look in an un­settled situation. we can steal one or two goals like that and give ourselves room on the of­fensive side.” 
after a tough 9-8 loss to no. 10 penn state last saturday, the road does not get any easier for the irish and o’connnor, who open acc play against no. 3 north carolina on saturday. The Tar heels (3-0) feature one of the premier faceoff men in the coun­try in senior r.g. keenan, who was a first-team all-america se­lection in 2012. o’connor, how­ever, welcomes the challenge. 
“we’re looking forward to north carolina,” o’connor said. “There’s just going to have be more preparation from us, from our coaches and from our faceoff guys in particular. if i can win the faceoff and give our team the ball on the offensive end on a continual basis, then i think we have a really great chance to win.” 
The irish and o’connor will go for the upset of the Tar heels on saturday at 3 p.m. in chapel hill, n.c. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish head to ACC championships 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
notre dame will find its place in its new conference when it travels to greensboro, n.c., for its first acc swimming cham­pionships wednesday through saturday at the greensboro aquatic center. 
“in a way, we have no expec­tations,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “we’ve not been to this meet before. we don’t have an identity in this meet, so we’re go­ing there to establish what notre dame’s identity in this confer­ence meet is.” 
last year, the irish (5-5-1) cap­tured a conference title at the big east championship meet in indianapolis in commanding fashion, earning a meet-record 991 points and outpacing sec-ond-place louisville by 139.5 points. 
This year, however, the team will compete against faster and stronger teams from the acc, which boasts five top-25 squads. 
notre dame divers got a glimpse of the conference’s strength last week, when they finished seventh in the diving portion of the competition and netted 78 points to carry into this weekend’s action. 
“we saw last week, with the men’s diving and the women’s meet, that it is a very tough field, up and down, start to fin­ish in every event,” welsh said. “we expected that all year long, but seeing it happen last week is confirmation that the meet is going to be every bit as tough as we thought it would be.” 
The format of the meet will also be on a larger scale than notre dame experienced in big east meets, with 10 schools com­peting in the acc compared to nine in the big east, and the top 24 places will score at the meet this year, as opposed to the top 16 in previous years. 
The competition consists of seven sessions over a four-day span, which is the longest meet the irish have swum this season. 
“The only way to approach seven sessions is one at a time,” welsh said. “but we’ll go into it thinking that what we want is seven great sessions. … we un­derstand about the endurance factor. we can only swim the event that is right now, but our focus will be on swimming on tonight’s event and preparing for tomorrow’s event.” 
even with the greater size of the meet, the irish have many swimmers seeded at or near the top of their events. 
Junior Zach stephens has the fastest overall time in three of his events — the 200-yard indi­vidual medley and 100-yard and 200-yard breaststrokes — while senior Frank dyer holds the top spot in the 200-yard freestyle and the no. 2 spot in the 500­yard freestyle. 
Freshman Tom anderson is slated first in the 400-yard indi­vidual medley, and junior John williamson has the second-fastest time in the 100-yard butterfly. 
Three notre dame relays — the 800-yard freestyle and 200 and 400-yard medley relays — each hold the no. 2 seed. 
Though his swimmers have the potential to pick up many points if they finish as they are seeded, welsh said their focus is on fast times that will help them advance to the ncaa champi­onship meet at the end of march. 
“our emphasis is on the clock,” he said. “if we beat the clock, we’re happy, and if we beat it of­ten enough, we’re going to like what the scoreboard says.” 
welsh said his team might even find inspiration at the meet from another impressive irish swim last week — notre dame junior emma reaney’s american-record performance in the 200-yard breaststroke at the women’s acc championship meet. 
“it will spin off to help all of the women and all of the men,” he said. “we now know that you can set an american record training right here in our pool. we didn’t know that before, and that’s a glorious thing for us all to know.” 
The irish dive into acc action wednesday at the greensboro aquatic center in greensboro, n.c.,  through saturday. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BASEBALL 
Daniel Yi def. Brian “The 
Bouts 
conTinued From page 13 
took control of the bout, landing sharp left jabs to smoljan’s head. at the end of the round, smoljan tried to retake the offensive mo­mentum, but opened himself on defense to more hard punches. in the final round, smoljan was able to generate an offensive attack, but neville ended the round with mul­tiple combinations that took a toll on smoljan’s head and body and walked away in a split decision. 
Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo def. Hank “Team Pup ‘n Suds” Duden 
both fighters came out with speed and power, slugging it out in the first round. The junior escobedo took control of the bout early, landing strong combination after combination of hooks and jabs. The senior duden’s defense was solid but escobedo overpow­ered him with brute force. in the second round, escobedo began to land thunderous blows to duden’s body and head, carrying his mo­mentum throughout the round. in the final round, duden tried to made a comeback by bombard­ing escobedo with uppercuts and strong hooks to his body, but escobedo took the win by a unani­mous decision. 
202-pounds: 
Brian “Long arms of the Law” Ellixson def. Ryan “Drama” Lindquist 
The junior lindquist dominat­ed early, but law student ellixson pulled away in the later rounds for the win. countering lindquist’s early jabs, broke through par­ries and landed powerful blows to lindquist’s head. in the sec­ond round, both fighters stayed low to the ground, on the defen­sive. ellixson was able to open up the fight late in the period with a strong jab to lindquist’s head that caused the referee to halt the fight. when the match resumed, ellixson continued his onslaught and bloodied lindquist’s nose. in the final round, ellixson did not let up and put lindquist away, winning the bout by a unanimous 
decision.  
Tyler “One def. Keith Marrero  Shot” “Chief  So nsalla Keef”  

From start to finish, the senior sonsalla maneuvered around the ring and controlled the pace of the match while graduate student marrero was unable to utilize his strength. Throughout the first round, marrero held the center of the ring, as sonsalla danced around him, landing critical jabs and hooks to slow marrero’s attacks. in the second round, sonsalla continued to effectively move around the ring while at­tacking marrero’s head and body. as he tired, marrero’s punches lessened in strength and frequen­cy. a thunderous right jab from sonsalla bloodied marrero’s nose and in the end, sonsalla won in a split decision. 
Heavyweight Division Crisis” Israel 
in the heavily anticipated matchup with three-time cham­pion yi, the senior dominated on his way to a unanimous decision win against law student israel. in the first round, israel threw mul­tiple right hand jabs, but yi was able to smoothly evade the at­tacks. yi took control of the fight as he focused his energy toward the defensive side of the bout. in the second round, israel was able to land a solid combination of hooks and uppercuts. The moment was short-lived as yi retaliated with a powerful uppercut to israel’’s head. in the final round, yi erupted with strong jabs and hooks while evading nearly every one of israel’s attacks. in the end, yi advanced to his fourth bengal bout title match. 
Erich “Lia” Jegier def. Matthew “Here comes the” Boomer 
both boxers started the bout with sheer power as they each landed strong right jabs that hit simultaneously. The sophomore boomer fell back into a defensive strategy as the first round wore on. in the second round, boomer went back on the offensive, land­ing several right jabs to the fresh­man Jegier, but Jegier did not let up as he continued to attack all the way to the end of the round. in the final period, boomer made a valiant attempt to overpower Jegier, but Jegier was too much as he pushed boomer into the ropes several times with a multitude of 1-2 combinations. in the end, it was enough to earn Jegier the split decision victory. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu, Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu, Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu, Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu, Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu and Cornelius McGrath at cmcgrat2@nd.edu 

irish shave heads for cause 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 

how long does it take to give haircuts to an entire baseball team? if no one is too picky about styling, just under 60 minutes. 
in a twist on the traditional “meet the Team” dinner, every member of the notre dame base­ball team — including the coach­es and support staff — had their heads shaved over the course of an hour on the purcell pavilion parquet Tuesday night as part of a fundraiser for The bald and the beautiful, notre dame’s student run campaign to raise funds for cancer research. 
“it’s all for a good cause,” fresh­man second baseman cavan biggio said. “For us it’s just hair, but for kids who actually have cancer it’s more of a life-battle, and this is just a small thing for us. we get to play baseball ev­eryday and we kind of take it for granted sometimes.” 
The event was inspired in part by daniel alexander, a local child suffering from a brain tumor, who has been “adopted” by the team. 
“it was right at the end of the fall; he came in with his fam­ily and introduced himself, and that’s when we were made aware of his story,” junior outfielder conor biggio said. “it’s an incred­ible story and really touched all of our hearts.” 
according to the elder biggio, many members of the team did not believe irish coach mik aoki when he told them they would all be getting their heads shaved. 
“we were told kind of jokingly at first. it was after a practice, and aoki was like ‘yeah, we’re going to be shaving our heads,’” biggio said. “and everyone was like, ‘oh, yeah, okay.’ and then all the sud­den we realized he was serious, and now here we are getting our heads shaved.” 
before the head-shaving fes­tivities, however, the team wel­comed back former irish pitcher aaron heilman, who was drafted by the new york mets in the first round of the 2001 draft and went on to pitch for the chicago cubs and arizona diamondbacks after his time in new york. heilman gave a short, emotional speech that covered his time at notre dame and his role in mets team­mate Tom glavine’s 300th win. 
“he’s obviously a great baseball player; obviously knows the game very well, been around for a long time. he had a lot of good things to say, a lot of good things about the university, which is always nice to hear.” 
after heilman, a four-time all­american while at notre dame, finished his talk, the team walked to the basketball court for the main event. some players were more reluctant to part with their hair than others. 
“it’s a great cause. i don’t think anybody really resented it,” conor biggio said. “They all knew it was a good cause, but obviously my 


paid adverTisemenT 
brother [cavan] and [sophomore left fielder] Zak kutsulis both love their hair, but they’ll be fine, they’ll get over it. it’ll grow back.” 
many players agreed kutsulis, whose hair reached his shoulders before the event, was the most re­luctant to take part. cavan biggio acknowledged his mullet had taken over a year to grow, but he was prepared to cut it. 
“There used to be freshman haircuts and only the freshman would get these, so i kind of as­sumed it coming in,” biggio said. “This is a little different thing, where everyone on the team does it.” 
The team showed they were not above a little peer-pressure when it comes to a good cause, cajol­ing freshman outfielder clayton bouchard into the barber’s chair. 
“he was the one planning on not doing it, and at the last second we forced him to do it, so i think he wasn’t prepared for it,” cavan biggio said. “i think he’s going to be a little shocked about it later on.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 




Bouts 
conTinued From page 16 
Alex Bogucki-Baran def. Ben Hoffner 
The junior bogucki-baran out­lasted the freshman hoffner and earned a win by split decision. The first round featured cautious fight­ing as the two fighters roamed the ring, trading only a few flur­ries of punches. bogucki-baran tried to use his height advantage and lengthy jab to keep hoffner from working inside, but in the second round hoffner battled his way in and battered the taller fighter’s body and head with bru­tal jab-hook combinations. The final round saw the junior bounce back as he pounded hoffner with vicious hooks and fended off his shorter opponent’s scrappy ef­forts. ultimately, bogucki-baran’s height and power helped him lock up a spot in the final. 
146-pounds: 
Garrett “Fedex” Schmelling def. Chris “Hitman” Hinman 
youth trumped experience, as the freshman schmelling’s power was too much for the law student hinman. in the opening stanza the fighters exchanged left jabs and right hooks, with both land­ing powerful blows. The fight­ing continued at an electric pace as the fighters traded punches in the middle of the ring until schmelling finally used a left hook to stun hinman and get him on the ropes late in the second round. in the closing action, both fight­ers got in thunderous jab combi­nations. hinman landed several shots to the head, but schmelling’s explosive hooks were the decisive blows as they knocked the law student off balance and helped earn the freshman a split-decision victory. 
Chris Tricarico def. Danny “El Hombre” Espinoza 
both fighters came out of the gate quiet, dancing around the ring waiting for an opportu­nity. The junior Tricarico finally pounced, throwing a flurry of jabs and straight rights and dodging the sophomore espinoza’s coun­ters as the opening round came to an end. in the second stanza, Tricarico used leverage to unleash multiple jabs in what remained a very even second round. he came out with a burst of energy in the third round, however, landing multiple blows to espinoza’s core before both boxers traded punch­es in the final seconds. Tricarico took the bout by split decision. 
151-pounds: 
Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler def. Ryan Dunn 
The senior eichler jumped out of the gate on the offensive end, using a dangerously fast 1-2 com­bo. The sophomore dunn didn’t back down, though, countering eichler’s combos. both boxers came out aggressively in the sec­ond round, with eichler landing a big hook to dunn’s head before dunn pushed eichler to the ropes twice. eichler responded with a string of jabs to the chest to end the second round strong. with eichler dictating the pace, dunn still landed multiple punches of 
paid adverTisemenT 
his own to keep the fight even. They traded punches until the fin­ish, and eichler was given the win by split decision. 
“Sloppy” Joe Guilfoile def. Jackie “The Forgetful Housecat” Garvin 
after a slow start, the freshman guilfoile turned it up a notch on his way to a unanimous decision victory over the senior garvin. garvin’s reliance on a 1-2 combo became apparent early, as he landed multiple punches before guilfoile took a decided advan­tage with hooks to garvin’s head. both boxers came out strong in the second round, trading blows to the head before guilfoile again pushed garvin back with strong right hooks. guilfoile ended the round on the attack, although garvin held his own and landed a few counters as well. garvin was much more effective defensively early in the third, but guilfoile’s patience paid off, as a final flurry of hooks to the head in the closing moments of the fight secured the unanimous-decision victory. 
162-pounds: 
Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker def. Paul “Pride of the 415” Toboni 
The senior mcosker dictated the pace from the start and never stopped, bobbing and weaving past Toboni’s punches and land­ing shots to the body from the inside when given the chance. Toboni tried to use his reach to keep mcosker out, but his op­ponent was simply too quick. 
The second round began with mcosker almost in a permanent crouch as he started low and land­ed straight jabs high to Toboni’s head. Toboni landed a few punch­es in the final round, but it was not enough to stop the defending champion from taking the big win by unanimous decision. 
Joel “The Supple Leopard” Hlavaty def. Gage “The Heart-Break Kid” O’Connell 
The bout began explosively, with each fighter trading straights and jabs in the corner of the ring. Toward the end of the first, the se­nior hlavaty got the edge by deliv­ering a flurry of straights and hooks to the law student o’connell’s head. both fighters came out slow to start to the second, but hlavaty managed to land several devastat­ing right hooks. o’connell made a comeback towards the end of the second round, but hlavaty  domi­nated the third stanza with a fe­rocious display of punches. after pinning o’connell in the corner, hlavaty unleashed a devastating combination of straights, which secured the win for him by unani­mous decision. 
166-pounds: 
Jason “Downtown” Ellinwood def. Collin “Me Maybe” Corcoran 
The sophomore ellinwood be­gan the fight on the offensive, landing several straights early on in the first round. The senior corcoran, however, started to come alive towards the end of the round. as corcoran got into his stride, he began to land some jabs of his own to put ellinwood on his heels. however, corcoran’s momentum did not last long as ellinwood dominated the second round with devastating straights, while his opponent struggled to land a single punch. ellinwood’s dominance continued into the third and was enough to give him the win by unanimous decision. 
Michael “Greasy” Grasso def. Sebastian “El Papa” de las Casas 
The sophomore grasso de­feated the senior de las casas by unanimous decision in the second semifinal. grasso was able to get the upper edge in the first round as each boxer landed combinations of jabs and hooks. The second round was fairly even until grasso landed a strong blow to knock de las casas on his heels late in the round. grasso started strong and kept the momentum going in the third round. he succeeded in driv­ing de las casas to the ropes on multiple occasions to cement his unanimous-decision victory. 
173-pounds: 
Patrick “Patty Cakes” Shea def. Brian “Rowdy” Roddy 
The sophomore shea defeated the junior roddy by unanimous decision in a hotly contested bout that went back and forth. both boxers used primarily jabs in the first round and relied on their technique. shea was able to gain the upper hand with several well-placed jabs as he avoided most of roddy’s punches. roddy started the second round on the offen­sive and battled back, before the fight evened out with both boxers mixing in 1-2 combinations. shea landed several strong blows early in the round and drove roddy to the ropes. shea carried that mo­mentum forward to secure the win. 
Zack “Bedrock” Flint def. Mike “The Stache” Flanigan 
The sophomore Flint defeated the junior Flanigan by unanimous decision. both Flanigan and Flint started brightly and landed a fairly even number of blows. Flint be­gan to assert his dominance in the second round when he knocked Flanigan to the ground after a se­ries of blows and followed it up by pushing Flanigan to the ropes on a couple of occasions. Flint used a combination of jabs and hooks in a strong third round to help him seal his spot in the finals. 
180-pounds: 
Brett “Italian Ice” Sassetti def. Melchior “Il Lupo” Perella-Savarese 
The senior sassetti defeated the freshman perella-savarese in a referee-stopped contest to advance to the final of the 180-pound weight class. sassetti came out swinging, using a series of left-handed jabs from opponent perella-savarese early and often, drawing blood. sassetti came out strong once again in the sec­ond round and drew blood once more before the referee stopped the bout and declared sassetti the victor. 
James “Iceman” Hodgens def. Eric “I still can’t” Reed 
in a tense, thrilling fight, the senior hodgens came out swing­ing with swift jabs and powerful hooks that connected with the senior reed’s head. reed, how­ever, stayed low to the ground on defense while also throwing the occasional strong jab. hodgens continued his barrage, mixing in multiple combinations and up­percuts to end the first round. reed came right back in the sec­ond round, landing strong jabs on hodgen’s head, but hodgens responded with a slew of jabs of his own and pushed reed into the ropes. both fighters slowed down towards the end the second round as they tired. in the final round, reed connected on several deci­sive hits that gave him some mo­mentum, but in the end hodgens was too strong, and controlled the majority of the match for the win by split decision. 
190-pounds: 
Ricky “Scooter” Neville def. Michael “The Uncle” Smoljan 
The bout began slowly, with both fighters threw apprehensive jabs at one another, until the se­nior smoljan went on the offen­sive at the end of the round. in the second period, neville rallied and 
see bouTs PAGE 12 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
“we ran into a heck of a bas­ketball team, especially the last 10 minutes, in charlottesville, [va.], saturday,” brey said. “i really loved how we were play­ing for about 30, 31 minutes. again, i’m just so impressed with virginia. They’ve been a real tough matchup for us in both games. There’s a clear reason why they’re in sole pos­session of first place.” 
with a .500 record and three games remaining in the regu­lar season, brey admitted notre dame has different expecta­tions than in past years when the standard was a trip to the ncaa Tournament. brey noted a tournament berth is “a real uphill battle for us right now,” but praised the tone-setting ability of his seniors and the progression of the freshmen. 
“you’ve seen a couple times in the last couple games, we’ve had three freshmen and two sophomores on the floor the last two games playing togeth­er,” brey said. “That’s by de­sign. i’ve kind of gotten to that substitution-wise to take a look at that. and they’ve delivered for us. 
“but it is new. it’s a different kind of mentality. we’re not on the bubble or we’re not playing for a seed or we’re not a lock. it’s all kind of new to us. i think what you have to do though is coach for greensboro — try to find an identity to do some­thing in greensboro. That’s kind of how we’ve approached it.” 
notre dame tips off against georgia Tech at purcell pavilion on wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

‘Big Three’ stand among elite 

paid adverTisemenT 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
when you hear the phrase “The big Three,” you think lebron James, dwyane wade and chris bosh on the miami heat. sure, that’s fair, but no. 2 notre dame carries its own, though often overlooked, “big Three.” 
This season, the irish (27-0, 14-0 acc) have been led to the best start in program history by senior guard kayla mcbride, se­nior forward natalie achonwa and sophomore guard Jewell loyd. 
you can pick whatever story­line you like. 
mcbride, who leads the team in assists and is second in scor­ing, is a talented scorer who can score in too many ways to defend. as a big game player, the senior has averaged 21.8 points, 4.2 assists and 6.8 re­bounds in notre dame’s five games against top opponents, no. 7 duke, no. 9 maryland, no. 8 penn state and no. 10 Tennessee. These performances are highlighted by her career-high 31-point game against duke on sunday. 
The youngest of the three, loyd is unbelievably athletic, combining dynamic scoring with lockdown defense. This season, the reigning usbwa freshman of the year leads the irish in scoring and is second in rebounding. Though often highlighted as the team’s top scorer and a skilled offensive threat, loyd also leads the team in steals and may be notre dame’s best on-ball defender. on sunday, she was matched against the duke’s top scorer, senior guard Tricia liston. Though liston averages 18.1 points per game, loyd held her to just nine points. 
often overlooked is team tri-captain achonwa, a talented post player who leads the team in rebounding. last season, the senior nearly averaged a dou­ble-double and has bounced back from an early season knee surgery this year. achonwa combines a 6-foot-3 frame with impressive mobility and highly developed scoring skills, shoot­ing 60 percent from the field this season. 
which storyline did you choose? no matter the player, you picked one of the ncaa’s finest. on a team predicated on depth and balance, loyd, achonwa and mcbride stand out as three of the best players in the nation. 
yet, it’s notre dame’s depth and balance that will prevent these three athletes from get­ting the recognition they de­serve. with so many talented players, three players cannot get all the fame; there is only one ball. Furthermore, the irish not only carry a talented roster but a generous one as well. This season notre dame is second in the nation in assists, averaging 
21.3 a game. 


regardless, the best play­ers always find their way into the stat sheet. only once this season did loyd, achonwa or mcbride not lead the team in scoring. in notre dame’s domi­nant 90-48 victory over ucla on dec. 7, junior guard madison cable led the irish with 21 points. in every other game this year, one of the “big Three” has led the team in points.The fun­ny part is, if you send them this praise, they’ll shine the spot­light elsewhere, highlighting their gifted teammates. in all fairness, that’s a just spotlight to shine on one of the strongest, if not the strongest, teams in the nation from top to bottom. 
still, when all is said and done, when talking about this year’s campaign, notre dame’s “big tThree” deserve recogni­tion as three of the nation’s elite. 
Contact  Aaron Sant Miller asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: There is no room for error. Timing, precision and unprecedented drive will be required. execute your plans properly and you will achieve the recognition and success you desire. concentrate on self-improvement, networking and taking care of legal issues, contractual dealings or partnership problems. do your best to impress the people in your life who stand behind you. your numbers are 7, 18, 23, 27, 30, 34, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): proceed with caution when dealing with institutions, business associates or unpredictable individuals. don’t let your excitement show or give someone looking for an excuse to make you look bad an opportunity to twist your words. make an impact by doing, not talking. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t be afraid to be a freethinker. be innovative and trendy. present what you have to offer with pizzazz. Take charge and do the initial work before you count on anyone to live up to your standards. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): scale down your ideas to ensure they are realistic. if you start small and build slowly, you will have a much better chance of reaching your goals and making an impression on someone you need on your team to help raise your profile. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): nurture an important relationship. Talk about your plans and discuss any complaints you have. Fine-tuning a situation will help you reach your objectives and set the stage for future endeavors. romance will enhance your personal life. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The spotlight should be on learning, engaging in talks and setting up the groundwork for a partnership with someone you find innovative and tech-savvy. expect to face delays or problems with agencies, institutions or authority figures if you travel.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): instigate and offer a visual picture for those less imaginative and you will interest the people best suited to help you turn your plans into a reality. what you do to help others will result in opportunities far beyond your expectations. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): do whatever needs to be done and keep moving. if you rely on others, you will be disappointed. spread your interests to include people from different backgrounds or who have unusual skills to offer. stick to your plan and encourage moderation. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk is cheap and will give you a pretty good idea where everyone you are dealing with stands. your unique approach to life and the way you live will attract attention. being unusual, authentic and energetic will pay off. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): consider your past and how best to use what you have accomplished in order to help you get ahead. change will be required at home if you want to avoid an unsavory situation due to meddlers seeking to damage your position. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): stand up and be counted. you have plenty to offer and mustn’t hold back, even if it means taking a stance and disagreeing with someone. a passionate display, coupled with facts and expertise, will help you come out on top. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put money matters, health issues and taking care of personal business at the top of your list. offer suggestions to those asking for a handout, but don’t donate money or time that you don’t have. update and revise to guarantee a better future. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): offer help. your kindness and generosity will be acknowledged and can lead to influential connections. someone from your past is likely to cause you grief if you are guilty of leaving business unfinished. backtrack and make amends. 


Birthday Baby: you are industrious, confident and competitive. you are imaginative and innovative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish return to Purcell for Georgia Tech rematch 
Notre Dame welcomes Yellow Jackets after two weeks on the road 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports editor 
it’s been six-and-a-half weeks since notre dame played its first-ever acc road contest — against georgia Tech in atlanta. 
The irish, who entered the contest 10-5 overall and 1-1 in conference play, fell 74-69 to the yellow Jackets, the first de­feat in a stretch of five losses in six games to close out January. 
notre dame (14-14, 5-10 acc) will battle georgia Tech (13-14, 4-10) in the rematch wednesday night at purcell pavilion. 
“i think we have a little bit better identity this month than we did in January,” irish coach mike brey said dur­ing a teleconference monday. “and we’re still trying to de­velop that to get ready to go to greensboro, [n.c.] and the acc tournament.” 
in the Jan. 11 meeting be­tween the two teams, the yellow Jackets grabbed a 13-point second-half lead, but the irish battled back and led 68-67 with 
1:15 remaining. georgia Tech, however, closed the game on a 7-1 run en route to the victory. senior guard Trae golden pow­ered the yellow Jackets with 20 points, including a 3-pointer to vault georgia Tech in front, 70­68, with 45 seconds remaining. 
golden leads the yellow Jackets with 13.1 points per game. The 6-foot-2, 205-pound­er missed most of five games with a still-lingering groin in­jury before returning to play 33 minutes and net a game-high 17 points in a 63-55 loss to clemson on saturday. 
“he has to play different than he did before, meaning the explosiveness at times isn’t there,” yellow Jackets coach brian gregory said to report­ers in atlanta on monday. “it shows up in the open court and it shows up in him exploding off of ball screens and driving the ball. so he’s got to play a little different.” 


golden took more jump shots, gregory said, in the loss to the Tigers. The defeat capped off a 1-3 homestand for the yellow Jackets, who now begin a three-game road trip in seven days. 
notre dame, meanwhile, re­turns to purcell pavilion for its first home game in two weeks. The irish dropped the final two games of their taxing three-game road stretch, most re­cently losing to no. 12 virginia, 70-49, on saturday. 
see m baskeTball PAGE 14 
BENGAL BOUTS 

bouts send 22 boxers to final round of competition 

By JOSH DULANY, BRIAN PLAMONDON, CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI, ALEX CARSON, MANNY DE JESUS, CORNELIUS McGRATH 
sports writers 
134-pounds: 
Andy “Fisticuffs” Fausone def. Jeffrey “JWeezy” Wang 
The junior Fausone domi­nated against sophomore wang to send him to his first finals. Fausone landed the first hit of the match and proceeded to drive wang into the ropes with a flurry of hooks and combinations. wang rallied and fought back in the second round, result­ing in both boxers trading jab-for-jab in several fierce exchanges. 
in the third round, Fausone backed wang into a cor­ner twice and landed fierce hooks to his body and face. Fausone claimed victory by unanimous decision. 
Daniel “Jet” Lee def. Matthew Muliadi 
in a fight that went from cautious to raucous, the sophomore lee advanced to the final after not moving past the preliminaries last year. The first round started tentatively, with both boxers dancing around one anoth­er, until lee landed the first blow. 
The sophomore muliadi continued to dance around the ring, landing hooks to lee’s body, but lee managed to land numerous hard jabs and straights. The second round saw the fight even out and featured lots of move­ment by both boxers. lee con­tinued to use the strategy of parrying muliadi’s attempts and fighting back with body blows. in the third round, lee came out aggressively enough to secure the victory by unanimous decision. 
140-pounds: 
Niels Seim def. Patrick “Little Mac” Brennan 
experience triumphed over youth as graduate stu­dent captain seim held off the freshman brennan. seim started the action with strong jab combinations, but brennan took control of the round with a flurry of hooks to the body. 
The next round saw more aggressive fighting as the fighters traded sweeping hooks to the head. seim’s quick jabs managed to keep brennan’s explosive style at bay, but in the final round, brennan’s power pushed seim onto the ropes. 
seim, a seasoned fighter, responded with poise and used a final flurry of left and right jabs to grind out the win in a unanimous decision. 
see bouTs PAGE 13 


Men’s Basketball vs. Georgia Tech  Wed., 7 p.m.  Women’s Lacrosse at North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  Women’s Tennis at Duke  Fri., 6 p.m.  
Men’s Swimming — ACC Championship  Wed.-Sat.  Track and Field — ACC Indoor Champ.  Thurs.-Sat.  Men’s Tennis vs. Virginia Tech  Fri., 6 p.m.  
Women’s Basketball vs. North Carolina  Thurs., 7 p.m.  Softball vs. Fordham  Fri., 1:15 p.m.  Baseball vs. UCLA  Fri., 6:30 p.m.  




