The independenT 
To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


The observer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

‘We learned a great deal’ 
Vidal, Devine evaluate progress of campaign goals, look ahead to plans for next semester 
communicating. 

By MARGARET HYNDS 
“we’ve learned that there are 
some gaps in communicating 
student body president lauren through different bodies of stu­vidal and vice president matthew dent government, whether that be devine, both seniors, hit the communication through senate ground running when they took or clc or even faculty senate” office last april; in the earliest stu-vidal and devine both cited dent senate meetings of the year transparency and communica­they put their initiatives surround-tion as issues that they have been ing safewalk (now o’snap) and working on and will continue im­college readership on the agenda. prove next semester. 
“There are disconnects that we O’SNAP and new initiatives are learning of, and we learned 
by the end of september, that, i think, most vividly through o’snap was fully operational and the 29 for 29 initiative,” vidal said. student government had negotiat-“we really had to work hard to en-ed bringing the wall street Journal sure that we were communicat­to campus. ing through all the proper parties, 

other initiatives the administra-and there were times when certain tion has taken up this year include bodies didn’t feel like they were Quad markets, political brew and informed. 29 for 29, which launched this “we learned a great deal from month. that and we are taking steps to to enhance transparency, and Planning for the future sexual assault prevention cam-
political brews are sunday improve how student government we’ve gotten a lot of feedback,” looking forward, vidal and paign, vidal said. The “one is meetings that invite students communicates generally because vidal said. devine have several tangible goals Too many” and “it’s on us” cam-from all political perspectives to that’s always been a lack and we according to devine, the ad-and projects to accomplish before paigns both sprung from white watchand discuss nbc’s ‘meet understood that there have been ministration’s transparency ef-leaving office at the end of march. house initiatives bearing the same the press’ together. 29 for 29, a new these gaps for years.” forts go beyond simply being open “as we’re going through our ini-names that were implemented at christmas initiative, pairs each vidal said she and devine had and honest and involve a more as-tiatives and really tailoring them universities across the country. dorm with an in-need local family. both been reaching out to differ-sertive approach. to the current student body and “[one is Too many] was brought 
vidal credited department di-ent groups in order to foster better “i’d say it’s like an active trans-their needs, we’ve found there are to our campus last year, and it rectors and staff with much of this communication between differ-parency, not just not hiding any-other initiatives we’ve needed to was a great success here,” vidal administration’s success. 
news writer 

thing, which obviously we don’t, take up just in terms of the climate said. “This year they’re working “we’ve been very fortunate; 
but also just making sure that ev-on campus,” vidal said. on ‘it’s on us,’ and so [student 


“We’ve been able 
our team has been phenomenal,” 

erything we do is known and even “one of those was campus government director of gender is­vidal said. “we’ve been able to 
to push a lot of things that are works in progress safety, which we didn’t initially sues] Kristen [loehle] has been push a lot of initiatives that we 
— not even necessarily just fin-think was going to be so salient in communication with some of 


initiatives that 
had from the get-go through the ished projects, but things that are in our campus now,” vidal said. the people in washington, d.c., to 


we had from the 
help of the administration and our 

in development, things that are in “we thought o’snap would be figure out how to best bring that directors. 
get-go through the brainstorming stages,” he said. an excellent platform for campus here and how that will look on this “we had a few big wins early on 
the help of the The result of this active trans-safety, but with some of the crime campus,” in terms of solidifying o’snap and 
parency is more student involve-recently in the south bend area devine described the new cam-


administration 
the college readership program, ment and participation in student and some of the conversations paign and how it will differ from 

and our 
but we’ve picked up a few things government, vidal said. we’ve had with students who are the previous one. 


directors.” 
along the way that we’ve been able 

“we’ve been able to list initia-concerned with off-campus, we’ve “’it’s on us’ is going to take a to see through, and that’s been 
Lauren Vidal tives that we’re working on, and picked up several initiatives to similar tone, but it’s also trying to very exciting as well.” 
student body president students have reached out and fully address the concerns of our build off ‘one is Too many,’” he devine echoed this sentiment in 
said ‘hey, i’d love to work on this,’ peers — our constituency, really — said. “‘one is Too many’ was more his assessment of the term so far. even just as an outsider,” she said. to make sure that we’re answering of an awareness campaign, but 
“The most important part of this ent branches of student govern-“They’re not affiliated with stu-their questions. ‘it’s on us’ is a more actionable has been our team,” devine said. ment; in particular, the two have dent government at all. and that’s “one of the things we’re doing is phrase.” “our department directors and recently been working with the been really exciting for us.” working on a campus safety video; while neither the focus on their ideas, as well as the ones that hall president’s council (hpc). “That was our goal, to make that’s actually in production right campus safety or ‘it’s on us’ was we articulated way back in January “we have opened conversa-sure that people would be part of now,” she said. “we’re going to re-originally part of the pair’s plan when we were campaigning, have tion really extensively with hpc,” the formula, not just seeing the lease it to the student body, and for their tenure, vidal and devine really made this semester unique, she said. “we’re working hand in end of the equation,” vidal said. it’s through recommendations both said they were excited about fun, just really incredible.” hand with [student government “we wanted to make sure that if from code enforcement in south the feedback they had received 
“i think a lot of things that we department heads] to really make someone saw that something we bend, conversations with local from their constituents and were originally planned we’ve been very sure the hall presidents and the were doing was ineffective, they law enforcement, conversations looking forward to next semester. lucky to see through, but we’ve hall councils are informed, from would be able to provide feedback with [the community/campus “we’ve come a long way from also understood the different steps their end on our initiatives but also and we could change that. and advisory coalition] to just ensure our vision that we had in the be-that are going to be needed to push through senate. we’ve seen that — we’ve seen it in that our students are aware of the ginning … we’ve added a lot of them forward,” he said. “matt chairs senate, and he re-29 for 29, and in o’snap, in college resources and make sure we’re re-tangibility to it,” devine said. 
ally tries to make sure the senators readership, in Quad markets — ally addressing this.” Improving communication are up-to-date and are providing we’ve been fortunate there.” also on the horizon for next Contact Margaret Hynds at 
vidal described the first few feedback of what’s going on on looking back on the year, vidal semester is “it’s on us,” the new mhynds@nd.edu weeks in office as a learning expe-campus,” said two particular issues received rience for both herself and devine. more feedback than others: “cam-she said the two of them have Promoting transparency pus safety and communication developed a good working rela-The issue of transparency, while with the administration on major tionship with various branches not new, has been something par-decisions that the university is of student government and the ticularly important to this admin-making.” administration. istration, vidal said. “so what we’ve done with that is 
“i think where we are right now “i think transparency has been really opened lines of communica­is at a very good understanding a huge thing for us because as long tion with main building, just mak­of how our student government as i can remember transparency ing sure that students are aware of has worked for us and how we can has always been a goal of student what’s going on,” vidal said. “one build it in the next few months,” government, but i think this year of the results of that will be a town vidal said. “we’ve learned from we’ve been fortunate in building hall with [university president] Fr. relationships, from administra-on the foundation that was set for-[John] Jenkins.” tors; we’ve learned a lot from ward by previous administration 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2014 | The observer 





‘Working well together’ 
Schuster, Moorhead tackle internal structure concerns and develop novel programming at Saint Mary’s 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor 
student body president and vice president mcKenna schuster and sam moorhead, both se­niors, have worked to enhance transparency, accountabil­ity and enthusiasm for student government association (sga) this year. 
beginning with transparency, schuster said they want the stu­dent body to know what sga does and what events are going on. They have organized a bul­letin board in the student center with photos of all the sga chairs so students know to whom they should direct comments and concerns. 
schuster said their marketing chair, junior Katie calhoun, has ramped up their social media campaign using instagram to inform students about events, as well as utilizing fliers in the bath­room they call “stall news.” 
responding to the sga budget problems last year, schuster and moorhead have worked to hold their chairs accountable to their duties and positions. 
“we have worked on transpar­ency and everybody has been working well together,” schuster said. “we’ve seen a lot more fol­low through the things we have been planning are actually happening.” 
moorhead said sga has not seen the same kind of budget problems they had last year since she and schuster have emphasized spending within the means, as well as revising the finance bylaws so everyone can see how much each club is allotted. 
This year, schuster and moorhead said they have been working with senior Kelly gutrich, vice president of in­ternal affairs, to revise sga’s constitution. 
moorhead said the constitu­tion was not cohesive and concise and gutrich and her constitution committee have been revising it all semester. They put forth the new version for a vote at the dec. 10 senate meeting. 
schuster said sga has had to overcome the complications ensuing from the disbanding of student involvement and multicultural services (sims) and subsequent loss of the three sga advisors who served on sims. 
“it was good that we have been really organized and holding our chairs accountable because oth­erwise that transition to a new advisor might have been more difficult,” schuster said. 
another one of schuster and moorhead’s goals was to increase attendance at events, which is happening in part because of their marketing campaign, but also due to the implementation of smcards, schuster said. she said attendance at sga events has doubled due to the smcards which reward students for at­tending events on campus like lectures, campus ministry events and sporting events. 
in addition to attendance rising at events, schuster and moorhead have worked to in­crease communication and openness in their office. 
“our meetings are really pro­ductive, and we’ve really seen or­ganization and follow though as a large improvement this year,” moorhead said. 
schuster said the various sga chairs have been working to­gether and holding each other accountable to make their events the best they can be. 
“people are being creative and taking the initiative, when peo­ple actually want to see things happen,” schuster said. 
in the past, moorhead said the sustainability chair position hasn’t been utilized to its full­est, but they saw that change this year as the chair helped to plan Food week. 
moorhead said they have reached out to the notre dame student body president and vice president, as well as the holy cross student body president and vice president, to keep them updated on what sga is doing and to talk about the larger con­cern of campus safety. 
“we want to make sure that our students are safe on and off campus,” schuster said. “we want students to know what cabs are trusted and make sure that cabs won’t deny students because saint mary’s is another block further.” 
moorhead echoed schuster’s concern. 
“we want to make sure saint mary’s students are as safe as other students,” moorhead said. 
schuster and moorhead have a “big sister, little sister” program in the works where first-year stu­dents would be paired up with a junior to help guide the student through the challenges of the first year of college. 
“This program provides advice and guidance because the first year can be rough,” moorhead said. “we believe we can help to fix that by pairing first-year 


students  with  someone  who  
already knows  and love  saint  
mary’s.”  

This program differs from the peer mentor program, which pro­vides a junior or senior to advise a class of all first-year students. 
“we want a program that exists outside of the classroom so stu­dents can go to their ‘big sis’ for anything,” moorhead said. 
schuster and moorhead said they are focused on building the groundwork for sga to be the best it can be in the upcoming years. 
“we want to make girls feel as welcome as we can,” schuster said. “while this can’t necessarily happen during our time in office, we don’t want to just turn down good ideas because we can’t see them happen. 
“we encourage girls to keep going, and it’s exciting because we have many underclassmen who are enthusiastic and want to see their work continued.” 
moorhead said they have excit­ing events planned for the spring, including a spring fling event to enhance campus unity. 
“it’s in the works, but it’s going to be a fun event for the whole campus,” moorhead said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



SMC STUDENT GOVERNMENT INITIATIVE: SMCARDS 


punch cards promote student participation 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s student government association (sga) launched the smcard this se­mester to improve the atten­dance at campus events. 
The card rewards students for attending events sponsored by campus ministry, the center for spirituality, athletics, belles against violence office, sga, student activity board (sab) and student diversity board (sdb). 
The initiative, pronounced s-m-c-card, offers prizes to saint mary’s students who engage in the college community, stu­dent body president and senior mcKenna schuster said. 
“This initiative has been devel­oped by the student government association to help increase at­tendance at all events on saint mary’s campus,” schuster said. “we wanted to create an incen­tive for students to attend events while boosting school spirit and morale.” 
attendance has doubled at events, schuster said, evident at the release of the smcard in early october. sdb’s annual bonfire usually hosts about 50 students, but more than 300 came out to get their cards stamped and en­gage in the events at the bonfire, schuster said. 
“There is a lot of hype cre­ated around the bonfire, and we thought it would be a great way for students to get their first stamp to start off,” schuster said. 
The cards were designed by marketing and media commit­tee chair Katie calhoun, a junior. calhoun said she believes the prizes have been one of the most motivating factors in the success of the smcard. prizes include an ipad, three silver French cross necklaces, a $250 bookstore gift card and munch money that can be used in the on-campus cafes. 
calhoun said she has found that the idea of getting stamps for attending events excites students. 
“mcKenna, sam and i go to all of the events we can and stamp cards,” calhoun said. “when we ask girls if they have their cards, they are always so excited to pull them out and see how many more stamps they have to go.” 
schuster said the cards can be turned into the sga office at any time to be entered into a drawing of cards that have received seven or more punches. 
a drawing for the winners of the prizes will take place at late night breakfast on dec. 15 in the noble Family dining hall. 
calhoun said the smcard was an exciting way to improve atten­dance at events. 
“we will only have 12 winners, but we have definitely seen more student participation around campus,” calhoun said. 


Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2014  | ndsmcobserver.com 




Bolstering a relationship with South Bend 
isn’t a good relationship, where crime or robbery or burglary and 
By JACK ROONEY 

associate news editor it’s either hostile — i’d say that’s figuring out what we can do as 
true at, for example, harvard and students to encourage safety and 
in a February interview with cambridge — or where the uni-what they can do better in terms The observer, now-student body versity and the community are of serving us.” president lauren vidal said the kind of doing their own thing and buttigieg said clear channels top priority for her and vice presi-not very involved with each other. of communication between stu­dent matthew devine, both se-“here is very different. and it’s dents and the city extend be­niors, was to promote service both important that we not take that yond law enforcement, and there on campus and in the community. for granted because we really ben-is still room for growth in the 
“we really have this idea of ser-efit from it. relationship. vice, and although we understand while university president “There are so many different that’s a broad term, we really [pri-emeritus Fr. Theodore (Ted) dimensions to the relationship oritize] service to our peers and to hesburgh advanced notre dame — students as people who get in-our community as a whole,” she as a global institution during his volved, volunteer, start things, said in the interview. administration, buttigieg said, do things in the city; students as 
now, 10 months into their term university administrators and residents, whether you’ve got stu­leading notre dame’s student students have continued to cul-dents living in the city limits or government, vidal and devine tivate an international presence, not, they’re all in the community have narrowed their service focus but also develop a robust relation-and so we need to make sure we’re while also expanding their vision ship with the local community. meeting the needs of students, of a more complete, mutually ben-buttigieg said collaborative and there’s no better voice for that eficial relationship between stu-projects such as the eddy street than student government; [and] south bend.” “There’s a level of energy there dents and the city of south bend. commons, the notre dame students as participants in the Through internships and vol-that’s really exciting,” he said. 
“we’ve really tried to be very center for arts and culture on economy, working or shopping or unteer opportunities, students “and we’re going beyond the tra­deliberate with how we approach west washington st., the notre eating or drinking in the city,” he can gain meaningful experience ditional model of student involve-that image of [students] going out dame Turbomachinery Facility said. and career preparation, buttigieg ment as going down to the soup into the community and trying to and notre dame involvement in “all of those things will work said. kitchen. also balance bringing part of the community organizations such better if student government is “students can get that hands-on going down to the soup kitchen culture of south bend to campus as la casa de amistad and the able to create a flow of informa-experience not just as practice … is great, but we’ve got students ap­and also helping students to find robinson community learning tion about where the opportuni-but as real-world impact,” he said. plying their talents in so many dif­ways that fit their lifestyle so that center are recent developments ties are for the students to know “and they’ll find a lot of partners, ferent ways to the life of the city.” they can go off into south bend that have greatly benefited both and then where the needs are for not just in city government, but For their part, vidal and devine and explore, or at least have some the city and the university. us to know, so that we’re doing a in the non-profit community, the have sought to bring south bend sort of visibility to what south “all of that would have been better job of connecting students business community. it’s a small to campus and encourage stu­bend is,” devine said. very hard to picture 10 or 20 years to the community at large. i think enough community that you can dents to bring campus to south 
Through programs such as ago,” buttigieg said. a more structured relationship navigate it and have an impact at bend. Quad markets, the recently in response to recent student would probably help us get a feel a young age in a short of amount “There are lots of positive things launched 29 for 29 — which pairs feedback, vidal and devine have for what’s on students’ minds and of time.” obviously happening in south each residence hall with a south also addressed the issue of crime how much access they feel they vidal, who spent the summer in bend,” devine said. “we’ve tried bend family that has recently in the community in collabora-have to the city.” south bend interning for indiana to promote the visibility of it, too, moved out of the center for the tion with local law enforcement buttigieg said small changes, legal services, said she had a but also bring some of those posi­homeless in order to build rela-agencies, holding periodic meet-like signs pointing out that down-positive experience and grew tives to campus and help us de­tionships between students and ings with representatives from the town south bend is less than more attached to the city, as more velop our image off campus, too, south bend residents — and the university, city, county and state two miles from the heart of cam-students have done, too, through as what we can be as a university.” annual communiversity day, levels. pus, can help make a positive cultural events and unique dining overall, buttigieg said he hopes vidal and devine have striven to “in terms of the relationship difference. options in south bend. the relationship between the create a stronger bond between with south bend, finding the most devine said more students have “There are a lot of new and ex-university and the city stands out the university and the city. effective channels of communica-also contributed to the growth of citing businesses in south bend, as one of the strongest elements of 
south bend mayor pete tion has been a key to our relation-the relationship by taking advan-… a lot of cool new restaurants both parties. buttigieg said the relationship has ship with local law enforcement,” tage of work experience available that we’ve seen that a lot of stu-“our goal is for the relation-grown deeper over the course of vidal said. in south bend. dents have adopted as their own,” ship with the city to be one of vidal and devine’s administra-“it’s been a huge success. we’ve “There have been a lot of people vidal said. the reasons you would come to tion and recent years. seen that really opening a forum who have started looking at south buttigieg said students have be-the university of notre dame,” 
“i think our relationship is for communication between all bend in different ways,” devine come more “active citizens” and buttigieg said. enviable as college towns go,” the parties allows us to figure out said. “There have been a lot more bring ideas he never would have buttigieg said. “i’ve been in uni-what’s really happening in terms people taking advantage of pro-thought of to the city rather than Contact Jack Rooney at versity communities where there of looking at all the instances of fessional opportunities here in the city soliciting student help. jrooney1@nd.edu 

ND CLASS COUNCILS 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2014 | The observer 


O’SNAP promotes safe transportation 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
For one of the term’s first ma­jor policy initiatives, student body president lauren vidal and vice president matthew devine, both seniors, set out to augment late night student transporta­tion on campus with the student 
nighttime  auxiliary  patrol  
(o’snap).  
o’snap allows  notre dame  

security police (ndsp) student employees to use two global electric motor (gem) cars to give students rides at night, ndsp sergeant Tracy skibins said. Two ndsp golf carts supplement the service if both cars are in use. 
o’snap runs sunday through wednesday from 8:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m, and on Thursday, Friday and saturday, it runs from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m, skibins said. 
vidal said o’snap came to frui­tion after discussing campus safe­ty and looking for tangible ways to positively impact the student experience through a necessary safety initiative. 
“Thus far, it has been a very pos­itive initiative, but overall we will continue to build upon the pro­gram to tailor it to notre dame’s current climate,”vidal said. 
skibins said the service aver­aged approximately 650 rides per month during october and september, and vidal said over 1,000 students used o’snap dur­ing november. 
students can receive rides from o’snap by calling ndsp or go­ing to the substation in the lower level of laFortune student center, skibins said. 
“students who are in laFortune can go up to the student employee and request a ride that way, if they don’t want to call on the phone,” she said. “[The student employee] also offers safety tips, informa­tion on how to register property and all the different resources available to them through ndsp. That’s brand new, too, and it’s tied in with the o’snap program.” 

skibins said the o’snap service fits ndsp’s larger mission to pro­mote student safety, and ndsp still offers assistance when the program is not operating. 
“let’s say its 3:30 a.m. and the service is no longer operating, or its 8 p.m. and the service has not started yet — we won’t turn anyone away if you call ndsp,” skibins said. 
“ndsp is thrilled to be work­ing together with student govern­ment in offering this service to students,” she said. “ndsp and ndsp student employees realize that we are working on making this as efficient as possible and as useful as possible, and we expect improvement along the way.” 
vidal said the o’snap service has received positive feedback so far, and her administration con­tinues to develop services that re­flect student needs. 
“we will be utilizing vans, provided by notre dame Transportation,fortheheavywin­ter snows, so that students will still get safe, reliable and warm trans­portation,” she said. “The mobile app is almost completed, thanks to [the office of information Technologies] and ndsp’s help, and we will be launching it soon. The mobile app will have choices for pick up and drop off locations all around campus and will send a message straight to dispatchers. 
“o’snap is still being worked on, as we are always looking to make the program better, but we have seen a huge increase in rid­ership and students utilizing safe and reliable transportation in the evenings. This is what we set out to do, now we will work through­out the remainder of the year to make it even stronger.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT INITIATIVE: POLITICAL BREW 
student director engages campus in political debate 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 

on four sunday mornings this semester and two last spring, student government sponsored political brew, during which members of student government and po­litical clubs, as well as anyone interested in current events, gathered in the mcneill room in laFortune student center to watch and discuss nbc’s “meet the press.” 
sophomore elizabeth Fenton, who directs the national engagement and outreach (neo) depart­ment of student government and organizes the brews, said student body president lauren vidal and vice presi­dent matthew devine, both seniors, suggested the idea at the beginning of their admin­istration, and it soon became neo’s primary event. 
“i thought it was a good idea, and then we hit the ground running with it with the first one, which was in april,” Fenton said. “all the subsequent ones i’ve just completely taken over myself. That’s the main thing that we do.” 
Fenton said each political brew has had a similar format: attendees come in, get bagels and coffee and watch “meet the press,” which frames the discussion that follows. 
“depending on the show, if there’s a large topic that should be discussed imme­diately, i’ll mute the program and we’ll open the discus­sion,” Fenton said. “when discussion is closed i’ll turn ‘meet the press’ back on and continue the same forum. if not, at the commercial break i’ll mute it and we’ll recap what was just said on ‘meet the press,’ and we’ll discuss it that way.” 
Fenton said topics have ranged from the november midterm elections to the ray rice scandal. 
“it doesn’t necessarily have to be political, but most often current,” she said. “it just de­pends on what topic is on the program. if we want to talk about something i think is worth discussing – i’m very up to date on current events, so i’ll just throw out, ‘so what do you guys think of this?’ and that gets the conversa­tion going.” 
since the first political brew 
“The overall goal would be to get more people informed of what’s going on.” 
Elizabeth Fenton 
sophomore 

in april, attendance has risen from about 30 to approxi­mately 50 people, Fenton said. 
senior michelle mccarthy, president of the college democrats, said the event was a way for club members to speak with people with dif­fering political views. 
“political brew is a great event where our members can come out and discuss current events with college republicans and other at­tendees,” mccarthy said. “i think it’s beneficial because our members can engage in dialogue with students out­side of college democrats.” 
senior mark gianfalla, pres­ident of college republicans, said the group helped spread the word about the events, and he has seen positive reac­tions from club members. 
“it’s a nice way to start the morning on sunday. it’s not too early,” he said. “There’s a nice spread for you if you show up. There’s some en­gagement in intelligent dia­logue with others.” 
political brew can also ap­peal to students not affiliated with political clubs, Fenton said. 
“if they don’t come to talk they come to get more in­formed of what’s going on and to listen to the people who have a lot of information on current events,” she said. “... From both groups we’ve got­ten great feedback.” 
Fenton said she hopes faculty will attend political brews in the future and she wants to enlist the help of the administration or even nbc. 
“[The administration] actu­ally contacted us two political brews ago, commending us for watching nbc because that’s what the school is affili­ated with,” she said. “i didn’t even think of that when we chose ‘meet the press’; i just thought it was a good middle ground between the parties, but they love it.” 
but the main goal, Fenton said, is to encourage people to keep up with current events. 
“The overall goal would be to get more people informed of what’s going on, because as much as people like to think they know what’s happening, a lot of people don’t, a, read newspapers, and b, don’t care enough to look into certain issues,” she said. “i’m hoping that by coming to political brew and listening to both sides of a point, that they can form their own opinions on certain issues.” 



Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
SMC CLASS BOARDS 



The observer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER  12, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SUB improves visibility, promotes annual events 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
Junior scott copeland, ex­ecutive director of the student union board (sub), said the or­ganization’s main focus this se­mester was to improve student life on campus by enhancing traditional sub events and in­troducing new ones. 
“we do that through a variety of ways, like we put on the spring concert; we do stress relievers during finals week,” copeland said. 
sub began the school year with events copeland said would both “enhance the first experi­ence of campus” for new stu­dents and excite older students about their return to school. popular events this time of year were sub regulars – comedy on the Quad, movie on the Quad and pups and pumpkins, which brought dogs from the humane society to campus, he said. 
sub also hoped to branch out this semester, copeland said. it worked with the native american student alliance (nasand) to celebrate native american heritage month on campus and reached out to other underrepresented groups throughout the semester. sub also introduced new events, including a bus trip to the mockingjay premiere. 
“That was one of our goals this semester, to branch out, do some new things,” copeland said. “we brought a spoken word artist, the asia project, to campus, and that was one of the first times we’d done that.” 
coordinating the brand-new events this semester required additional planning and cre­ativity from sub members, copeland said. 
“we try to prevent the rein­vention of the wheel from year to year, so there are a lot of events that we put on every single year 
— comedy on the Quad is one, Fall mall, concerts, stress reliev­ers, movies — there are a lot of events we do every year,” he said. 
copeland said spring semester events will include the collegiate Jazz Festival, anTostal, the spring concert and a comedian performance. student recogni­tion and involvement can be challenging, but sub is working to create a bigger name for itself on campus, he said. 
“one of the strategies that we tried to use is almost to build the sub brand,” he said. “… so we’ll give away pens or frisbees or T-shirts at sub events, just to try to make people aware that we’re here. because people kind of hear about sub, but we’re almost kind of a ghost or­ganization, i feel like. in other universities, their student pro­gramming boards are huge, you know, everyone knows them and they do super cool things. so that’s what we’re trying to build.” 
overall, copeland said he be­lieved sub accomplished what it set out to do at the beginning of the year. 
“we wanted to put on awe­some events, of course, but we wanted to collaborate with other clubs, we wanted to in­corporate more student groups in our events, again, getting back to our mission, which is to enhance the undergraduate ex­perience,” copeland said. “… i think we’ve done a great job of that this semester.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 

CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 
Council revamps internal structure, updates policies 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
Though a lesser-known branch of student government, the club coordination council (ccc) plays a large role in the task of helping notre dame’s more than 200 clubs function on a daily basis. 
The ccc is comprised of club members elected by their peers to represent and oversee all the recognized student clubs on campus, senior Jimmy mcentee, president of the ccc, said. The members are divided into six subdivisions: academic, athletic, special interest, performing arts, cultural and social service, he said. 
“The ccc has two major re­sponsibilities, in my opinion. First, we allocate the funds given to us by the university — approx­imately $300,000 — to all of the undergraduate clubs,” mcentee said. “second, we oversee the new club process at notre dame, voting on whether to approve prospective clubs throughout the academic year.” 
club organization, club net­working and club promoting are all also tasks for which the ccc offers assistance, senior peter hall, ccc vice president, said. 
“additionally, we are respon­sible for running the appeal pro­cess if clubs have unexpected events that require funding,” mcentee said. “a limited amount of funds are set aside for the vary­ing appeals throughout the year. Finally, we serve in a position that assists clubs whenever they need help.” 
The council’s leaders set three main goals for the year, hall said. 
“The first is transparency. many people do not know that this council exists, let alone what it does, so by being transparent we will raise awareness of the ccc and help to provide insight into how we operate,” hall said. “secondly, we wanted to take a critical look at how we operate internally to see where we could improve. 
“Finally, we wanted to be more efficient. past councils have been effective, but this year we want to be effective while being efficient.” 
mcentee said he believed the council should focus on com­munity between the clubs and re­evaluating the ccc’s own policies and procedures. 
“an additional goal we set at the beginning of the year involved a reexamination of the procedures and policies for the ccc,” mcentee said.  “we still have on file work papers from the early [1990s] from the ccc, and not much has changed since then.” 
reexaminations of policy and procedure have been informed by systems at other universities, mcentee said. 
“a few ccc members con­tacted other universities to un­derstand the systems in place for dealing with undergraduate clubs, and we are looking at ways to include some of the positive as­pects from those schools here at notre dame,” mcentee said. “we have also conducted a thorough review of the ccc bylaws and are in the process of changing a few small components.” 
The new changes have also helped with making allocation of funds and other club pro­cesses less difficult for the clubs, mcentee said. 
mcentee said the council con­stantly strives to improve the ex­perience for everyone. 
“we are excited for the upcom­ing months at the ccc, and are always looking to improve the way we do things,” he said. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Board studies campus mental health concerns 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
The campus life council (clc) has focused on student mental health issues on campus, accord­ing to student body president lauren vidal, chair of the clc. 
“There is a national upward trend in student stress, and we have seen this spike mirrored in the lives of notre dame stu­dents,” vidal said. “we began the year with a preliminary report to the board of Trustees on student stress, and we decided, through our findings, that notre dame was in fact a unique environment, with a more unique structure that we can capitalize on to become a university with an exceptional level of wellness resources and support.” 
The clc, a forum for students, faculty and administrators to dis­cuss student affairs, created three task forces to dive more in-depth into student stress and mental health, vidal said. 
“The academic task force has looked at specifically what our learning environment looks like and how our curriculum affects our students,” vidal said. “This force has spent time speaking with students and faculty about the in-classroom and out of class­room demands, and they have also decided to look at if and why students overload on credits [or] pick up double majors. 
“This force has also looked at the idea of excellence as an nd student and how a perception of perfection takes a toll on student stress levels.” 
The social climate task force, consisting of rectors, student union board leaders and student senators, has considered the larg­er picture of a student through the lens of their social environment, vidal said. 
“[The social climate task force] has looked into the benefits of a no-program time bracket, which some universities have adopted,” vidal said. “This policy essentially eliminates the option to program any organized event during a certain block of time, with the intended purpose to provide stu­dents with legitimate free time for personal purpose. 
The third task force is bench­marking, which vidal said is es­sential to the functioning of the other two task forces. 
“it serves the purpose of using comparative data to strengthen the research and the findings of our other forces,” she said. “benchmarking is looking into everything from academic statis­tics to data on how many of our students pick up double and triple majors, in comparison to our peer institutions.” 
clc’s goals for next semester involve more action on the data they have collected within the task forces, chris Tarnacki, rector of o’neill hall, said. 
“our goal is to thoroughly un­derstand and potentially provide recommendation on policies or services that might be put in place to better serve students,” Tarnacki said. 
vidal said next semester clc will put their work into action. 
“we will hold meetings with the new team from the mcdonald center [for student well-being] in an attempt to craft a center that serves as an ideal addition to notre dame, and one that is centered specifically around enhancing the notre dame experience,” vidal said. “we will also be making rec­ommendations for the new First year of studies course, backed by our deep dive into nd culture and student climate.” 
with regards to their goals next semester, sophomore badin hall senator helen hathaway said the clc has established a timeline of points to accomplish. 
“we have devoted this school year to discussing and research­ing mental health so that we can present a report at the end of the year that will be useful to the university as its health and well­ness programs grow and develop,” hathaway said. “we will con­tinue discussing and gathering evidence — be it data or anecdotes 
— so that we can use the second half of the second semester to con­struct a comprehensive and tell­ing report.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2014 | The observer 

Leaders adjust news options for students 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
before they could bring cop­ies of The wall street Journal to campus this year, student body president and vice pres­ent lauren vidal and matthew devine needed to make a series of behind-the-scenes changes. 
in the past, student gov­ernment coordinated notre dame’s participation in the college readership program through the gannett company, which brought copies of The new york Times, usa Today and The south bend Tribune to campus. after discussions with the student senate and re­search, vidal said they decided to end the relationship with gannett and instead negotiate individual contracts with The new york Times and The wall street Journal. 
Their research showed that the readership program was a significant expense, that only about 20-30 people picked up The south bend Tribune copies per day and that many students expressed a desire for access to The wall street Journal, espe­cially for business classes. 
“[The college readership program] was very costly,” vidal said. “we knew it was go­ing to be an undertaking, but we said ‘what if we try to cre­ate our own program?’ and so we negotiated the contracts in such a way that we were going to save money, and with the money saved, we created a stu­dent job. …we’re proud of that.” 
devine said the first prior­ity was seriously evaluating student input on the program instead of continuing the es­tablished system by default. when the contract renewal pe­riod came up with the gannett company in the spring, he said the department of academic af­fairs decided to change courses. 
“we were in a negotiation process with The wall street Journal for a month,” vidal said. “They don’t typically do this kind of [mass subscrip­tion] program; we basically just created our own readership program with two individual contracts, one with The new york Times and one with the wall street Journal.” 
Two student employees are now tasked with distribut­ing the papers to both dining halls and to laFortune student center each morning. devine said 400 copies of The wall street Journal and 300 copies of The new york Times are avail­able in total. online access for the Times is available too, but not for the Journal. 
The decision to eliminate The south bend Tribune sub­scription was based on the low readership numbers they found, devine said. 
“our whole perspective throughout the decision to eliminate the Tribune was not that we were shifting our fo­cus away from the community in any way,” he said. “we were just trying to figure out a better way to help people be involved in the community. This service wasn’t being taken advantage of, so we thought we could fig­ure out a better way [to stay connected to the community].” 
devine said they did not get any reaction from the Tribune after the subscription was cut, probably because it was a sec­ondary relationship adminis­tered through gannett. 
“what’s important to em­phasize is that this really wasn’t a hasty decision,” vidal said. “we’re saving money with this system, and we’re able to pay students to work a new job above minimum wage.” 
Their opinions are based in hands-on experience — for the first five weeks of the program, vidal and devine delivered the papers themselves at 6 a.m. before they could hire regular employees. 
“we did have some kinks in the beginning, but it worked out,” vidal said. “we really have received nothing but positive feedback about the program.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
ND SENATE 

Assembly focuses on safety 
By JESSICA MERDES 
news writer 
student body vice president and senior matthew devine said he has been very proud of the “work and commitment” of the senators during the semester. 
“i have loved meeting and working with senate this year,” he said. “its members are some of the brightest and most enthusiastic leaders of the campus community. we are all working together to better our university.” 
senate has already taken serious steps in addressing widespread issues this semes­ter with the rise of campus safety concerns. 
“campus safety has been at the forefront of our conversa­tions most recently,” devine said. “Following the safety summit at the beginning of this year and in response to the most recent off-campus crime reports, senate began to discuss ways to both protect and educate students about how to live and work safely both on and off campus.” 
To address these issues, senate has “enhanced in­teractions” with the south bend police and notre dame security police (ndsp) to in­crease student awareness of safety resources and is in the process of making a campus safety video. most notice­ably, the implementation of o’snap at the beginning of the year has taken seri­ous steps to improve campus safety. 
at the beginning of the semester, senate met with the office of information Technology (oiT) to discuss the new printing quota system and concerns that were voiced by the student body. 
in response to student concerns revolving printing quota, there is now a work­ing group of senate members tasked with creating a new system. 
devine said senate plans to continue addressing issues related to campus safety and mental health of students and to continue discussing some of the more short-term goals such as university’s policy to­wards auditing courses, revi­sion of the darTing and class search processes, sexual as­sault prayer services, national engagement and the distribu­tion of daily press clips and li­brary renovations. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at jmerdes@nd.edu 


SMC COUNCIL OF COMMITTEE CHAIRS 
group undertakes campus-wide programming 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
student government association’s (sga) council of committee chairs (ccc) sought to continue last year’s goal of trans­parency as well as increase student attendance in events this semester, ccc director and vice president of external affairs Katie stare said. 
stare, a senior, said the 18 com­mittee chairs and co-chairs work to address student interests and needs in the most effective way possible. The 12 committees in­clude alumnae, athletic, commu­nity, first-years’ concerns, food services, international, market re­search and media, mission, social concerns, sophia program, sus­tainability and technology. 
“of the 12 committees, the me­dia chair has been the one that has seen the most changes this year,” stare said. “Katie calhoun, who is the chair of the committee, has worked extremely hard to make sure all of the sga events are ad­vertised on all social media outlets. she also personally designs the t-shirts for many of the events. 
“Katie[calhoun] has been a huge help this year in furthering our overarching goal in sga to improve student participation and attendance.” 
stare said the committee chairs and co-chairs meet on a weekly ba­sis to update one another on issues that come up, student feedback on events or their upcoming plans and goals. 
“we are a very collaborative group, and as one of our main goals this year is to have every commit­tee planning more events in order to best utilize our budgets, it’s great to have these weekly meetings so we can all join forces and inspire each other to be successful,” she said. “our ccc budget is larger than it has been in the past, so we are all trying our best to reap the most benefits from this upgrade.” 
Five of the committees put on “big weeks” on campus to highlight different issues among the cam­pus community and raise aware­ness of different social concerns. These “big weeks” take extensive planning — the committees work months in advance to design the weeks — and thus, the commit­tees’ duties are mostly narrowed to one specific focus. 
“i think that’s something that could definitely be improved,” in­ternational co-chair and senior catherine sullivan said. “right now, it’s like the committee chairs have their ‘big weeks’ to focus on, and then they are pretty much done for the year after the week takes place. 
“my chair is one of the few posi­tions that actually has to think of one or two events for every month, since i don’t have a ‘big week’ to plan for. it helps me involve my issue of the international com­munity at saint mary’s in events throughout the year.” 
stare said the “big weeks” that have taken place already this fall semester have been support a belle, love a belle (sablab) and Food week. sablab was orga­nized by social concerns co-chairs and seniors Kaitlyn Tarullo and chloe deranek, and Food week was planned by food services chair and sophomore mary Kate luft and sustainability co-chairs chelsey Fattal and eleanor Jones, both juniors. (Editor’s note: Luft is a Viewpoint copyeditor at The Observer. Fattal is a News writer.) 
“iwasreallyimpressedwithboth of the ‘big weeks’ that have hap­pened so far,” stare said. “i think what made the weeks so successful were their emphases on diversity.” 
“The ccc will be especially busy helping the alumnae and mission committees and social concerns committee plan heritage week and love your body week, respec­tively, in the spring semester, stare said. 
“since student attendance at the events that have already hap­pened this year has been greatly improved, we hope that in the ‘big weeks’ to come, the same sort of turn out will occur,” she said. “it’s amazing what the small but mighty saint mary’s community can do when we collaborate and come together to unite behind cer­tain causes and events.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 





DEPARTMENT REVIEWS 










The department implemented Political Brew. It also started Press Clips, an email system to provide daily news stories to all members of student government. The department recently met with leaders of Southern Methodist University to discuss their plans for their new student center and receive input from ND student leaders. The department grade is based on its success in achieving its goals and implementing new initiative Campus Ministry and representative senior Grace Carroll  held events for freshmen, Housekeeping Appreciation Week in each dorm. The group worked with class councils to organize mass and Grotto trips, was involved in reversing the alma mater decision and worked to address sexual assault with education campaigns and support systems. 
Campus Ministry receives an A for its strong kick off to the year with the freshman class and continued work with clubs. 
The Department focused on ND Creates. It hosted Photoshop workshops and passed a resolution through Senate for more individual study spaces on campus. The department is planning Majors Night, an art and drink night for students and a student-professor coffee initiative next semester. Painting, photography and technology classes are scheduled for the future. While the department has ambitious plans for the future, it must put more of those plans into action. 
This semester, the Saint Mary’s Activities Board (SAB) has been working to bolster Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board (SDB) successfully hosted the annual participation. By allocating their budget differently, the department has reached SDB Diversity Bonfire, SHINE Day, the Oxfam Hunger Banquet and Diversity many of their goals in advertising and attendance. SAB has already hosted many Dinners that brought the tri campus community together. SDB will focus their successful events this year, and they plan to improve and heavily advertise 
energies on the 10th annual Diverse Students’ Leadership Conference, the two biggest events of the spring semester: Midnight Madness and Women’s Leadership Day and Watch Your Mouth Day. The board has Tostal. For their focus on advertising, which was the main issue with SAB many ambitious goals but will need to better advertise and inspire last year, the board deserves an A. attendance to accomplish these initiatives by the end of the term. 



Saint Mary’s Residence Hall Association (RHA) hosted its biggest event, Spirit This year, the Saint Mary’s Council of Clubs has worked to improve transparency Week, as well as Christmas Cards with College President Carol Ann Mooney, and be more prudent in their allocation process. The group, headed by senior which featured crafts, food and decorations and was well attended. In the Marissa Pie’, crafted a workable budget and increased sponsorship allotment future, RHA will host the All School Formal in January, as well as Little 
by 20 percent. Pie’ also hosted three mandatory seminars to guide Sibs’ Weekend in March. The department earns a B+ for its work thus student leaders through the budget request process. They plan to far, since the group could be a bigger presence on campus and plan re work the finance bylaws to make protocol and policy even more more events to better link the residence halls and SMC student body. transparent for the future. All of these initiatives earn the council an A. 


The Athletics Representative, sophomore Corey Robinson, worked with the football team’s Unity Council to reinstate the alma mater policy at football games. In a video, Robinson encouraged respect during the senior day marshmallow fight. The Athletic Department also plans to participate in 29 for 29 and help with the “It’s On Us” sexual 
assault campaign. Robinson made some strongly-supported decisions, but video failed to achieve widespread student notice. 


bringing one unique event to campus, but 
department receives its grade for a well-the student body looks to further increase organized mental health campaign and its interactions with the community. continued dedication to improvement. 


The FUEL program of 35 freshmen appointed a liaison for each department and major council. Their discussion on preventing the Zahm Celtic Chant at football games moved to Hall Presidents’ Council and Senate for further consideration. Freshmen focus groups to discussed mental health and considered initiatives of freshmen mentors in dorms. FUEL still has much to do in order to implement future plans. 




future, the department hopes to reconsider 
lights from the D-Bulla lot to campus. Next the medical amnesty policy and look at semester, it plans to hold a town hall safety the future of RecSports in light of Campus forum, tackle the lack of bicycle racks and Crossroads. host a spring bike sale. 



The Gender Relations Department reported data on nighttime sexual assaults and submitted a proposal to support O’SNAP. The department co-sponsored the “Are You Getting the Signal?” event to educate students on sexual consent. The department also co-hosted the Time to Heal Dinner. The department also decided to advance the “It’s on Us” campaign on sexual assault, which will kick off in January. A “Love Your Body” campaign is scheduled for the spring. 



The group were instituted free shuttles in light of  the shortage of parking, and new ATMs were installed in the LaFortune Student Center. The department is working to standardize taxi services on campus, improve access to DeBartolo Hall for students and staff after-hours and create a new walkway with blue The department examined the printing quota system, helped create an O’SNAP module on the ND mobile app, trained OIT student employees, helped organize the ND Mobile Conference and collected feedback on DART policies. It hopes to install more mobile charging stations next semester. While the department has done an excellent job in creating new programs, general student dissatisfaction with the current printing quota system remains strong. 


The Diversity Council and its student government representative, sophomore Stephen Kim, conducted training sessions for senators and multicultural commissioners. Training improved with interactive dialogues, personal stories and a question and answer session. Kim now meets with the student government executive cabinet and diversity council to promote communication. The council receives a B+ for largely reaching its goals for the year. 







The Department of Internal Affairs participated in the SafeWalk revision resolution and the revision of the financial structure of The Shirt Project. The department also passed resolutions on references to the Office of Community Standards and increases in study spaces in academic buildings. In the future it plans to update passages in the constitution. The grade is based on the lack of tangible change or forward-thinking initiatives. 





