The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 53 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Wildcats await decision on unionization 
On Northwestern’s visit to campus, ND law professors say its case is part of a bigger conversation 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
in march, the chicago regional director of the national labor relations board (nlrb) ruled that northwestern scholarship football players are employees of the university, and therefore have the right to form a union. 
in april, northwestern university appealed the decision to the full nlrb in washington, d.c. 
This weekend, the northwestern football team, still awaiting a final decision from the nlrb, comes to notre dame with its unioniza­tion future unclear. ed edmonds, associate dean of the notre dame law school, said either way the board rules, the northwestern case could be pivotal for the fu­ture of collegiate athletics. 
“i would like to think that this [case] would begin to change the conversation at the ncaa away from the idea that [athlet­ics] should be equated to a hobby or a very modest expenditure of time,” edmonds, who specializes in sports labor law, said. “i think we need to have a much more realistic conversation about how you try to balance intercollegiate athletics and its demands with 
see union PAGE 7 


FOOTBALL FRIDAY FEATURE 



dining halls host students, fans at gameday dinners 
By EMILY MCCONVILLE 
news writer 
after the clock has hit zero and the alma mater has been sung after the northwestern game saturday, thousands of students and fans will stream out of notre dame stadium and into north and south dining halls for a decades-old game day tradition: the post-game candlelight dinner. 

The dinners feature top sir­loin and an assortment of cakes and pies, and the dining halls, which stay open until two hours after the game ends, are decorated with tablecloths, low lighting, music and candles. 
marc poklinkowski, south dining hall’s general manager, said the dinners often draw 2600 to 2800 people to south as opposed to 2000 on a nor­mal saturday. The planning for the dinners begins over the summer, when the dining hall staff puts together the menus and places the food orders. each manager then takes on 
see dinner PAGE 7 




Morris Inn named official hotel of Notre Dame Athletics 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
in october, the university named the morris inn the of­ficial hotel of notre dame athletics, a designation the hotel’s managing director Joe Kurth said he believes will re­introduce notre dame fans to what he calls “the living room of the university.” 
named a aaa Four diamond hotel in 2013, the recently-ren­ovated morris inn is different than the inn in the black-and­white photos now displayed on the hotel’s walls, Kurth said. 
“The old morris inn was a bit more dorm-style — built in the 1950’s, a bit more classic. … many generations of alum­ni know the morris inn as the old morris inn,” Kurth said. “as we think of the market­ing arm that athletics already has, the ability to reach out to thousands of people, it allows us to tell the story of the new morris inn and the renova­tion in a way that gives people a reason to come back. and once you see [the hotel], then 
as the official hotel of notre dame athletics, the morris inn will sponsor several ath­letic events and offer promo­tions for notre dame fans, according to an october press release. The partnership with the morris inn will benefit the athletic department by pro­viding “the best experience possible” to notre dame fans, deputy athletics director Jim Fraleigh said. 
“in addition to the fact that the morris inn is within close 

you understand.” see morris inn PAGE 7 


Bellacapella takes the stage at Saint Mary’s 


By EMILIE KEFALAS 
news writer 
on a snowy evening, bellacappella, saint mary’s premier a cappella group, per­formed their appropriately titled fall concert, “christmas in november,” Thursday night at the o’laughlin auditorium. 
“usually our concerts are later in the year, but there were a lot of scheduling conflicts,” bellacappella president se­nior nia parillo said. “That’s why we named it ‘christmas in november.’ it’s just kind of a clas­sic, [where] we have some classic songs we sing.” 
parillo said her fellow bellas 
see concerT PAGE 6 







ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s your favorite thing about the first snowfall? 

Katy Sage 

Michael Beach 
sophomore 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
Keough hall 
“Frolicking in the snow.” 
“hot chocolate.” 


Devin Roura 
sophomore 
Knott hall 

“nothing, i’m from miami and this is miserable.” 



Moira Horn 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“christmas music!” 

Isabel Fox 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“The excitement of everyone on campus.” 



James Mullen 
sophomore 
Keough hall 

“pushing my friends in the snow.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jack rooney greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

catherine owers mike ginocchio madison Jaros manny de Jesus 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
susan Zhu miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 

Pep Rally Notre Dame Football Sunday Mass Alumni Art Exhibit Post Graduate 
Jodi lo mary Kate luft 
Compton Family Ice Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Snite Museum of Art Service and Beyond Arena 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart All Day Geddes Hall 
5:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. The Irish take on 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. “ND Alumni: Sculptors 6:30 p.m. 


Corrections 

Pep rally for ND vs. Northwestern. Music by the Notre and Professors.” Discuss postgraduate 
in the nov. 13 issue of The observer, Northwestern. Dame Liturgical Choir. service opportunities. the viewpoint column “college and the preparation for death” 
Men’s Basketball Saturday Vigil Mass Anishnabe Work Off Your “The Magnificent 
was a reprint of the sept. 4 column 
Purcell Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred Hesburgh Library Weekend Ambersons” (1942) 
“studying death.” The observer 
9 p.m. - 11 p.m. Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Rolfs Sports Center DeBartolo Performing 
regrets this error. 

The Irish take on 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Performances by All Day Arts Center Binghamton. Music by the Women’s the Pokagon Band of Register online via 8:00 p.m. - 10 p.m. Liturgical Choir. Potawatomi. RecRegister. Free for students. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | The observer 




Actress addresses effects of sexual assault in lecture 
By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
when actress, producer and philanthropist annalynne mccord spoke to notre dame students Thursday evening in the laFortune ballroom, she had one very clear message: the importance of acceptance and forgiveness. 
at age 18, mccord, who has starred in “90210,” “nip/Tuck” and “dallas,” was sexually as­saulted in her own home by a male friend, and she said the fact that she knew her attacker that made it harder to grasp. 
“[Knowing the attacker] is the part that makes it very shame­ful, very uncomfortable, and this is what keeps silence,” mccord said. 
as the assault took place, she said she was unsure of how to fight for herself. but it was when she thought of her boyfriend that she suddenly found a voice and stood up to her attacker. 
“For [my boyfriend] i had a voice … but i couldn’t do it for my­self because i felt pushed down as a woman,” mccord said of the weakness she felt in the moment of the attack. 
she said instinctually re­pressed the memory following the attack and did not speak about it to anyone for many months. 

“[it was] denial, denial, denial,” she said, until she told a male friend 10 months later. 
“That was the first time i ever said it,” mccord said. “That was the first time i ever acknowl­edged that that’s actually what it was. That was the first time i even gave any kind of thought towards it.” 
That moment led her to a rev­elation: she was not reacting to her assault in the same vengeful and angered way that her friend was reacting. 
she couldn’t quite under­stand this difference, she said. 
“why didn’t i feel that for my­self? why did i feel like i didn’t have a voice?” mccord said. 
after her many trips to cambodia as part of her work against sex trafficking, mccord said she began to find her voice and heal. 
“These girls [in cambodia] have been raped every day. … and they were not suffering, and they were not angry,” she said, which was completely an­tithetical to the anger, frustra­tion and depression that she felt for years after her assault. 
however, it was not until mccord went back to the exact place where her attacker had confronted her not long after her assault that she was able to feel at peace with what happened. 
“i cried for myself,” she said. 
it was then that she felt she had moved on. 
as she stood in that spot, mccord said that she thought, “i’m done. i’m done with the cycle of abuse. i’m done with the suffer­ing. … [he does not] have power over me. i’m no longer shackled.” 
another big moment in her healing process came when mccord finally admitted her as­sault publically, she said. 
“i felt relieved,” mccord said. “everyone knew i’m damaged, i’m tainted, bad stuff has hap­pened to me … but i’m still kicking. 
“it was a weight off my shoulders.” 
now, mccord said she forgives her attacker because her story of healing is not about him, it is about her. she said overcoming her sexual assault has led her to better forgive and accept others in her life today. 
“i can’t go back. i can’t undo it.” mccord said. “now, when some­thing happens to me, i own it, and i practice letting it go.” 
The event, entitled, “it starts with me: healing and Forgiveness,” was sponsored by sponsored by the department of Film, Television and Theatre, the gender studies program, lyons hall and duncan hall. 


Contact Alyssa Lyon at alyon@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



Lecturer argues for game theory in conflict resolution 
By JP GSCWIND 
news writer 
on Thursday afternoon in the hesburgh center for international studies, robert 
J. carroll, visiting research fellow at the Kroc institute for international peace studies, gave a Kroc-sponsored lec­ture titled “what game Theory can Teach us about war and peace,” which fo­cused on the fundamentals of game theory and its appli­cation to conflict prevention. 
“i hope i can convince you that game theory is a useful tool in the peacemaker’s kit,” carroll said. “it helps us make valid arguments and identify generalizable mechanisms.” 
carroll cited conflict game theorists and 2005 nobel prize in economic sciences laureates Thomas schelling and robert aumann as evi­dence that game theory is transforming the study of in­ternational relations. 
anticipating common criticisms of mathematical modeling and game theo­ry, carroll emphasized that models are like maps in that both are purpose-relative, explanatory tools and not ex­haustive depictions of every aspect of a situation. 
“in fact, discrepancies with reality are opportunities,” carroll said. 
he explained that contra­dictions between real hu­man behavior and model predictions allow students of game theory to pinpoint specific underlying mecha­nisms.  carroll said there are three components required for a game: players, strategies and preferred outcomes for each party, commonly called utilities. 
carroll used the classic example of the prisoner’s dilemma to illustrate game theory. he then said the nash equilibrium, which states that for any game with a fi­nite number of players and a finite number of strategies there will be a certain set of rational decisions, is appli­cable and even essential to conflict resolution. 
“There always exists a set of negotiated settlements that both sides prefer to fighting and the set of mutually pref­erable outcomes for both par­ties is called the bargaining 


“I hope I can convince you that game theory is a useful tool in the peacemaker’s kit. ... It helps us make valid arguments and identify generalizeable mechanisms.” 
Robert J. Carroll 
lecturer 
range,” carroll said. 
however, carroll said the reality of war is not easily re­solved with a simple model. 
“There are two explana­tions for the failure of the peace model,” he said. “There are information, which is of­ten privately held with the in­centive to misrepresent, and commitment, which is uncer­tainty about the future rela­tive power of both parties.” 
From the rationalist per­spective, carroll said private information about military strength is the best explana­tion for mutual optimism, or the willingness of both coun­tries to go to war. 
“in order to try to resolve informational problems, me­diators need to build trust,” carroll said. 

Contact JP Gschwind at jgscwin@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 





SMC alumnae share experiences in healthcare 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
Five saint mary’s biology alumnae discussed their careers in healthcare in a panel Thursday evening to answer current biology stu­dents’ questions and share the alumnae’s experiences in medical school. 
dr. anne dudley, class of 2004, is now a pediatrician after attending des moines university in des moines, iowa. dudley said she is a doctor of osteopathic medicine, or a doctor who uses her hands to treat patients. 
“The main philosophy is that the body has an in­nate ability to heal itself and that structure and function work together for healing,” dudley said. “we learn how to use our hands to treat pa­tients instead of only doing testing.” 
Krystal holtcamp, class of 2012, will be graduating as a physician’s assistant (pa) from the university of Toledo in december. holtcamp, who was saint mary’s co-valedictorian in 2012, said she was familiar with the profession because of her dad’s experience. 
“i came into saint mary’s thinking i wanted to go to medical school but wasn’t sure,” holtcamp said. “my dad is a pa, [and had] been for 40 years … so i knew what the profession was. a pa is a midlevel provider. we can di­agnose, treat, give therapies but will always be under the supervision of a primary care doctor.” 
holtcamp said she knew she wanted to be a pa af­ter completing many job shadows. 
“i shadowed a lot, that’s how i decided,” holtcamp said. “i shadowed a lot of fe­male physicians and asked them their opinion if they could do it all over again what would they do, would they stay in the type of prac­tice they were in, and how their family life was because that was really important to me.” 
michelle smith, class of 2011, is now a physical thera­pist at a clinic after graduat­ing from central michigan university in may. 
“i work in [an] outpatient clinic,” smith said. “my clinic is more of lower functioning patients, like traumatic brain injury, stroke and elderly pa­tients. we have pediatrics, but i don’t work with them.” 
val gillis, class of 2003, is now a physician’s assistant after graduating from midwestern university in downers grove, illinois. she later got a job at northwestern university in chicago, where she is a pa for urology and works with in­fertility patients. 
“urology, much to my mother’s dismay, is what i love and i’ve been doing it for nine years now,” gillis said. “i ended up getting involved with the guy who does all in­fertility, and you’re thinking, well, urology and fertility, well, 50 percent of infertility is male infertility, so that’s sort of what we do. a subset of that that i do, that i am very passionate about, is i do fertility preservation for cancer patients, which is my favorite thing about my job. The youngest we’ve seen is a 13-year-old boy who was about to get chemotherapy and then up to 70-year-old men.” 
class of 2008 alumna beth 
paid adverTisemenT 
belock is now a veterinar­ian after graduating from michigan state university’s veterinary school. belock said saint mary’s prepared her for graduate school bet­ter than michigan state’s pre-veterinary undergradu­ate program did. 
“saint mary’s prepared me very, very well for vet school,” belock said. “getting into that first year, you have a lot of basic science classes to get started with and even the people who had gone to michigan state as the pre­vet program, in some in­stances, i felt that i was more prepared than some of my classmates. They were ask­ing me questions about stuff, so i was like, ‘yes, this isn’t even technically a pre-vet program, but i am definitely doing very well with these courses.’” 
holtcamp said attending a liberal arts school puts an applicant ahead with regards to medical school applica­tions and acceptances. it is much more interesting that the applicant didn’t just take biology classes, she said. 
“saint mary’s has so many opportunities, like study abroad,” holtcamp said. “do something that you think you will really enjoy and talk about. and school-wise, you will be so prepared. most [medical schools] have had some saint mary’s stu­dents, so it’s known that science-wise, you will be so well prepared that they’ll know academic-wise you’ll be prepared. so just show how great, personality-wise, saint mary’s girls are.” 
belock said it is important to have experience with peo­ple skills when applying to veterinarian school. 
“as much as you think you’re going in to deal with animals, there’s always a person at the end of that leash that you have to deal with,” belock said. 
gillis said being well-rounded is a big factor when applying to medical school. 
“you’re going to be having awkward conversations if you want to do medicine, and it’s going to be awkward and you can’t blush,” gillis said. “you have to be able to relate and communicate.” 


Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | The observer 





Speaker calls for ethical business practices 

By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
anne nobles, former senior vice president and chief eth­ics and compliance officer of eli lily and company, pre­sented a lecture on the im­portance of ethical practices in business entitled, “making corporate practices work over Time,” Thursday eve­ning at the mendoza college of business. 
nobles’ lecture, the fi­nal installment in the John 
e. berges lecture series on business ethics, examined the foundations of corporate compliance and the develop­ment of ethical frameworks within companies. 
nobles said while practic­ing and understanding com­pliance provides companies with a solid foundation, de­veloping an ethical frame­
work  provides  limitations  
that  ultimately  strengthen  
the company.  

“ethics is when you go be­yond the legal requirement and to me, that has to be an explicit decision that a com­


pany or individual makes, to forego either an interest or profits,” nobles said. “any kind of benefit that the per­son foregoes, to me, would be a decision made to establish an ethical principle for that individual or company.” 
nobles said she derived her understanding of the importance of ethics from her late father’s conduct as a judge, as well as several ex­amples of business leaders, such as walmart ceo sam walton and former morgan stanley security director rick rescorla. 
“These, to me, are really good examples of how a per­son can make an individual decision to forego a benefit or profits by establishing an eth­ical reputation,” nobles said. “but what really maintains and sustains that reputation is to employ it consistently over time.” 
nobles said she recogniz­es the inherent difficulties involved in developing an ethical framework at a scale as large as a multinational company, but the goal is not impossible. 
“it is much easier to make an ethical decision and im­pose those limitations on yourself than it is to impose those on a multinational cor­poration with many different and sometimes competing in­terests,” she said. 
during her lecture, nobles emphasized key principles of ethics, such as consistency in ethical practice, coordination in corporate hierarchies and employee understanding of company ethics. 
nobles said coordination and communication of the corporate ethical framework to employees requires con­sistency in order for employ­ees to both understand the root of the company’s ethical principles and be capable of upholding them. 
“in order to really sustain an ethical position, you need to have every employee in the company align to it, and you need them to understand 


“When you look at potential employers, you first examine your own ethical principles, and then look at the company to see how your ethics will mesh with theirs.” 
Anne Nobles 
former Eli Lily executive 
what’s expected of them,” she said. 
nobles said she was able to understand the importance of employee participation in 
ethical  upholding  through  
the  example  of  walmart  
ceo  sam  walton.  she said  

the strict limitations walton placed on employees and the constant emphasis he pro­vided his employees on the importance of the company’s mission helped her under­stand the value of ethical limitations. 
nobles said business stu­dents should research a cor­poration’s ethical framework and track record before com­mitting to employment. 
“when you look at potential employers, you first examine your own ethical principles, and then look at the company to see how your ethics will mesh with theirs,” nobles said. 
nobles said the focus on corporate ethics during the past decades has provided current college students with an opportunity to examine the importance of ethical frameworks and the relation­ship between ethics and cor­porate practice. 
“you have the opportuni­ty that a generation ago we didn’t have, which is the op­portunity to really learn and think deeply about business ethics,” she said. 

Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 





Concert 
conTinued From page 1 
sang on the o’laughlin stage without body microphones this year due to sound issues with the little Theater next door, she said. 
“we spoke to the mic techni­cians, and we have mics, but we have standing mics,” she said. “we’re kicking it bella old school, going back to our roots, pure aca­pella. This is probably the biggest one we’ve done yet, just kind of going with the flow of what’s hap­pening. The girls have worked so hard. i couldn’t be more proud of them and all the hard work they’ve put in. no matter what happens behind the scenes, it’s going to be a great show.” 
The group added six new group members, all freshmen and sophomores, at the beginning of the year, parillo said. 
“in the beginning of the year, we kind of just go through how bella works, especially with the new girls we took on,” she said. “we took on six this year, and they’re all amazing.” 
when it came to preparing song arrangements, the women of bella are advised to think of songs they enjoy listening to, whether they be current hits or oldies, parillo said. 
“it’s usually just, ‘give me a list, and let’s see how it goes,’” parillo said. “when we listen to the music, we just kind of brain­storm together what the audience would want to listen to and what we would like to sing. That’s how we have the lineup that we have. we have new songs, we have old songs. That’s how we figured out what we were going to pick.” 
parillo, an alto, arranges her own music, as does every mem­ber of bella with her own person­al technique, parillo said. 
“we all arrange our own mu­sic,” she said. “everyone in the group arranges their own songs. some girls get ideas off of mu­sic notes. some of the older girls, like myself, they listen by ear, so they listen to the song and figure out what they could do. They fig­ure out what would sound best. it’s difficult, when you first start learning how to arrange. we do bring back older bella arrange­ments. we all make our own. we just kind of throw the notes together.” 
Throughout football season, bellacappella has toured tailgates across notre dame’s campus, singing some of its favorites while promoting the group, parillo said. several songs have become big fan favorites, she said. 
“a big crowd pleaser for peo­ple who have followed bella is [miKa’s] ‘grace Kelly,’” she said. “That’s a crowd-pleaser for the seniors. i like to think they’re all crowd favorites. when we do tail­gate at notre dame, we start with ‘i love rock n’ roll.’ That’s anoth­er step in our job, performing for them.” 
after their fall concert, bella is now looking to the future for new arrangements, including a disney medley, parillo said. 
“we’re hoping to have a little medley next semester,” she said. “That’s going to be a little proj­ect over christmas break. it’s on my bella bucketlist. i have these little things i want to do before i graduate.” 
parillo hopes to continue to make known bella’s presence not only on saint mary’s campus but also beyond it, she said. 
“some people don’t even know we have an a cappella group, and that kind of just bums us out,” she said. “we’re trying to get our name out not just on campus but outside of campus. we were asked here and there if bella could perform. we’re trying to sing at senior dads [weekend], Junior moms, sophomore parents, those kinds of events, just trying to get our name out there.” 
as a senior, parillo said she knows the future of bella fluctu­ates every year between graduat­ing students and new members, she said. 
“The group changes sig­nificantly every year with who graduates,” she said. “The group sometimes takes a few steps forward and then a few steps back. Things change and things 
paid adverTisemenT 

happen, but being the premiere a cappella group on campus, we’d hope saint mary’s would know we were here. we’re excited to perform, and we are willing to combine with groups. it’s really just bringing the community to­gether. i just hope bella takes a lot of steps forward from this great place we are now.” 
if there’s anything parillo wants the audience to take away from bella’s fall concert, it’s a sense of fun and enjoyment, she said. 
“i hope they’re like, ‘wow, you can tell they put so much time into this,’” parillo said. “a lot of this is give and take. it’s not, ‘we’re going to sing at you.’ i want them to have a great time. i want them to be in the moment with us.” 

Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | The observer 

people don’t really clear out until “That line’s intense,” roberts 
of the hotel’s central loca-



Morris Inn 

Dinner 2 or 2:30, so we really have three said. 
tion and focus on customer 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 
hours to turn both dining rooms poklinkowski said it usually 
service. 
over — including resetting this doesn’t matter whether the game 
“The morris inn serves as 

one game day, organizing and from the president’s brunch, was a win or a loss and once stu­
proximity of athletic venues, an extension of our depart-

overseeing decorations and food which has a completely different dents and visitors hit the dining 
it also offers athletic depart-ment,” Fraleigh said. “we 

prep. table setup — back to normal, hall, they’re happy. 
ment guests a unique oppor-know the staff has great pride 

poklinkowski said for each getting the table covers on, get-“i know somebody that’s not 
tunity to embrace the full 

candlelight dinner, south ting everything all lined up,” he a notre dame fan, and he’ll ask 
notre dame experience at a 


“Our mission at 

dining hall orders more than said. “it’s a pretty labor-intensive me, ‘you know, what was the 
full-service, first-class hotel,” 


the Morris Inn is 

600 pounds of top sirloin and task.” mood in the dining hall, after a 
Fraleigh said. 


trying to be tied 

around 200 cakes and pies, while but the dining hall staff rises tough loss?’” poklinkowski said. 
Kurth said the inn looks 

increasing its normal fare — 600 to the challenge, poklinkowski “and you know what, everybody 
to imitate the “notre dame 


in as tightly as we 

pieces of fish, for example, in-said. always has fun. a lot of times 
experience” in its own 


can in multiple 

stead of 400. “everybody is just kind of do-you can’t tell if we’ve won or lost. 
operations. 


areas of campus, 

on game day the dining hall ing their thing, every nook and everybody always seems to be 
“who you are is often not 


so that when 

staff springs into action long be-cranny is being used,” he said. in such a good mood when they 
what you say about yourself 

fore dinnertime — a cook arrives “anywhere we can get people to come in. …The game is over; 
but what people say about 


you’re here, you’re 

to start preparing the top sirloin work on a game day, we do.” now it’s time to come and enjoy 
you,” Kurth said. “and people 


comfortable.” 

at 8 a.m., poklinkowski said. by 5:30 p.m., the dinner is dinner.” 
say that notre dame is a place 
Joe Kurth 

paula roberts, the manager ready — tables covered, can-poklinkowski said there is 
to visit, it’s a bucket list place 
Morris Inn 

in charge of the northwestern dles lit, cakes and pies plated. usually a minor rush after the 
for so many, and part of that 
managing director 

candlelight dinner at south usually, poklinkowski said, peo-post-game masses end, and then 
is athletics, part of that is re-

dining hall, said the cashiers ple trickle in throughout the eve-the line dies down and south 
search, part of it is going back 

arrive at 7 a.m. to prepare for ning, but the staff braces for the closes. The employees, however, 
to the dorm you used to live in what they do and we know 

brunch and start selling tickets post-game rush. stay to clean up, count down 
in. our guests will benefit from a 

to visitors — and they’ll stay un-“we love it if it’s a blowout or cash drawers and prepare for 
“our mission at the morris staff willing to go above and 

til dinner is over. something,” he said. “people breakfast the next day. 
inn is trying to be tied in as beyond to provide excellent 

“[The staff is] real flexible with will leave early, and it’s actually in the end, poklinkowski said, 
tightly as we can in multi-service.” 

us, because football is so huge on kind of helps us overall, if it’s bad the candlelight dinner is an im­
ple areas of campus, so that Kurth said the morris inn’s 

campus, and when they know weather. if we could get five, six, portant part of the game day 
when you come here, you’re commitment to notre dame 

it’s football and we have a game, seven hundred in before the end experience. 
comfortable. [whether] it’s and its fans is a constant. 

it’s done,” roberts said. “They’re of the game, it’s a lot better for “our goal is really to help 
for athletics, for research, or “That tagline that the 

here until they’re done, and they everybody involved.” make game day special during 
you’re a junior in high school morris inn has had for years, 

know it’s expected of them, and but when 1700 people con-students’ time here,” he said. 
visiting as a prospective stu-as the living room of the 

we’re grateful that they give us verge on south dining hall at “we’ll even hear that from some 
dent … that partnership with university, is not just a tag-

their time like that.” once, the staff works to keep the of our alumni student workers. 
athletics allows us to be able line,” Kurth said. “because … 

due to students’ brunch and line smooth and orderly, keep-[They’ll] say, ‘man, i had to come 
to say [the morris inn is] you walk out the front door, 

president’s brunch, though, ing the line of students sepa-back for the candlelight.’ it’s part 
the best place to stay for the and you’re in the corridor to 

preparation of the dining rooms rate from that of cash-paying of their notre dame experience.” 
notre dame experience.” campus.” 

doesn’t start until mid after-customers and regulating how 
Fraleigh said notre dame 

noon, poklinkowski said. many people are in the serving Contact Emily McConville at 
fans will benefit from the Contact Madison Jaros at 

“The brunch ends at 1:30, and areas at once. emcconv1@nd.edu 
partnership as well, because mjaros@nd.edu 

is problematic when student-ohr’s interpretation of scholar-their athletic arrangement.” players voted to unionize, notre 

Union 

athletes are pushed for signifi-ships as income. Former northwestern quarter-dame scholarship athletes could 
conTinued From page 1 

cantly more time and effort than “what northwestern tried to back Kain colter, who graduated consider joining capa, too. the educational process. non-athletes. present in this case … is [schol-in 2014 and led the unionization edmonds said the full nlrb’s 
“i mean, we’re basically the “in the brief that northwestern arship athletes] don’t pay any effort last year, leads capa, decision is “a real toss-up” at the only country in the world that filed, [they] said, ‘well, partici-income tax on their scholarship along with former ucla line-moment, but the northwestern has sports so intertwined with pating in college football is no benefits so that should be an backer ramogi huma and for-case is part of a larger conversa­the educational process at the different than 400 and some-odd indication that they’re not em-mer university of massachusetts tion about the role of athletics at highest levels. and i think what other student activities that we ployees,” edmonds said. “ohr amherst basketball player luke major universities. the case has helped advance have at the university,’” edmonds discounted that.” bonner. “The big thing about this … is is a conversation that is badly said. in recent years, edmonds on its website, capa lists its that maybe we can now begin to needed.” “They’re trying to say if you said the idea of scholarships goals, which include “guaran-talk about student athletes — if 
Following the chicago participate in the chess club or as income has grown more teed coverage for sports-related you want to call them that — in regional board’s deci-something along those lines that viable due to increasing tu-medical expenses for current a different way because they gen­sion in march, members of that’s the same as participation ition costs. according to the and former players, minimizing erate such an incredible amount northwestern’s football team in intercollegiate football. i think northwestern university office the risk of sports-related trau-of revenue for their university,” voted on whether or not they those kinds of assertions, that of undergraduate admission, matic brain injury [and] improv-edmonds said. “if you want to wanted the college athletes seem laughable to me, make the the annual cost of attendance is ing graduation rates.” maintain this idea of a student players association (capa) to arguments in this case some-$65,554, which totals to roughly edmonds said if the full nlrb athlete then you really ought to represent them. edmonds said times really problematic. $262,216 over four years. rules in favor of the players, switch it and say it’s an athlete the results of the vote will remain “The incredible amount of “one of the things that has capa could bargain over these student, because they’re a full-embargoed until the full nlrb’s money that conferences get, the changed a lot over the years is issues on behalf of scholarship time athlete and a part-time ruling, and will only be counted incredible amount of money the as tuition has risen, the value of football players at northwestern student.” if the board rules in capa’s favor. ncaa basketball tournament [athletic] scholarships becomes, and 16 other private universities regardless of the outcome of 
edmonds said the board’s re-generates — that places it in a far to a lot of people, fairly impor-with division-i football, includ-the nlrb’s decision, edmonds view period for the northwestern different category than anything tant,” he said. “so even tough ing notre dame, if they voted said the northwestern case, case is typical, and he expects a else that northwestern students [student athletes] aren’t given a for representation. The union along with several lawsuits that decision by the end of the year. in participate in.” paycheck, they are given a pretty could not represent athletes at “strike even more directly at the the meantime, he said the case is The northwestern nlrb case significant economic benefit. public universities because the core of the way the ncaa con-an opportunity to consider how itself revolves around the defini-and i think in this day and age national labor relations act ducts business” will shape the universities and the ncaa treat tion of employment and whether when a lot of people take on a lot does not grant public employ-future of college sports. athletics and student athletes. or not scholarship athletes fit that of debt to go to elite private uni-ees collective bargaining rights, “i’m hard-pressed to imag­
“The most significant thing definition. notre dame associate versities, that’s begun to change edmonds said. ine that the situation is going to about the case, to me, was the professor of law barbra Fick, who the way some people look at the “if the full board rules in favor be exactly the same in a decade fact that the regional board ruled specializes in labor law, said the issue of whether or not college of the players, it raises the ques-than it is now,” edmonds said. in favor of the players,” edmonds definition of employee typically athletes are exploited.” tion of whether any of the other “To me, it’s part of a broader dis-said. “it actually causes every-depends on pay and control. The chicago regional board private universities that play cussion about the role of intercol­body to look very carefully at the in the northwestern case, did distinguish between schol-division-i football would be ap-legiate athletics in the university definition of a student athlete.” edmonds said nlrb chicago arship and walk-on athletes, proached by capa,” edmonds that’s being pushed by a host of 
in its list of core values, the regional director peter sung determining walk-ons are not said. “and i think capa would try things, and this is just one aspect ncaa prioritizes “the collegiate ohr ruled the football scholar-employees. on its website, capa to approach all of the schools.” of a lot of things that are aimed at model of athletics in which stu-ships were economic benefits said it could possibly represent he said athletes would react whether the ncaa’s model is re-dents participate as an avoca-and coaches exercised some walk-on and “nonrevenue” ath-differently from campus to cam-ally a workable one anymore.” tion, balancing their academic, control over the players, thus letes in the future, but “it would pus to the prospect of unioniza­social and athletics experienc-making them employees. The depend on the applicable labor tion, but if the nlrb rules in favor Contact Jack Rooney at es.” edmonds said this definition university, though, objected to laws and details surrounding of capa and the northwestern jrooney1@nd.edu 


don’t dread snow 
Caelin MIltko 
scene writer 

when i woke up Thursday morn­ing, i was greeted with what i thought was the rather unfortunate appearance of several inches of snow. i’d been warned at the begin­ning of the week about its imminent presence but i still hadn’t quite prepared myself for the reality. like many other notre dame students, i was immediately unhappy about the thought of the now present, long cold winter. 
an hour later, when i finally braved the outdoors, i realized that this was a sort of funny feeling for me to have. i’m from montana and i’ve grown up with snow all my life. it’s not entirely uncommon for it to snow on halloween where i’m from and we almost always have at least one snowfall in may. when i was little, i always greeted the first snowfall with excitement, no matter how early it came (my reaction to the late spring snow was, usually, quite different). 
i love the winter. snow makes me think of christmas, skiing, sledding and hot chocolate. i love all of these things. There’s no reason i should dread it that much. as my day went on and i continued to trudge through the snow, i asked myself what it was about this snowfall that made me so unhappy. was it the fact it was still early-ish in november? was it the prospect of sitting through the entire northwestern game in the snow? was it that i hadn’t quite adjusted to the fact that i probably wouldn’t be get­ting a lot of sun until april or may? 
i didn’t come to a conclusion on that. i’m still not sure. but on my obligatory walk between debartolo and Flanner, i decided that i was go­ing to think about all the positive things i know and remember about snow. i love how people from warm places almost always treat their first snowfall with the kind of youth­ful excitement i usually only see in small children and in my father when notre dame wins a particularly ex­citing game. i love how i now have a consistent excuse to drink tea and hot chocolate because it’s almost always cold enough. i love the way snow sticks to my eyelashes and causes everything to look just a bit brighter and whiter. 
i’ve decided i have to hold onto these thoughts. clearly, it’s easy to get bogged down in the negatives of winter but there’s a reason i’ve al­ways actually preferred it to summer. with the first snowfall, i’ve decided to remind myself of these things — i won’t get through this south bend winter without them. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmorial@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

The phrase “notre dame and saint mary’s bubble” is certainly a cliché by now, but only because it is a pretty accurate reflection of most students’ perceptions. we think of our campus world as a bubble immune to re­ality, but we’re starting to wake up to the reality that crime happens everywhere. 
The next reality we need to acknowledge is that after we graduate from college, no one is going to send us email alerts about crime in our neighborhoods. 
and that means that sooner or later, we need to in­form ourselves about ways we can keep ourselves – and our friends – safe. Knowing about past crimes doesn’t prevent future ones, but it might make you more alert and cautious. 
awareness of crime should not prompt us to lead our lives in perpetual fear; instead, we must be proactive and take advantage of the available resources aimed to further our safety. 
notre dame security police (ndsp) defines itself as “a service organization whose product is safety,” and the officers provide us with resources that we should not take for granted. after college, few of us will have access to late-night safe rides or officers willing to stop by off-campus residences for safety demonstrations. we implore ndsp to continue promoting active aware­ness of their services, and for students to take a con­scious role in protecting themselves. 
when a crime alert email shows up in your inbox, don’t simply scroll past or delete it automatically. Take time to read it instead. we must avoid responding to crime alerts with fear, but instead, must combat igno­rance with awareness. Take note of the circumstances listed in each report — including location, time of day and significant details — and weigh these factors be­fore making decisions that could put you in potentially similar situations. 
we do have the right to feel safe on our campus, but we also cannot be passive about our wellbeing in the rest of our time here. Taking our own safety seriously is an important first step in contributing to a safer envi­ronment for others. informing ourselves about poten­tial threats is the most effective means of organizing preventative action. 
Take advantage of other crime-awareness services beyond emails. many students don’t know that ndsp publishes a daily crime log on its website, with lists of reported incidents. Just because an email doesn’t arrive in your inbox doesn’t mean you can’t know an incident happened. set up an automatic alert on crimereports.com’s interactive safety beat map, where you can check if any incidents have happened on your usual walking or driving routes on or near campus. 
we cannot allow ourselves to live in denial when we have the tools to become more aware of our envi­ronment and take action to eliminate as much risk as possible. moving forward, we must be aware. aware of our risks. aware of our environment. aware of our own vulnerability. The more you know what has happened in our bubble, the better prepared you are to contrib­ute to constructive solutions and the more seriously your suggestions will be taken. 
informing ourselves isn’t the end of the problem, but it’s the best start. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Cursing for valor 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

what better way to honor our nation’s veterans than with a multiplicity of celebratory events? we are conclud­ing an almost perfect week by reviewing stolen docu­ments from traitor edward snowden, listening to the betraying loose lips of former navy seal robert o’neill brag about killing osama bin laden and attending a star-studded concert on the washington mall featur­ing misogynistic rapper eminem curse throughout his freestyle rap verses during the final songs of the holi­day evening. it was nearly the perfect way to honor our fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, neighbors, friends, cousins, aunts and uncles or sisters and broth­ers who butchered their psyches, forfeited their limbs and sacrificed their existences for our freedom. a more perfect week might have included a protestor burning an american flag on the u.s. capitol lawn. 
our nation is the envy of the globe simply because our governing system tolerates the unthinkable: equality, dissent, expression and existence. From our founding days through yesterday, our citizenry has been a diverse mix of thought and expression braided together through conflict and consensus. we are further at our best when our service members act honorably at all times. my father — a Fifth army, corp ii sergeant who served in world war ii with gen. george s. patton in northern africa and ultimately fought for three bloody months on the anzio beachhead in italy — oftentimes would sim­ply curl his lips and raise his eyebrows at disagreeable encounters. 
my dad would have appreciated the hbo, starbucks and chase corp. sponsored first-of-its-kind concert for valor. he would have appreciated the concert’s intent to raise awareness for issues affecting veterans for he often suffered the effects of war quietly after his tour of duty. however, he would have been appalled at eminem’s obscene language and lyrical messages like punching singer lana del ray in the face “like ray rice.” yet, my father always took pride in noting that eminem’s singing style could only occur because of my father’s service. 
Too often many among us ridicule the misfit, stifle an unusual thought or are unwilling to adjust for the over­sights of the past. during the vietnam war, while i was home one summer from notre dame but faced the pos­sibility of a military induction, television news accounts featured young berkley radicals burning their draft cards along with american flags. my dad, having served in the army as well as loving every nuance that flag represent­ed, curled his lips while rolling his eyes and then smiled at me. he said, “if it wasn’t for me, they couldn’t do that.” 
honoring our veterans requires that those who fought remain true to their fellow veterans. my office desk is nearly surrounded by homeland security colleagues who served in the marine corps and navy but retired to become Federal law enforcement officers. i asked each of them what they thought of the professed al Qaeda leader osama bin laden killer and former navy seal Team six member, rob o’neill. The montana native broke his code of silence to tell his story of the weeks leading up to the may 2011 raid on bin laden’s compound. he concluded, “it would be irresponsible of me not to give everyone else closure.” 
i asked if he was a traitor or simply a betrayer? To a per­son they said he betrayed past, current and future seals when he decided to break the elite unit’s code of silence and aversion for self-promotion. a former navy intel­ligence officer noted seals consider themselves “quiet professionals” who do not seek glory for missions. navy command suggests that “team-mates” who breach the “ethos” of silence about their missions are “selfish.” 
in 2011, when another seal, matt bissonnette — writing under the pen name mark owen — indi­cated that he shot bin laden, navy command officers responded with a letter, in which they wrote, “selfish disregard for our core values in return for public notori­ety and financial gain, only diminishes otherwise honor­able service, courage and sacrifice. any real credit to be rendered is about the incredible focus, commitment, and teamwork of this diverse network and the years of hard work undertaken with little individual public credit. it is the nature of our profession.” 
honoring our veterans also mandates that our govern­mental leaders protect our service members by uphold­ing the highest lawful standards during war and peace. on wednesday in istanbul, Turkey, members of the leftist Turkish youth union assaulted three u.s. navy sailors. The gang attempted to place bags over the sailors’ heads to protest american “imperialism” in the middle east. placing bags over their heads is in retaliation to a 2003 event when u.s. forces put bags over the heads of Turkish troops during their detention in northern iraq. That move incensed Turkish society and remains an open wound today. 
my perfect week would have included my dad living again and reading about talkative seals, Turkish youth attacks and upcoming first-of-its-kind concerts honoring veterans. The most perfect week would have my father curling his lips and rolling his eyes for just a moment more with me while watching eminem cursing for valor. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legisla­tive and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administra­tion. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

consent confusion 
Chris Damian 
ideas of a university 

consent is a strange place to start. it’s a confus­ing concept that’s somehow supposed to govern our relationships and provide the framework for sexual intimacy. The focus on consent as the primary framework for intimacy, however, often creates more ambiguities than protections. 
dulac says: “an incapacitated person is incapable of giving consent.” so if two drunk people have sex, have they sexually assaulted each other? if consent “means informed, freely given agreement, com­municated by clearly understandable words or ac­tions, to participate in each form of sexual activity” and cannot be inferred from inaction or previous activities or relationships, how often does one need to “double-check” that consent still exists? who is responsible for checking? if “any sexual touching” requires consent, can a student go to the office of student affairs if he or she is “grinded on” at legends? 
does consent to sex imply consent to its conse­quences? does a couple consent to pregnancy if birth control fails or she decides not to use birth control? does a man consent to a woman aborting his child under these circumstances, with or with­out his knowledge (under current law, he does). The international planned parenthood Foundation’s “young person’s guide to their rights, sexuality and living with hiv” states: “you have the right to de­cide if, when, and how to disclose your hiv status… 
There is no right or wrong way to have sex. Just have fun, explore and be yourself!... it is not always pos­sible to talk about to your partner(s) or to practice safer sex.” so when you consent to sex, do you con­sent to sex with someone with an sTd and to the possibility of contracting this sTd yourself? 
i find consent to be an extremely unhelpful con­cept for building authentic human relationships. nonetheless, i advocate at least one form of it: nega­tive consent. one evening, i was at a bar with a group of friends. a stranger started talking to us and at one point groped one of the women in the group. none of us noticed it, but we all heard her calmly but firmly tell him, “i did not consent to you touching me.” instantly, his demeanor changed. he started apologizing (saying something like, “i’m sorry you felt that way,” which isn’t at all a real apology) and he backed off. often, men (wrongly) don’t take “no” seriously, but they know that “consent” is a legal term with legal consequences. you shouldn’t have to say it, but clearly saying that you don’t consent can help protect you and your friends. 
This doesn’t protect everyone. in a 2002 survey of 1800 men, 120 admitted to committing 439 legally-defined rapes, all unreported. Though a very small percentage of men had committed rape (six per­cent), this minority largely consisted of repeat of­fenders. npr reported the most common strategy: “They’d often ask a girl to come to a party, saying it was invite-only, a big deal to a nervous freshman. Then they’d get her drunk to the point of incapacita­tion so they could have sex with her… alcohol was the weapon of choice for these men, who typically saw themselves as college guys hooking up. They didn’t think what they had done was a crime.” This happens at notre dame. 
what this study shows is that consent often doesn’t matter. but the situation isn’t hopeless. you can make a difference if you intervene and interven­tion doesn’t have to be a scary or awkward thing. 
when you’re at a party, keep an eye open for body language. if a drunk woman appears to be cornered by a guy, put on your best drunk face, stumble over to her and break into the conversation. “hey, didn’t we have a class together last year?” if a girl is falling over because she’s wasted, get a group of friends and offer to walk her back to her dorm. 
rape is disgusting. and truly responding to rape culture requires a much more holistic conversation than we often have, especially as a catholic uni­versity. but even with colleges’ largely fragmented responses, you as students can do more. rape has probably happened in your dorm, but you don’t have to sit by and let it happen. intervene. don’t let your friends think getting someone drunk to have sex is ok. it’s not. it’s rape. don’t let people joke about rape. care for each other. if notre dame really is a family, then you are your brother’s (and sister’s) keeper. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog atuniversityideas.word­press.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

we are lucky to be alive when south park is still churning out new episodes. “but Jaaaaaaaaahn,” you drawl. “There are already 17 seasons of this poorly ani­mated show!” and to that i would say, “There may be 17 seasons, and they may be poorly animated, and any self-re­specting man would be hard-pressed to get through all of them. but south park is more than a collection of brilliantly conceived, nuanced-with-each-episode characters. it’s more than haywire, un­predictable plotlines. it’s more than its barrage of pop-culture references. you see, my friend…south park is now.” 
because south park is written week by week, it can incorporate events and issues that have arisen a matter of days before an episode airs. This season has already incorporated gender identity, personal drone use, ebola, Kickstarter, the gluten-free trend, on-call transportation services and freemium and virtual reality games into its storylines. The show’s wide cast of characters allow each issue to be attacked from a variety of angles, seamlessly infus­ing each with situational and character-based comedy. 
Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

To say the least, Foo Fighters’ new album “sonic highways” is quite the concept. For the band’s 20th anniversary, dave grohl and the gang went on a cross-country road trip, stopping at eight major musical mec­cas — chicago, washington d.c., nashville, austin, los angeles, new orleans, seattle and new york city — where they embraced the culture and interviewed the cities’ mu­sic icons. on the last day of their trip in each destination, the Foos wrote some lyrics and jammed out a track in a famous studio of each city. as a sort of an expansion of groh’s 2013 documentary project, “sound city,” the entire trip was filmed and turned into an eight episode docuseries that is cur­rently airing on hbo. so there’s two “sonic highways” then — the Tv show and the album. For the purposes of this review, we will be strictly focusing on the merits of the album. 
most people would argue that the Foos are a singles band and at times generic, and looking through their discography, it 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 
up until the end of last season, south park had seen a dip in ratings. The show’s most popular, well-reviewed seasons — six through 11 — are somewhat distant in the show’s past, and although the fol­lowing lull boasted a number of classic episodes, the show’s consistency had in­arguably wavered. however, season 16 managed to jump back into the spotlight with a three-episode-parody of game of Thrones and a wildly successful finale. would the streak continue with the next season of south park? The answer, magi­cally, was yes. 
The first episode, “go Fund yourself,” not only unveils the odd nature of Kickstarter companies and companies in general, but absolutely destroys the washington redskin’s argument for the necessity of their name. recreating the brutality of the native/early u.s. conflict through a football game (the owner of the team vs. the entire cowboys squad), south park writer Trey parker demonstrates the extreme audacity of the redskin’s claim in a way that is both disturbing and hilarious. 
“gluten Free ebola” captures the ebola panic by attaching the phenom­ena of spontaneous genital detachment and death to the consumption of gluten, 
becomes hard to disagree. any band that can include “walk,” “everlong,” “Times like These,” “rope,” “The pretender,” “ best of you,” and “learn to Fly” (just to name a fraction) among its greatest hits clearly knows how to rock the radio and sell out stadiums. but that’s why a project like “sonic highways” is so exciting. it’s an ambitious concept and the culmination of a decade or so of taking serious risks, from acoustic double lps like “in your honor” and — my personal favorite — 2011’s garage rock revival “wasting light,” that shows a band who has matured and redirected its focus to the album as a whole. 
The problems of the album lie in the ambition: as outstanding and unique as a concept as “sonic highways” is, the al­bum never seems to reach its lofty goals. one of the major goals the Foo Fighters set forth with “sonic highways” was to try to incorporate the focus and history of the cities they traveled to into the songs. unfortunately, unless you have watched the show, it’s nearly impossible to tell apart the songs. “congregation,” for example, is a great Foo Fighters song, but i would simultaneously mocking trend-followers and trend-ignorers. “The cissy” finds cartman becoming transgendered in or­der to use the cleanlier elementary school girl’s bathroom, opening up a fantastic discussion of the impact of changing gender identities on established social institutions. even while handling deli­cate, controversial subject matter, south park maintains integrity by consistently providing dignity to social groups that suffer from stereotyping and persecu­tion in real life and showing the deprav­ity and stupidity of groups or individuals who are initiating and perpetuating such persecution. 

none of this is necessarily new infor­mation for south park fans. To sum it all up, season 18 is off to a great start, with the strengths of the show in great form. however, there is an element of continuity that is pretty new to the show. although south park has a near-infinite pool of re­turning “inside” jokes, this season they’ve added a new sense of continuity – each episode directly draws from the plotlines of previous season 18 episodes. This al­lows for strong running jokes, like randy marsh’s double life as pop star lorde and the creation of the cisgender bathroom, to be briefly and subtly used to great effect. 
never been able to tell that it was inspired by the country sounds of nashville or that Zac brown was involved in the guitar solo. overall, mistakes like this makes “sonic highways” feel like a rather unclear album filled with the arena rock we have come to expect from the Foos, but to a subpar degree. 
at times, the goals and rules of the “sonic highways” project feel less like a creative way to redevelop the songwriting process and more like limitations that constrain what grohl and the rest of the group can accomplish. as we know from “wasting light,” grohl is at his best as a songwriter when he engages in relationship issues and a simple, direct approach to ideas. here, the high ambition to encompass the ideas of a city in a song, in a day of lyric-writing no less, proves to be beyond grohl’s songwrit­ing capabilities. For instance, the refrain for “The Feast and the Famine” feels lazy at best, as grohl repeats that phrase four times each refrain, leaving listeners ex­hausted and worn out. 
in spite of problems like this, “sonic highways” is still a solid experience for Foo 
The newest episode, “grounded vindaloop,” aired yesterday. possibly one of the greatest south park episodes of all time, “grounded vindaloop” opens with butters wearing an obviously-fake oculus rift headset in school while cartman di­rects him around. within ten minutes, however, the joke is magically flipped on its head: it turns out that cartman is ac­tually trapped inside of an oculus-rift virtual reality, and his prank was not on butters but on a computer program emulating him. Throughout the rest of the episode, reality is repeatedly twisted. nobody knows who is virtual and who is real, and the plot line’s complexity be­comes increasingly frustrating not only to the viewer, but to the characters as well. “grounded vindaloop” is hilarious, incredibly self-aware and endlessly sur­prising, offering so much more than its half-hour running time would suggest. Thankfully, it’s just another spectacular entry in what is becoming one of south park’s best seasons yet. given the innate relevance of the show via its writing style and huge range of personalities, it looks like no matter how old it gets, the show must go on. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
Fighters fans. “i am a river,” an epic seven-minute sprawl through new york is highly recommended and far and away the best song on the album. with this, grohl and co. try something totally unanticipated here by making a song so long and so focused on the instrumentals and progressions that this is one of the best album closers they’ve put together, second only to “walk.” songs like “i am a river” show the growth and potential that the album as a whole could have had if the Foo Fighters had maybe giv­en themselves more time to digest each city. 
of course, perhaps it is not right to judge the album on its own merit, but view the al­bum and the television series as a complete multimedia experience. unfortunately, we won’t be able to assess that complete expe­rience for a few more weeks, when all of the episodes are finally released. until then, if you’re a Foo Fighters fan, you should defi­nitely check out the album. otherwise, i would recommend waiting until the series wraps up to ride the sonic highways. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 



By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene associate editor 

what do nick Jonas, an indian cheese ball dessert, the word “wrest” and banana pancakes have in common? darlingside. 
no, this isn’t a Jack Johnson-nick Jonas collaboration to be listened to while lying down and eating cheese, these are the lat­est google searches of the four-members of darlingside — don mitchell, david senft, auyon mukharji and harris paseltiner. 
The members of darlingside, a folk band with a unique collaborative approach to vocals, will be taking the stage — and one microphone — at The pool this Friday at 8 p.m. 
on wednesday, i had the opportunity to talk to paseltiner — vocalist, cellist, gui­tarist and occasional bassist for the band 
— while they were on their way to show in iowa. 
Observer Scene: So you guys all attend­ed Williams College together in Maine, did you form your band there or is that some­thing that came along later? 
harris paseltiner: “we were all good friends in college. we were all singers to­gether; we sang in an a cappella group there and we all participated in a singer-songwriter class there, as well. and so when i, the youngest member, graduated from school, we moved into a house together in north hampton, massachusetts and that’s where we started writing music together.” 
As the show on Friday will draw many students, do you have any advice for aspir­ing singers or bands in college? 
“i think one of the most important things, when i think about going into music, is do­ing it with a group of friends. having a com­mitted group of people who are excited to make music together, regardless of what type of music that is going to be. 
we went into it without a set plan of the exact music we wanted to create, instead we just knew that we wanted to hang out to­gether, play and write. so having that group dynamic, that’s always been what it’s about for us. having that foundation of trust in each other allows us to have an open-door policy, as far as just allowing anything to happen.” 
On those same lines of that collabora­tive, group dynamic, you guys have a very unique, organic shared vocal style. Has that been something you’ve always imple­mented or has it been a more recent shift in style? 

“we’ve always been sharing vocals, but within the past year we’ve decided to gath­er around one microphone to sing together as an equal group. we really wanted to dis­pel that front man tradition that’s found across the board in popular music. it’s fun because we get to blend our vocals before they hit the microphone. we get to sing in the room the way you would hear a classical or barbershop ensemble — more like a cho­rus — and then it hits the microphone and goes out to the crowd, instead of everyone on separate channels in their own separate worlds.” 
Freeform, collaborative and democratic tendencies seem to be inherent to your style. Do these characteristics define your songwriting process as well? 
“we all write the songs together. each song grows in a different way, but we’re all on board working on all of the elements. it is very much a shared voice.” 
You guys have referenced a few genres 
— folk, retro-pop, bluegrass, barbershop and chamber music — that you pull from to inspire your music. Do you have any specific bands that you cite as specific in­fluences to your sound? 
“we have a diverse set of interests when it comes to specific bands. we’ve always ap­preciated bands that use vocal textures in creative ways as groups. whether it’s The beach boys, The Zombies, The beatles, crosby, stills & nash, simon & garfunkel 
— just a lot of different ways of approach­ing vocal textures. and at the same time, the instrumentals — the backdrop of those vocals — have experimental and eclectic characteristics. all of us play multiple in­struments, there’s a lot of passing off. From one song to the next everyone might make an instrument change.” 
head over to The pool Friday to hear and see darlingside’s unique vocal styling and diverse instrumentals (including a pan­deiro — a tambourine-drum hybrid that i’m envying after it made my own green duct-taped tambourine sound insipid) live. Frances luke accord is opening for darlingside at 7 p.m. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                         emcaulif@nd.edu 

WEEkEND AT A GlANcE 
FRIDAY 


What: ND Women’s Basketball  What:  ND vs. Northwestern  What: “The Last of the Unjust”  
When: 6:00 p.m.  When: 3:30 p.m.  When: 2 p.m.  
Where: Purcell Pavilion  Where: Notre Dame Stadium  Where: DPAC  
How Much: $8  How Much: $7  
come support the no. 3 irish as  The no. 15 Fighting irish come back  claude lanzmann interviews  
they open up their season against the  home, looking to bounce back from  benjamin murmelstein, the lone sur­ 
university of massachussetts lowell  last week’s disappointing loss with  viving president of the Jewish council  
river hawks.  a strong performance against the  in the Theresienstadt, a wwii death  
The irish have won 19-consecu­ wildcats.  camp that was known as the “model  
tive season openers and they are 24-3  with the cold weather appearing to  ghetto.”  
(.889) in lidlifters under hall of Fame  stay for awhile, the irish will look to  This film delves deeper into many  
coach muffet mcgraw .  capitalize on the familiar conditions.  unknown aspects of the holocaust,  
in the lone preseason game, Junior  “we’re prepared for that,” coach  illuminating the roots of the “Final  
all-american Jewell loyd was nine  brian Kelly said. “That won’t be an is- solution” and providing a unique in- 
for 10 from the field, scoring 20 points.  sue for us.”  sight into the horrors that occurred.  

SATURDAY 


SUNDAY 


Weekly Watch is a series in which a scene writer picks a movie or show available on instant streaming ser­vice, then writes a review. 
For the next weekly watch, we’re catching filmmaker and artist miranda July’s directorial debut, “me and you and everyone we Know.” The 2005 indie dramedy follows the lives of a diverse cast of characters as their lives intertwine in odd and charm­ing ways. make sure to check it out on netflix, then check in on weekly watch. 
watch next monday for a critical analysis of the film. 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Revamping running for winter 

Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
if you happened to stay inside all of yesterday, never once looking out your win­dow, checking any social media or interacting with another human being, i have some shocking news for you 
— it snowed. a lot. like way too much for nov. 13. 
so in order to honor the south bend weather we all know and so dearly love, i would like to point out a way snow can make sports a whole lot better. 
in the summer olympics, one of the premier sports is track and field. olympic sta­diums the world over have been the sites of some of the most iconic moments in track and field history. Jesse owens winning four gold medals. carl lewis burn­ing down the straight-away. michael Johnson and usain bolt breaking world records. 
i love track and field. i watch all the events i can, from the javelin to the triple jump. i think the olympic marathon, which some con­sider boring, is an absolutely incredible race. 
i just have one problem with track and field: the 10,000 meters. 
who wants to watch people run around an oval 25 times, especially when no one is willing to go fast early on and risk burning out? what the race usually comes down to is a dead sprint for 800 meters, if you’re lucky. The other 9,400 are just filler. The world and olympic record are sepa­rated by almost 45 seconds on the men’s side. That’s almost three-quarters of a lap behind. 
advertisers and broad­casters know this. when the 10,000-meter race comes on, they’ll show the first lap or so, cut to commercial, come back to show the finals of the high jump, cut to commer­cial again, and finally come back to the race for the last half-mile. what happened in the intervening five miles? no one cares. at least in the marathon, you have the op­portunity for hills, scenery and something other than gradual left-turns. 
so here’s where snow comes in. The winter olympics has a rule that ev­ery sport at the games has to be contested on snow or ice. now, i wouldn’t recommend running a 1o-kilometer race around an skating rink, but there is another possibility. 
a 10,000-meter cross country race is far more exciting than a track affair. in cross country, you have massive hills to negotiate, streams to leap, hay bales acting as hurdles and mud to wallow through. now add a half-inch of snow to the mix. This event would be crazy in the best possible way. you would have people wiping out all over the place, put­ting on extra bursts of speed at unexpected moments, scrambling up hills. anyone could go from the back of the pack to the lead in an instant. 
here’s what i envision: 30 runners on a one-kilometer loop packed with hills, hay bales and a creek. now, be­cause this is the olympics, not a tough mudder, we want to keep the course fit to run on. This is a race, not an ob­stacle course. 
so to make sure it stays that way, after the first lap, the last three runners are removed. Then, after the second, three more, and so on and so on. This is a varia­tion of a track race called “devil Takes the hindmost,” and it makes each lap thrill­ing to watch as every athlete tries to avoid elimination while also conserving energy for later on. no one can take it easy the first few laps and kick on the very last circuit. 
approaching the end of nine kilometers, there would be six runners left. because it would be boring to guar­antee someone a medal be­fore the race was even over, only two runners are elimi­nated heading into the last lap. everything comes down to one final push. 
such an event would have everything — no ridiculous amount of monotony, drama every three minutes or so and endless strategy to dis­cuss. it would also keep fans on the edge of their seats to the very end. 
also, because it would be in the winter games, away from the usual running season, you would have the closing speed of 5,000-meter specialists going up against the incredible endurance of marathoners. 
if you think this is an in­sane idea that will never come true, well, you’re prob­ably right. but hey, bmX made it into the olympics. now that’s a sport i would like to see on snow. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Colts prepare for Patriots high-octane offense 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — The colts defense is well aware of the task at hand. The players know exactly what Tom brady is ca­pable of. 
“probably the best quarter­back in the nFl right now,” indianapolis cornerback greg Toler said. 
“a hall of Fame quarterback with three super bowls,” add­ed defensive tackle ricky Jean Francois. 
The mission, right now though, for the indy defense is to stop brady when the colts (6-3) host the new england patriots (7-2) on sunday night. 
with two solid offenses go­ing head-to-head, the outcome could come down to which de­fense makes a game-changing play or at least slows down brady or his counterpart, andrew luck. 
indianapolis is the top over­all offense in the nFl and the patriots, who averaged 40 points over the last five games, are no. 9 in the league. 
There’s one method the colts know they can use to stop brady — by harassing him for four quarters. 
Just how easy will it be, though? 
“This week, everything has to be detailed, everything has to be crisp,” Jean Francois said. “nothing can be out of the or­dinary. if one person gets out of sync with us, you already know what Tom brady can pos­sibly do.” 
colts defensive coordina­tor greg manusky has seen it too often while watching film. brady making big plays and completing passes to receivers in double coverage. 
“you just have to get him off his spot,” manusky said. “That’s what everybody tries to do. They try to get him off his spot and get him to move. it’s that split second when you think you have him and then all of a sudden somebody scoots away that he can fire it in there.” 
manusky and the colts are focused on finding a groove defensively and settling in for the second half of the season. They returned safety laron landry to the lineup over the bye week from a five-game suspension for violating the nFl’s policy on performance-enhancing drugs. 
indy plans to start sergio brown against the patriots, but expect to include landry as well. 
The colts have struggled to find much consistency through injuries and suspensions to key defensive players. 
indy held cincinnati score­less last month and gave up 51 points to pittsburgh the fol­lowing week. Then the colts rebounded with a win against the new york giants two weeks ago. 
NASCAR 

Newman competes for title depsite zero wins 
Associated Press 

homesTead, Fla. — ryan newman is the underdog 
— minus the darling — of nascar’s final four, making a mockery of the revamped play­off format that was supposed to put a premium on winning. 
he is the odd man in 
nascar’s  finale  in  south  
Florida  sunday,  the  party  
crasher  that  few  have  em­ 

braced, trying to stick around for the confetti, the fireworks, and the champagne toast. 
This interloper makes no apologies for working the sys­tem or for using a last-lap push to get just enough points to edge out popular four-time champ Jeff gordon. 
“i didn’t know cinderella was a race car driver,” newman said. 
newman hasn’t won a race since July 2013, but he has me­thodically piled up points in the no. 31 chevrolet and es­caped the danger that picked off heavy favorites in earlier chase rounds to wind up on 

FOR RENT 

1 BR Apt for rent. $545. Close to campus - nice area. Call 574-232-1242 
the cusp of his first title. 
“The math was there,” said newman, a structural engi­neering student at purdue and the only college graduate in the field. “we didn’t need the wins.” 
The beefy 36-year-old driv­er’s 2014 stats don’t look like those of a champion: no wins, four top fives, and just 41 laps led in 35 races. newman hasn’t finished higher than third in any race since he won the brickyard 400 last year. 
he has made his run to the championship about as fun as calculus homework, post­ing four finishes of 11th or higher in the nine chase rac­es. while other title hopefuls and their teams rumbled in the pits, fought in the garage, or wrecked racing for the flag, newman hummed along with little fanfare or expectation that he’d earn a berth in the fi­nal field. 
now he could become the championship face of nascar. 
newman knew he needed to finish in the top 11 last week to join Kevin harvick, Joey logano and denny hamlin as finalists. on the last lap at phoenix international raceway, he pushed Kyle larson into the wall, giving newman enough to take the last spot over gordon — who had four wins this season — by one point. 
This week, newman called larson — to explain his side, and perhaps, to nip any thoughts of retaliation. 
“it’s a little upsetting he pushed me up to the wall, but i completely understand the sit­uation he was in, and can’t fault him for being aggressive there,” larson said. 
newman’s young daughter, brooklyn, had one note for him after the race. 
“The very first thing she says to me is, ‘daddy, you hit the 2 and the 4 car,’” newman said. “she was trying to say 42, but that was the first thing she said to me on monday morning.” 
his explanation? 
“daddy did what he had to do,” he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Carry on Wayward Son” — you cry no more, once I rose above Kansas: Carry on my wayward son, the noise and confusion just to get there’ll be peace when you are done, a glimps beyond this illusion, I was lay your weary head to rest, don’t soaring ever higher, but I flew too high 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | The observer 

FENCING 

Irish open their season against elite competition 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
notre dame gets its team sea­son underway this weekend against two midwest rivals. on Friday night, the irish host a home exhibition against northwestern, before heading to ohio state for sunday’s ohio state elite cup. 
along with the irish and buckeyes, the field in columbus, ohio, will feature princeton, pennsylvania, penn state and north carolina.  as notre dame prepares for its opening events of the season, associate head coach gia Kvaratskhelia said the team has several early goals for the season. 
“The two objectives we need to accomplish here are, first, to find out where we are as team, focus on the team chemistry and unify the kids as one unit because some are freshman, some are up­perclassmen, and we just have to insert the mentality we want as a team going into the season,” Kvaratskhelia said. “The second goal is to determine the adjust­ments we have to make. in terms of physical conditioning, tech­nical preparation or the tactical outlook.” 
Kvaratskhelia said that as the team gets competition underway, the irish will look to the veterans to set an example for the fresh­men. Two team members who will especially lead, Kvaratskhelia said, are former national champi­ons senior foil ariel desmet and junior foil lee Keifer. 

“we have a couple key leaders,” Kvaratskhelia said. “ariel desmet was a national champion as a freshman, and now, as a fifth-year senior, it has been a long journey for him to get back where he be­longs. we think he should be one of the favorites this year to win a national championship. Then, of course, lee Keifer is a two-time defending national champion, and so with their leadership and what we have gained with a fresh­man class coming in, we have a pretty dynamic team.” 
The squad will face its first test in a tough environment at ohio state. Kvaratskhelia said each of the teams at the ohio state elite cup could win a national cham­pionship. as an added incentive, Kvaratskhelia said the irish are looking forward to columbus and facing the buckeyes, their former rivals from the midwest Fencing conference. 
“we don’t need any motiva­tion to get ready for ohio state,” Kvaratskhelia said. “but we look at every team as a potential show­down down the road for national championships. yes, we have a ri­valry [with ohio state], and some­times we dislike each other on the strip, but no matter what, we keep the same aggressive mentality.” 
beyond the tough competition on the strip, the irish also have a daunting weekend of travel ahead of them. after facing northwestern on Friday at notre dame, the irish will spend saturday traveling to ohio state for sunday’s competi­tion. however, Kvaratskhelia said he believes that the travel will ac­tually benefit the irish. 
“our kids are accustomed to flying overseas and waking up and fencing,” Kvaratskhelia said. “That’s when we get the best out of them. so, the dynamic schedule will be a key to success here. we cannot wait to get on that bus and show everyone what our team is made of.” 
notre dame square off with northwestern on Friday at 7:30 p.m., in the castellan Family Fencing center, followed by com­petition in the ohio state elite cup beginning at 8 a.m. sunday. 
Contact Josh Dulany at     jdulany@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles tip off season against Wheaton 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
as its season begins against no. 19 wheaton on saturday, saint mary’s will look to im­prove on last season’s 7-18 record. 
last season, the belles lost six games by five points or less. saint mary’s coach Jennifer henley said the belles need to step up defen­sively in order to win more of those close games. 
“my expectation for the season is to be a better defen­sive team,” henley said. “we have a lot of new faces in the program, and we have seen a lot of improvement thus far.” 
with the graduation of two-time all-miaa guard shanlynn bias, the belles leading scorer will be return­ing senior forward ariana paul. paul, the lone senior on the team, started in all 25 of the belles’ games last year, averaging 13.9 points and 8.1 rebounds per game. paul’s role as the belles’ primary scorer will be critical to the team’s success this season, henley said. 

“we certainly will miss both of our seniors from last year — shanlynn bias and Katherine wabler,” henley said. “we have asked every­one to step up their game this season to help fill those voids. we will be led by ariana paul at both ends of the floor.” 
paul will lead a supporting cast of junior forward Krista Knapke and junior guards eleni shea and maddie Kohler, all of whom saw sig­nificant playing time last season. henley said she is ex­cited to see how these players fit into their roles. 
“we have a good mix of re­turners on the roster that saw significant playing time,” henley said. “Krista Knapke will lead us in the paint. i have moved eleni shea to a guard this season. along with shea, my two other ju­niors — maddie Kohler and [guard] sarah macius — will look to contribute a lot for us, especially at the defensive end.” 
henley will enter her ninth season at the helm of saint mary’s. henley holds the school record for the most wins in a season and coached the belles to a spot in the miaa finals in 2010. under her leadership, the belles have finished third in the miaa in three consecutive seasons from 2009-2012. 
The belles face nationally ranked teams throughout the season, including wheaton, no. 20 carthage and confer­ence rival no. 4 hope. henley said the schedule gives the team a chance to focus on improving itself before con­ference play. 
“we have some very tough competition this season on our schedule,” henley said. “early on, our focus is on us. we have to take care of the little things and be more dis­ciplined in order for us to be successful and continue to improve.” 
saint mary’s opens its sea­son against top-20 wheaton this saturday at 1:30 p.m. at angela athletic Facility. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND travels to North Carolina 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish freshman libero Natalie Johnson bumps the ball forward in a 3-2 victory over Louisville on Sunday at Purcell Pavilion. 
By REBECCA ROGALSKI 
sports writer 
after a thrilling 3-2 victory over louisville on sunday, the irish look ahead to this weekend’s matchups as they travel to north carolina, where they will face wake Forest on Friday and duke on sunday. irish coach debbie brown said last weekend’s win will contribute to the scrappy mentality the team hopes to carry with it the rest of the season. 
“i think we have a pretty remarkable group because of the way we come back in after we get knocked down,” brown said. “because we fought hard and didn’t give up, i think there was just an added element of determi­nation against louisville to get the win. i’m overall just incredibly proud of the way that we fought.” 
after struggling with serve-receive all year, the irish (6-18, 3-10 acc) have improved remarkably in the passing game. senior libero Kathleen severyn totaled a career high of 18 digs in an impressive passing perfor­mance sunday, while fresh­men liberos natalie Johnson and Jo Kremer tallied 12 and eight digs as well. 
“we have identified that we have been struggling with our serve-receive in terms of passing, so it’s a focus everyday in prac­tice,” brown said. “it’s one of those things that you have to do all the time, and they have to receive tough game-type serves everyday in practice, as well as try to groove the passing form. it’s been a focus all year long, and i think the hours we put in are finally paying off now that we’re passing at a high­er level.” 
The irish will have the chance keep up their success Friday, when they compete against the demon deacons for the first time this sea­son. wake Forest (13-13, 3-9 acc) is coming off a 3-2 vic­tory against georgia Tech. 
“i think we have a good amount of momentum and a great report as we head into Friday’s match,” brown said. “we know what to expect from them and know what shots to use. it’s just going to be a matter of being able to execute and do the things that we know we’re capable of.” 
after playing against wake Forest, the irish head to cameron indoor stadium on sunday where they will take on duke. The blue devils, who dropped out of the na­tional rankings following a 3-2 home loss to pitt, are now 18-6 on the season and 10-3 in the acc. in its last matchup with notre dame, duke got off to a hot start to defeat the irish, 3-1, at purcell pavilion. brown said the irish will have a lot to handle with the blue devils. 
“duke is a very strong pro­gram, despite dropping in the polls, but by maintain­ing our consistency and pre­forming like we did this past weekend, we will put up a tough fight,” brown said. “i think if we continue to pass at a high, consistent level, it makes all the difference in the world for us.” 
The irish face wake Forest on Friday at 6:30 p.m., fol­lowed by duke on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Rebecca Rogalski at rrogalsk@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Eyes on the prize 
Men’s interhall semifinals feature undefeated Morrissey against Stanford, Siegfried against Keenan 
focused so we can execute,” 
By MAREK MAZUREK 

sports writer schmidt said. “if everyone does what they are supposed 
no. 2 Keenan and no. 6 to do, we know that we have siegfried face off sunday in the talent to matchup favor-one of two semifinal match-ably with anyone.” ups. The winner will play in Keenan’s strong defense notre dame stadium for a has carried it through the chance at the men’s interhall regular season and one championship. round of the playoffs, and 
Keenan heads into the wiese said how the Knights game coming off a victory match up with siegfried will against no. 7 sorin, while be a deciding factor in the siegfried will enter sunday’s game. matchup following an upset “our defense is stout,” over no. 3 carroll. Keenan wiese said. “we have great captain and junior Jon wiese experienced leadership said that his team is optimis-along with a lot of young tal­tic about the game. ent. our defense does a great 
“we feel really confident, job of flying to the ball and as we have all season,” wiese gang tackling. we play with a said. “we know siegfried is nasty mentality that has lead a good team and we respect to a lot of stops, turnovers how well they’ve done so far, and defensive scores.” but we know that if we play to For siegfried, schmidt said our potential and do our jobs his team stacks up favorably that we can beat anyone in to Keenan. the league.” “we scrimmaged them be-
likewise, siegfried captain fore the season and liked the and junior grady schmidt way that we looked against said that his team is ready to them, but we know they are a go after beating carroll. different team than they were the benchmark for success play at 2:15 p.m. at labar sides of the ball once they get 
“we feel good,” schmidt three months ago,” schmidt for our team,” wiese said. practice Fields on sunday. rolling,” rayno said. “That be-said. “we’re playing our said. “year after year, Keenan “many of the juniors and se-ing said, we’re still going to best football of the season, is one of the better teams, so niors were on the team that Contact Marek Mazurek at approach this game like any but know that the best is yet we respect what they do, but won the championship in mmazurek@nd.edu other. start the game as strong to come. we’re a confident we’ve changed as well and i the stadium two years ago as possible, and don’t let off group, and the win against like how we match up athleti-and are just as hungry to get Morrissey vs.  Stanford the gas until the final whistle carroll was a great boost for cally with any other dorm.” back as the guys who have blows. They need to know us. we know that Keenan is schmidt said his team has never been. we understand we’re here to play, and momen-
By HUNTER MCDANIEL 

the next step to get where we been preparing for this mo-that playing in notre dame sports writer tum will be huge in this game.” want to go.” ment all season. stadium is an experience likewise, baiak said 
both captains said there “it’s why we play, and it’s very few people will ever sunday afternoon, morrissey morrissey poses a threat to the are things they need to ad-the main goal from day one,” have, and we’re going to fight and stanford will meet on the griffins. dress this week in prac-schmidt said. “From our first this weekend in order to get gridiron to decide who will “attacking morrissey is a dif­tice. For Keenan, wiese said tryout to our last practice, there.” earn a spot in the champion-ficult task,” babiak said. “They that it is taking care of the we end by saying, ‘stadium schmidt said the game will ship at notre dame stadium. are a tough team because they fundamentals. on 3,’ so it’s always a focus. if ultimately be decided in the The top-seeded manor (5-0) are very organized and disci­
“[we need to] work on the we win, it will be something trenches. are undefeated and will square plined. offensively, they run little things,” wiese said. “we that we remember for the rest “it’s going to be won at off against the red-hot griffins a wing-T. it is tough to defend left two touchdowns on the of our lives, so we know it’s a the line of scrimmage on (3-1-1), who have not lost since in interhall because we don’t field that should have been big deal. at this point, we’re both sides of the ball,” said their opening game against get to practice five times a [easy] last game and that ready to make the dream a schmidt. Keenan on sept. 21. week like a high school or col-just won’t cut it every week. reality.” wiese, however, said morrissey captain and junior lege team would be able to. we interhall games are short so Keenan won the champion-Keenan’s key to victory will running back erik rayno at-came up with a good game-we need to make the most out ship two years ago, so wiese be avoiding missteps and tributed this season’s success plan to target their strengths, of our opportunities.” said his some of the team playing its own game. to effort and focus. though, and i think it will 
For siegfried, schmidt said knows what it feels like to “limit mistakes, finish “everyone on the team knows end up being a good football the emphasis is on focusing play in big games. drives and don’t turn the ball that we all need to do our jobs game.” on the task at hand. “a championship has been over,” said wiese. on sundays to win, and we all There is much at stake for the 
“we just need to stay our goal all season and is Keenan and siegfried will take pride in making sure we four remaining teams in the do just that,” rayno said. “our playoffs, with a chance to play success on the field has been in notre dame stadium hang-a product of that and a prod-ing in the balance. uct of us really buying into the rayno added that his team team aspect of this game, as we has prepared for the big work very well together.” matchup. 
meanwhile, stanford cap-“The days of morrissey’s ‘tal­tain and junior dan babiak ent over preparation’ motto are said the griffins emphasizes a over,” he said. “we’ll be ready similar team concept. for sunday.” 
“our success doesn’t come The winner of this game from one individual player or earns a spot against the winner play that we run,” babiak said. of the Keenan-siegfried semi­“The key this year, as opposed final in notre dame stadium a to previous years, is that we week from sunday. have 22 guys who all play for This semifinal matchup be-each other.” tween stanford and morrissey 
rayno said the level of com-will take place sunday at 1 p.m. petition stanford will bring is at labar practice Fields. higher than ever before. 
“stanford is capable of play-Contact Hunter McDaniel at ing lights-out football on both hmcdani1@nd.edu 




WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Hitting the home stretch 
Welsh Family faces last season’s runner-up, Ryan; Pasquerilla East to take on Pangborn 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
with a spot in the cham­pionship game on the line, top-seeded welsh Family will look to maintain its un­defeated streak against last year’s runner-up, fourth-seeded ryan, in one of two semifinal contests sunday. 
in last week’s quarterfi­nals, the wildcats (5-2) faced pasquerilla west in a re­match of the 2013 title game, in which the wildcats fell short and the purple weasels secured the championship with a 19-13 win. 
This year, however, ryan came out on top with a 14-6 victory, and now the wildcats will fight for an­other chance at the title in notre dame stadium, ryan senior captain Tatum snyder said. 
“we have been working on executing our game plans well,” snyder said. “we prac­tice hard, and we play hard.” 
The whirlwinds (7-0) have shown significant improve­ment from last year’s perfor­mance en route to a perfect regular season. From there, welsh Family was eliminat­ed by pasquerilla west in the quarterfinals last year and came back stronger thanks to a combination of a shut­down defense and good chemistry, freshman line­backer cece allison said. 
“This year, we’ve done a great job forming a solid team,” allison said. “all the players regardless of grade level and ability get along really well. we have a really cohesive team.” 
ryan will rely on its younger players to get the team back to notre dame stadium. individual players to watch for include sophomore re­ceiver emily Tessitore and sophomore defensive line­man cathy baxter, who had a strong performance at the end of the first playoff game, snyder said. 
“we have played extremely well [this season],” snyder said. “we are a young team with only one senior and three juniors. The under­classmen have really stepped up and played well.” 
ryan will look to return to notre dame stadium while welsh Family will try to con­tinue its unbeaten season when the two teams meet at labar practice Fields at 5 
p.m. sunday. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla East vs. Pangborn 
By BENJAMIN PADNALIHAN 
sports writer 
no. 2 pasquerilla east will face off against no. 3 pangborn in the semifinals of the women’s interhall foot­ball playoffs this sunday. 
Following first-round vic­tories for each side, the two teams now look forward to their matchup with the hopes of playing in the title game in notre dame stadium. 
The pyros (7-0) contin­ued their undefeated sea­son last sunday, rolling to a 28-12 victory over walsh, while the phoxes (6-1) proved dominant in their opening-round matchup, shutting out cavanaugh in a 27-0 victory. 


sunday’s game also rep­resents a rematch of an ear­lier regular-season game in which pasquerilla east hand­ed pangborn its sole loss of the season, 14-6. 
something will have to give in this contest as the league’s highest-scoring offense goes up against the league’s stingi­est defense — the pyros score 27 points per game, while the phoxes have allowed just 27 points all season long, in­cluding the 14 they surren­dered in the teams’ meeting earlier this season. 
as sunday’s matchup looms, the phoxes recognize the dif­ficult test the pyros pose, pangborn junior captain gracie gallagher said. 
“[pasquerilla east] is a very good team,” gallagher said. “They are a really dynamic team that capitalizes when you give them the oppor­tunity. last time we played them, we made some adjust­ments that were working for us, but by the time we made those adjustments, it was a little too late. on sunday, we all need to come ready to play and have our best game as a team.” 
This is the third straight year the phoxes have made it to the semifinals, and gallagher said the the team is desperate to finally make it to notre dame stadium and play for the title. 
“The past three years we have made it to the semifi­nal game, but not made it to the championship game,” gallagher said. “The goal for us every season is to make it to the championship game in the stadium and win it all. we have a lot of great se­nior leadership this season, and it would be really special if they could play their fi­nal flag football game in the stadium.” 
pangborn and pasquerilla east will face off for a spot in the championship game at labar practice Fields at 4 
p.m. sunday. 
Contact Benjamin Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

the ones who were there last 

M Soccer year have a healthy respect 
conTinued From page 20 
ever done.” 
brown had been away from the team for a few days be­fore the virginia game in or­der to travel to Jamaica and attend his grandmother’s fu­neral, returning to the team just in time to be ready for the match. 
“maybe his grandmother was upstairs helping us a bit, but he certainly played well,” clark said. “he’s very impor­tant. he’s the most experi­enced of the four forwards now, and i think he’s show­ing that. … he’s now showing that he’s a leader out there. he never did that before.” 
notre dame and clemson (10-6-2, 5-2-1 acc) did not play in the regular season. notre dame defeated the Tigers 2-1 in overtime last year. clark said clemson is very experienced and his team remembers how hard it played last season. 
“a lot of their players are re­turning from last year,” clark said. “it was one of our hard­est, if not the hardest, game we had last year on the road. … it’ll be a hard game again. They’re a good team. There’s not many weak sisters in the acc, so it’ll be a tough one. 
“hopefully we’ve got two tough games in front of us, because that means we’ll have won the first one. none of our boys will overlook clemson, because certainly 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
valparaiso to the rest of the bracket, where Texas a&m, penn state and west virginia are seeded first, second and third, respectively. 
“we’ve got a great bracket and we’re excited about where we’re at, but we take it one game at a time,” romagnolo said. “it’s about us taking on valparaiso with everything we’ve got, because we can’t control anything beyond that and if we don’t win on Friday, our season is over.” 
as the higher seed, the irish will play on their home field. romagnolo said the familiarity will help the team. 
“it’s always an advantage when you get to sleep in your own bed and play on your own field in front of your own fans and go through your normal routine, so we’re excited to be at home on Friday,” romagnolo said. 
romagnolo said she expects the notre dame players to per­form well under the pressure of the single-elimination play­offs, especially given the tough schedule that they played in the regular season. 
“i think they’ll handle [the pressure] great,” romagnolo said. “we’ve been in a lot of pres­sure situations this year. early for them.” 
The Tigers defeated wake Forest on sunday, 3-2 in pen­alty kicks, to earn a berth in the semifinal match. clemson is led by two-time captain, all-acc selection and senior defender phanuel Kavita on the back end, while sophomore forward austen burnikel has a team-high five goals on the season. 
while he was happy with how his squad competed against virginia, clark said the irish still can improve against clemson. 
“we always take some­thing out of the last game that we’ve got to get better at,” clark said. “we’ll look at some video, and there’s some pieces that we didn’t do so well on last week. we take something out of every game that we play. … by the end of the season, if we take a little bit out every week, by the time you finish the year you should be a lot better.” 
The other semifinal match features two former big east rivals in no. 19 louisville and no. 1 syracuse. The irish beat both teams during the regular season. 
both semifinal games are hosted by wakemed soccer park, with notre dame and clemson squaring off at 5:30 
p.m. The title game is slated for sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact  Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
on, we headed to california with our backs against the wall after two losses, and we beat a good team in santa clara and tied the no. 2 team in the coun­try in stanford. There have been different points in the season when we were under pressure, like how we lost to north carolina and responded by beating virginia Tech. we’ve shown that we can respond to anything and step up when we need to.” 
The key to irish success in the postseason will be consis­tency and focus, romagnolo said. The team’s ability to work together will also play a major role. 
“it’s about being consistent, it’s about going out there and giving 100 percent of our effort and giving as great a perfor­mance as we can,” romagnolo said. “any game could be our last, and we want to go out fighting and give our best per­formance and feel great about what we put on the field. The team has great chemistry. we play great football together, and we defend together, and if we continue doing that, we’ll keep having success.” 
notre dame takes on valparaiso in the first round of the ncaa tournament Friday at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
home ice. 

“we know they’re tough to play against, and it’s tough to play in that rink,” junior forward and captain steven Fogarty said. “it’s a small rink and going from minnesota to this rink is going to be an adjustment.” 
Fogarty said the key to win­ning this weekend will be fo­cusing on the basics. 
“it’s just a matter of keeping things simple,” Fogarty said. “They’re going to play physi­cal, so it’s a matter of getting the puck in and out of their zone. ... They did well against providence, who’s supposed to be the best team in our confer­ence — it’s going to be a chal­lenge for us but we’re ready.” 
last weekend’s sweep at the hands of no. 1 minnesota snapped notre dame’s six-game unbeaten streak. in the second game of the series, the irish dug themselves a 3-0 first-period deficit, and Jackson said he felt his team gave too much respect to the nation’s top team. 
“my whole point to them be­tween [the second and third period] — and i said it during the game on Friday — is that you can’t show the opponent that much respect,” Jackson said. “i think we were on our heels and we gave them way too much respect. They’re a great team — i told [gophers coach don lucia] after the game, ‘if you don’t win the na­tional championship this year, shame on you.’” 
however, once his team got going in the latter two peri­ods sunday, Jackson said there were some good things to take away. 
“at least we had a positive because we outplayed them in the second and third peri­ods on sunday,” Jackson said. “at least we had something to build on coming home from a performance standpoint ... [sophomore goaltender] chad [Katunar] played well in goal, we did a good job of puck pos­session in the second and third periods, we made some nice plays, we hit three pipes — that game could’ve easily been tied going into the third period be­cause we had some really good looks and some good chances.” 
Freshman goaltender cal petersen was pulled after 20 minutes sunday. however, Jackson said the move was not necessarily because of petersen’s play. 
“That was a wake-up call,” Jackson said. “i don’t want [cal] to lose all of his confidence ...” 
senior forward peter schneider said the blame should lie on the skaters, not the goalies, for giving up nine goals in two games. 
“it’s definitely on us,” schneider said. “we have to help our goalies out more — we’ve been giving up a lot of chances, but it’s just things you have to work on.” 
after struggling early in the season, notre dame’s power play unit got on the board sunday when senior defense-man robbie russo scored to make it 3-1. 
“we’re starting to get it, i think,” Jackson said. “we haven’t changed the units again for the last couple of weeks just because we’re starting to see good looks, getting some good chances. maybe the goalie’s making a great save or we’re hitting the crossbar or hitting the pipe, but we’re starting to see good puck movement.” 
despite the improvement, Jackson said the team could get better on the power play. 
“we still don’t shoot the puck enough,” Jackson said. “That’s my only complaint at this point ... [sophomore forward vince hinostroza] should think shot a little more than he does and so should Fogarty. Their instincts [are] to make a play — they’re both playmaking guys. ... if we move the puck around well, and they get the ice to have a good scoring chance, they need to shoot the puck.” 
notre dame has a pair of players high up on the national leaderboards 10 games into the season — Junior left wing mario lucia’s eight goals tie him for third nationally, while russo’s 10 points are third amongst defensemen. 
The irish and warriors take to the ice Friday and saturday nights in north andover, massachusetts. The puck drops at 7 p.m. on both nights. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


since december. after a slow start helped them get confident, and 
there’s just so much excitement 
M BBall 

against the bulldogs, last year’s the [two seniors] know we need 
ND W BBall 
for the freshmen and really for 
conTinued From page 20 
conTinued From page 20 

leading scorer up to his suspen-them so they helped me groom 
the fans and the whole team,” 

sion exploded for 30 points in the them.” 
she said. “so this is going to be 

on a team full of storylines, win over the Flyers. grant said he Jackson has taken on the role 
after the Ferris state game, a good time for us to really just 

connaughton and grant repre-was just happy to be back on the of running the irish offense this 
mcgraw said she was still de-figure out what it’s like to play at 

sent two of the most interesting. court with his teammates. year, something he said he is ready 
ciding which reserves would see home in front of the crowd, to get 

connaughton was draftedin the “i felt good out there,” grant for after struggling at times last 
regular playing time alongside the game day down for the fresh-

fourth round of the mlb draft said. “i felt like i was back estab-season. 
the starters and the sixth and men because so many of them 

by the baltimore orioles in June. lishing my role on the team and it “everybody was so good,” 
seventh players in the rotation, are going to be playing that it’s 

he played baseball during the was good to get out there and now Jackson said. “There [were] a lot 
senior guard madison cable really important for us to kind of 

summer for baltimore’s short-i’m ready for things to start.” of good players we played against 
and freshman forward Kathryn set that tone.” 

season minor league affiliate, the in addition to the return of their last year. The acc, everybody is re­
westbeld . now, she said new however, mcgraw joked that 

aberdeen ironbirds, then reunit-seniors, the irish will have to find ally talented. … i was still trying to 
players have stepped up to fill the season opener has come too 

ed with the basketball team for offensive replacements for gradu-understand decision-making and 
those roles. soon for her and her staff. 

practice before the irish traveled ated guard eric atkins and center things like that as a point guard, 
“i think [freshman guard] “i’d like to stay on the practice 

to italy. garrick sherman, who combined and i think with a year of experi­
mychal Johnson made a great floor,” she said. “i love practice, 

This season will mark the first for over 27 points per game last ence, with a year of learning, that’s 
case for herself,” she said. “i think but them, i think the fun for them 

time connaughton has been a season. sophomore guard steve definitely helped me out.” 
she’s definitely going to be in that is going to be playing in games, 

one-sport athlete at notre dame, vasturia logged significant min-although brey admitted 
next spot. and then [senior for-and certainly Friday can’t come 

but he said he knows being the utes during his freshman cam-binghamton is in a rebuilding 
ward] markisha wright is really too soon for them.” 

only team captain this year is a paign as a defensive specialist, mode, he said it has the potential 
coming along. so i think going The irish start their 2014­

full-time responsibility. but the main firepower will likely to be a dangerous offense when 
into this Friday, we’ve got nine 15 campaign tonight against 

“being a one-sport athlete, it come from sophomore guard they take the floor tonight. 
[players] that are really solid.” umass lowell at purcell pavilion. 

allows for more time to just focus demetrius Jackson and junior “They’re a talented offensive 
The irish bring that expanded opening tip is at 6 p.m. 

on basketball,” the senior said. forward Zach auguste. in notre team,” brey said. “They play fast, 
rotation into their game against 

“whether it’s getting in extra work dame’s two exhibition games and they have the ability to make 
umass lowell, which also opens Contact Mary Green at 

in myself or whether it’s just think-the pair combined for an average shots. They have a lot of guys that 
its season tonight. The river mgreen8@nd.edu 

ing about things that will help the of 35 points while looking more can spread you and make 3-point 
hawks struggled last year en 

team in a leadership role. … it’s comfortable and confident on the shots. That’s always a recipe for 
route to a 5-23 record. Four of paid adverTisemenT 

a matter of trying to get [us] all court, brey said. he added that disaster. … so we have to really be 
those wins came against fellow 

working together as one continu-treating them like starters since aware of that.” 
america east opponents and 

ity, chemistry. and it’s been so far the team arrived for practice be-The irish and bearcats are 
only two were on the road. 

so good. it’s a lot of work.” fore the italy jaunt is paying off. scheduled to tipoff tonight at 9 
while umass lowell might 

grant, on the other hand, “That was my focus in italy,” p.m. at purcell pavilion in a pre­
not present a huge challenge 

was ruled academically ineli-brey said. “Jackson having the ball liminary game of the hall of Fame 
for a notre dame team com­

gible for the second semester last and knowing he’s our quarterback Tipoff Tournament. notre dame 
ing off a near-perfect season, 

year “due to academic dishon-and auguste knowing he’s our will then host navy on sunday at 
mcgraw said the irish would not 

esty.” notre dame’s two exhibi-main low post guy. They started 2 p.m. 
have trouble finding pregame 

tion games against minnesota every game over there, and i think 
motivation. 

duluth and lewis were the first they’ve responded well. There’s Contact Zach Klonsinski at 
“it’s really easy to focus on 

time grant had seen game action no question Jerian and pat have zklonsin@nd.edu 
the first game, i think, because 
paid adverTisemenT 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 


DOMENUTS | aleXandria wellman 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


9/21/12 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: expressing the way you feel will be the turning point in all your negotiations. stand tall and state your case with conviction, and you will not be denied the opportunity to receive what you deserve and gain respect for your honesty. This is the year to make the necessary adjustments to live life your way. don’t back down. your numbers are 2, 14, 22, 24, 31, 35, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): home improvement will help your productivity and your state of mind. making a move or just rearranging your place to suit upcoming projects will help. altering your living arrangements can help you cut costs. don’t let your current professional position get you down. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help colleagues, and you will build a strong alliance that will help you advance in your chosen field. being a participant will lead to opportunities and greater expertise. sign up for courses that will help hone your skills. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The larger activities going on at your home or workplace will help you see the pros and cons of your personal situation. look at your alternatives and consider past experiences and financial costs in order to make a practical domestic decision. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): strive for perfection and stay within your budget. set limitations that will ensure you head down a practical path. a long-term partnership will add to your stability. love is highlighted, and simple pleasures will be your ticket to a solid future. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): listen carefully, but don’t share your thoughts or feelings. do your own thing and make a point to learn something that will help you advance. Taking a course or practicing and honing a skill you want to develop will bring the highest rewards. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions may flare up if you haven’t discussed your plans with someone affected by what you do. your practical outlook will win out in the end if you are honest. a partnership with a friend, lover or relative will lead to a prosperous future. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): sign up for a short trip or a course that will explore concepts or information that can help you advance. don’t let someone at home dictate what you can and cannot do. Jealousy is apparent and must not be allowed to disrupt your plans. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): evaluate your financial, emotional and domestic situations and you will come up with a solution that is innovative, cost effective and stabilizing. make a commitment to follow through with your plans, and don’t look back. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): help others, but make sure you get what you want in return. if you spell out your agenda, a partnership will develop that will bring continuous benefits to everyone concerned. honesty will be a must to make this coalition work. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t mix business with pleasure. Focus on what’s at stake, and take a route that ensures your success. it’s oK to be different and to pave the path for those less innovative. don’t let last-minute changes get in your way. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put discipline into play and you will be able to make the changes necessary to ensure your safety and your progress. not everyone will be happy with your plans, so be discreet and diplomatic regarding your every move. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): open the door to friends, relatives and peers. share your thoughts, and you will discover you are not alone. plans that can lead to a prosperous venture should be discussed. home improvements can be put into play. 

Birthday Baby: you are intense, passionate and expressive. you are original, creative and interesting. 

FWULA  

 
 
 
 
 


Jumbles: FAITH SCARF SCARCE WAFFLE Yesterday’s 
Answer: Careless drivers can end up — “CAR-LESS” 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish prepare for UMass Lowell 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
coming off a lopsided, tune­up victory last week, notre dame kicks off its regular season with a home match-up against umass lowell on Friday. 
The irish hit the court at purcell pavilion with hopes of advancing to their fifth straight Final Four. however, irish coach muffet mcgraw said she does not expect the road to Tampa, Florida, to be as smooth as it was during last year’s perfect regular season. 
“we thought there’d be growing pains last year, too,” she said. “This year, i really mean it: we’re gonna take some lumps early. i mean, we really are young. we’re so dif­ferent than last year.” 
notre dame will debut a new look after losing three starters from last season’s national runner-up squad to graduation. in the nov. 

5 exhibition against Ferris state, sophomore forward Taya reimer, freshman for­ward brianna Turner and ju­nior guard michaela mabrey joined junior guard Jewell loyd and sophomore guard lindsay allen — both start­ers last season — on the court for opening tip, and mcgraw said she will go with the same starting five tonight. 
reimer led the irish charge in the preseason 92-32 victo­ry, collecting a double-double with 10 points and 11 re­bounds. mcgraw said she will look to reimer to play a bigger role for notre dame this sea­son after primarily coming off the bench as the sixth man last year. 
“she’s really played well,” mcgraw said of reimer. “she’s come in with a new attitude, a new mindset, much more ag­gressive offensively. she’s do­ing so many good things.” 
see nd w bball PAGE 18 
HOCKEY 

Hockey heads to Merrimack 

By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
after being swept last week­end by minnesota, notre dame returns to hockey east play against merrimack on Friday and saturday. 
This weekend’s series marks the first time that the irish (5­4-1, 1-0-1 hockey east) have traveled to north andover, massachusetts, in nearly 23 years, and irish coach Jeff Jackson said that he expects a raucous environment. 
“we’re going from a [larger] olympic ice sheet to a small environment,” Jackson said. “The fans will be on top of us and i guess from what i heard, their president said it’s the big­gest weekend in merrimack athletics history. They’re a small catholic school and it’s a big deal for notre dame com­ing in there.” 

merrimack (6-2-1, 2-1-0) is off to a fast start this sea­son and last time out, the warriors defeated then-no. 10 providence, 1-0, saturday on 
see hocKey PAGE 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND to take on Binghamton 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
with questions swirl­ing around about the team, notre dame officially opens its regular season when it hosts binghamton tonight at the purcell pavilion. 
after the first losing season in irish coach mike brey’s 15-season tenure, this year’s squad is eager to get back on the court and redeem them­selves, senior guard Jerian grant and senior guard/for­ward and team captain pat connaughton said. 
“we’re all just ready to get going,” connaughton said. “we’re ready to put last sea­son behind us. everything that’s being said and that has been said in the offsea­son, just use it to fuel it game by game.” 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Squad enters ACC semis 

“we’re extremely season and show people excited,”grant said. “we’ve what we can do.” moved on from last year. we’re ready to start a new see m bball PAGE 18 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
For the second time in as many years, no. 2 notre dame travels to cary, north carolina, to play in the acc tournament semifinal today against no. 14 clemson. The winner will have a chance to claim the tournament title sunday afternoon. 
The irish (11-4-3, 6-1-1 acc) advanced to the semifinal match after a 3-0 shutout of no. 20 virginia last sunday at alumni stadium. The irish had shut out their opponents only once in the nine match­es prior to the game against the cavaliers (10-6-2, 3-3-2 acc). irish coach bobby clark said he was pleased with the team’s defensive play, but em­phasized that it would need to continue moving forward. 
“it was about time,” clark said. “if we are going to [win], you’ve got to defend well. That was a good shutout against a good team in a good game. … i always say it’s not just about the defense. it’s the whole team defending. ... it takes a whole team to defend and it takes a whole team to attack.” 
irish graduate student goal­keeper patrick wall tallied eight saves, one off his ca­reer high, to record the clean sheet, as the cavaliers fin­ished with an 8-4 shots on goal advantage. 
“pat certainly had a couple of very good saves, but a lot of them [were] stuff that he could handle,” clark said. “i thought pat just did a really good job of collecting balls that came in behind him. Just his decision-making was very good.” 
graduate student forward leon brown, sophomore defender brandon aubrey and newly-christened acc offensive player of the year ju­nior midfielder patrick hodan scored for top-seeded notre dame. it was brown’s third goal in the last two matches after he notched a pair at pittsburgh in the final game of the regular season. The graduate student only found the net three times all season before his recent outburst. 
“leon was terrific,” clark said. “his movement on the field and how he’s creating space and finding space for himself, how he’s linking with other players, is the best he’s 
see m soccer PAGE 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

notre dame hosts valparaiso 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
in its 22nd consecutive ncaa tournament, no. 12 notre dame will play valparaiso in the first round Friday at alumni stadium as a no. 4 seed. 
notre dame (12-5-2, 7-2-1 acc) is coming off a 3-1 loss in the acc championship semi­final to eventual-champion Florida state, ranked no. 2 in the nation. 
Though the crusaders (14­1-1, 8-0-0 horizon) are un­ranked, they boast some of the top players in the horizon league. sophomore forward april cronin was named con­ference mvp, and redshirt freshman forward vanesa abad was named Freshman of the year. 
“They’re a good team and they’ve had a great sea­son,” irish coach Theresa romagnolo said. “They’re going to have a lot of belief and desire. They’re going to be physical and work hard. They’ve had a lot of success, and they’ve got the mvp of the league and rookie of the year. Those are good players that that we’re going to have to stop from getting going.” 
romagnolo said notre dame will be careful not to look past 
see w soccer PAGE 16 






