The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 89 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University forms connections in Asia 
Partnerships announced with St. Stephen’s College, St. Xavier’s College, IITs 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
university president Fr. John Jenkins signed a formal agreement with st. Xavier’s college in mumbai, india, that includes plans for study abroad programs, summer research programs, faculty exchange and research col­laboration, according to a Feb. 6 press release. 
“Fr. Jenkins also signed similar memorandums of understanding with st. 
stephen’s college in delhi and the indian institute of Technology, bombay, earlier this week during a trip to india and bangladesh that aims to strengthen notre dame’s academic engage­ment with south asia,” the statement said. 
kenneth henderson, se­nior assistant provost for in­ternationalization, said the university wants to form more connections with inter­national universities. 
“what we’re interested in is partnering with the very best universities around the plan­et, both for undergraduate exchange programs as well as research exchange pro­grams,” he said. “currently we don’t have a very strong connection in south asia, we do have significant connec­tions in china, but in india and elsewhere in asia not as much.” 

The relationships with st. stephen’s college and st. Xavier’s college will primar­ily focus on undergraduate and faculty exchanges, while the relationships with the indian institutes of Technology [iiTs] at bombay and gandhinagar will center on research, henderson said 
“The two private insti­tutions, st. stephen’s and st. Xavier’s, are somewhat similar to notre dame in that they are private and re­ligious-based schools, and with excellent undergraduate reputations,” he said. “Those 
see connecTions PAGE 5 


lecturer examines soviet poetry  
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 

professor donald loewen, de­partment chair and associate pro­fessor of russian at binghamton university in new york, spoke Thursday night about the politi­cally-charged and controversial history of soviet poetry in the 1960s. 
“let’s just take a minute to re­mind ourselves to some of the things that was going on in those years,” loewen said. “in the soviet union, it was a time of unsettled change in many ways. Joseph stalin had died a few years ear­lier and after his death many of 
see lecTure PAGE 4 

ANNETTE SAYRE | The Observer 
Professor Donald Loewen discussed the politics behind Soviet poetry of the 1960s on Thursday. Loewen is department chair and associate professor of Russian at Binghamton University in New York. 


Event brings sonnets to life 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
For the fifth straight year, shakespeare at notre dame will throw its unique valentine’s day celebration, sonnetFest, which features public read­ings of all 154 of shakespeare’s sonnets. 
scott Jackson, executive di­rector of shakespeare at notre dame, said sonnetFest, which runs from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Friday, offers a fun and engag­ing way to celebrate valentine’s day and experience the bard’s work. 
“it’s just a way to commemo­rate valentine’s day with some of shakespeare’s most well-known poetry and also to en­gage the campus population with shakespeare, lifting it up off the page and bringing it into the air, which i think is really important with shakespeare,” Jackson said. 
peter holland, associate dean for the arts in the college of arts and letters and one of the event’s founders, said sonnetFest provides a fresh, yet 
see sonneTFesT PAGE 5 



Junior class welcomes parents to campus 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 

mothers and fathers of members of the junior class are traveling from all around the country for notre dame’s annual Junior parents weekend (Jpw). 
“i want this weekend to be really special, and i want parents to have a magical experience at notre dame,” Jpw chairperson and junior shannon hagedorn said. “This is one of the three big events for parents and students, and i have been trying to do everything i can to make sure it is fabulously wonderful.” 
Junior christian knight said Jpw offers a rare opportunity to bring families together on campus. 
“with there only being three events on campus — Frosh-o, graduation and Jpw 
— that bring all the parents on campus, it will be cool to have them here one last time before graduation,” knight 
see weekend PAGE 5 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: kaitlyn rabach Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who would be your celebrity Valentine? 

Daniel Tamaru 
junior 
carroll hall 
“Jennifer aniston.” 

Katie Haimes 
sophomore pasquerilla west hall 
“ryan reynolds.” 

Veronica McDowell 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“dylan o’brien.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Maddy Danz 
freshman 
regina hall 

“ed westick as chuck bass.” 

Ning Zhou 
sophomore 
off campus 

“Jennifer lawrence.” 

Sarah Robinson 
sophomore 

pasquerilla west hall 
“liam hemsworth.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
lesley stevenson Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers Jack hefferon charlie ducey matt garcia 

Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
keri o’mara mike malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

SonnetFest Band Concert Zen Meditation Bengal Bouts Advertising and 
karla moreno dan brombach 
O’Shaughnessy Hall Ricci Band Building 102 Coleman-Morse Joyce Center Gender Lecture 11 a.m.-3 p.m. 2 p.m.-3 p.m. Center 6 p.m.-7 p.m. 155 DeBartolo Hall Celebrate Valentine’s Performance for 6:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Men’s boxing 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
Corrections 

Day with Shakespeare’s Junior Parents Meditation practice tournament Filmmaker Jean 
The observer regards itself as sonnets. Weekend. open to all. preliminary rounds. Kilbourne speaks. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Film: “Before Sunset” Vigil Mass Vespers Concert Women’s Basketball Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Debartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Heart Heart 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:30 p.m. The Irish take on 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
A modern love story. Worship service. Women’s Liturgical Georgia Tech. Community song and 
we can correct our error. 

Choir performs. worship. 


professor compares religion and biology 
Fogle said the historical eu-
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 

news writer genics movement, which worked 
to apply genetics to improve so-

saint mary’s students and cial welfare but also earned sig­faculty discussed the connec-nificant criticism demonstrated tions of spirituality and biology social concern. This element re-over lunch Thursday afternoon flected an effort to consciously as part of the “spirituality control the effects of ever-grow­mondays” series. The saint ing scientific knowledge and mary’s center for spirituality protect the rights and dignity of sponsors the series, which is an individual. designed to give attendees a Fogle said after the popular-chance to analyze the interface ity of eugenics waned, scientists of faith and reason. developed the idea that genetics 
professor of biology Tom are the blueprint of life. Fogle said biology and religion “The blueprint model is … each search for “wholeness” in the belief that the heart of the their own way. formative process stems with 
paid adverTisemenT 

genetics,” Fogle said. “genetics is the lead actor in a play with the environment serving as its supporting cast.” 
Fogle said he believes the blueprint model is flawed. areas of study like ethnogenetics, which looks at how environ­mental influences impact future genetics, support the idea that genetics may seem linear but is actually contains multiple lay­ers and structures, Fogle said. 
“The scientific community has long moved past simple nature-nurture dichotomy,” Fogle said. “The real action lies in the intersection of the two. contemporary genetics not only highlights that point, but sug­gests that it is messy and diffi­cult to untangle.” 
Fogle said the network model of biology views humanness as an ever-changing series of causes and connections be­tween internal and external forces. The idea of personhood in christianity is very similar, he said. 
“we are each unique, chang­ing, responsive and complex in our relationship with a time­less and omnipresent god,” Fogle said, “biology is moving towards a vision of human­ness that is constructed from a broader vision more similar to 
paid adverTisemenT 
what religion has understood for thousands of years. in other words, biology is discovering what religion has known all along.” 

religion provides wholeness through biblical stories that try to craft and understand human­ity, while biology focuses on the gears behind humanness, Fogle 
“We don’t see convergence yet. We’re so busy studying science right now, there’s mountains of information, but seeing interconnections is the key to the future. ... There are so many points to link together.” 
Tom Fogle 
professor of biology 
said. in time, these two paths searching for wholeness will converge, but not just yet, he said. 
“we don’t see convergence yet,” Fogle said, “we’re so busy studying science right now, there’s mountains of informa­tion, but seeing interconnec­tions is the key to the future. … There are so many points to link together.” 

Fogle said it’s hard to step back and see broad connec­tions because it takes a narrow framework to be a successful scientist. a scientist can spend his whole life studying one type of cell, resulting in immense amounts of literature, but the public does not understand that even this work is only a small part of the vast amounts of sci­entific knowledge and research, he said. 
“if there is a convergence, it will be in recognizing that the deepest understanding, the core truths, whether it’s through faith or reason, will only come from a search for wholeness, the connectedness between our in­ner and our outer selves,” Fogle said. 
The final installment of the “spirituality monday” series will featurt Fras kominkiewicz, chair of the social work department, discussing the re­lationship between spiritual­ity and social work on monday, Feb. 17. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Writer blends poetry, activism in book 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
saint mary’s welcomed ekere Tallie, a poet whose work focuses on the values of an activist, to carroll auditorium on Thursday for a reading. 
she said her book, “karma’s Footsteps,” is filled with the songs of a black, poor and resilient woman. 
Tallie said she lives by writer and civil rights activist audre lorde’s quote, “your silence will not protect you.” in one of her poems, Tallie said she wrote, “wounded eyes will tell it, even though we don’t.” 
Tallie said her poetry revealed her personal experience of be­ing sexually abused. she said she learned as hard as it was for her to reveal herself as a victim, sharing 
Lecture 
conTinued From page 1 
the anchors of soviet reality really started to come loose.” 
loewen said those changes af­fected the realm of soviet lyrical poetry. 
“so, tens of thousands of people who have been locked up in soviet prison camps for anti-soviet be­havior were suddenly released, and the author, ilya ehrenberg, her story helps other people. 
“poetry for me is not art for art’s sake; it’s art for our sake,” Tallie said. “i will share my poetry with anybody who is open.” 
Tallie said she draws inspira­tion from sources all around her, including race, love and the blues. her book “continuum,” which will be published this september, fea­tures a series of 12 letters to Tallie’s imaginary friend, continuum. 
“i am interested in young writ­ers interested in liberation,” Tallie said. “continuum is interested in using art for liberation.” 
Tallie said she “[has] so many poems on love gone wrong.” she read a poem titled “medusa,” in­spired by a former boyfriend who told her that her hair made her look like medusa as she stepped out of the shower. 
provided a name for this chang­ing world when his novel, ‘The Thaw,’ was published [in 1954],” loewen said.loewen said “The Thaw” inspired creativity and expression in an era of soviet his­tory when the government was set on instituting censorship and propaganda. 
“‘The Thaw’ also found its way into literature and in a particu­lar way into lyric poetry,” he said. “For years, soviet lyric poetry 
“as a woman i am unafraid to turn men to stone,” she said, con­cluding the poem. 
Tallie revealed an unfinished poem she was in the process of ed­iting called “lady.” 
“it’s a piece i am currently work­ing on,” Tallie said. “it’s about a cra­zy woman, not accepting her crazy, but acknowledging it.” 
Tallie also read pieces centered on the immigration of entire black communities. 
“There are two types that i cover,” Tallie said. “one is vol­untary migration, like the great migration, and the other is forced, where people were literally forced out of the south in the early nine­teenth century.” 
The poetess also spoke about women accepting and loving their bodies, a topic considered in her 
has been dominated by really an intense pressure to focus on the state and state priorities. 
“in 1946, the central committee … decided to reinsti­tute a policy that laid out funda­mental principles that poets and prose-writers were expected to support. The decree stated fairly unequivocally that soviet poets should not concern themselves with private or personal interests. … it was only in 1953 that open 
paid adverTisemenT 
poem dedicated to the beauty of gap-toothed women. Tallie said she encountered a cab driver in new york who spent their entire drive trying to convince her that her smile was beautiful. 

Tallie said she began to fully ap­preciate her culture after reading “The autobiography of malcom X” when she was 16 years old. 
“now people think ‘malcolm X’ and make so many assumptions,” Tallie said. “he made many chang­es, but in the end he understood the brotherhood of men.” 
Tallie said her family has a rich history in the south, in­volving themselves in the rights movement. 
“i also like hidden stories, getting beneath the surface,” Tallie said. “i have many stories of my own that i just sit in my room and write, but 

and explicit resistance to this de­cree started to attract notice.” 
loewen said that resistance manifested years later into a movement of impassioned, live performances with intense rheto­ric, which loewen demonstrated by showing his own performanc­es and video recordings of poetic live performances from the 1950’s. 
“it’s an incredibly powerful sto­ry when told in the context of the 1950’s and the early 1960’s when you need to separate wheat from chaff to find out what is meaning­ful to other people.” 
Junior dara marquez looked up Tallie’s poetry after noticing the fli­ers around the college’s campus. 
“i found her spoken word to be empowering and wanted to be a part of her words in person,” marquez said. 
marquez was invited to dinner with Tallie by student involvement and multicultural services (sims). 
“[Tallie] is really easy going, re­latable,” marquez said. “a lot of the things she says, you relate as a woman. if you’re a creative per­son curious as to how other people express their values, she’s good at that.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 

all around [the performer] people were trying to rethink, ‘what if his­tory could be different?’” loewen said, “one of the really amazing things that these clips show was how important these poetry read­ings were and the importance of these live performances, because live performances allowed [poets] a special opportunity to engage their listeners.” 
Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 
said. “we could go from hav­
ing two people watching to 
having 100 people watching 
in five minutes, just based 
on the flow of people coming 
to and from classes. it really 
fluctuates.” 
while the event’s loca­
tion in o’shaughnessy hall 
makes it easily accessible to 
students and faculty, Jackson 
said sonnetFest also makes 
shakespeare’s words acces­
sible to the entire notre dame 
community. 
“it’s a very non-intimidating 
way to approach shakespeare 
in performance,” he said. “it’s 
a nice way to engage the stu­
dent population in something 
that might intimidate them a 
little bit. what we’ve been able 
to do is create a very support­
ive, nurturing environment.” 
Jackson said perhaps the 
most important message 
of the event, especially as 
a celebration of valentine’s 
day, is the unitive quality of 
shakespeare’s work. 
“There’s something in 
shakespeare for everyone, 
and so that universal nature of 
his work draws people from all 
facets of life together,” he said. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
greatest explorations of love, we watched it ki nd of progres­ bombay also has an excellent  
not just as joy but also as an sively grow into  this campus conTinued From page 1  reputation.  
experience of anger, despair, tradition.  “[it] is well-established  
insecurity, anxiety,” holland “we’ve had  readings in are places where we will  in-as one of the best technical  
said. “This is a long way from english, obviously,  French, vest in setting up excha nge universities in the world,” he  
the trite poetry in valentine german, spanish,  russian, programs, more than likel y at said. “The iiTs are all elite in- 
cards.” Filipino, italian,  morse code, the undergraduate level.”  stitutions, so they are more  
Jackson said the diversity of parseltongue and  klingon,” st. stephen’s college  is likely to be of interest to us in  
the readings attempts to reflect Jackson said. “i w ould say there anglican, henderson s aid, a research capacity, by setting  
the diversity of the notre dame have been twelve  of fifteen dif­while st. Xavier’s college is  up collaborative research. we  
community. he said in years ferent languages  spoken during catholic.  can certainly do exchanges,  
past, people have read in lan­the readings.”  “The key element for  the but it’s more likely to be at the  
guages ranging from the famil-Jackson said t he event takes choice is that st. Xavier’ s is undergraduate level.” 
iar to the fictional. place in the g reat hall of the premier catholic uni ver­ “The iiTs were chosen spe­ 
“every year is a little bit dif­o’shaughnessy  hall, which sity in india, and there fore cifically because they are the  
ferent,” Jackson said. “we try to creates a constantly changing  we’re interested in partne ring best research institutions in  
make the readings as diverse as and energetic en vironment. with the best universities, ” he that area,” henderson said.  
possible since we have so many “one of the  great things said. “obviously if they  are “again, the idea is that notre  
different cultures here and so about doing it in  the great hall religious-based institut ion, dame is partnering with the  
many people studying so many of o’shag is that t here’s so much that makes it even more in ter­very best institutions all over  
different languages, as well. traffic going thro ugh,” Jackson esting to us because we ha ve a the world.”  

Connections 

shared connection.” henderson said the indian institute of Technology at 
SonnetFest 
conTinued From page 1 
classic, take on valentine’s day. 
“i wanted to link it to valentine’s day, giving people a chance to listen to some of the 
paid adverTisemenT 
Weekend 
conTinued From page 1 
said. 

The weekend will kick off with an opening gala Friday night, held in the Joyce center, according to the Jpw website. each undergraduate college will host events throughout saturday afternoon, and fam­ilies can attend Jpw mass at 
5:30 p.m. in purcell pavilion, followed by a president’s dinner, the website stated. The weekend will conclude with a closing brunch sunday morning. 
Junior shane o’connor said he appreciates that the tim­ing of Jpw allows parents and students to enjoy the weekend together, while the juniors are still experiencing on-campus life. he said the special events would allow his family time to relax and explore notre dame together. 
“i am excited for Jpw so that i can have the chance to show my parents what life is like while i’m actually at notre dame, and not when 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

i’m about to leave,” o’connor said. “i think that Jpw is a nice tradition and i’m most excited to cut a rug at the gala.” 
Junior maggie miller said she looks forward to show­ing her parents what a typical notre dame weekend is like. 
“i’m most excited about hav­ing time on campus with my parents when it’s not a game,” miller said. “To just hang out, the three of us, without all of the tourists on game day.” 
hagedorn said when the ju­nior parents weekend tradi­tion began many years ago, university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh would deliver the benediction at the Jpw brunch. 
“he often spoke about the humble origins of Jpw, cre­ated under his administration and leadership,” hagedorn said. “The first Jpw was sim­ply a dinner at the morris inn for a relatively small number of families, and it grew from that humble beginning.” 
hagedorn said she is in charge of a committee of 13 juniors who work together to ensure the weekend goes smoothly. 
“in a nutshell, my job has been to coordinate every­thing for the weekend, includ­ing recruiting a committee of chairs, delegating the jobs for the different events, coor­dinating various items with multiple vendors, arranging tables for the meals, respond­ing to the emails to the Jpw account and makinge sure that everything is taken care of for the weekend,” hagedorn said. 
she said she is most look­ing forward to seeing her own parents and watching all of the students and parents meet each other. 
“i can’t wait to see the notre dame family and personal families come together and share the special moments of the weekend,” hagedorn said. “There has been a lot of plan­ning and coordinating, and i’m ready to see the product.” 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 



doings 
Jack Rooney 
news writer 

seeing as it’s valentine’s day and all, i could write something generically quirky and self-deprecating about being single, but i’m not going to do that. i’m not going to do that because valentine’s day is dumb and i can eat all the choco­late that flex points can buy whether i’m in a relationship or not. That’s because i’m an adult and adults can do that. 
instead, i’m going to finally try to come to terms with something one of my professors said last semester. right before finals, he said college students are so busy and erratically scheduled that we are human doings, not human beings. he was right, and his words reso­nated with me. 
i would probably be one of those who people who tried to schedule every minute of their day, but i know i would get so hopelessly behind schedule that wouldn’t even be worth it. instead, i rely on my trusty assignment notebook to let me know when and where i need to do something. yes, i still have a physi­cal assignment notebook. in fact i rely on it so heavily that when i lost it once for 15 minutes, it was enough to make me seriously consider dropping all my classes and just starting over again next semester. 
so, armed with little more than my planner, a cheap black pen, a yellow highlighter and a to-do list more accu­rately described as overwhelming than achievable, i go out and i do. There is remarkably little time for me — or any college student — to just be, which is fine because we would probably waste it mindlessly scrolling through our news-feeds anyway. i figure i have a limited number of years left in my life in which i can run on little sleep and lots of caf­feine and still be tolerable to be around, so i might as well take advantage of them. 
i enjoy being busy. i enjoy having a schedule that changes by the day (and oftentimes by the minute) because it keeps things interesting and makes me chase my passions. but i also enjoy the rare chance to cease all of the doing and to relish in the being. i’m talking about the late night dorm discussions with no phones or computers, the spontaneous trips to the grotto and jogs around the lakes. when we leave our responsibili­ties and schedules behind for a bit, we get to find ourselves and just be. and being is especially important in a world of doing. 
so happy valentine’s day, human do­ings. single or taken, enjoy your choco­late because the huddle only has this good of a selection, like, twice a year. and while you’re doing that, maybe take some time this weekend to just be. you deserve it. 
Contact Jack Rooney at 


EDITORIAL 
at 9:54 a.m. Tuesday, the Judicial council announced in an email that juniors lauren vidal and matthew devine won the runoff election for student body president and vice presi­dent, beating junior olivia lamagna and sophomore rohan andresen by 276 votes. 
according to the Judicial council’s email, 3,862 students voted, 46 percent of eligible undergraduate students. in the first election, lamagna and andresen earned 15 votes more than vidal and devine, and neither had a majority, which led to monday’s runoff vote. 
it’s impossible to say what precisely influenced one stu­dent to vote or to not vote, to support vidal and devine or lamagna and andresen. what we do know is that this elec­tion was marred by a violation of the campaigning rules set down in the candidate’s guide, based on the constitution of the undergraduate student body. and both violations oc­curred on Facebook. 
according to a press release sent at 12:28 a.m. monday, the election committee “found the vidal-devine ticket in the student body presidential/vice presidential election in vio­lation of section 17.2(j)(4) of the constitution.” 
The release states, “The ticket exceeded their campaign spending limit by paying for advertising on Facebook for spe­cific posts.” The “appropriate sanction” determined by the election committee was for the vidal-devine campaign to “completely delete from Facebook the three advertised posts that caused them to exceed their campaign spending limit.” 
according to a second press release, sent at 9:28 p.m. monday to campus media, the election committee “found the lamagna-andresen ticket in the student body presidential/vice-presidential election in violation of section 17.1(h) of the constitution.” 
“The ticket violated the clause by insulting the opposing ticket in a Facebook post by a supporter,” the release states. The “appropriate sanction” devised by the committee was for the lamagna-andresen ticket to remove the post on Facebook. 
we commend the election committee for acting in a time­ly manner to resolve both allegations, and we appreciate that both tickets gracefully complied with the sanctions. 
“ideally, all candidates would act in a way that no allega­tion would have to come up,” lamagna said in a statement to The observer. “That’s how it should be, and it shouldn’t have to come up for Judicial council to act on an allegation. but, if there were more clarity in the constitution, that might make their job easier.” 
vidal and devine declined to comment. 
we don’t know exactly what happened. vice president of elections kathryn peruski said in an email to The observer that the election committee found a “preponderance of evi­dence” in both cases. peruski said the process is “completely confidential besides the press releases that are made to campus media outlets,” in order to “protect the privacy of the accusing party and accused ticket.” 
by all accounts, the election committee devised fair judg­ments based on the available laws. however, we question these laws. 
we saw that candidates who violate a campaign law will not necessarily receive a significant punishment. we believe deleting the Facebook posts hardly constitutes a substantial sanction for a violation on this social media outlet, especially when the violation was not based on the content of the post 
— like an overextended budget. 
we also learned that candidates are expected to control the way in which their supporters exercise their right to free speech on social media outlets so as not to violate a subjec­tive standard of inappropriate content. 
we believe the laws underlining campaign regulation should be reexamined. only 46 percent of students voted in this election, suggesting widespread apathy among the other 54 percent. current campaign laws regulate the actions of the students who otherwise might choose to actively involve themselves with the election of their leaders, but the same students don’t understand these rules. we see this as a ma­jor problem, and we hope that student government and the Judicial council can work together to make these regulations more widely known and understood. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“all love that has not friendship for its base, is like a mansion built upon sand.” 
Ella Wheeler Wilcox 
American writer and poet 

jrooney1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Rushing into romance 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

last February, this column was pub­lished the morning after valentine’s day. it offered tips on how to overcome romantic cluelessness for the forlorn who, along with their fractured friends, remained alone and single the morning after. Today, as my column publishes, we find ourselves happily and squarely planted with a significant other mid­stream on cupid’s glorious day — that is, unless you are one of the many from last year who still are single, sporting an empty mailbox and an iTunes library playing celine dion’s “all by myself” on a continuous loop. 
Fear not. want not. here is a crash course tutorial for rushing into romance 101 that can hook a valentine by afternoon’s end. The syllabus offers a secular and moral option for both the public and private student body. it further provides electronic as well as real-life face-to-face interpersonal skills some suggest have succeeded since an­cient egyptians first pondered how to build a pyramid. 
usually, we forlorn status-conscience singles with a single-minded objective force ourselves to first and foremost turn to an app for help. seeking an outlet through electronic means is as ancient as … the iphone. The purpose of apps spans the spectrum of society, ranging from christian singles’ dating on the right to no-strings college hook­ups on the left. depending on who you are and what you believe, you can snag a valentine in an afternoon’s time using various approaches. 
For example, at the sochi olympic competition this week, slopestyle gold-medal snowboarder Jamie anderson confessed that she and other female athletes checked out “a lot of cuties” at the olympic village with the dating app Tinder. Tinder alerts you about people in your proximity that you can anonymously like or pass by. however, if both people like each another, a match begins. yet, the 23 year-old from lake Tahoe, calif. warns that a preoccupa­tion with Tinder can be “way too dis­tracting,” so much so that she deleted her account. 
at campuses like oral roberts, liberty university and notre dame where mor­alistic dogma permeates the lifeblood of the institution and hangs like a rain­cloud over the student body, Tinder’s mutual interests section theoretically steers students away from sheer super­ficiality, thus leaving room for romance. The app okcupid seeks to match souls, even if it is on a more intimate level. even apps like grindr, apps that use “420 friendship” code and that religious colleges may oppose on moral grounds, do not overtly promote themselves as a place purely for physical intimacy. all valentine-seekers may apply here too. 
but students on most secular college campuses do not need valentine’s day as an excuse to delve into all manner of matchmaking apps. They can be stereotyped into neat packages of hedo­nistic pleasure-seeking youths from a pulpit, so let’s stick with that bias here. These students embrace apps that in­teract with robots, like her — the most recent release showcased last week at a new york Tech meetup demonstrated a creepy romance with a robot. For those determined to remain celibate, consider another animated fantasy that debuted at the Tech meetup — a take on her called, “him.” 
secular students with little free time on their hands might be more likely to use a Tinder-like based app called “down” that allows them to suggest to the friends in their social networks that they are interested in sleeping with them. no pressure here, just a “poke” if you will. a stroke of the finger to swipe them, and it lets them know of a secular interest in spending the night together. The app is quite possibly a more elegant version of craigslist, down reduces the need to speak, wine and dine or date much on valentine’s day. 
but the pièce de résistance of all satan-based college social network­ing apps is higher ed hookups, which differs from other dating or meet-up avenues. as the name suggests, it pro­motes people looking for an experience with absolutely no strings attached. launched early this year, higher ed hookups is described as a site that “col­lege and university students turn to when they just want to hook up!” it even asks for gpas for discriminating seekers. 
Finally, you can hook your valentine the old fashioned way, an approach that probably takes an afternoon’s worth of time spread out over a 12-hour pe­riod. use a friend to 411 your potential valentine. cross paths by actually at­tending class, by speaking with your potential new bestie or by simply text something silly about the weather. better yet, be silly and give a tacky card out just before dinner or happy hour. preferably follow happy hour by going out together to a bar or club, and then let the spirits of st. valentine’s day past run their course. 
should your romantic luck be less than that of the irish, remember three things. First, starting tomorrow, all heart-shaped candy boxes are reduced by 50 percent or better. secondly, bet­ter luck next year, as they say. Finally, beware that this column publishes next year on Friday the Thirteenth. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Trust in the true master builder 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

growing up, it would be no exaggera­tion to say that i liked to be in control. as the self-appointed chair of the boyle brothers’ playtime schedule, i would not only dictate what games we would play to fill our summer days, but also the rules of this aforementioned recreation time. 
although i was always the self-ap­pointed scorekeeper, referee and rule­book maker, i was particularly serious when it came to my rulebook respon­sibilities. any game we played had to proceed according to my guidelines. in my head, all of my rules were excellent, completely fair and totally faithful to the spirit of the games we played. 
ask anyone in my family, though, and they would no doubt tell you a differ­ent story. For some reason, there was a large chasm between the way these rules sounded in my head and the way i chose to unveil them. The same rules i thought i had unveiled at the beginning of these games never seemed to manifest themselves except at the times i most needed them. To make a long story short, it usually wasn’t long before tempers flared and the game that had looked so wonderful in my head actually ended in tears. 
deep down i dreamed of so much more. i longed to make others happy. i wanted to design a game that we could play over and over, something that us kids could come back to and say, “That was really great!” 
and nothing has really changed since i was little. i continue to long for the grati­fication that comes from designing or building. Truth be told, i’ve long wished i had the skills to be an architect or a craftsman, someone who could build great structures or bring intricate pieces of handiwork into existence. Friends of mine in this line of work often relay the great satisfaction that comes from seeing the fruits of their labors reach completion. 
unfortunately, i’m not particularly handy. but i’ve never stopped trying to dream of ways to make others happy. now, the words of the bible have become my materials and the world my canvas. 
but it’s all too easy to compare my work in ministry and teaching with the work of those architects or craftsmen. more often than not, i have to fight the urge and frustration that comes when i think about the fact that most times, i will never get to see the “finished product” of my work. most times, i’ll never know  — in the present — whether my conversations or work with students will make an impact, whether it will help build them up into the people god has destined them to be. 
and chances are that — regardless of profession — many of us have shared these sentiments at one moment or an­other. we long to see the results of our labor. we want to see the fruits of our accomplishments. 
but henri nouwen once said, “The art of living is to enjoy what we can see and not complain about what remains in the dark. when we are able to take the next step with the trust that we will have enough light for the step that follows, we can walk through life with joy and be surprised at how far we go. let’s rejoice in the little light we carry and not ask for the great beam that would take all shad­ows away.” 
and perhaps that’s precisely it. The shadows, the doubting and the ques­tioning as to whether we made a differ­ence will always be there. we cannot take those away. but here, the words of mother Teresa strike me: “god does not call us to be successful, only faithful.” 
god is the only light that can ulti­mately take these shadows away. but we, as mother Teresa reminds us, are called to be faithful. and we will, through our trust in god, reflect his light amidst the darkness. god has given us his word so that we can be “the light of the world” and “the city on a hill.” and we must con­tinue to be faithful to that word if we are to make our way in an uncertain world. 
yes, we may be uncertain of the end re­sults, of the fruits of our labors. but luck­ily for us, the burden doesn’t rest solely on our shoulders. as bishop kenneth edward untener said, “we may never see the end results. but that is the dif­ference between the master builder and the worker. we are workers, not master builders, ministers, not messiahs. we are prophets of a future not our own.” 
let’s really put our faith in the true master builder. christ promised us that he is the “way, the Truth and the life.” why not leave the rest up to him? 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and a student in the Echo Faith Formation Leadership Program in the Notre Dame Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene writer 

when listing favorite teen movies, you can’t forget “mean girls.” in fact, it’s hard to miss “mean girls” at any given mo­ment because the film is referenced al­most incessantly. now, 10 years after the film’s release, “mean girls” has not only become part of our collective shortlist of high-school comedies, but a part of our everyday vocabulary. This film truly was a turning point in teen comedy. 
at first glance, it doesn’t appear as though “mean girls” is anything special. released amidst a string of successful lindsay lohan comedies during the rise of her career, the movie was a hit, well re­ceived by audiences and critics but it didn’t necessarily make a stir. it was deemed a “smart teen comedy,” but not even the film’s director, mark waters, anticipated the cult status it would take on. 
Though we can’t forget that indie cult-classics like “heathers” or “election” took 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

For those who enjoyed the film “The graduate,” the debartolo performing arts center is bringing its stage ad­aptation to notre dame on Thursday, Friday and saturday. The play is part of a national tour the l.a. Theatre works is doing of their adaptation of the book by charles webb, the mov­ie directed by mike nichols and the broadway play. 
l.a. Theatre works is traditionally a radio theatre company and has re­worked the broadway play to fit this type of drama. what this means is that the staging will be similar to the per­formance of “as you like it” put on by the actors From The london stage last weekend at washington hall. There is minimal staging but the actors appear in costume, speaking into a micro­phone on stage. 
a satirical, dark humor approach to the high school comedy, far before Tina Fey ever did, “mean girls” stands out in its box office success, diversity of audience and incredible reach. similarly, the film tran­scends the more popular “teen comedy” with its undeniably witty writing and sa­tirical yet oddly realistic examination of high school culture. 
when other teen comedies starring fe­male leads played out the lovable star’s quest to find a boy and beat the mean girl enemy (“princess diaries,” “what a girl wants”), “mean girls” turned the format on its head, showing lead cady heron’s vulnerabilities and her transformation into a real mean girl herself. based off of bestselling nonfiction book “Queen bees and wannabes,” Fey wrote the film to be as realistic as possible to the kinds of inter­actions young girls have, and while i can’t say i’ve ever heard of any teen girls push­ing someone in front of a bus, Fey hits the mark for most of the movie. 
but while “mean girls” stays true, 
“The graduate” centers on recent college graduate benjamin braddock, who is seduced by mrs. robinson. after his tryst with her, he meets and falls in love with her daughter elaine robinson. in addition to all this, braddock is under pressure from his parents to find a purpose in his life, as he is unmotivated after having just finished his undergraduate studies. 
The play is directed by brian kite and stars heidi dippold from “The sopranos,” matthew arkin from “law & order” and Tom virtue from “even stevens” alongside darren richardson, Jill renner and diane adair. The adaptation was originally directed by Terry Johnson. 
reviews of previous performances are full of praise for the acting on the stage — something that becomes even more important when the play is put on in a radio-theatre-style. caroline sposto of broadway world (bww) hub representing the good, bad and ugly parts of teen girl behavior, sparing no drama, Fey didn’t worry about writing the film specifi­cally for a young female audience the way other teen filmmakers did. in watching the movie, we in no way wanted to be heron 
— we couldn’t relate to her, we didn’t want her clothes and we even grew to dislike her. instead, heron brought us an anthro­pological study of everything wrong with high school, highlighting things we, teen­agers not long ago, were well aware of. 
nor did Fey tailor her humor for a young­er or more naïve audience. she kept it smart and trusted that her audience would keep up. other movies showed smart girls with broken glasses and a dream of an ivy league school, but Fey gave her characters smart, quick dialogue and rapid-fire jokes that keeps the film interesting (and hilari­ous) even 10 years later. 
“mean girls” managed to meld the genres of high-school movie, biting sat­ire and insanely quotable bro-comedy (like “anchorman: The legend of ron 
says dippold performs the iconic char­acter of mrs. robinson “with a deli­cious mixture of unabashed vulgarity, country-club cunning and wrenching desperation.” 
erika nichols of the Flynn center performing arts blog said that “the lack of physical movement allowed the actors to really emphasize their emotional reactions and allowed the audience to really hone in on each character,” while the minimal physi­cal interaction between the characters enhances the simplistic production. 
l.a. Theatre works chooses to do one show a year as a live radio produc­tion and takes it on tour. in previous years, they have performed “pride and prejudice” and “The rivalry.” 
The play does come with the warn­ing that includes mature content — specifically sex scenes performed behind a sheet held up by benjamin braddock’s parents, who hurl abuses burgundy” of the same year) into one glo­rious film. Though its cultural criticism in attempt to get girls to stop calling each oth­er names didn’t quite pan out (i mean, it’s hard to not use the term “army of skanks” once Janice introduces it), the movie sur­passes any of its early 2000s counterparts by doing more than show the girl getting the guy or defeating the mean girls and ap­pealing to a remarkably broad audience. 
Thanks to “mean girls” and its popular­ity, i think smart humor for young people 
— especially young women — managed to hit the mainstream in some small way. shows like “glee” and films like “easy a” undoubtedly have “mean girls” to thank for their popularity. and, of course, we have Fey to thank for the hundreds of times we were at a loss for words in the last decade and looked to “mean girls” to find them. Four for you, Tina Fey. you go, Tina Fey. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at                                   atollaks@nd.edu 
towards him throughout the scene. The combination of the two scenes emphasizes the obliviousness of the braddocks to what is going on with their son, according to anna weltner of the new Times. 
The play is hailed as hilarious, as a show that succeeds in giving a new feeling to the iconic american story. much of the visual aspects seen in the 1967 film are adapted to the stage us­ing sound. The play opens with their adaptation of the famous scene where benjamin tries out new scuba gear in his family’s pool, where it is reinvent­ed using primarily sound to give the perception of being underwater. 
Tickets are $10 for notre dame stu­dents and $30 regular admission. show times are at 7:00 p.m. on Thursday and Friday and 7:30 p.m. on saturday. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at                                     cmoriari@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
VALENTINE’S DAY PLAYLIST 



Here’s a playlist for Valentine’s Day. Spoiler Alert — it’s depressing. Happy Valentine’s Day. 
“I’m All Out of Love” Air Supply  
“Hurt” Johnny Cash  
“Everybody Hurts” R.E.M.  
“I Knew You Were Trouble” Taylor Swift  
“How Come U Don’t Call Me Anymore” Prince  
“I Got You Babe” Sonny and Cher  
“Ironic” Alanis Morissette  
“Roses” Outkast  
“Cry Me a River” Justin Timberlake  
“Irreplaceable” Beyoncé  
“I’m Not Crying” Flight of the Conchords  
“With Arms Wide Open” Creed  




Listen to the playlist online at 
ndsmcobserver.com/section/scene 

By PATRICK McMANUS 
scene writer 

look, it’s not that i’m desperate to meet someone. i know people. i’d say everything is going fine for me right now. but valentine’s day was coming up and asked myself, “what if i did want to meet someone? how would i even do that?” 
it isn’t that easy for me to meet people here. i don’t know, maybe it is for some of you. good for you. i don’t know what a conventional way to meet a new person is. so i thought it would be interesting to try some ways of meeting people that i’m pretty sure are not con­ventional. you know, just to see how it went. 
There is an app called Tinder that shows you pictures of near­by people, perhaps a tagline and any mutual Facebook friends or interests that you have. you choose whether or not you like this person and if you like each other, you can chat. it sounds in­teresting, doesn’t it? but it is kind of awful. it is the height of super­ficiality. i don’t know how much information about a person you need to make a reasonable es­timation of whether you’d get along, but i think it is more than Tinder gives you. 
i started using the app and restricted the search to other us­ers within one mile. not to brag, but i matched with a couple of people. The conversations were not great, and i take full respon­sibility for that. maybe i should have just suggested a lunch date or something? That is the tradi­tional way to get know someone and i do have confidence in it. but i couldn’t bring myself to do it, to suggest meeting up with anyone from Tinder. i’ve never met in person anyone that i first encountered on the internet. i know that’s what online dating is, i just haven’t gotten out of the mindset of my youth that it is dangerous, or whatever. 
Tinder shows the number of interests you have in common, based on what you have indicat­ed on your Facebook page. since the things i’ve liked on Facebook are a snapshot of what i was inter­ested in during my junior year of high school, it was interesting to see what overlap i had with peo­ple. The movie “where the wild Things are” is way more popular among girls than i would have guessed. and when did i ever go hiking? why would i like that? 
on Feb. 7, i attended speed dating at legends. For two-and­a-half minutes, guys and girls got to know each other. we then marked ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on a sheet, handed the sheet in at the end of the event, and if both parties marked ‘yes,’ we got each other’s email addresses. Though speed dating is the older art form, i con­ceived of it initially only as an in-person Tinder. but that in-person factor makes all the difference. 
on the one hand, there is al­most a desperation in going to such an event, where the process of meeting each other reduces people to almost cattle, but on the other hand, it is a fun, light­hearted event at which to expand one’s social horizons, all the while winking at the process be­cause we are all cool and ironic. 
it was nice to talk to people, to be able to get a sense of them. of course, something feels wrong, crass almost, about reducing that sense to either a ‘yes’ or a ‘no.’ what does that mean? how much should i have to like a per­son to merit getting to know them more? is it one of those things where you “just know?”while it was pleasant to speak to new people, one dilemma that arose was what exactly to say. would you learn more about a person from their major or what they would bring to a deserted island? 
The third and final thing i tried to meet people was sitting in laFortune with a sign that read “interested in meeting new people.” immediately after i set the sign up, a beautiful girl came over and we really hit it off. haha, no, that didn’t happen. it was weird and did not work at all, but also kind of fun. a few strangers did briefly introduce themselves, but for every one of them, two people i already knew came over to demonstrate concern about my welfare. i think the majority of people walking by didn’t no­tice or care. 
while it can be hard to meet people by more conventional methods, i don’t think any of these get-rich-quick schemes are the solution. i’m inclined to let organic interaction and hap­penchance dictate the forma­tion of my future relationships. well, for now, at least — there is no telling how long my patience will last). 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Nothing beats buzzer-beaters 

Kit Loughran 
sports writer 
no matter what teams are playing or who makes the ac­tual shot, the buzzer-beater is arguably the most exciting play in sports. The pure awe and surprise prompted by a buzzer-beating shot make it a moment like no other. 
with just seconds left on the clock, watching the ball leave the fingertips of the shooter and travel through the air makes breath stop and hearts skip a beat in anticipation of the swoosh of the net. 
it be at the end of the game, for the win, to send the game to overtime. or, it might be even just the end of the quarter. The buzzer-beater never fails to make that temporary moment feel like hours. and the reaction after the ball goes through the hoop — priceless. 
The buzzer beater didn’t fail to work its magic wednesday night in the syracuse-pittsburgh game. Freshman guard Tyler ennis nailed a three-pointer just as time expired to win the game for the big orange. syracuse found itself down by one point with 4.4 sec­onds to go in the game. ennis took the rebound pass, and with a split second to decide whether to pass or shoot, decided to shoot. The 35-foot basket kept syracuse unbeaten on the season with a 58-56 win over pitt. wow. 
even if you’re a pitt fan, you can’t deny how remark­able that buzzer beater shot was. syracuse’s 10-2 run leading up to it, the come­back, the clock running down. The intensity made that shot at the buzzer that much better. as the syracuse team cleared the bench in its opponent’s home court, there was no denying the magic in that moment. 
whether it’s the nba playoffs, the big dance, or even a high school game, it’s amazing that a single play can have such an effect on people. and these incredible shots aren’t just forgotten. no, they’re talked about for days, years — even decades to come. 
one of the most memo­rable: christian laettner’s buzzer beater that got duke past kentucky to make it to the 1992 Final Four. it’s over­time with 2.1 seconds left on the clock, kentucky up 103-102. The odds of duke getting the ball downcourt and into the basket in that amount of time? not high. and yet, hill gets the ball down court to laettner at the foul line. he turns, drib­bles, fakes right, spins, and shoots. swish. and that’s the ballgame, ladies and gentlemen. 
all of a sudden — the joy, awe, disbelief, and horror of the fans in the arena over­whelms the court. laettner, with arms up, races to mid­dle of the court, the mem­bers of the duke bench are off their feet. The arena was in uproar — and all over a single shot. 
it really doesn’t matter if it’s top-ranked duke vs. kentucky, the team’s rookie, or even michael Jordan — a buzzer-beater is a buzzer-beater. The awe and disbe­lief, the crowd’s reaction, the players’ tears of joy and pain — they’re all the same. a buzzer-beater makes the game just that much more exciting. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

ACC competition begins with matchup against BC 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer

 The no. 11 irish make their acc debut saturday when they take on no. 20 boston college. 
after a lopsided 25-1 win over cincinnati on wednesday, notre dame will face a talented eagles squad. both teams earned a spot in last year’s ncaa tournament but lost in the first round to their respective opponents. irish junior defender barbara sullivan, eagles junior mid­fielder mikaela rix and eagles junior attacker covie stanwick earned spots on the preseason all-acc team. 
The head coaches of the acc picked boston college to finish sixth in the eight-team confer­ence, one spot behind the irish (1-0). after an exhibition con­test against michigan, the irish already notched their first win of the regular season against cincinnati in the season open­er. notre dame scored 44 goals and conceded eight in the two games combined. boston college has not played yet this season. 
strong defense and near-per­fect goaltending almost earned the irish a spotless defensive record against cincinnati, but the bearcats snatched away the shutout with a goal in the last minute of the game. 
irish coach christine halfpenny said she hopes the victory against cincinnati will fuel the team going into saturday’s game. 
“[our plan is to] recover, re­focus, and then start off fast again on saturday,” halfpenny said. 
halfpenny said  her team will have to replicate the on-field communication she heard against cincinnati in 

FOR SALE 

Perfect home for sale! Close to downtown and N.D. right across the street from the St. Joe river. 2 bedroom 1 bath 2419 Riverside in South Bend. Open house Sunday Feb. 16th. Call or email Amanda Ieraci @ Cressy Everett Real Estate. 574-298-0266/amandai­eraci@cressyeverett.com 
FOR RENT 

4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime location next to campus. Walk 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
to everything. email nd-house@sb­cglobal.net for additional info and photos. 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
WANTED 

Summer nanny job, S. of Boston; ISO energetic, reliable, creative, car­ing ND/SMC student to become part of our family, 5 days a week, some evenings/wknds. 3 boys ages 1, 3, 
9. May/June-Aug. Prefer local w/own transportation. Valid DL, sense  of humor required. Love of minivans a must. If interested respond with brief 

the upcoming game. 

“i saw so many players on the same page, talking from the low defenders to the high defenders, the middies behind the line talking to the defend­ers and giving them cues,” she said. “i’m really excited to see that consistent effort that we had today on saturday against the eagles.” 
The irish have not played the eagles in recent years, so the game presents an opportunity for the irish to make their mark on a new opponent. boston college is the first ranked acc team they will face, one of many that they will come up against over the course of the season. 
The matchup also provides another early test for the irish freshmen. The roster features 10 freshmen, including attack­er and midfielder courtney Fortunato, who scored four goals and had three assists in the season-opener against cincinnati. Fortunato tied with sophomore attacker rachel sexton in scoring to lead the team. Freshman mid­fielder grace muller also net­ted three tallies during the game. 
halfpenny said the young talent on her squad has been impressive so far. 
“by sheer numbers, two-thirds of the team is soph­omores and freshman,” halfpenny said. “we’re really pleased how they came out and were playing with veteran minds.” 
in multiple respects, saturday’s matchup is new ter­ritory for both teams. whereas the irish freshmen have had an exhibition match and a regu­lar season game to adjust to division 1 lacrosse, the eagles’ freshmen have not had this op­portunity, although the eagles did participate in tournaments in the fall. eight players on the eagles’ 33-woman roster are freshmen. 
halfpenny said the irish are focusing on the opportunities and challenges of saturday’s game rather than looking ahead to the rest of the season. 
“with 16 games [in the sea­son], we look at them one at a time,” halfpenny said. “i’m re­ally excited about the potential that we knew we had.” 
The irish take on the eagles on saturday at 1 p.m. at the loftus sports center. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
bio/experience to currentstudents@ ndboston.com 
“I am going to be Cupid.  And I am going to shoot my sparrow at unsus­pecting victims.  And they are going to get hit and say ‘I’m in love!  I was hit by Cupid’s sparrow!’  Funny little bird but he gets the job done.”  -MGS 
“Islands in the Stream”- Kenny Loggins, Dolly Parton- “Baby when I met you, there was peace unknown/I set out to get you with a fine toothed comb/I was soft inside/There was something goin’ on/You do something to me that I can’t explain...” 
Je t’aime.  Aujourd’hui et chaque jour mon mélange. 



MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame takes on Virginia in strong field 
champions,” sachire said. 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 

sports writer “They have a significant num­
ber of their players back. we 

no. 16 notre dame, along are very familiar with virginia, with a host of the nation’s top our coaching staff knows teams, will travel to houston, their coaching staff very well. Texas this weekend for the iTa obviously they’re a great team. national indoor championship. That being said, we also believe The team’s first match will be in ourselves quite a bit, and we against no. 1 virginia on Friday know that when we get going we afternoon. can beat anyone.” 
The irish (7-1) have faced a coming off of a win Tuesday number of strong teams already at northwestern, notre dame this season, falling only to no. will have traveled from south 22 illinois. The cavaliers (4-0, bend to evanston to south bend 1-0 acc) will likely be notre to houston in one week. mental dame’s most formidable oppo-preparation will be a vital part nents yet, but irish coach ryan of the preparation with such a sachire said he has confidence short turnaround, sachire said. in his team. “our goals are to play our best 
“[virginia] is a really good tennis and more importantly to team, as the defending national bring an identity of greatness,” 
paid adverTisemenT 


paid adverTisemenT 
he said. “we’ve really empha­sized with our team the process and focusing on what it takes to be the best. more importantly, we’re going to be ourselves and when we get on the court, we’ll exude confidence and show that we’re the greatest team there.” 
in addition to developing a tough team mindset, notre dame’s experience this season lining up against some highly-ranked teams will give them an edge over their opponents, ac­cording to sachire. 
“i really believe that no one in the country has played as many competitive matches as we have,” sachire said. “it seems like we’ve been in five or six dog­fights already this year and for the most part we’ve succeeded. so that’s a big advantage we have over teams that haven’t played in such competitive 
ND SOFTBALL 
environments. This group has experienced those moments.” 

leadership will be another contributor to success for the irish. after the tough loss at illinois, senior captain greg andrews experienced a slight slump, falling in both his singles and doubles matches against northwestern. however, sachire expressed complete faith in andrews and his abilities to overcome the recent adversity. 
“i honestly believe that our senior captain greg andrews is going to step up and have a great weekend,” sachire said. “he’s struggled a little bit lately, his team has won some matches when maybe greg hasn’t, but greg is one of the very best play­ers in the country and i’m ex­pecting him to get back on track this weekend and play a key role in what we want to do.” 
as the last seed in the 16­team tournament, notre dame may be considered the under­dog, especially up against no. 1 virginia. yet sachire was un­fazed and said the irish have as much a chance as anyone to win. 
“every single team down there, including us, is really good,” sachire said. “it’s a chal­lenge for everybody to go against that level of competition. but like i said, we have an advan­tage because of the high-quality teams we’ve already played.” 
The irish will face the cavaliers at 3 p.m. on Friday with the potential of playing in the quarterfinals on saturday, the semifinals on sunday and the finals on monday. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

irish to play three in Fla. 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
notre dame will travel to Florida for a trio of games over two days this weekend at the Jacksonville university Tournament. 
The irish (3-1) were originally scheduled to play a pair of games against missouri, but inclement weather prevented the Tigers from making the trip. instead, notre dame will play a pair of morn­ing games against louisville (3-2) with a saturday afternoon match-up against host Jacksonville (3-2) sandwiched between. 

no. 23 louisville is plenty fa­miliar to the irish coach deanna gumpf and her team. last sea­son, the irish took two out of three against the ninth-ranked cardinals in the regular season’s final series, to clinch the big east regular season crown in each team’s final year in the conference. The irish finished 19-3 in the con­ference and just one game ahead of the cardinals after then-junior pitcher laura winter tossed a com­plete game in a 3-1 victory in the se­ries’ third and final matchup. That win clinched a 13th big east regu­lar season title in eighteen years and bumped the cardinals down to third place. 
with so much history between the two teams, gumpf said she is excited to face such a familiar op­ponent so early in the season. 
“it’s just like old times,” gumpf said. “we have played them con­sistently for the last [many] years now… it will be just like going back to conference last year.” 
The cardinals did drop a pair of games in their opening weekend at the Florida atlantic university kickoff classic against Tulsa and host Fau, but redeemed their weekend with a 7-0 shutout victory over st. John’s and a gritty 5-4 eight-inning victory over ohio state. 
but regardless of louisville’s early season results, gumpf said she and her team are expecting a battle. 
“we know them really well, and they know us really well,” gumpf said. “For us, it’s just going to be a matter of getting it done.” 

The irish also play saturday against Jacksonville, whose open­ing weekend included a pair of wins over another acc team, maryland. The dolphins finished seventh in the atlantic sun last season at 11-15 and 30-22 overall and were tabbed by conference coaches to finish seventh again this year. 
gumpf said her staff did not have much of a scouting report on Jacksonville, who the irish were not scheduled to play until the schedule had to be shaken up on Thursday. 
“it’s tough to know what to ex­pect, because they are only a week out and we weren’t planning to play them until today,” gumpf said. “but we will be ready.” 
The irish enter the weekend hav­ing notched three victories and a loss of their own last weekend at the plainsman invitational in auburn, ala. The weekend included a pair of shutout wins for sophomore starter allie rhodes — including a no-hit­ter in a five-inning 9-0 victory over morehead state — and wrapped up with a gritty 3-2 victory in eight innings over auburn in the Tigers’ home park. The irish got eight solid innings from the senior winter, and junior centerfielder and espnw preseason all-american emilee koerner spearheaded the comeback with a home run and two rbi in the game. 
gumpf said she was particularly encouraged by the effort against auburn. 
“There were two reasons i liked sunday to finish off the weekend,” gumpf said. “one, we came from behind. and two, we battled the entire game. both of those are great signs for us, particularly early on.” 
The irish face louisville at 
9:30 a.m. saturday and battle Jacksonville on their home turf at 5:00 p.m. before taking on the cardinals again at 9:30 a.m. sunday to wrap up the three-game set. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BASEBALL 

Florida Atlantic to host Notre Dame’s opener 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
This weekend, notre dame will travel south toward warmer weather to kick off its 2014 season against Florida atlantic. The irish will play two games on saturday fol­lowed by a third game on sunday, all against the owls. 
“we’re going to get into the warm weather and play games that count right away,” irish coach mik aoki said. “it will be nice, though. it will be a nice respite from playing in­doors at loftus. we played a lot of scrimmages. i think it’s time for us to look at a different uniform and some sunshine while we’re play­ing, as opposed to fluorescent lighting.” 
This will be notre dame’s first year competing in the acc. last season, the irish finished 34-24 and their time in the big east came to a close with a loss to connecticut in the conference championship game. 
likewise, Florida atlantic will be competing in a new conference. after spend­ing the last seven seasons in the sun belt conference, the owls will transition this year to conference usa. last season, the owls went 42­22 and nearly advanced to a super regional before losing to north carolina in their re­gional final to conclude the season. 
“[Florida atlantic] is a good team,” aoki said. “They are a team that was one out away from eliminating a national seed in north carolina to go to a super regional last year. i’m sure they’re looking at it as an opportunity missed.” 
Though both teams are try­ing to make their own mark in their respective new con­ferences, aoki said a non-conference game still holds significant value for the irish. 
“i think for a team that has gone through some transi­tion, this is good for us,” aoki said. “i think it’s a good test to see where we are and see some of these things.” 
with a significant num­ber of returning players, the owls are projected to finish second in conference usa by the league coaches’ preseason poll. additionally, the owls’ junior pitcher austin gomber found a spot on the preseason all-conference team. 
“They return a decent chunk of that team and they’re old­er,” aoki said. “They’ve got a lot of junior college guys who are playing in their second year. Those guys have played a lot of baseball and they’re a talented group. i don’t know if there are one or two guys that jump off the page at you, but they’ve got a bunch of guys who are good, solid division-i, will welcome the challenge 
professional-prospect  type  
players.”  
nonetheless,  notre  dame  



paid adverTisemenT early in their season, as the irish look to compete in a highly competitive confer­ence this year. 
“it doesn’t get any easier go­ing into the acc,” aoki said. “This is the caliber of oppo­nent we’re going to be facing week-in and week-out. we might as well go ahead and get used to it.” 
with a three-game series in store, the irish will begin their 2014 campaign at 1 p.m. on saturday in boca raton, Fla., against Florida atlantic. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
had a good chance to not only get better but really see their own strengths and weakness­es, so that makes them more of challenge to us.” 
The dolphins might have had the extra opportunity to evalu­ate themselves, but the irish bring their own advantages to the match. even with new un­derclassmen faces joining the squad, the irish have substantial on-field experience. notre dame returns two prominent defen­sive starters, seniors stephen o’hara and brian buglione, and two starters on attack, sopho­more matt kavanagh and junior conor doyle. 
o’hara, who helped head an irish defense that ranked 10th nationally with an aver­age of 8.31 goals against last season and was recently draft­ed to major league lacrosse, earned preseason first-team all-american honors at the end of January. kavanagh’s excep­tional rookie campaign includ­ed a team-high 32 goals and 16 assists earned him third-team all-american honors for this preseason. 

“heading into this game against Jacksonville, we know that we need to start strong in the first game of the season be­cause it will probably will dic­tate how a lot of the rest of the season will go,” glazener said.
 “i really think we are going to be pretty good this year.” 

with well-founded confi­dence, notre dame opens its season against Jacksonville on sunday in Jacksonville, Fla., at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
said. “we know if we stick to our game and to the little things — getting pucks and bodies to the net — that’s how we’re going to win games.” 
while notre dame had been languishing before saturday, providence (15-8-5, 7-6-1) also has run into its own cold stretch, losing three in a row and going just 2-6-2 in its last ten games. still, the Friars are a potent and dangerous squad backstopped by sophomore goaltender and first-team hockey east selec­tion Jon gillies, maintaining a top-ten ranking despite a lack­luster last month. 
“obviously, they’ve shown that they’re a great team,” Tynan said. “They’ve struggled, and we have too. i think both teams will be really desperate, and the intensity level is going to be very high on Friday night. it’ll be a good weekend for both teams.” 
both squads will be fighting 

paid adverTisemenT 

for byes and seeding in the hockey east tournament in this game, creating a playoff-like at­mosphere, Tynan said. 
“if guys aren’t feeling that way, somebody better tell them it’s playoff time because these games are just as important,” he said. “i think the older guys definitely realize what’s at stake, and the younger guys do too.” 

with a tough month in the rearview mirror, the irish will look to seize the momentum gathered in the final minutes of the third period against maine and use it to propel them to a much-needed sweep of providence before a final home series with boston university and a season-ending visit to boston college. 
“i think for our team, we get confidence from that game,” rust said. “we hadn’t been performing as well as we want­ed, especially in hockey east games. so going on the road this weekend, confidence is huge for us because we’re 1-6 on the road in hockey east, which isn’t nearly where we want to be.” 
“like T.J. said, this is playoff time. we can’t afford to lose any more games.” 
The irish take the ice to­night at schneider arena in providence, r.i., and will con­clude the series saturday night. both games will begin at 7 p.m. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
notre dame shot 53.6 percent from the field, although boston college (12-14, 3-9) was not far behind with a 51.0 percent mark. The irish came into the game leading the country in field goal percentage with 51.8 percent shooting and leading the acc in total offense with 87.7 points per game. 
mcgraw said she thought notre dame had good shot selec­tion but could have done better from behind the three-point­line, where the irish hit two of eight attempts. The irish also lead the nation in three-point shooting percentage with a clip of 43.6 percent. 
“i though we shot the ball pretty well,” mcgraw said. “[but] we didn’t shoot as well from the three-point-line … we were a little out of our rhythm. it was a hard game for us to play because we had already beaten them by more than 40 at nd.” 
notre dame defeated the eagles, 95-53, on Jan. 9. 
on Thursday, the largest dis­crepancy in scoring stats came in the free throw category. The irish sank 20 free throws com­pared to just eight for the eagles. entering the game, the irish had made 73.3 percent of their free throws on the season, led by se­nior guard kayla mcbride with 84.7percent. 
notre dame got off to a quick start to build a 41-26 lead by half­time, and the irish kept up the pressure in the second half. 
irish sophomore guard Jewell loyd opened the second half with a steal from eagles fresh­man guard kelly hughes, and notre dame struck first in the half on a layup from senior for­ward natalie achonwa to widen its lead to 43-26. 
The irish went on to outscore boston college 41-35 in the sec­ond half, a margin largely pro­pelled by mcbride, loyd and achonwa. 
all three scored in double dig­its, with mcbride’s 19 points lead­ing the way. loyd deposited 18 points and achonwa notched 13. Freshman forward Taya reimer added nine points and has devel­oped into a consistent producer for the irish with 8.5 points per game, which puts her in the top five in total offense on the team. 


mcgraw said reimer has made solid improvements this season and provides depth for the irish. 
“i was really happy with Taya tonight,” mcgraw said. “she was really aggressive.” 
mcgraw added praise for mcbride’s performance as well and for her consistent play over the course of the season. 
For the eagles, junior guard and forward kat cooper and senior forward/center katie Zenevitch led in scoring with 13 and 12 points respectively. 
The irish return home for a conference contest against georgia Tech on monday at 7 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
scorer sophomore guard olivier hanlan to just five points on 2-for-5 shooting. 
hanlan averages 18.1 points per game after earning acc Freshman of the year honors a season ago. 
in the first game against boston college, brey said the irish defended the 3-point line well. The eagles con­nected on 7 of 21 of their 3-pointers. 
“we did a heck of a job here controlling the 3-point arc,” brey said. “They didn’t crush us from there. They are the best 3-point shooting team in the league. … you have to guard the arc.” 
boston college is currently eighth in the acc with a field-goal percentage of 35.0 from beyond the 3-point line. 
while the irish will be searching for their first road win, they will also be looking for their first winning streak of 2014. notre dame has not won consecutive games since beating canisius (dec. 29) and duke (Jan. 4). The irish beat clemson 68-64 in dou­ble-overtime Tuesday night. 
“1-1 weeks ain’t bad for this team right now, but let’s try and be greedy and get a 2-0 week,” brey said. 
Personnel updates 

brey did not say whether freshman guard demetrius Jackson would play on sunday. brey benched Jackson for the win over clemson because Jackson needed to work on his academic habits, and the fresh­man was not in attendance for the win. 
“we’re not giving demetrius updates,” brey said. “he’ll be back when he’s ready to be back and we’ll cut him loose.” 
Jackson averages 6.1 points and 23.3 minutes per game. 
graduate student center garrick sherman will still be able to play despite his broken finger, according to brey. brey said there was a chip in the bone but it did not require sur­gery to put a pin in sherman’s finger. 
“it’ll be a little uncomfortable but he’ll be able to play with it,” brey said. “we’re fortunate that we dodged a bullet of surgically having to put a pin in there.” 
sherman is second in the acc in field goal percentage 
(51.6 percent) and averages 14.3 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. 
brey said sophomore forward eric katenda has been shut down indefinitely because of a knee injury. he has played in two games this season. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS| hillary mangiaForTe 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday:head down the path of least resistance. getting into the groove and feeling comfortable as you move along will be half the battle. opportunities will escalate as long as you take care of business and set realistic goals. learn from your past experience and you will find the satisfaction you’ve been searching for. your numbers are 3, 5, 12, 26, 32, 39, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): complete unfinished business, then take a little time to do the things you enjoy or to be with someone you love. make plans or find a way to build up your assets. invest, make a move or set up a new budget.. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): avoid meddlers trying to find out about your private business. Focus on the things you want to do and the people you enjoy spending time with most. make changes to your home, but ask for approval if you’ll affect others. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Talk will get you what you want. your charm, coupled with your confident way of expressing your ideas, will draw attention and should result in offers. be sure you don’t exaggerate or promise something you cannot deliver. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): expect to experience changes regarding how you earn your living. don’t let anything or anyone upset you or cause you to falter when you should be focused on doing the best job possible. overreacting will be what gets you into trouble. stay calm. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): leave important decisions until you feel certain you are making the right choice. a change of scenery will help you clear your mind, giving you a fresh look at old problems. be careful with money and possessions. loss is likely. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take charge. don’t be afraid to express what you want and your plan for making your dreams come true. include the people you care about in your plans and you will find a way to get things done faster. love is highlighted. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take note of how others are reacting. listen carefully, remain calm and look for reasonable solutions that will buy you the time and the freedom to do the things that interest you the most. use your intuitive intelligence and you will get your way. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): learn from past mistakes. don’t let emotions interfere with decisions that can influence how much you earn or the way you do business. be creative and handle domestic matters unconventionally and you will bypass or put an end to any trouble you face. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of medical, financial or legal problems before they escalate. it’s important to make necessary changes at home before they are forced on you. helping others will show your concern and bring you something good in return. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): do whatever needs to be done. asking for help or depending on someone else will lead to disappointment. poor information regarding a financial matter is likely. do your research before you spend on something that can influence your assets. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): serious talks will bring interesting results. you may not see the value in what’s being offered initially, but look closer and you will discover a multitude of options that will help you advance. a change of heart will be to your benefit. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t be confused by what others do or say. rely on your own resources to find out exactly what you need to know in order to close a deal or invest in something of interest. romance will improve your personal life. 


Birthday Baby: you are courageous, just and unpredictable. you learn from experience. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 82, bosTon college 61 
Rolling into the record book 
Irish crush BC to move to 24-0 for best start in program history 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
The no. 2 irish rolled through yet another acc matchup, set­ting a record for the best start to a season in program history with a definitive 82-61 win Thursday over boston college in chesnut hill, mass. 
with its 24th win, notre dame (24-0, 11-0 acc) bested the sea­son-opening winning streak of the 2000-01 squad, which went on to win the ncaa Tournament. The irish have won their last 30 conference games. 
despite this accomplishment, irish coach muffet mcgraw said her team has to keep pushing forward. 
“it doesn’t mean a thing,” mcgraw said. “Time will tell if this is the best team ever. we’ve got a lot of games left to play.” 
see w baskeTball PAGE 14 


HOCKEY 

irish head to r.i. for crucial series 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 

coming off of a win over maine on saturday night in which senior forward bryan rust scored the tying and game-winning goals in the final two minutes, the no. 20 irish travel to no. 9 providence for a crucial two-game series with the Friars beginning tonight. 
notre dame (16-12-1, 5-9­1 hockey east) currently sits tied for eighth place with massachusetts, and, with just five conference games re­maining, is rapidly running out of time to make an end-of­season push. senior forward 
T.J. Tynan said that reality has created a sense of urgency on the team. 
“i think we all know the importance of this weekend. we know that we need to get two wins against a very good providence team,” Tynan said. “i think it’s just carrying over that energy from the last two minutes on saturday into this week. The guys have had a lot of energy and looked good in practice this week.” 
saturday’s win snapped a three-game losing streak for the irish, including be­ing swept by unranked new hampshire on the road. notre dame has just three road wins on the year and just one in hockey east, a nov. 2 vic­tory at vermont. with three of their remaining confer­ence games away from the compton Family ice arena, the irish will have to shake off their away-game woes. 
“it feels like there’s a little bit of a monkey on our back that we have to shake off,” rust 
see hockey PAGE 13 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

notre dame set to kick off season 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
This weekend, the irish will pick up their sticks, put their hel­mets on and take the field for the start of the 2014 season. 
The no. 5 irish open up their regular season against Jacksonville on sunday at 7 p.m., in Jacksonville, Fla. after a suc­cessful preseason campaign, the irish landed a consensus top-five ranking across national polls and now look to a strong debut of their regular season. 
“it’s our first game so our focus is really just on us,” irish coach kevin corrigan said. “our main focus is on our execution and getting a good aggressive start to the season.” 
notre dame’s execution and aggressive start to the season will rely on team cohesion, an ele­ment the irish hope to solidify in their opener against Jacksonville (0-1). 
“it’s really early in the season, and we’ve been spending all of preseason figuring out ourselves, who’s playing where and what plays we are doing,” sophomore defenseman edwin glazener said.  “we haven’t thought about what other teams are doing, and in this game, we are just look­ing for everything we have been working on to all fall into place as we begin to play.” 
although the irish have yet to play in a regular-season game, Jacksonville is preparing to face its second highly-ranked foe of the season. The dolphins battled no. 3 duke on saturday to open their season and fell 16-10 to the blue devils. 
“The biggest challenge that Jacksonville gives us is that they have a game under their belt,” corrigan said. “They have a bet­ter sense of self and how they re­act to the opposing team. They 
see lacrosse PAGE 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND looks to sweep Eagles 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 

notre dame will try again to earn its first road win of the season when it heads to boston college on sunday. 
The irish (13-12, 4-8 acc) are 0-6 on the road and have only one win away from purcell pavilion — a december neu­tral-site win over indiana in indianapolis. 
The irish have been com­petitive in their road contests, though, losing their acc road games by an average of 5.6 points. notre dame’s largest road loss was an eight-point loss to maryland. 
“every one of them, we’ve had our chances on the road, which has been frustrating,” irish coach mike brey said. 
notre dame beat the eagles (6-18, 2-9) less than two weeks ago behind senior guard eric atkins’ 24 points and game-winning 3-pointer with one second left in overtime. atkins’ three lifted the irish to a 76-73 win. 
irish junior guard/forward pat connaughton added 17 points while sophomore for­ward Zach auguste and fresh­man forward v.J. beachem each scored 10. 

eagles junior forward ryan anderson led boston college with 21 points and six rebounds but the irish held leading 
see m baskeTball PAGE 14 

ND Women’s Basketball at Boston College  W 82-61  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Boston College Sat., 1 p.m.  
Hockey at Providence  7 p.m.  Baseball at Florida Atlantic  Sat., 1 p.m. Sat., 6 p.m. Sun., 1 p.m.  ND Women’s Tennis at Michigan Men’s Tennis at Michigan  Sat., 1 p.m. Sat., 6 p.m.  
SMC Tennis vs. Ohio Northern Track and Field at SPIRE Invitational  6:30 p.m. Fri.-Sat.  ND Softball vs. Louisville ND Softball at Jacksonville ND Softball vs. Louisville  Sat., 9:30 a.m. Sat., 5 p.m. Sun., 9:30 a.m.    Hockey at Providence Men’s Basketball at Boston College  Sat., 7 p.m.  Sun., 6 p.m.  
Men’s Tennis at ITA Indoor Championships  Fri.-Mon.  SMC Basketball vs. Alma  Sat., 3 p.m.  Men’s Lacrosse at Jacksonville  Sun., 7 p.m.  






