The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 84 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students, faculty attend conference in D.C. 
2014 Catholic Social Ministry Gathering provided students opportunity to combine faith and politics 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 

a group of nine notre dame stu­dents and staff took part in the 2014 catholic social ministry gathering (csmg) earlier this week, taking the opportunity to exercise both their faith and their interest in american government and meet others doing the same. 
notre dame has sent students to the annual conference for the past 10 years, and for nine of those years the group has been led by professor bill purcell, associate di­rector for catholic social Tradition and practice at the center for social concerns. 
purcell said he brings students to the conference each year in order to inspire them to be more involved and seek to better the world around them. 
“For me it’s a way to open stu­dents up to opportunities and a way to engage faith in vocation. i get to put the question to them ‘how are we going to change sys­tems?’” purcell said. 
about 20 percent of the at­tendees at the csmg conference, which began sunday and ended wednesday, were from catholic colleges and universities. in all 26 schools sent delegations of stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
each year the conference fo­cuses on four policy issues, two do­mestic and two international, and this year the topics were the mini­mum wage, prisons, foreign 
see conFerence PAGE 4 


Courtesy of Bill Purcell 

From left: Bill Purcell, Ethan Muehlstein,Cardinal Theodore Edward McCarrick, Juwan Bepo, Jack Rooney and Kaitlyn Kennedy participated in the 2014 Catholic Social Ministry Gathering earlier this week in Washington, D.C. 


professor studies border dispute 
By TORI ROECK 
associate news editor 

in his new book titled “contested Frontiers in the syria-lebanon-israel region: cartography, sovereignty and conflict,” history and peace studies professor asher 

kaufman uses maps to illus­trate the complexity of the bor­der dispute among israel, syria and lebanon, using this border area as a microcosm of middle eastern history for the past 100 
see proFessor PAGE 5 


Lecture discusses legacy of Clarence Thomas 

By KAYLA MULLEN 
news writer 
dr. ralph a. rossum of claremont mckenna college gave a lecture on his book “understanding clarence Thomas: The Jurisprudence of constitutional restoration” on Thursday night in the eck hall of law. rossum focused on exploring Thomas’ specific jurisprudence, or philosophy of law, called originalism. 
The potenziani program in constitutional studies spon­sored the lecture, and dr. vincent phillip muñoz, as­sociate professor of political science, introduced rossum. rossum began by explaining Thomas’s jurisprudence. 
“There are three forms of originalism, which are known as original intent, original un­derstanding and original pub­lic meaning,” rossum said. “original intent focuses on the intent of the authors of the constitution, original under­standing focuses on what the provisions of the constitution meant to the delegates and original public meaning fo­cuses on the meaning in the context of the public with the vocabulary and beliefs of the time.” 

rossum wrote a book on Justice antonin scalia and his 
see Thomas PAGE 5 


hoop-a-Thon raises funds 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
news writer 
a hip-shaking hoop-a-Thon at the state Theater in south bend on Friday will benefit the girls’ summer club, a day camp saint mary’s junior sarah hossfeld intiat­ed last summer, according to annie eaton, assistant director of assess­ment and education in the office of alcohol and drug education at notre dame. 
eaton said she decided to orga­nize a fundraiser after hearing on the news about the camp hossfeld started at st. margaret’s house, a day center for women. The idea of the hoop-a-Thon came out of eaton’s own love of hula hooping and passion for working with girls, she said. 
“i have always had a place in my heart for adolescent girls and their struggles,” eaton said. “when i saw the news [on the girls’ summer 
see Fundraiser PAGE 4 






ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
andrew gastelum 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
meghan Thomassen                        peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: matthew deFranks Asst. Managing Editor: marisa iati Asst. Managing Editor: nicole michels 
News Editor: ann marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: dan brombach Sports Editor: mike monaco Scene Editor: maddie daly Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: grant Tobin Graphics Editor: steph wulz Multimedia Editor: kirby mckenna Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: emily kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 agastel1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mthomass@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mdefrank@nd.edu miati@nd.edu, nmichels@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 


Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene1@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Gastelum. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would you name your first child? 

Bridget Doyle 
sophomore 
howard hall 
“sarah.” 


Jackson Sullivan 
freshman 
dillon hall 

“daniel for a boy. megan for a girl.” 

Michael Marshall 
junior 
old college 
“Therese.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Jack Shadid 
senior keough hall 
“steven.” 

Laura Bobich 
freshman mcglinn hall 
“ryan.” 


Sarah Price 
sophomore pangborn hall 
“bridget.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
lesley stevenson katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers samantha Zuba charlie ducey alex carson 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
emily hoffmann miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Hospitality Lunch Men’s Basketball Women’s Basketball International Tax Physics Colloquium 
karla moreno dan sehlhorst 
Geddes Hall Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion Assistant Program Nieuwland Science Hall 
11:45a.m.-1 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 3 p.m.-5 p.m. LaFortune Student 4 p.m.-5 p.m. $5 donation benefits The Irish take on North The Irish take on Center Talk on information 
Corrections 

Margaret’s House. Carolina. Syracuse. All day. flow in cell signalling 
The observer regards itself as Lasagna will be served. By appointment. networks. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Spin-A-Thon Vigil Mass Zen Meditation “From Career to Men’s Basketball 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Rockne Memorial Basilica of the Sacred Coleman-Morris Calling” Purcell Pavilion 
however, recognize that we will make 
12 p.m. Heart Center Mendoza College of 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
24-hour event to raise 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Business The Irish take on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
money for breast Music by the Women’s Open to students and 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Clemson. 
we can correct our error. 

cancer research. Liturgical Choir. staff of all faiths. Part of ethics week. 


Spin-A-Thon supports breast cancer research 
By JACK ROONEY 
news writer 
From noon Friday until noon saturday, the cycling studio in the knute rockne memorial gymnasium will be filled with stu­dents, staff and community mem­bers cycling and raising money for breast cancer research and treat­ment as part of the third annual 24 hour pink Zone spin-a-Thon. 
Jennie phillips, assistant direc­tor of fitness and fitness facili­ties for recsports and one of the event’s organizers, said it is a 24­hour fundraising effort for local breast cancer support. 
“it’s 24 hours of indoor cycling, which takes place over in our cy­cling studio at the rock,” phillips said. “we start at noon on Friday the seventh and end at noon on saturday. people are simply riding bikes in support of breast cancer patients, survivors or in memory of someone.” 
The event, which is sponsored by the notre dame women’s bas­ketball team and the college of science, is part of the pink Zone initiative, a national women’s bas­ketball breast cancer fundraising campaign. 
“The pink Zone games are part of a national campaign amongst women’s collegiate basketball teams, and we’ve been doing the pink Zone on campus for probably five or six years,” phillips said. 
phillips said the past two years’ events raised several thousands of dollars for breast cancer research and gave more than 200 people the chance to participate in the event. 
“The first year we did [the spin-a-Thon] … we filled up about 85 percent of our time and raised about $13,000,” phillips said. Tabbitha ashford, the fitness and instructional program coordina­tor for recsports, also helped or­ganize the spin-a-Thon. 
phillips said 273 riders had registered for the event, and they had raised $1,575, a total that will rise throughout the course of the event. 

phillips said they ask for do­nations from riders in support of local breast cancer treatment initiatives. 
“out of the pink Zone efforts, a lot of the money stays local and helps with local efforts for wom­en to get mammograms, sup­port groups and local research,” phillips said. 
ashford said each hour of the eventwillfeature different themes, ranging from the winter olympics to the television show “The big bang Theory.” 
“we do a variety of different themed hours. we’ll have cycling classes, which is a great oppor­tunity to enjoy a cheaper cycling class compared to the ones we of­fer normally,” ashford said. “we’ll have music-themed hours, so we’ll do an 80s hour, and we’ll have a valentine’s hour where we encour­age people to wear red gear and play some cheesy love songs and have fun with that.” 
phillips said they will give away prizes throughout the event as well to keep the cyclists involved throughout the 24-hour effort. 
“we’ll have giveaways, too. everybody who rides gets a t-shirt and a water bottle, and then we’ll do giveaways throughout the night,” phillips said. “we’ll keep people engaged and entertained while they’re there.” 
phillips said in years past, the initiative has received tremendous support from the entire notre dame community. 
“The people that come have fun. it’s really awesome that a lot of our club sports teams come and participate,” phillips said. “rugby has been really great because they come from about two to five in the morning. The first year they came, we watched the movie ‘rudy’ and by the end of the movie, you could hear them all throughout the rock chanting.” 
ashford also said the event will focus on the survivors and pa­tients that the money helps. 
“we’ll be updating the mileage we’ve gone throughout the event and the money that’s being raised, as well as bringing it back home and showing videos of survivors’ stories,” ashford said. 
phillips said the event is a tes­tament to the notre dame com­munity and its willingness to help those in need. 
“one of things i am always im­pressed by at notre dame is how people step up for a cause. They come out and put forth the effort, and around here you get to have a little fun while you do that, but also really affect people’s lives,” phillips said. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

saint mary’s library introduces new services 
delivered and held for you at your to the onesearch box instead of in addition to multimedia, the campaign. 
By KELLY KONYA 

saint mary’s editor home library, usually within one looking for it at just one of the cam-library has also been working to “The preliminary plans include 
to two days.” puses,” gilbert said. “i find the re-increase the number of journal updating the study space [on the 
recently, the cushwa-leighton another improvement that has sults i need almost instantly.” and periodical subscriptions in first floor] to help students col-library at saint mary’s has taken been available since the fall se-The cushwa-leighton library electronic format. laborate together in groups with numerous steps to update the mester is the onesearch box from has also implemented an online “currently, students can access their laptops and library com-research functions and promote the cushwa-leighton library’s chat box on the website, which over 7,000 e-books,” Fore said. puters in a more flexible space,” new technological advances, in-home page, which is similar to the puts students in contact with a “more and more of our periodicals she said. “additional group study cluding a delivery service for re-onesearch box on the hesburgh librarian to answer all questions are online and accessible from rooms on the second level of the quested books shared between library’s home page. This func-during reference hours, Fore said. anywhere, and we are looking at library will include large screens the notre dame, saint mary’s, tion searches the four libraries’ “chat reference [allows stu-collections in archives that can be and allow students to display their holy cross and bethel college li-catalogs, a growing collection of dents to] get help from across the digitized and made available for multimedia projects and rehearse braries, library director Janet Fore articles from the library databases room, across campus or across use more easily. and edit presentations. said. and most of the cushwa-leighton town,” she said. “more students are being asked “we hope to better support the 
“starting monday, this new de-library’s online journal subscrip-in addition, the library has sub-to find primary documents as a various devices that students al­livery service will allow students tions, Fore said. scribed to three new databases way of studying history and cul-ready have as well as updating the and faculty to click on a ‘request’ Junior mandy gilbert said this of streaming videos, including ture and archives collections campus technology to support button in the online catalog function has been useful to her in academic video online, Films are treasures awaiting deeper the way student learn and study shared by the libraries,” Fore said. searching for articles related to her on demand: master academic discovery.” together.” “unless it is already checked out, nursing major. collection and psychotherapy.net The library is also planning a you can request a book from one “whenever i have to do research so more professors can use videos remodel in the near future, a proj-Contact Kelly Konya at of the other libraries and have it or look up a book, i go immediately in their classes, Fore said. ect in the saint mary’s fundraising kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
speaker addresses necessity of mass, eucharist 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
dr. Timothy o’malley, direc­tor of the notre dame center for liturgy, opened the 2014 winter series, “Theology on Tap,” on wednesday night at legends. o’malley, the first of four profes­sors in the speaker series, began the campus ministry event with the topic, “do i really need to go to mass to be catholic?” 
“it’s pretty easy to go to mass here,” o’malley said of the notre dame campus. “you don’t get any ‘i worked really hard to go to mass award.’ you went downstairs.” 
soon graduates will enter the adult world, go to work and realize attending mass is not going to be easy, o’malley said. 
“and then you may ask your­self, legitimately, do i have to go to mass to be catholic?” he said. “or do i have to go as often? or can’t i go just a little less? i’m tired. i was out late last night. They don’t have a 10 p.m. mass.” 
o’malley compared the ques­tion of going to mass to the ques­tion, “do i have to talk to my wife to be married?” he said the an­swer to both questions is no, but both are minimal questions to ask. he added that this does not mean catholics should not go to mass, but rather mass is not the sole marker of a catholic identity. 
an additional danger for stu­dents on campus is the dorm mass itself, o’malley said. 
“i was a student here so i’m not just being intentionally provoca­tive,” he said. “i actually don’t think the dorms do a very good job at notre dame forming you for the rest of your life as a catholic. 
“That is, you belong to a perfect community of people who all look like you and they’re basically you. you sing anthem and you close a book at the end. you slam it shut and you give bro-hugs as the sign of peace. That’s not my mass expe­rience, and that’s not the norm.” 

o’malley said he knows a num­ber of alums who attended notre dame and said their faith experi­ences peaked when they were in a chapel at the university. 
“That’s depressing to me,” he said. “your faith experience peaked when you were 18 years old? 19? 20? 21? what about the rest of it? what is left?” 
The eucharist is the sacrament that gradually teaches a christian to give up one’s own desires, o’malley said. he said receiving the gift of the eucharist is impor­tant for three reasons, the first of which is that it teaches people to live selflessly. 
“all your life you’ve been told it’s about you,” he said. “it’s hard to learn that it’s not about you.” 
The eucharist and a lifetime of going to mass gradually correct that idea, o’malley said. he said you reach outside yourself in love because you encounter god. 
“benedict Xvi said this, that the eucharist remains ultimately frag­mented and incomplete unless it ends up in acts of love of charity to the neighbor,” he said. “even when you take the sacraments in your hands … it’s not about you. it’s about the salvation of the world. nothing you do in the christian life is about you.” 
The second reason is the eucharist transforms suffering, o’malley said. 
“not every one of your class­mates will live. They won’t be at your 10-year reunion; they won’t be at your 20-year reunion,” he said. “some of you won’t be able to have children. and that’s your big­gest dream. That is just life.” 
o’malley said the two responses to suffering are anger toward life and a christian response of find­ing god’s presence in the darkness. 
“how do you transform that?” he said. “The only thing you can do, in some ways, is give it away, to allow it to become a eucharistic of­fering, to allow your pain to open up a space in which love becomes more possible. The eucharist pro­vides a space for this.” 
o’malley said the third reason addresses those who wonder what their calling is in life. 
“The eucharist is a kind of prac­tice for how to live out what you think your vocation is going to be,” he said. “Through the eucharist, you practice giving yourself away. 
“and if you continue to give yourself away, to love according to the logic of a god who is love, then just hypothetically, you’ll end up where you are supposed to be.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Conference 
conTinued From page 1 
relations in the middle east and immigration, purcell said. The conference featured several key­note speakers, policy workshops and meetings with representatives on capitol hill. 
sophomore ethan muehlstein said the best part of the experi­ence for him was hearing from the speakers. 
“[The speakers] urged us to live out the gospel pope Francis is try­ing to teach to us in his homilies and in the way he acts,” he said. “my favorite part of the conference was hearing a speech from [cardinal Theodore mccarrick]. he was talk­ing about how we don’t have to be perfect humans or great orators to make a difference. we just have to do the best we can at something we love with our whole hearts.” 
sophomore kaitlyn kennedy said she relished the chance to meet with congress members from indiana. 
“i felt like an empowered citizen visiting with both indiana sena­tors and representative walorski,” kennedy said. “it was nerve-wrack­ing to speak to them on these con­troversial and complex issues, but we felt confident knowing that we were not there in our own interest and that the words we were speak­ing were truth.” 
it was significant that the group was able to meet with senator donnelly, senator coats and rep. walorski and get a sympathetic hearing from the lawmakers, muehlstein said. 
“some other groups were only able to meet with chiefs of staff, so it was good we were able to meet with the people who actually make the laws and vote,” muehlstein said. “i felt they were open to what we were telling them.” 
The group was able to meet with the legislators themselves because purcell began working to arrange the meetings in october, he said. he said the reason he makes such an effort is the importance for the students of having that experience. 
“The best understanding of civ­ics comes from being engaged in it,” he said. “being on capitol hill can’t be replicated here in south bend.” 
all four of the undergraduate students in the group were sopho­mores, and every year the group includes sophomores because the students have time to act on their experience when they return and become leaders on campus, purcell said. 
“The reason i bring sophomores is for leadership development,” he said. “i think it’s a transformative experience for them. 
“The students appreciate learn­ing about faith and advocacy, and that faith and politics don’t have to be separate. [attending the confer­ence] helps them get a national and an international perspective on so­cial concerns.” 
muehlstein said the conference helped him to understand why he was interested in social justice and motivated him to become even more involved. 
“i’ve always had a passion for social justice, so this was a great opportunity to get to the 

theory behind why i do what i do,”  because iFundraiser  believe that these are “The girls made journals so that  
muehlstein said. “another student and i are now hoping to get in- very prevalconTinued From page 1 an of all a ent problems in wom­they could have a positive outlet for ges,” hossfeld said. “i their feelings,” hossfeld said. “we  
volved in the local juvenile deten­ “i had no start-up money to also think a ddressing these topics did things on body image such as  
tion center, sharing our ministry  organize the fundraiser and so  the barbie project and compared  
with them so they don’t feel forgot- everything that will happen that “I ha the dimensions of what barbie d no start-up  
ten or alone.”  night came out of the good hearts  would be if she was real, and how  
kennedy said her experience al­ monof those involved.”  ey to organize that compares to our bodies.”  
lowed her to move beyond what  hossfeld said she received a the fundraiser  saint mary’s and notre dame  
she was already learning about  grant in the summer of 2013 as a and so everything students should attend the-hoop­ 
catholic social values in the  student intern to start the gir’s’ that a-Thon to support the local com-will happen  
classroom. summer club for the daughters that munity, hossfeld said.  
 “as a catholic social Tradition  of women at st. margaret’s house,  night came “i think it is very easy to get  
minor, i have studied about what it  but this summer the funding is out  of the good caught in the smc and nd bubble  
means to live the gospel social val- uncertain. hear ts of those and forget about the community  
ues in class, but this conference in­ “we are hoping that [the-hoop­invo around us,” she said. “Just down lved.”  
troduced me to people whose lives  a-Thon] can help us start raising  the street there are families who  
have been transformed by these  Sarah Hossfeld the funds that are necessary to  are struggling to put food on the  
values, and gave me a way to advo­ junior keep the program running and to  table or provide essential daily  
cate for these values to be upheld in  let us do some really fun things,”  things for themselves or their  
our nation.”  hossfeld said. young can  help girls to have posi­children.  
purcell said the conference is or- The idea behind the gir’s’ tive ideas.”  “it would be a great experience  
ganized by 16 different catholic or- summer club was to build the hossfel d said the program for people to come out and meet  
ganizations, with the united states  girls’ self-esteem in a variety of incorporated  having fun and these wonderful woman and their  
conference of catholic bishops  ways, hossfeld said. learning ab out issues the girly are daughters. plus all of the money  
(usccb) as the primary sponsor.  “i initially wanted to do gir’s’ facing in a  way that encouraged goes to a good cause.”  

Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

club so that we could talk about things like body image, healthy eating habits and self esteem the girls to enjoy coming to the gir’s’ summer club and makine friends. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Professor 
conTinued From page 1 
years. 
kaufman said his case study reveals a flaw in the way we view international borders. 
“There is always a gap be­tween how we perceive po­litical borders as impregnable, impenetrable lines that are controlled by the states and the reality that consistently defeats that,” he said. “This is even more so in areas of conflict zones, where we think of bor­ders as lines of defense where the military stands behind one side, the other military behind the other side, and the border line is simply a war zone. 
“This has been the image of the israeli borders with its arab neighbors. when you zoom in, you see that the situation is far more complex.” 
To better understand the complexity of these borders, kaufman said he pored through French diplomatic archives that were disorganized but held the key to unlocking the border dispute. 
“i knew that if i would find anything about the lebanese and syrian borders it would be there, because the French demarcated these borders, in theory, during the days of the French mandate,” he said. 
kaufman said this border dispute is especially relevant to 

paid adverTisemenT 

the current syrian political cli­mate and its resulting refugee crisis. 
“in light of the unrest that has engulfed the middle east since 2011, if you look at the syrian civil war, and you look at the situation at syria’s borders, you get a sense … that the conflicts in the region, even the syrian civil war, cannot be circum­scribed within the boundaries of syria,” he said. “There is ac­tually great leakage. 
“The civil war in syria has be­come a regional issue. lebanon is affected by it. israel is af­fected by it. and the tri-border region has become another are­na where the civil war is being manifested.” 

Thomas 
conTinued From page 1 
jurisprudence in 2006. he de­cided to focus on Thomas be­cause his beliefs were similar to scalia’s, but also encompassed important differences. 
“both scalia and Thomas re­main unswayed by the claims of precedent,” rossum said. 
“scalia focuses on original public meaning, while Thomas focuses on the general meaning, which incorporates scalia’s ap­proach but also considers intent and understanding.” 
rossum said another 
paid adverTisemenT 
This conflict and those in­volved in it has made the region he writes about dangerous, kaufman said. 
“because of the topography of this region, it has become an area for arms smuggling, for combatants to go back and forth from lebanon to syria and vice versa,” he said. 
“because of the sensitivity of this region, israel has now for­tified its military presence and has also began treating syrian citizens arriving now at the israeli borders asking for medi­cal assistance. it all takes place there in this very small piece of land that, despite its small size, can tell us the big stories of the middle east.” 
difference between the two justices is their opinions of the declaration of independence. scalia rejects it because he be­lieves it is not relevant, but Thomas highly values the docu­ment, rossum said. 
“To Thomas, the original intention of the constitution was to be the fulfillment of the declaration of independence,” rossum said. 
rossum gave examples of Thomas’s originalist jurispru­dence as applied to the interstate commerce clause, a part of the commerce clause that allows congress to regulate economic 
kaufman said using cartog­raphy to examine the conflict in this region – the first third of his book is all about maps – is “innovative.” 
“something that has not been done by i don’t think anybody is the connection i make between cartography and the social and political reality, colonial car­tography of the 19th century, its impact on boundary demarca­tion in the 20th century and the way this colonial cartography eventually plays a decisive role in how border populations be­have on a day- to-day basis,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
activity between states. rossum said Thomas votes against cases in which the interstate commerce clause is applied, such as gonzales v. raisch, be­cause it was not included in the original constitution. 
dr. donald drakeman of princeton university closed the event with remarks on rossum’s book. 
“it is a wonderfully done book that shows the incredible con­sistency of Thomas’s jurispru­dence,” drakeman said. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 


perspective 

Maria Massa 
graphics designer 

during my senior year of high school, my art teacher, ms. deal, made each of the students in her class keep a journal throughout the year, and each morning she would have something about which for us to journal. some days, it would be a quote to which we would have to respond, other days she might ask us to sketch out a scene de­scribed out loud. 
whatever it was, it was something to get us thinking, and something that challenged us to look deeper at our own lives than a typical high school se­nior might. while i can appreciate now the value of all those morning journal questions, there was one in particular that continues to challenge me and influence the way i go through life. 
over a long weekend, ms. deal asked us simply to do something that put us out of our comfort zone, and then write about it the next class. nothing illegal, and nothing extreme like cliff jumping 
— just something small that we might consider a challenge and others might not. seemed simple enough, but it took a lot of introspection to figure out what little things scared me or made me uncomfortable. after a lot of thought, i realized i’ve always been afraid of be­ing lost. 
so, for my challenge, i decided that instead of driving the same 14-minute drive home from school like i did every day, i would get myself lost. i didn’t do anything crazy like get on the highway and get out of town, but i took back-roads home, and turned down streets i pass everyday (but have never driven down) trusting i would eventually get to where i needed to go, and just enjoy­ing the drive. 
while it was something really simple, it was also really therapeutic, and i got in the habit of doing it every once in a while. it gave me a chance to break from the daily routines i got so stuck in, allowed me time to let my mind wander and i got to explore areas of town to which i had never paid any attention before. 
getting myself lost, something that once made me uncomfortable, has now become something i make a point of incorporating into my life. when i lived in Farley, it meant walking a dif­ferent way home or wandering around a different part of campus. now that i live off campus, it means turning left instead of right and exploring a new part of south bend (which actually has a lot more to offer than you might think, if you look close enough). but no matter where i am, it always means a little fresh perspective and a break from the everyday routine. 
Contact Maria Massa at mmassa@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Mia Lillis 
we are nd 

Two summers ago, i spent two months living in an ashram just outside of pondicherry, a city in the southern part of india. in the months leading up to the abroad experience, my excitement grew stronger and stronger. i had always been interested in india. i found the food to be deli­cious, i appreciated the influence of the sitar in western music, i had en­joyed the few bollywood movies that i had seen at that point and i found the hindu religion to be extremely interesting. For as long as i could re­member, it had been my dream to visit india, for i firmly believed that some kind of spiritual or personal enlighten­ment lay waiting for me in the foreign land. now that this dream would soon come true, i could not be happier. 
little did i know that pondicherry had a rude awakening in store for me. unsurprisingly, india was not at all what i expected based on my extreme­ly limited exposure. my previous ex­periences with indian food, music and movies were a poor representation of the vast, rich, diverse culture found in india. This limited understanding was arguably comparable to a foreigner whose only perception of the united states was french fries and western films, and because they enjoyed these things, believed they belonged in and could find personal enlightenment in the united states. needless to say, i found no enlightenment in india 
— not because india was a terrible place at all, far from it. however, my approach to visiting pondicherry had completely precluded any chance i had to truly appreciate what i encoun­tered there. going into an experience expecting some kind of supernatural revelation will inevitably lead to disap­pointment, and further, is a complete disrespect of the people and the cul­ture that one intended to take advan­tage of for personal improvement. in fact, if pondicherry offered me any kind of enlightenment, it was the discovery that i had approached this abroad experience with completely ill intentions. 
This is not to say that traveling abroad is inherently awful. not every­one who travels abroad expects the experience to provide them with some kind of personal growth. rather, many people are drawn to travel because it gives them an opportunity to learn a new language, or because they believe that exposure to diversity is inherently beneficial or because traveling can reveal the falsity of some previously deep-seated assumptions about the world. more than 50 percent of the notre dame campus goes abroad at some point, and if one asks these stu­dents about their reasons for doing so, they will give you many other reasons beyond these. 
of course, that is not to say that i am the sole notre dame student that has studied abroad for the wrong reasons. i have spoken with several friends, both who have gone abroad or who have elected to stay on campus for their full junior year, who admit that their rea­sons for going abroad were less than benevolent and less than respectful towards other cultures. luckily, these friends who elected to stick around realized before it was too late what i had to learn the hard way: if one does seek enlightenment, or wishes to ex­perience a culture different from their own, one need not travel at all to find these things. we often romanticize foreign cultures at the detriment of ac­tual people living these cultures, while simultaneously completely overlook­ing the fact that the american experi­ence is incredibly diverse, and for the most part one would need to travel only half-an-hour to find a completely unfamiliar community or culture. 
whether it is a service opportunity in another country or study abroad, learn from my mistake. do not be the jerk who presumes that they will find enlightenment simply by immersing themselves in a foreign community. do not presume that you know all about a culture prior to actually expe­riencing said culture. if you do travel, keep an open mind and do not make assumptions beforehand about what the experience will mean for you, for this is the surest way to ensure that you will have a bad experience. and if you do not travel, that’s perfectly okay as well. The world is full of learn­ing experiences, both abroad and domestic, and regardless of whether you go abroad or stay in the country, these experiences are waiting for your discovery. 
Mia Lillis is a senior living in Cavanaugh Hall. She can be reached at mlillis@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves, but wiser people so full of doubts.” 
Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) 
British author, mathematician and author 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Hey undecided, Arts and Letters is for you 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

i’m not a philosophy or pls major, but i considered both. They’re fantas­tic majors with eminently qualified and extremely interesting faculty. if you’re still “fundecided” and you’re really into ideas, books and destroy­ing your friends in arguments, you should give them a serious look. To do that, you might go to their websites. and if you go to their websites, you’ll find links to passionate and, i think, somewhat out-of-place defenses of the major as an employable, and therefore worthy, field. The philosophy website provides a link to an article from The atlantic on a philosophy ph.d. who started a consulting firm that now has more than 500 employees. The pls website features a collection of brief essays from pls alumni working in everything from underwater archeol­ogy to venture capital, the message being, “yes, you really can get a job.” 
i object, in the first place, to the pervasive notion that arts & letters must carry the burden of proof that the degrees it confers are employ­able. This idea is wrong on at least two fronts. The first is that the value of a degree is not primarily rooted in the salary it brings you immediately after graduation, but in the educational ex­perience it still represents half-a-cen­tury down the road. The second and more practical is that the ability to hear a dense or flowery set of words, dissect it into its constituent premises and conclusions and affirm it or blow it out of the water with better logic, will never not be employable. 
The first of those two arguments is one i subscribe to wholeheartedly, romantic as it sounds. when i finish this column i am going to shut my laptop and read about the effect of reelection incentives on the behav­ior of u.s. congressmen, and then about richard nixon’s veto on the war powers act, and then, if time allows, 30 or so pages of “Trainspotting,” a book of short stories told in the voice of 1990’s scottish heroin addicts. i’m pretty jazzed about it. 
in a perfect world, everyone gets this charged up about what they study, whether the subject is fiscal 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

what about the men’s spirit wear? 
in my four years at notre dame, i current 2014 version. have come close to writing in to The as we speak, this year’s edition observer multiple times. several of spirit wear most accurately rep-things around campus have either resents what my sister is paying for “irked” me or have elicited praise. during her freshman year at the but finally, as a senior, something university of illinois: a piece of has finally pushed me over the clothing that separates a group of edge: 2014’s spirit wear. girls from the rest of the gender on 
i have good things to say about campus. what spirit wear should spirit wear — especially about the represent is a medium through 2012 green and gold, Joe montana-which seniors can show pride in era football jersey. if allowed, i their graduating class in a more af­would have bought three of those fordable fashion than a class ring. 
— not only because i liked the look, The class ring is a recognizable tra­but because they were reasonably dition that has lasted generations at priced. This year, however, i feel notre dame, but is still a tradition that the focus group in charge of that is not a financial reality for spirit wear has completely missed all students. it was not affordable their mark. This year’s edition — a for my father in ’83, nor is it for my rugby polo reminiscent of those twin brother and myself in ’14. you will find in a female dorm’s This year’s senior class has been catalogue or a major college soror-hoping for apparel that separates ity — fails to attract a majority of them from every other graduat­campus. every male student i have ing class in notre dame’s history. talked to is not only turned off by we — especially the male and the the price of the rugby polos (one for less financially privileged — have $45, two for $80), but by the very not receive an acceptable option in style of the shirt of well. even my 2014. female friends are appalled by the price, as well as some of the color Dan O’Brien schemes. as seniors, we believe senior that our spirit wear should be more off-campus unisexual and affordable than the Feb. 7 policy or fluid dynamics. but i don’t believe this is always the case here. i think there are “chegs” who would rather study political science, pre-meds who’d rather read british literature and some Finance majors itching to switch to theology (plus, these things rarely seem to go the opposite way). For people so situ­ated, the single greatest time com­mitment of these four years — school 
— must feel more like work than an adventure. 
in saying this i don’t make a value judgment on different majors, nor do i discount why these situations arise in the first place. $57,000 is a heck of a sum. as is $47,000, $37,000, $27,000 and $17,000. so long as tuition hikes outpace inflation, these num­bers push us to justify our degrees in dollars. so long as mendoza holds its place as the no. 1 undergraduate business school and sTem majors get sucked into the booming economy of big data and digital everything, lib­eral arts kids like me will feel anxiety about how we’ll fare. That anxiety isn’t helped by the occasional career fair recruiter poorly suppressing a puzzled look when you answer the question, “what’s your major?” 
but skeptical recruiters aside, i be­lieve in an institution such as notre dame, career anxiety simply should not enter into the equation when you choose your course of study. everything i’ve observed thus far points to the following formula for landing in prestigious places (and paying off your debt) after notre dame: crush your classes, become an interesting and confident person and learn how to lead others. That’s it. impressive people are impressive (and impressive people get hired) because they transcend reductionist labels of a, b or c major and X, y or Z college. put another way, if you want to study philosophy, but you’re concerned that it will hurt your plans to run the world of investing, don’t worry — it won’t. ask carl icahn and george soros. 
Alex Caton is a junior living in St. Edward’s Hall. He can be contacted at     acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Slave ownership: an honest debate 
when reading katrina linden’s col-beecher stowe based “uncle Tom’s umn from Feb. 5, i found plenty to be cabin.” or william lloyd garrison, taken seriously. of course, we must real-who founded “The liberator” in 1831 ize there is still a lot of work to be done as an anti-slavery periodical. or elijah in promoting equality in all sectors of lovejoy, who was killed in alton, ill., by public life. we have not yet emerged a pro-slavery mob intent on destroy-into a “post-racial” america. i would ing his abolitionist publication. slavery like to, however, raise a point that at was a powerful force, but there were first seems quite trivial but means a lot thousands of people dedicated to its for proper discourse. ms. linden stated, downfall, information on whom is ex­“i am convinced any white male in the ceedingly easy to find today. united states today would have been a To ms. linden, i don’t point out these slaveowner in the past.” a bold claim, to examples in order to discredit you. on be sure. the contrary, i believe strongly in most 
as a history major, i have learned the of the points you make in your column, hard way the pitfalls of making grand as-and understand that you are completely sumptions such as ms. linden’s without against blaming anyone for the deeds of the facts to back them up. she certainly others. i bring this up because i want to did not do any research in preparation demonstrate that when writing an im­for such a broad statement — in her de-portant and assertive treatise such as fense, she never claimed to have done re-yours, every little detail counts. we have search. one pitfall to which a statement a responsibility when we are express-like this exposes the author is to be hit ing ourselves not to take shortcuts, not hard by anyone who has the facts. to compromise the truth for emotional 
anyone with cursory knowledge of resonance. we must all work hard to 19th century american history is aware preserve the integrity of intellectual dis-of some rather prominent white males course, even if we’re not being graded for who did not own slaves and, in fact, it. fought tooth and nail against the insti­tution. leave out the somewhat contro-Gabriel Orlet versial example of John brown, and you senior still have men like Theodore weld, upon morrissey manor whose abolitionist writings harriet Feb. 7 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 
The Naked and Famous 

hailing from good old new Zealand, The naked and Famous is an indie rock band that’s as epic as the movies filmed in its homeland. sporting massive guitar and synth hooks and a killer guy-girl vo­calist duo, The naked and Famous is the sort of band that would somehow save the world with music. over the span of merely two albums, “passive me, aggressive you” and “in rolling waves,” The naked and Famous scored a series of indie-famous hits; perhaps the best known of the bunch are “young blood” and “punching in a dream.” if by chance you’ve only heard those two, don’t think you’ve heard it all; The naked and Famous have one of the deepest singles catalogs of any modern 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

around notre dame and across the country, disney’s hit animated fea­ture “Frozen” has taken everyone by icy storm. so far, it has generated over $865 million in worldwide box office sales, and has been lauded as disney’s best animated film since “The lion king.” 
one of the biggest hit songs from “Frozen” was “let it go”, performed by idina menzel, who voiced elsa in “Frozen” and also originated the role of elphaba in the Tony award winning musical “wicked.” The music video for the song has over 77 million hits on youTube at the time of writing this ar­ticle. by now, everyone who has seen “Frozen” has probably also seen the multi-language version of “let it go” 
EMILY HOFFMAN | The Observer 

indie rock band. “hearts like ours” and “i kill giants” are easy highlights in the pool. 
CHVRCHES 

an electro-pop group from scotland, chvrches crafts unbelievably colorful music, the irresistibly crisp production of which is only topped by incredible song­writing. The synthesizers chvrches layers in each song are incredibly vibrant, perfectly complementing lead singer lauren mayberry’s clear and power­ful voice. sporting lyrics of freedom and courage in regards to love, chvrhces manages to hit the feels hard while avoid­ing clichés. although it’s not on the radio much, chvrhces’ music is undoubtedly pop music. it manages to sound new and exciting without sacrificing catchiness or aesthetic appeal. For starters, check 
that disney released online, showing off all 25 languages the song has been released in. in order for the lyrics to match the rhythm of the song, transla­tors had to take some creative liberties. but did you know what these foreign lyrics actually mean? when translated back into english, several versions of the song take on almost entirely differ­ent meanings. 
one of the most interesting foreign versions by far is the hungarian one. it’s dark, melancholic  and at times downright depressing. The end of the first verse where elsa normally complains about the “swirling storm inside” that she couldn’t keep in, heav­ens know she tried, is replaced instead with the frank lamentation: “i know i have ruined it, my awful deed pains me.” The famous cries of “let it go, let it go” are changed to “let there be snow, out the explosive single “recover” or the dance-floor-ready “we sink.” 
The Drums 
There are a lot of neighborhood rock bands that have that homey, local feel but lack catchy songwriting. There are also a lot of pop bands that have incredibly catchy songwriting but just seem overpol­ished and distant. The drums is a perfect balance of both. its music features loads of infectious guitar riffs and unforgettable choruses, but the production is relatively stripped down and electronics are almost completely absent. you’ve probably heard at least parts of “let’s go surfing” — the whistling melody has been used in many a Tv commercials. although that song is great, don’t miss out on “days,” “what you were” or “money,” which on a scale of one-to-catchy are at least an 11. 
let there be snow.” when a determined elsa declares “the cold never bothered me anyway” at the end of the english version, the hungarian edition leaves listeners with the gloomy “my heart is still covered in ice.” 
also of note is the surprisingly uplift­ing and inspiring mandarin rendition. The lyrics in this one are absolutely stunningly beautiful, and even com­pete with the original english ones. elsa proclaims her “thoughts are like the whistling wind, like the surging wave,” understanding that “from this day, i control my future” and ultimate­ly declaring that she’ll “never live in fear anymore, because i’ll conquer the frost and snow.” conquering the frost and snow seems slightly cooler than never letting it bother you anyway. 
although the language does not nec­essarily fit the scandinavian setting of 
SINGLE HIGHLIGHT: HAERTS, “Wings” 
so haerTs is an up-and-coming group that has only released four songs so far. it’s kind of miraculous, however, that the single “wings” hasn’t been used in a red bull ad. not only is the track super ap­propriate slogan-wise, it’s also filled to the brim with epic ingredients — vocalist nini Fabi’s vocals set the bar for the word “soar,” harmonies from heaven, a ridicu­lously groovy drumbeat, gorgeous guitar riff, and the lyrics “i’ll float away into your afterglow” which might look kind of silly on paper until you actually hear them. one thing’s for certain: “wings” is a song that, if you let it in, will probably be very close to your heart. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Frozen,” the italian edition of the song is beautiful as well, with lyrics that shout of “the storm that won’t stop, be­cause starting from today fate belongs to me.” Just as memorable are the som­ber polish version, the tongue-twisting german version, and the traditional latin version that one brave youTuber wrote and sang. 
no matter the language, the inspir­ing message of “Frozen” and, in partic­ular, “let it go” transcends all cultures and can universally bring uplifting feelings of joy. if you haven’t seen this film yet, i highly recommend you do, or at the very least find one of the many versions of “let it go” on the internet. you’re bound to find one that speaks to you. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                    jkemper2@nd.edu 


By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
scene writer 

as an english major, i really should be have been able to tell you which of shakespeare’s plays contains the fa­mous “all the world’s a stage” quote be­fore wednesday evening’s production of “as you like it” in washington hall. but, it surprised me to hear that line in the second act, and for me it touches on the greatest aspect of an already fan­tastic performance. 
here’s the context: The melancholy Jaques de boys is comparing life to the­ater, and explaining how he thinks each person progresses through several pre­dictable stages before inevitably meet­ing death. he declaims, “all the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players; they have their exits and their entrances, and one man in his time plays many parts.” very melodra­matic, very profound, naturally. 
now, here’s the best part: The players 
By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

a symposium titled “robert creeley’s library: The poet’s books as art museum and network of communications” is be­ing held today in the special collections of the hesburgh library (special collections faces across from the fish­bowl). not many undergraduates are aware, but notre dame owns the in the actors From The london stage company take that very quote to heart in their varied performance styles. each of the five actors plays at least four roles, with no set and no director. since they don’t need specific scenery, the whole world really is open for their stage, and they have a very literal inter­pretation of “one man in his time plays many parts.” 
Take, for example, dan winter, whose characters include orlando, charles, corin, william and Jaques. in one scene, orlando and charles wrestle each other in court — it’s hilarious to watch winter punch and grapple with an imaginary opponent, before turn­ing around and rewinding to feign the opponent’s reaction to the blows. when orlando wins, winter alternately lifts his fist in victory and then immediately lies on the floor to represent charles’ loss. 
it’s absurd, and hilarious. The bril­liance of each actor shines through in 
personal library of famous american poet robert creeley. The university pro­cured creeley’s library, which includes his own copies of his books, artist’s books, letters, his typewriter and vari­ous other books, papers and notes he owned, after his death in 2005 for more than half a million dollars. 
The symposium today celebrates the university’s collection and the recent publishing of “The selected letters the way they can play so many roles without losing the audience’s under­standing. They switch effortlessly between characters and accents and props, with just the donning of a hat or the removal of a coat — and in doing so, we appreciate the nuances of each character all the more. 
Jennifer higham (who plays rosalind, amiens, audrey and lord) is without a doubt one of the most talented stage ac­tresses i’ve ever seen. in what is perhaps the most outlandish switch of them all, Jennifer depicts rosalind dressing up as a boy to escape from court, counsel­ing her lover on how best to win her over 
— completely unbeknownst to him. 
The whole performance is filled with moments like these, comical in the traditional setting but absolutely hilarious and brilliant in this unique performance. The actors not only do justice to shakespeare’s original words, they draw them out and maxi­mize their power by making them the 
of robert creeley” by university of california press. The symposium starts at 10 a.m., with creeley’s widow lead­ing a discussion for an hour. There will be a short refreshment break and then a publisher and close friend of creeley’s will lead discussion. The final speaker is professor kaplan harris who co-edited this publication of “The selected letters of robert creeley.” The day will end with a roundtable discussion lead by show’s major driving force. with no set to speak of — besides a group of chairs on stage in which they sit when not in character and a coat rack holding the various character’s identifying props — the actors seem to be spectators right along with us, involved in the game of theater. The atmosphere in the audito­rium is especially dynamic because the actors implicitly ask us to buy into their charade of character and allow us to participate in the show’s success. 
The last performance is tonight at 
7:30 p.m., in washington hall. Tickets cost $22 for the general public, and $12 for students. whether you know the play or not, or even if you know shakespeare at all or not, you won’t be disappointed by the show. This is the­ater like you’ve never seen it, and one of the most engaging, interactive and incredible performances i’ve ever seen. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski               ajakubo1@nd.edu 
graduate students, and finally a recep­tion beginning at 4:15 p.m. The sym­posium is open to the public. it is free, there is no need for pre-registration and people are welcome to attend as many or as few of the day’s events as they wish. The symposium begins at 10 a.m. and will run until 5 p.m. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at                                   eterhaar@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Tradition defines fan culture 

Casey Karnes 
sports writer 
For modern day sports teams, the past is an inexorable part of the present. Quarterbacks watch film of opponents previous games to discover tendencies, managers analyze hitters’ histo­ry against a certain pitcher while deciding whether to pencil him into a lineup and general man­agers examine previously signed contracts to use as precedent in new negotiations. beyond all of this daily minutia, however, is a greater sense of connection to the past that informs on how a team is run, cheered for and dis­cussed. Tradition is the intan­gible thread that ties together a team, its fans and its city. 
Traditions can be fun, like the ridiculous sausage races around the stadium at milwaukee brewers’ home games. They can be annoying, like the deaf­ening Tomahawk chop chant constantly done at Florida state, atlanta braves and every-other­team-with-a-native-american­mascot game. it doesn’t matter if they’re relatively new or cen­turies old, if they’re pre-game, postgame or during the game, or even if they have a point. The only criterion is that the action, cheer, whatever, has become so entrenched into a team’s identity that there would be something missing without it. 
some traditions stand out above the rest and define their teams in crystalline fashion. The best in all of sports? 
The Haka, New Zealand All Blacks: 
The scariest tradition on the list by far, the haka is an intimi­dating maori war dance the all blacks perform prior to their matches. combining primal yelling with fierce stomping and pounding, the dance celebrates the rich maori heritage of new Zealand. while the all blacks may not use the haka to prep for literal war, it still has the same effect, pumping up supporters while making opponents re­gret even showing up. The type of haka preformed by the all blacks, “ka mate,” is toned down from the traditional war chants, but is still terrifying enough to have been criticized by some as unsportsmanlike intimidation. 
The Lambeau Leap, Green Bay Packers: 
as much as i hate to say it as 
a bears fan, i have to give the packers credit for the lambeau leap. after most touchdowns at home, the scoring player es­chews individual celebration in favorite of taking a running jump into the stands to celebrate with the elated green bay fans. started by safety leroy butler in 1993, the leap may not be oldest tradition, but it showcases the bond between team and fans so well that its age doesn’t matter. it’s fitting that the only team that fans can buy a stake in has a tradition that gets fans and play­ers so close together. still in its youth, this is a tradition i doubt we’ll ever see the end of. 
“Jump Around”, University of Wisconsin-Madison: 
another new tradition, the playing of “Jump around” between the third and fourth quarter at wisconsin’s camp randall stadium, may not sound that unique at first. The badgers fans, however, have taken own­ership of this widely loved song by turning it into a beacon of their enthusiasm and love for their football team. while the song plays, the student section leads the stadium in jumping and dancing so violently that the stadium literally shakes. officially, the tradition began in 1998, when the song and fans’ reaction inspired wisconsin to rally and beat purdue after being held scoreless the first three quarters. in 2003, school officials were so worried about the tradition’s tendency to cause minor earthquakes that they cancelled the playing of the song while the stadium’s sky-boxes underwent construction. Fans, however, had become so attached that they launched a protest. officials soon relented, and camp randall has been rocking ever since. 
These traditions are just a few of the many that are an integral part of the sports landscape. From “play like a champion Today” to “Take me out to the ball game,”, it’s impossible to name them all. The best thing about traditions? between new ones popping up constantly and no expiration date on past ones, we’ll never run out of ones to enjoy. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
no. 7 cincinnati beats no. 22 connecticut 63-58 
Associated Press 
cincinnaTi — sean kilpatrick scored 26 points, and Justin Jackson led a sec­ond-half surge that rallied no. 7 cincinnati to its 15th straight win, 63-58 over no. 22 connecticut on Thursday night. 
The bearcats (22-2, 11-0 american athletic) trailed most of the game, their first with a no. 7 ranking that is their highest in 10 years. a crowd of 12,432 — their biggest of the season — watched them close it out with free throws. 
cincinnati has won 18 straight at home, including all 16 this season. The bearcats are off to their best start in 12 years. 
Jackson had six points and blocked a shot during a 13-4 run that rallied cincinnati midway through the second half. Jermaine sanders’ two free throws with 18.5 seconds left gave cincinnati a 61-58 lead. 
uconn’s niels giffey missed a 3-point shot, and kilpatrick got the rebound, was fouled and made both free throws. 
shabazz napier scored 16 points for the huskies (17-5, 5-4) who were playing their highest-ranked opponent this season. They are 2-2 against Top 25 teams, with wins over Florida and memphis and loss­es to louisville and cincinnati. 
The game matched two of the aac’s top guards. kilpatrick leads the league at 19.4 points per game, while napier aver­ages 17.9 points and 6.0 re­bounds. shabazz got the better of it early. kilpatrick rallied the 

FOR SALE 
2 BR Condo - Oak Hill. Smartly Furnished. $132,500. Call 561-588-5520 
FOR RENT 
4 BR 2 BA home for rent at 725 Angela. 2014/15 school year. 11 month lease starting 8/1/14. $2200/ mo. No pets. blg57@sbcglobal.net 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL: Prime location next to campus. Walk to everything. email nd-house@sb­cglobal.net for additional info and photos. 
Duplex-Two 1 BR apt. $425/mo and $325/mo. New tile, carpet, paint, appliances. 620 Columbia SB 46601 blg57@sbcglobal.net 
bearcats at the end. 
connecticut led for all but 40 seconds in the first half with its guards darting through cincinnati’s defense for layups and assists. 
The huskies made four of their first six shots in the sec­ond half to hold the lead. omar calhoun’s baseline jumper put the huskies ahead 42-34. 
Jackson then led the bearcats on the 13-4 run. he 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
emphatically blocked a shot to set up a fast break that cul­minated in kilpatrick’s dunk. Jackson picked up a loose ball on the bearcats’ next posses­sion and dunked, then fol­lowed with a driving bank shot for a 47-46 lead with 7:34 left. 
kilpatrick hit another 3 that started a six-point spurt and gave cincinnati its biggest lead, 53-49. The bearcats led the rest of the way. 

paid adverTisemenT 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
ND alum in search of a summer caregiver for 3 boys ages 1, 3,9 for June(or May) to early August in Milton, MA, south of Boston. We need an en­ergetic, reliable, warm and caring ND/ SMC student who can become part of our family for the summer. 5 days a week, with some evenings and week­ends. Though we prefer someone local who has their own transportation, will­ing to consider someone from outside the Boston area. Along with a valid driver’s license, a sense of humor and love of minivans is a must. If interested respond with a brief bio to Joanna at currentstudents@ndboston.com 
“Grace Kelly” by MIKA: “I wanna talk to you.” “The last time we talked, Mr. Smith, you reduced me to tears. I promise you it won’t happen again.” Do I attract you? Do I repulse you with my queasy smile? Am I too dirty? Am I too flirty? Do I like what you like? I could be wholesome I could be loathsome I guess I’m a little bit shy Why don’t you like me? Why don’t you like me without making me try? I tried to be like Grace Kelly But all her looks were too sad So I try a little Freddie Ive gone identity mad! I could be brown I could be blue I could be violet sky I could be hurtful I could be purple I could be anything you like Gotta be green Gotta be mean Gotta be everything more Why don’t you like me? Why don’t you like me? Why don’t you walk out the door! “Getting angry doesn’t solve anything” How can I help it How can I help it How can I help what you think? Hello my baby Hello my baby Putting my life on the brink Why don’t you like me Why don’t you like me Why don’t you like yourself? Should I bend over? Should I look older just to be put on your shelf? I tried to be like Grace Kelly But all her looks were too sad So I try a little Freddie I’ve gone identity mad! 


ND SOFTBALL 

Irish travel to Auburn Plainsman Invitational 
“They’re all going to be good. it’s everybody’s first weekend, ev­erybody’s excited, everybody has been chomping at the bit to play somebody.” 
The irish opened up practice season in mid-January. gumpf said despite the limited amount of practice time, she believes the team is prepared for the tournament. 
“softball players are accus­tomed and we’re bred to play a lot of games,” gumpf said. “our girls don’t know any different. Four games in one weekend is not a big deal, it’s typical.” 
gumpf is entering her 13th season as head coach at notre dame, one example of the team’s wide range of experience. The irish are returning seven start­ers, including junior outfielder emilee koerner. koerner was named to the espnw preseason all-american softball team along with 11 other college players from around the country. koerner and 
SMC BASKETBALL 
senior pitcher and infielder laura winter were also named to the usa softball collegiate player of the year watch list. 
The team’s 17-woman roster is comprised of four seniors, four juniors, five sophomores and four freshmen. gumpf said the team is counting on the experience of the returning players. 
“do i depend on them? absolutely. every single one of them,” gumpf said. 
This tournament marks the team’s debut as a member of the atlantic coast conference. a pre­season acc poll ranked the irish behind only Florida state and north carolina state. The irish are coming off of a strong final season in the big east, finishing with a 43-15 record and a regular-season championship. 
The irish hope last season’s success will carry over into this season. however, gumpf said she believes it can be difficult to predict the skill and ranking of teams before the season starts. 
“you don’t know who you’re go­ing to get at the beginning of the year,” gumpf said. “i mean, we could be getting anybody. ... i’m expecting everybody that we play to be a top-10 team.” 
The irish can expect tough matchups this weekend. The golden eagles have senior in­fielder stephanie etter, who was named preseason second-team all-conference. against auburn, the irish will have to deal with two players named to the preseason all-sec team: junior outfielder morgan estell and sophomore infielder emily carosone. north dakota state’s senior catcher Jenina ortega was named a first-team all-league honoree in 2013. 
The irish kick off their season this weekend in auburn, ala. as they compete in the auburn plainsman invitational. 
Contact Christina Kochanski at ckochans@nd.edu 

belles focus on kalamazoo 
By CHRISTINA KOCHANSKI 
sports writer 
The irish hit the road this week­end to kick off their season at the auburn plainsman invitational in auburn, ala., where they will take on four teams in two days. 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 
saturday’s first game fea­tures a matchup between the irish and Tennessee Tech, who ranked seventh in the ohio valley conference. another competi­tive game follows that afternoon against north dakota state, two-time defending champions of the summit league. 
sunday morning the irish face morehead state out of the ohio valley conference. They round out the weekend against tour­nament host auburn Tigers, who rank 13th preseason in the southeastern conference. 
irish coach deanna gumpf said she anticipates strong com­petition from all of notre dame’s opponents this weekend. 
“This time of year, it’s any­body’s ballgame,” gumpf said. 


By A.J. GODEAUX 
sports writer 
coming off an 87-54 loss to calvin on wednesday, saint mary’s looks to get back on a winning track saturday when it plays host to kalamazoo. 
in the teams’ first matchup Jan. 11, the hornets (11-8, 7-4 miaa) stymied a late belles (6­14, 4-7) rally to escape with a 70­67 win. Junior forward ariana paul led the belles with 16 points and nine rebounds, but missed a potential game-tying 3-pointer with 10 seconds remaining to all but assure the loss for the belles. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“we have to be able to play better one-on-one defense and box out much better,” belles coach Jenn henley said after the matchup. 
henley reiterated that point Thursday, noting that better de­fense was especially important in light of calvin’s 87-point out­put wednesday. 
“again, better defense is some­thing i need to see coming down the homestretch of the season, especially as our youth continue to grow,” henley said. 
kalamazoo is led by the duo of forward nicole antoine and guard emily lindsay. antoine comes into the game averaging 
13.3 points and 7.2 rebounds, both team-highs. lindsay is av­eraging 11.1 points per game, second for the hornets. 
“our success will depend on our team defense on [antoine and lindsay],” henley said. “They’re the two offensive threats we have to worry about. we also have to cut down on turnovers, and try to open up our transition offense.” 
saint mary’s turned the ball over 21 times against calvin (14-6, 9-1) and failed to convert a single fast break bucket in belles and hornets’ first matchup. 
in saint mary’s loss to calvin, the belles fell behind early be­fore a 32-8 calvin run over the last 10 and a half minutes of the opening half effectively put the game away. The belles played the knights – who currently sit third in the miaa standings 
— much closer in the second half, as they were outscored just 35-32. 
sophomore forward krista knapke led the belles with 11 points, while senior guard shanlynn bias and paul both chipped in 10 points. 
as the belles head into the homestretch of their season, henley said the team’s focus has now shifted to finishing the year off on a high note and building momentum for next season. 
“The most important thing we can do is play together as a team and send our seniors off on a positive note,” henley said. 
The belles and hornets tip off at 3 p.m. saturday at the angela athletic center. 
Contact A.J. Godeaux at agodeaux@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Squad prepares for lone exhibition 

By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
national championships aren’t awarded until memorial day weekend, but the process of winning them starts long before then. 
For no. 11 notre dame, that journey will start on saturday night when it hosts michigan for the team’s lone scrimmage before diving into its schedule. and after months of practices with the same competition, irish coach christine halfpenny and her team are looking forward to testing themselves with a new opponent. 
“we’ve had an intrasquad scrimmage last weekend, a re­ally competitive scrimmage which showed us how deep we are,” halfpenny said. “but i’m excited to see what it looks like when we put it all together. we’ve been working on fragments of our game, getting our punches and counterpunches all set as we head out there, but i’m really excited to see us play someone other than ourselves.” 
notre dame’s opponent saturday will be new in ev­ery sense of the word. The wolverines are entering their first season of varsity competi­tion, and 26 of their 27 players are freshmen. saturday’s scrim­mage will be michigan’s first time taking the field as a team, and halfpenny said she is ex­cited to see the sport grow and to start a new rivalry. 
“we’re pumped to be a part of history,” she said. “whenever you have the opportunity to begin a program that’s a really exciting thing, and when you have the opportunity to be the very first championship season opponent that that brand new rival will see, we want to make a big deal about that. we want to welcome them into division i and start the rival­ry, so that’s something else we’re looking forward to on saturday.” 
The irish will also welcome their new players to collegiate competition this weekend. The 10-member freshmen class was ranked as the no. 5 class in the country by inside lacrosse, and is headlined by the nation’s top recruit, cortney Fortunato, who should pose as an immediate threat for the irish attack and midfield units. 
halfpenny said all 10 mem­bers of the deep class look ready to contribute, and saturday’s scrimmage will serve as ideal grounds to do so. 
“There’s obvious people i could point out too, but right now we’re really looking forward to see all of them,” halfpenny said. “each and every one of the freshmen have shown why they’re ready to play at this level and how they’re ready to take on our opponent and push us over the hump. i’m not going to pull just one out, even though we have obvious names we are considering. i think the entire freshmen class is going to be very intriguing.” 
heading into its first season in the brutally tough acc, the irish have plenty of big games com­ing up fast. Following saturday, there are only four days until their home opener, one week until their acc opener, and less than a month until their Feb. 27 trip to chapel hill to take on the defending national champions. 
however, the irish aren’t look­ing past the opportunity to test and gauge themselves against the wolverines. 
“you come to notre dame to be the best and to win national championships,” halfpenny said. “but right now we’re taking it one day at a time, one game at a time. our goal is to be better to­morrow than we are today, and our focus right now is on starting the season 1-0.” 
notre dame and michigan will kick off their seasons saturday night at the loftus sports center, where the opening draw is set for 
7:30p.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

TRACK AND FIELD 
irish host meyo invitational 
By EVAN ANDERSON 
sports writer 
notre dame plays host to competitors from nearly 80 teams from around the coun­try this weekend at the 27th annual meyo invitational at the loftus sports center 
irish coach Joe piane said he thought a successful showing at the new mexico invitational last week and the opportunity to compete in front of home fans would give the team a boost this weekend. 
“a weekend like last week­end always gives the kids a ton of confidence,” piane said. “There’s [also] always that ex­tra motivation at home … all of these kids are going to be performing, running, jump­ing, throwing in front of their friends and family. it’s special.” 
in new mexico, the irish women finished fourth out of nine teams, and the men placed third in a field that included ucla, arizona state, Tcu and new mexico, but notre dame will compete against a larger field at the meyo invitational. 
The meyo mile and the ryan shay men’s 3000-meter run are hallmarks of notre dame’s sig­nature meet. 
named for 1964 notre dame graduate raymond meyo, whose donation funded the track in loftus, the meyo mile was the brainchild of longtime piane in 1988. noted for its fast times, the event has become a fan favorite after nearly 30 years of competition. in the last five years alone, the event final has seen 11 sub-four-min­ute miles. 
piane said the race holds special significance for him as well as the notre dame track and field program. 
“[The meyo mile] is a special race,” piane said. “it was the very first race that we held on this track when it was new 27 years ago, and since that day the goal every single year has been to get somebody under four [minutes].” 
This year marks the re­turn of irish graduate student and middle distance runner Jeremy rae to the mayo mile. as a sophomore and junior, rae won the event with times of 3:59.62 and 3:59.31, respec­tively, before missing his senior indoor season due to injury. 
“Jeremy is a special runner and a sub-four-minute miler, but i’ll tell you what, we have a couple of other guys that i think can get under four also,” piane said. “it will be a fun race.” 
The men’s 3,000-meter run is named for 2001 notre dame graduate and 10,000-meter ncaa champion ryan shay, a nine-time all-american and 
paid adverTisemenT 
an academic all-american at notre dame who later won the 2003 usa marathon. 
shay died in 2007 after an en­larged heart caused him to col­lapse during the u.s. olympic marathon trials. 
piane said he is proud to once again host the event, which was renamed to honor shay in 2008. 
“ryan shay was a special person, and he was the most decorated athlete in the his­tory of this university,” piane said. “The race is particularly special to me because i was fortunate enough to know him and to coach him … as a coach the expectation is always that we run fast, but this event does mean a lot.” 
senior sprinter patrick Feeney, senior sprinter and hurdler megan yanik will aim to defend last year’s first place finishes in the 400-meter dash and the 500-meter dash, respectively. 
The action kicks off at 4 p.m. Friday at loftus center, and re­sumes at 10 a.m. on saturday. The meyo mile will be run at 
3:00 p.m. saturday for the men and at 3:10 p.m. for the wom­en, and will be followed at the ryan shay 3,000-meter run at 
4:25p.m. 
Contact Evan Anderson at eander11@nd.edu 





M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
dame is 0-4 when turning the ball over more than 10 times. The irish turned the ball over 12 times monday night in a 61-55 loss to no. 1 syracuse. 
north carolina has forced its 
acc opponents into 12.2 turn­
overs per game. 
sophomore guard marcus paige and junior forward James michael mcadoo lead north carolina with 17.1 and 14.8 points per game, respectively. 
Tar heels senior guard leslie mcdonald, who missed the season’s first nine games for re­ceiving impermissible benefits, averages 11.1 points per game. 
The Tar heels (who top the acc in rebounding) have outrebound­ed conferences foes by 6.3 re­bounds per game while pulling down 15.6 offensive boards. 
“it’s a very similar prepara­tion to what we had on monday 
paid adverTisemenT 

night [against syracuse],” brey said. “can we hold our own in the paint? i was very pleased with how we held our own in the paint against syracuse and we need to do the same thing against carolina’s size.” 
brey said the irish need to be wary of the Tar heels transition offense, which posted 19 points off turnovers in their 75-63 win over maryland on Tuesday. 
“They want to play fast,” brey said. “They want the most pos­sessions of anybody in the league. we don’t necessarily want that.” 
The matchup with the Tar heels will be the first one since 2008, when notre dame lost 102-87 to the eventual national champions in the maui invitational. it will be the first home game against the five-time ncaa champions in 20 years. 
“This is one of these duke op­portunities,” brey said. “let’s let it all hang out.” 
Burgett expected back 
sophomore forward austin burgett should be available for saturday’s game, brey said. 
burgett has been recovering from a heart procedure after an irregular heartbeat forced him out of the loss to Florida state. 
brey said burgett rode the sta­tionary bike, ran on the tread­mill and would partially practice Thursday. burgett would practice Friday and be a go for saturday’s game, brey said. 
“he is feeling good and his frame of mind is very positive,” brey said. “i feel really good about where he’s at.” 
Non-conference next year 
with its move to the acc, notre dame severed many of the ties it had with the big east. but some familiar faces could reappear on notre dame’s non-conference schedule — maybe not next sea­son, though. 
“i don’t know if we’re going to get to them next year,” brey said. “The year after is where we’re looking at stuff, maybe a villanova or a st. John’s.” 
after travelling to iowa for the acc/big Ten challenge this sea­son, the irish are in line to host a big Ten team next season. brey also said the irish were under consideration for an early season conference game. 
notre dame will also com­pete in the hall of Fame Tip­off Tournament next season. brey said the irish would host two games before travel-ling to springfield, mass., to play providence and umass. binghamton, navy, Florida state, northeastern and manhattan are the other teams in the tournament. 
Update on Grant 
brey said he spoke with dis­missed guard Jerian grant on wednesday night and he still fully expects grant to return next season. 
brey said grant is out west with his uncle horace grant, former nba all-star and champion. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
irish created enough chances, but didn’t convert them as effi­ciently as the wildcats converted theirs. 
“on the weekend we actually out-chanced them,” Jackson said. “i don’t think we got to the net well enough … and we then we broke down a few times defen­sively. we played good enough to lose. it’s frustrating.” 
The weekend also show­cased the continued inconsis­tent play of senior goalie steven summerhays. while he leads the country with five shutouts, summerhays has also allowed four or more goals in three out of the past four games. Jackson said the irish defense is allowing too many quality looks to opponents, and that summerhays’ confi­dence will rise if the irish can cut down on opposing breakaways. 
“we left him out to dry, and that’s hard for a goalie … that’s trying to develop his confidence,” Jackson said. “he’s not facing 30 shots, but he’s facing 2-on-1s and breakaways. eliminating those odd-man rushes, that’s the first priority in my opinion.” 
maine’s most recent opponent was also new hampshire, as the black bears and wildcats split a series on Jan. 24-25. coming into its trip to notre dame, maine has yet to notch a victory on the road this season, pairing eight losses with two ties. The black bears, however, will be fresh this week­end after having the previous one off. with 12 goals and 19 assists on the season, sophomore for­ward devin shore paces maine’s offense, which can also count on two-way threat ben hutton, a sophomore whose nine goals make him one of the more pro­lific defensemen in the country. in goal, senior martin ouellette has started 23 games and allows just over two goals allowed in his appearances. 
The irish attack on ouellette will be led by lucia, sopho­more left wing sam herr, Tynan and freshman center vinnie hinostroza. lucia’s pair of goals last weekend gave him a team-leading 15 on the season, while Tynan’s 21 assists give him three more than the second-place hinostroza. Jackson said he was pleased with how the new com­bination of hinostroza, lucia and sophomore center Thomas dipauli played before hinostroza left saturday’s game with an in­jury. Jackson said he hopes other lines will help lucia shoulder the scoring load. 
“some of the guys that were scoring, aren’t scoring right now,” Jackson said. “lucia seems to continue to score, but we need more than two goals a game. [lucia] and hinostroza have de­veloped pretty good chemistry and an ability to find each other.” 
with the season ticking down, the irish will start their penulti­mate home series of the season Friday at 7:35 p.m. against maine at the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 

W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 

how much they outrebounded us,” mcgraw said. “They had 17 offensive rebounds. we just could not contain them and i really thought we could have been better on that end.” 
as the game wound down, mcgraw deployed her bench to hold the lead, playing all 13 players on her roster. 
with the victory, the irish pushed their record to 22-0, one win away from the best start in program history, set by the na­tional championship 2000-2001 squad. They return home to play syracuse on sunday with the chance to tie that mark and also keep a perfect acc record. 
The orange (17-6, 6-4) have struggled on the road this sea­son, posting a record of 3-4, but defeated no. 18 Texas a&m ear­ly on in the season. 
“syracuse is a very good, athletic team,” mcgraw said. 

“[sophomores] brittney sikes and brianna butler are two of the best guards in the confer­ence. They score the ball very well and are very tough defen­sively. They press on defense 
and can make big shots on of-when they take on syracuse fense, so we don’t have any time in purcell pavilion at 3 p.m. on to rest. we need to be ready for sunday. them.” 
The irish look to equal the Contact Greg Hadley at best start in program history ghadley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Take it upon yourself to enforce personal change. don’t let your emotions or those who try to guilt you have the upper hand. you must follow through with what’s best for you. making choices that lead to greater opportunities will play out in your favor. look for the truth in everything you do and you will find your way. your numbers are 9, 11, 14, 24, 35, 39, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t get trapped in a no-win situation. Focus on what you can accomplish. consider the emotional ramifications before you get involved in a topic that could affect your position or reputation. don’t divulge secret information. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): express the way you feel and you can make a difference to the outcome of something that’s important to you. romantic opportunities will allow you to build a better relationship with someone special. organization and planning will lead to success. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you may be given a false impression regarding what’s expected of you at work or at home. don’t risk making a mistake that could cost you. ask questions and get any approval you might require before you move forward. don’t offer something you cannot deliver. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): relying on someone from your past or calling in a favor owed to you will put you in an interesting position with more options. love is in the stars and sharing your thoughts or planning a romantic evening will pay off. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): keep your emotions out of the workplace. don’t show your feelings or let someone have the upper hand by using emotional manipulation to get his or her way. Focus on making positive changes and picking up information that will help you excel. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a mental, physical or spiritual journey and explore new possibilities. experiencing new cultures or ways of doing things will help you find solutions to pending problems. attend a trade show or conference that offers insight or business possibilities. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you can make money by adding value to an asset you already own. domestic problems, a settlement or legal issue may arise. do your best to be realistic and put an end to any situation that has the potential to escalate. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): spread a little joy, show your romantic side and spend time with someone who sparks your enthusiasm. positive, creative changes at home will add to your happiness and your emotional well-being. explore unusual cultures or lifestyles. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do what’s asked of you and keep moving. once you deal with responsibilities, you can make some positive alterations at home that will add to your comfort and entertainment. your ability to get things done quickly will be impressive. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the initiative when it comes to important relationships. whether through professional or personal connections, show your creativity by expressing your thoughts with passion and confidence. home improvements will encourage togetherness. don’t be impulsive when it comes to making promises. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen carefully and hold your thoughts and your secrets until you feel safe and secure sharing what you think and feel. it’s best to observe and consider every angle of a situation that has the potential to alter your life or an important relationship. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): good ideas and offering solutions will put you into the driver’s seat. step into the spotlight and share your knowledge, expertise and ideas, and you will end up with a deal, contract or agreement that is sure to raise your profile and your income. 

Birthday Baby: you are practical, determined and stubborn. you are resourceful and inventive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 81, Florida sTaTe 60 
Achonwa leads Notre Dame over Florida State 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
riding two big runs and strong play in the paint from senior for­ward natalie achonwa, no. 2 notre dame rolled past Florida state, 81-60, to stay unbeaten on the season Thursday night. 
achonwa led all scorers with 24 points, 15 of which came in the first half. The irish (22-0, 9-0 acc) and the seminoles (15-7, 3-6) traded baskets early before notre dame went on a 15-2 run to take a 27-13 lead. 
“our game plan was to go inside against their zone, and natalie responded very well to that,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “we were able to get her the ball in great positions and she was able to finish beau­tifully and do a great job against their zone.” 
notre dame was also able to limit all-american senior for­ward natasha howard to 11 points and eight rebounds, both below her season averages of 
18.2 and nine, respectively. 
Florida state managed to re­spond with a 16-4 run of its own to close the half, pulling within three points of notre dame. senior guard cheetah delgado led the way for the seminoles, finishing the game with 18 points, six rebounds and four assists. 
The seminoles nearly com­pleted their comeback at the beginning of the second half, coming within one point of the irish, but sophomore guard Jewell loyd sparked a 24-5 run for notre dame that put the game out of reach. 
“Jewell loyd had just a phe­nomenal second half,” mcgraw said. “she was a highlight reel all on her own. she had some fantastic shots and scored in so many ways, [especially] off of offensive rebounds. she really came alive in the second half.” 
loyd finished with 18 points, 14 of which were scored in the second half, as well as five re­bounds and two assists. The irish runs came as a result of their tough defense, mcgraw said. 
“we were able to get some stops and some rebounds, which helped us get our tran­sition game going,” mcgraw said. “our nice runs offensively really happened because of … boards. The irish rank eighth seminoles. 


the defense.” in the country in rebounding “i was very disappointed with mcgraw said she was still dis-margin with a mark of 11.2, but 
pleased her team’s effort on the were outrebounded 38-33 by the see w baskeTball PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND works to establish stride 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame and north carolina have some things in common. 
both the irish and Tar heels not only unexpectedly lost their top offensive weapons but also three of their first four acc games — but that’s where the similarities end. 
since starting 1-3 in confer­ence play, the Tar heels (15-7, 5-4 acc) have won four of their last five while the irish (12-11, 3-7) have dropped four of six. 

north carolina was up and down in non-conference play, beating louisville, michigan state and kentucky but losing to belmont, uab and Texas. finding their identity. … They’re 
irish coach mike brey said the pressuring the ball defensively, Tar heels have begun to find they’re trapping more. so us tak­themselves during their four-ing care of the ball is a concern game winning streak. for me. 
“They’re playing better,” brey “i think they’ve found a little said. “i think they’re kind of bit of an offensive rhythm also. 

They had a tough start to acc play and right now, we’ve got a very confident team coming to town.” 
in conference play, notre 
see m baskeTball PAGE 13 
HOCKEY 
irish return home to face maine 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
no.18 notre dame returns to the confines of compton ice arena this weekend to host con­ference foe maine, hoping to snap a two-game losing spree after last weekend’s winless road trip. 
The irish (15-11-1, 4-8-1) re­main in eighth place in the hockey east after their sweep at the hands of new hampshire, two spots behind maine (12-9­3, 6-4-2). last weekend contin­ued a season-long trend of road struggles for the irish, who fell to 3-7 away from compton. Their home record, however, sits at a robust 12-4-1, including a 5-1 re­cord since returning from break. irish coach Jeff Jackson said the irish must continue to play well at home because their troubles on the road have left them with little margin for error. 
“we have to get back on track at home,” Jackson said. “we just have to get back on track. we’ve had a difficult time on the road in hockey east games, and we still have three of them left. so we got to try to get points.” 
The irish fell 4-2 and 5-2 against the wildcats (16-13-1, 8-6) last weekend, giving them five consecutive road losses. new hampshire was able to hold the irish scoreless on seven power play chances. sophomore left wing mario lucia had a pair of goals in the series, and seniors center TJ Tynan and right wing bryan rust each chipped in one as well. according to Jackson, the 
see hockey PAGE 14 


ND Women’s Basketball at Florida State  W 81-60  ND Swimming vs. Cleveland State  Sat., 12 p.m.  Hockey vs. Maine  Sat., 8:05 p.m  
Men’s Basketball vs. North Carolina  Sat., 12 p.m.  Fencing, DeCicco Duals  Sat.- Sun.  
Hockey vs. Maine  7:35 p.m.  ND Softball at N. Dakota State  Sat., 2 p.m.  ND Softball at Auburn Plainsman Inv.  Sat.-Sun.  
Track & Field, Meyo Invitational  Fri.-Sat.  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Michigan  Sat., 7:45 p.m.  Men’s Basketball vs. Clemson  Tues., 7 p.m.  






