The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 22 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Sexual assault prompts prayer service 
Members of the Notre Dame community gather at the Grotto to pray for an end to sexual violence 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news writer 
roughly 100 members of the university community gath­ered at the grotto on monday afternoon for a student-led “prayer service for healing,” sponsored by notre dame’s student government. The prayer service was organized following an e-mail alert sent by notre dame security police (ndsp) on Friday af­ternoon informing students, faculty and staff that a sexual assault had been reported in a women’s dorm on the north­eastern area of campus. 
The alert, the first one the community has received this school year, sparked the prayer service, which kept with a tradition started by student body president emer­itus alex coccia and student body vice president emeritus nancy Joyce last fall. 

senior Francis vu opened the service with a prayer. 
“we gather in the peace of the sacred grotto, joined to­gether, united in christ to support and pray,” he said. 
vu asked those in atten­dance to pray not only for the healing of the victims, but for the perpetrators as well. 
see prayer service PAGE 5 

ANNMARIE SOLLER | The Observer 
Senior Allison Leddy speaks at the prayer service on Monday evening at the Grotto, where members of the Notre Dame community gathered in light of the recent sexual assault report. 


project heal promotes healthy living 
woods said eating dis­orders affect roughly 30 million americans, yet the diseases are often over­looked, especially on saint mary’s campus. project heal is a resource for those who are faced with unhealthy body images and eating disorders, pro­viding women with a posi­tive outlet and support system, she said. 
“project heal’s national goal is to provide scholar­ship funding for people with eating disorders who cannot afford treatment, 

diseases. see proJecT heal PAGE 4 


Rivers receives Award of Appreciation 
By OWEN LANE 
news writer 
assistant director of the Kellogg institute for international studies holly rivers received the 11th college of arts and letters’ award of appreciation from dean John T. mcgreevy on sept. 10. 
rivers received the award for her 12 years of work at the Kellogg institute, where she has primarily served as an advisor to un­dergraduates applying to the institute’s student pro­grams. mcgreevy read a laudatory recommendation letter from a faculty mem­ber at the award ceremo­ny, according to a Kellogg institute press release. 
“holly is the life force of an astonishing array of un­dergraduate programming at the Kellogg institute,” mcgreevy read. “she works endlessly to innovate new and better programs for undergraduates.” 

mcgreevy’s predeces­sor as dean, mark roche, created the college of arts and letters award of appreciation 14 years ago. mcgreevy said the award is typically given to someone who assists in the mission of the college of arts and letters. 
mcgreevy cited rivers’s efforts as being crucial to helping students in the college of arts and letters obtain opportuni­ties through the Kellogg institute. 
“[rivers] has helped assist students with opportunities in undergraduate research going towards a senior thesis, study abroad and sometimes even language learning,” mcgreevy said. 
“it is much more likely than it was a generation ago 
see rivers PAGE 4 



By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s senior mackenzie woods has seen project heal make a difference on campus since it was recognized as a campus organization last spring. heal stands for help to eat, accept and live, and the saint mary’s chapter is one of several in a larger national non­profit organization that aims to contribute to edu­cation about eating disor­ders and support for those who struggle with such 


Professor and team discover star 
Timothy C. Beers
chair in astorphysics 

By DAN DeTORO 
news writer 
dr. Timothy c. beers, notre dame chair in astrophysics, and an international team of astronomers have discov­ered a low-mass star in the milky way galaxy that could 


help explain the origin of el­ements in the universe. The star exhibits the peculiar chemical abundance ratios associated with the process of creating new atomic nuclei (nucleosynthesis) in a first-generation very-massive star, according to a university 
see sTar PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s golF PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you could study abroad anywhere in the world where would you choose? 




Christina Fernandez 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“barcelona.” 

Emma Fleming 
junior 
ryan hall 
“disney world.” 

Margaret Swinehart 
sophomore welsh Family hall 
“rome.” 


Ryan McMullen 
sophomore Keough hall 
“lithuania.” 


Nicholas Lombardo 
sophomore Keough hall 
“iceland.” 


Mark Shealy 
sophomore Keough hall 
“bahamas.” 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Abby Sullivan, a sophomore from Pangborn Hall, exercises at the McDonald Physical Therapy office in St. Liam Hall. The facility offers opportunities for physical therapy treatment to all Notre Dame students and faculty. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Kelly Konya greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers alex carson peter durbin Josh dulany 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara allie Tollaksen 
Photo Viewpoint 

Faculty and Staff ND Alert Test Mindful Meditation Women’s Tennis Women’s Tennis 
Karla moreno Tabitha ricketts 
Mass Campus-wide Coleman-Morse Eck Tennis Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion Log Chapel 1:45 p.m. Center All day All day 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Test of emergency 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Free and open to the Free and open to the 
Corrections 

RSVP only. alert system. Open to all students. public. public. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Four:7 Catholic Are You Getting the “Beneath the Labor Cafe Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Fellowship Signal? Harvest Sky” Geddes Hall Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall McKenna Hall DeBartolo Performing 4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7 p.m. Arts Center Forum on work and 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Praise and worship. Improv show about 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. labor issues. Music by the Women’s
we can correct our error. 

gender issues. Free film. Liturgical Choir. 


SMC professor delights at Chinese universities 
wonderful and memorable one For his experimental, more had invited him served as his really overwhelming, the gener-
By EMILIE KEFALAS 

news writer for Jacob, but the best part for modern recital, Jacob was un-personal translator, as he is osity of the chinese. it was just 
him was the social interaction certain as to how it would be re-completely bilingual in both wonderful.” 
saint mary’s very own music with the chinese people, he ceived by students. chinese and english, Jacob if there is any element Jacob man, professor Jeffrey Jacob, said. “my specialty is contempo-said. wants to share with his students spent three weeks of his sum-“They were friendly. They rary music, very wild. They “he was born and raised about his experience touring in mer on tour performing at were curious. it was just amaz-asked for that recital. i didn’t in china. he was a violinist. china, it is the chinese work beifang and guiyang university ing,” Jacob said. “at both uni-know how they would take it, he was the head of music at a ethic, he said. in china, where he showed off versities, a group of faculty but they were just very interest-university in china. Then he “[music students] are ex-his chops in classical western members would take me out to ed,” he said. “i invited students decided he wanted to further pected to practice a lot. it’s piano music and his own con-a fancy restaurant. all restau-to come up after the recital, his education, so he brought not uncommon for a student temporary compositions. rants have private rooms, and come up to the piano, look at his family to the u.s. to get his to practice eight hours a day,” 
a chinese friend of Jacob’s in-the food was just wonderful. i the scores. There was just a tre-doctorate. he’s been in the u.s. Jacob said. “what was really vited him to perform overseas really love chinese food. That mendous amount of interest in for 11 years.  he had no trouble stunning to me was how social after hearing him perform com-was nearly every night. They western music.” translating, but it was hard for the chinese were. For example, positions from several fellow wanted to talk with me, know Jacob also gave lessons every him because i said a lot of stuff, in the evenings in the cities, ev­pianists, Jacob said. impressed about my career, about saint day to both faculty members so he had to translate a lot of erybody goes outside. They’ll by Jacob’s talent and fascinated mary’s college, which i was very and students, which were for-stuff,” Jacob said. wave to their friends. it’s an by his mix of western and con-happy to put a plug in for the matted as a master class for mu-Jacob even helped students extremely social culture. it was temporary music style, Jacob’s school. i got the opportunity to sic majors, he said. with their english-speaking difficult to walk because there friend offered him the opportu-see what life was like in china.” “i would give a lesson to a skills after his shows, he said. were so many people, and ev­nity to perform with and teach at both universities, Jacob particular student, but there “There were some students erybody was very relaxed. They music students, he said. played two solo piano recitals, would be as many piano stu-who came to my recitals, and were just having a great time. 
“my friend, he’s a composer, one of a repertoire of famous dents who wanted to observe i noticed these two students They were all out with their and i met him at a conference western composers and the … watching and observing and hanging around afterwards,” friends and their relatives. in here in the u.s.,” Jacob said. other of his own contemporary taking notes,” he said. “i was as-he said. “They wanted to prac-china, the family unit is sac­“There was a work of his per-compositions, he said. tonished, [because] usually at a tice their english, and i said, rosanct. sometimes while out, formed, and i asked him if he “it was a very intense experi-large master class, there will be ‘absolutely.’ i went out for tea you’d see two, three generations had any piano music. i recorded ence,” he said. “They are very in-25 to 30 students. They required with them and spent a couple with other families with their myself playing it, and i made a terested in western music. They all of the music majors to come hours with them. mandarin friends.” cd of it. he was really grateful, have a long history of tradi-to it, so they were listening to chinese is a completely dif-Jacob has an extensive ca-and he said, ‘i can arrange a trip tional chinese music, but right my master class. There were ferent way of communicating. reer in music performance and to china if you want me to.’ he now, they’re more interested in over 400 people listening to my it’s very difficult to become composition, having traveled said it would be a really good ex-western music. students can master class.” even moderately fluent in both around the world performing perience,” Jacob said. major in traditional chinese The most challenging aspect [english and chinese]. That’s a and recording with a variety 
This summer was Jacob’s music or western music. The of his interactions with students goal of mine.” of people, but he said he would second visit with students and main instrument they’re in-was not the music but the lan-Jacob said he was active every love to perform again for the faculty at chinese universities, terested in is the piano. [The guage barrier, Jacob said. day, not only teaching and per-chinese people because of their he said.  because both universi-school is] having trouble get-“it was tricky, because they forming but also taking in the wonderful hospitality and keen ties are very large, he stayed at ting them interested in strings. don’t speak english. That’s the chinese culture. interest in his craft. hotels specifically for university everybody wants to play the hot topic now — everybody “it was the social component guests, he said. piano, so they were very happy wants to learn english,” he said. of the trip that was the most Contact Emilie Kefalas at 
The experience was a to get a pianist.” Jacob’s chinese friend who satisfying,” he said. “it was just ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Campus Ministry launches discussion group 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
campus ministry re­cently established cross examination, a new student-led discussion group format that aims to answer press­ing questions on catholic doctrine and provide an educational format for stu­dents with a variety of faith backgrounds. 
brett perkins, campus min­ister and one of the develop­ers of cross examination, said campus ministry de­signed the groups to pro­vide students with a more accessible way to engage in conversations and introduce students who might not have had a strong background in catholic doctrine to funda­mental concepts of catholic dogma. perkins said the discussion format with stu­dent leaders will provide the participants with an inter­active way to explore their faith. 
“They’re open to students of any background, whether they’re catholic students who have questions about the faith that they’re already practicing, or if they’re com­ing from any other faith tra­dition or none at all and just have questions about this catholic universe that sur­rounds them at notre dame,” perkins said.  “it doesn’t re­quire any kind of commit­ment to sign up for the whole semester. people are able to drop in at any time.” 
according to perkins, the structure of cross examination consists of eight discussion groups spread throughout various dorms around campus as well as a graduate student group at Fischer, o’hara­grace graduate residences and an off-campus group at irish row. upperclassmen with experience in campus ministry will lead the groups, which will feature an inter­active question-and-answer format in which students can submit questions regarding catholic doctrine to student leaders and receive answers during the meetings. perkins said the primary goal of cross examination is to pro­vide a more active context for students to explore different hot-button topics in faith. 

“if it leads someone to investigate more about catholicism, so much the better, but that’s not the prin­cipal aim of the ministry. it’s really to help students find answers to questions about the church in a spirit of intel­lectual inquiry,” perkins said. “we just ask that they come ready to be honest with the questions that they have and 
being willing to listen with an open mind and an open heart 
“If it leads someone to investigate more about Catholicism, so much the better, but that’s not the principal aim of the ministry. It’s really to help students find answers to questions about the church in a spirit of intellectual inquiry.” 
Brett Perkins 
campus minister 
to the response so that they hopefully walk away with a 
better understanding of what it actually is that we believe as catholic christians.” 
emma collis, a senior and one of the student leaders of cross examination, said she was motivated to par­ticipate in the program after her experience with faith-based conversations during her study abroad in spain. collis said she hopes cross examination will help stu­dents understand catholic doctrine in greater depth. 
“The idea of the group meetings is to get together in a common place and have a conversation about the catholic faith,” collis said. “i hope that it will be an oppor­tunity for people to come to get their questions answered and to find out what the church actually says.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

Snite Museum showcases classic cars exhibit 
museum. visitors are allowed are used to. many fathers and in that era], you knew very laura and Jack boyd smith Jr. 
By ROBBIE RYAN 

news writer to walk around the cars and sons are interested and visit well what [type of] car it was endowment for excellence in 
enjoy a near 360-degree view. the exhibit. Football week-that was coming at you.” performing arts. The couple 
The snite museum of art plaques containing pertinent ends bring in many of these smith said he hopes visitors also supports the notre dame opened a new exhibition aug. history and information are types of visitors.” appreciate the beauty of these summer shakespeare program 17 that showcases rare classic displayed on nearby walls. vivian lavine, co-own-“sculptures on wheels.” he and has previously supported cars from the Jack b. smith photographs are allowed. er of lavine restorations, said he enjoyed the thought of a fellowship in the mendoza Jr. automobile collection. Jack b. smith Jr. is an en-inc., which works on both having his cars on display for school of business, the smith admission to the museum is trepreneur and president of american and european clas-others to appreciate. library collection in business free and open to the public. gaska Tape, inc., which is sic cars, helped maintain “nd is a great institution,” and teaching labs within the 
The exhibit contains based in elkhart, indiana. smith’s cars for approximate-he said. “i am flattered to Jordan hall of science. four classic models: a 1923 smith lent these four pieces of ly a year. la vine’s company have it in the snite museum. The snite museum is open studebaker big six speedster, his collection to the museum was involved in the mainte-i’ve always loved cars … i Tuesday through Friday 10 a 1932 packard light eight after chuck loving, the direc-nance and transportation of didn’t find these cars, they a.m. – 5 p.m. and saturday roadster, a 1931 cadillac tor of the snite museum, ap-smith’s collection. she said found me.” and sunday 12 p.m. – 5 p.m. series 355a Fleetwood dual proached him with an idea for smith’s cars, which were cer-according to the notre The museum will showcase cowl phaeton and an award-the exhibition. tified as classic by the classic dame press release, smith is the classic car exhibit until winning 1932 auburn 8-100a “The university of notre car club of america, were no-a member of the debartolo nov. 30. There will be a free speedster. dame as a whole has always ticeable because of their “or-center for the performing public reception for the ex-
The auburn speedster is lo-had an interest in automobile nate” look. arts advisory council at the hibit held on sunday. cated in the main lobby while design,” loving said. “This “These cars are very dis-university of notre dame, the rest of the exhibit is locat-exhibit brings in a different tinctive, not like today,” she where he and his wife laura Contact Robbie Ryan at ed toward the back right of the crowd to the museum than we said. “[when you were driving d. arauz smith fund the rryan5@nd.edu 
super sibs club offers mentorship opportunities 
By ABIGAIL PIPER 
news writer 
notre dame provides a wide variety of service opportu­nities in which students can engage, yet one club in partic­ular focuses on a highly-orig­inal opportunity. super sibs is a service club on campus that allows students who have siblings with disabilities to mentor children in the com­munity who also have siblings with disabilities. 
adam Kourajian, a notre dame senior and president of super sibs, said the club is one of the most unique clubs on campus. 
“it has a — i guess you could say — a bit of a high bar of entry,” Kourajian said. “what we do is we take students who have siblings with physical or mental disabilities … and we work with kids in the south bend, mishawaka [and] michiana areas who also have siblings with disabilities.” 
Kourajian said the club was formed several years ago by 2011 notre dame alumnus soeren palumbo. The club grants students the opportu­nity to relate to other children who have a sibling with a dis­ability and act as mentors for the children. 
“The whole idea is you know, ‘i’ve been there, i’ve done that,’ … we can talk about the difficulties of per­haps traveling as a family with a disabled sibling or per­haps the difficulties of family reunions, and just awkward social situations and the dif­ferent sibling dynamic that is often associated with growing up with a sibling with a dis­ability,” Kourajian said. 

Kourajian said the club or­ganizes several different ac­tivities throughout the year with the children the mem­bers mentor. 
“we meet up with the kids about five or six times a se­mester,” Kourajian said. “our best-received event is when we eat at south dining hall with the kids. They love it. otherwise, we meet up and we do sib chats. … we play games with the kids and we also have discussions sur­rounding the unique family situations that everyone finds themselves in.” 
Kourajian said that the club, while focused on the children, is also a worthwhile experience for the students involved. 
elizabeth delucia, a soph­omore and treasurer of the club, said the club has been a successful and enjoyable ex­tracurricular activity. 
“when we get to come to­gether and talk about our ex­periences growing up with siblings with disabilities, it helps us realize that some of us have very similar experi­ences,” delucia said. “it’s a lot of fun. They’re really cute kids, and it’s fun hanging out with them.” 
looking forward, Kourajian said his main focus is adver­tising and growing the club’s membership. 
“[currently] we have about 10 students in the club, and then we have about 15-20 kids who are there at any given night, ages 7-15.” Kourajian said. “expansion is my number one goal.” 
Kourajian said having a sib­ling with a disability is neces­sary in order to relate to the children, but it makes finding students for the club difficult. 
“it is such a unique opportu­nity. if you could do it, i think it would really be a waste if you didn’t do it, both for yourself and the children you could have a positive impact on,” Kourajian said. “every notre dame student wants to do some form of service, right? so, why not do a form of service that you are uniquely qualified to do?” 
Kourajian strongly encour­ages students who have a sib­ling with a disability to email him at akouraji@nd.edu 
Contact Abigail Piper at apiper2@nd.edu 



Prayer Service 
conTinued From page 1 
senior allison leddy, a resi­dent assistant in cavanaugh, delivered a call to action fo­cusing on the responsibility of the community in ending sexual violence on campus. 
“on Friday, the day we all received the first email re­port of the year, the white house launched a national campaign called ‘it’s on us’ to end sexual assault,” leddy said. “This movement seeks to bring awareness to and support survivors of sexual assaults on college campuses across the country. while this ambitious and worthy cam­paign took life in washington, our community in south bend feels the impact of this prob­lem closer to home and to our hearts. 
“we are not any college; we are not any community. we are nd. … when we chose to attend this university, which seeks to educate the mind and the heart, we chose to be more,” leddy said. 
“one is too many. what af­fects one of us affects all of us.” 
in 2013, the white house launched a sexual assault prevention campaign with the tagline “one is Too many.” on campus, coccia and Joyce adopted the mantra and began notre dame’s own “one is Too many” campaign, which involved pledge cards signed and placed outside dorm rooms, an online peti­tion and videos put together by student government. 
This year, student body vice president matt devine told The observer that sexual as­sault prevention may take off in a different direction. 
“we had a lot of great vis­ibility with ‘one is Too many’ last year. perhaps this is an opportunity to move in some way; we’re looking at more action words … if there’s something we can do to in­corporate the idea of an active bystander into the title, then we’d like to,” devine said. 
“The prayer service today is very important, because it’s the first one. it’s the first-year students’ first introduc­tion to something like this, and it’s important for them to understand that this is our re­sponse,” devine said. 
senior grace carroll ended the prayer service with an invitation for all to light a candle at the grotto and to continue praying for an end to sexual violence. 
“when the light shines in the darkness, the darkness cannot overcome it,” she said. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

Star 
conTinued From page 1 
press release. 
The group of astronomers published their study, enti­tled “a chemical signature of first-generation very-mas­sive stars,” in the aug. 22 is­sue of the journal “science.” 
The star has a unique set of chemical ratios that have never been seen be­fore, beers said. using high-resolution spectroscopic instruments on the subaru Telescope located in hawaii, beers and his team, com­prised of astronomers from Japan and Korea, observed a star in the halo region of the milky way galaxy 300 parsecs (or about 1000 light years) away. 
“we are essentially recon­structing a stellar history from the chemistry of ob­jects we discovered today,” beers said. 
The study of ancient stars and their origins is known as galactic archaeology, he said. 
“This was the first exam­ple of an ancient star whose elements had to have been produced by another star that was much more mas­sive, maybe several hundred times the mass of the sun,” beers said. 
beers compared the for­mation of early stars to the pollution of a river. 
“you have a massive star that was formed out of pure big-bang material, pristine, hydrogen, helium, a little bit of lithium [and] noth­ing else,” he said. “when that star exploded, it creat­ed heavier elements, which then polluted pristine gas around it. it’s that polluted gas which carries the fin­gerprint of the progenitor 
“We are essentially 
reconstructing 
a stellar 
history from 
the chemistry 
of objects we 
discovered today.” 
Timothy Beers 
Chair in Astrophysics 
that the star we discovered formed from. 
“if you can go back and find the almost-pristine, perfect, unpolluted stars, you know you have to be at the beginning,” beers said. 
The star is approximately 12- to 13-billion-years-old, approaching the age of the 14-billion-year-old universe, beers said. 
“The chemistry tells us this star was born at least 10-billion-years-ago, be­cause if it were born any lat­er, it would have formed out of gas that was polluted to a higher degree,” beers said. “when people think ancient, they often think far away. what many people find fas­cinating is that these are objects in our own galaxy. They’re … right here. it’s just that we can recognize them as markers of this early his­tory. you don’t have to go to the edge of the universe to study the very beginning of it, in the chemical sense they are pristine fossils.” 
according to a university press release, the star is the first such star identified in the milky way. The astrono­mers hope to discover more stars similar to this one, and refine their analysis in or­der to confirm the existence of very-massive stars in the first generation. such stars could have contributed to the development of super-massive black holes like the one at the center of the milky way. 
beers said he is currently searching the universe for more stars like this one us­ing the large binocular Telescope in arizona, which is operated by a research consortium. 
“This discovery is one of many along the way,” beers said. 
Contact Dan DeToro at ddetero@nd.edu 
Rivers 
conTinued From page 1 
that students will travel or work outside of the united states,” mcgreevy said. “and we are trying to prepare them for that environment.” 
rivers cited the recent del­uge of congratulations from her fellow faculty as being one of the best parts about receiving the award. 
“it definitely made my summer one of the nic­est i’ve had working here,” rivers said about winning the award. 
in addition to rivers’s ad­vising work, she also travels every summer to many of the different locations in which the Kellogg institute has programs. 
“initially, nearly all of the students in the international studies program were in the college of arts and letters. over time, the institute has been receiving students from other colleges,” rivers said. 
rivers also noted how the majority of students in the institute’s programs are po­litical science majors, but recently students study­ing through the institute have had varying ma­jors, such as business and pre-professional. 
rivers  said  becoming  
involved  in  the  Kellogg  
institute’s  programs  is  a  

great advantage to notre dame students entering the job market. 
“many people are graduat­ing with a degree. students going through the Kellogg institute show that they take the initiative,” rivers said. “They show that they are flexible by learning languag­es and immersing them­selves within a new culture.” 
Contact Owen Lane at olane@nd.edu 


Project Heal 
conTinued From page 1 
to promote healthy body image and self-esteem and to serve as a testament that full recovery from an eat­ing disorder is possible,” woods said. 
woods said it is estimat­ed that 25 percent of col­lege students suffer from eating disorders. 
“Those statistics are staggering, and i believe these are issues we must bring to the limelight, es­pecially on an all-women’s campus,” woods said. 
woods fully understands the struggles brought on by eating disorders, as she herself has faced the challenge of overcoming anorexia. 
“as a recovered anorex­ic, i know all too well the feelings of loneliness and unworthiness that accom­pany an eating disorder,” woods said. “saint mary’s is a tight-knit sisterhood, and we need to be empow­ering and building each other up. you never know what your fellow sister may be going through.” 
as the founder and chap­ter leader of project heal at saint mary’s, woods has big plans for the semes­ter, including fundraising and awareness events. on Thursday, the Five guys franchise located on eddy street will host a dine and donate night for the chapter. 
“mention project heal 
“Saint Mary’s is a tight-knit sisterhood, and we need to be empowering and building each other up. You never know what your fellow sister may be going through.” 
Mackenzie Woods 
senior 
Saint Mary’s 
smc [at Five guys on Thursday] and a portion of the day’s sales will be do­nated to our organization,” woods said. 
The saint mary’s chapter of project heal also plans to contribute to the na­tional scholarship fund for treatment, which is made possible through dona­tions of more than thirty project heal chapters. 
“each quarter, [the na­tional chapter of] project heal reviews applications for the scholarship and grants money for treatment to a qualifying individu­al,” woods said. “since its founding in 2008, project heal national has raised over $400,000 and has sent eleven applicants to resi­dential and intensive out­patient treatment.” 
woods said project heal hopes to host guest speak­ers, screen documentaries and open-forum discus­sions to educate and pro­mote healthy body image and self-esteem. 
The chapter also plans to sell merchandise on campus and offer a can­vas-painting event to cre­ate awareness of project heal’s mission. 
as interest grows from activities night and by word of mouth, woods said she hopes to expand the mission into an aware­ness certification pro­gram to reach the larger community. 
“… members of project heal learn how to lead by example in being positive in their comments toward others and refraining from body bashing,” woods said. 
woods said more infor­mation on project heal is available on the club’s Facebook page — project heal saint mary’s — or on instagram @projectheal_ smc. students can also get in contact with the chap­ter at saintmarys@thepro­jectheal.org. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

a cheesy love affair 
Keri O’Mara 
graphics editor 

at first glance, my past weekend was no different than an average college weekend. i got together with friends, listened to exces­sive amounts of missy elliot and ordered some pizza. pretty standard “college.” however, it was an uncharacteristically pleasant pizza-ordering experience that provided me with the opportunity for an extreme shift in perspective. 
it all began with a call to domino’s™ on a fateful saturday. i was privileged enough to speak with shawn, a friendly pizza spokes­man clearly eager to please his customer from the moment he picked up the phone. 
you’re probably wondering how i came to know shawn’s name or why i’m so excited about something as simple as adequate customer service. To answer your question, i asked his name in order to break down the patron-server barrier between us. i’ve found through past interactions that simply asking someone’s name is a symbol of courtesy and an efficient social equalizer. rather than just demanding this stranger to bring me food on demand, i’d use this as an opportunity to show genuine interest in this individual. 
once i introduced myself to shawn, a whole world of conversational opportunity opened up for us. not only did he enthu­siastically inform me of the store’s $4.99 parmesan bread bites and Fanta special, but he also proved to be a highly like-minded individual to myself. i would go so far as to compare our phone-based relationship to that of Joaquin phoenix and scarlett Johannson’s voice in the movie ‘her.’ i told this to shawn, and it turns out we also share a moderate phobia of Joaquin phoenix, simply furthering our compatibility. 
i couldn’t help but feel elated when i hung up with shawn, since i knew both our nights were improved by our unexpectedly enjoyable phone chat. by simply taking the time to get to know shawn, ask about his night and share a movie preference, i found shawn had a willingness to open up and engage in some non-pizza-related banter, which i assume was probably refreshing during a long shift of taking food requests. 
our mutual joy was confirmed when my pizza arrived, with an extra topping that was even better than sausage. on the pizza box was a heartfelt sharpie message from my siri in shining armor himself, reading, “Keep being awesome. -shawny poo.” This small message of support was important to me, confirming i had helped to brighten shawn’s night in the same way he had mine. 
i highly recommend you get to know your pizza delivery boy or anyone taking time to make your life a little easier. you never know what you’ll learn about another human being if you allow yourself to connect on a fundamental human level, or even what extra toppings they might throw your way. 
oh, and to shawn, if you’re out there, keep being awesome. 
Contact Keri O’Mara at komara@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The future of the U.K. 

Kitty Baker 
viewpoint columnist 

The union Jack. an iconic symbol that appears on ev­erything from high fashion to car decals. The flag that was created to represent the strong unity between scotland and england, by intertwining the flag of england (st. george’s cross) and the flag of scotland (saint andrew’s cross), stands as a symbol of the connection that has been tested and still remains, although shaken. 
last Thursday, scotland put to a democratic vote whether or not to stay in its 307-year-old union with england, for­mally known as the united Kingdom. while the eventual outcome came out in favor of the “better Together” cam­paign and a “no” vote, the win was not a landslide, with only 55 percent of scotland’s voting populace choosing to remain a part of the u.K. 85 percent of established voters exercised their right, proving that politics can still remain relevant in an era that is overshadowed by disillusionment and hostility towards “politics.” 
as a result of the scotland act of 1998, the scottish people were given their own parliament and along with this, the power to make laws on “devolved matters” (several more powers were given over to this parliament in the scotland act 2012). however, the u.K. parliament has certain powers that are its alone, mostly concerning u.K. or international decisions, which are referred to as “reserved matters.” These include, according to the scottish parliament web­site, broadcasting, foreign policy, defense, immigration, etc. 
The “yes scotland” campaign, headed by alex salmond, the First minister of scotland (he has said that he will be stepping down after this defeat, but will remain as a mem­ber of scottish parliament) wanted completely devolved powers. he and his campaigners promised that being in­dependent would allow scots to make their own future, instead of being dependent on a parliament that is not aligned with many scottish voters (currently, there is a Tory (conservative) government in place in england, and much of scotland votes labour). The independence campaign’s message was, according to the “yes scotland” website, that by becoming independent it could make “the right choices for our society and our economy.” 
The no “better Together” campaign, launched by alistair darling, the former chancellor of the exchequer under former prime minister gordon brown, represented the voice of those who wished to remain the united Kingdom, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
and included prominent u.K. politicians such as david cameron, the current conservative prime minister, and other british figures like J.K. rowling. 
david cameron, towards the end of the battle for hearts and minds, made promises to the scottish people, in hopes that it would turn the tide and help to bring favor to re­maining with the u.K. among the promises he made were increased taxing, spending, and welfare powers given to the scottish parliament. 
now, the question remains, why did scotland vote to stay a part of the united Kingdom? The “better Together” campaign, according to one bbc article, always had the edge (the bbc has come under fire from many in the “yes scotland” campaign for having biased coverage, a reminder to read a variety of news sources). “better Together” always had a slight majority. This majority was threatened as the time to vote neared, but in the end, helped the campaign come away with victory. There have also been suggestions that some scots were afraid of the risk that would come if they chose to separate from england. can scotland survive on its own? The “yes scotland” campaign answered with a resounding yes, but it is hard to shake off all doubts. with the promises from the u.K. parliament of more devolved powers, for those who were worried about risk, sticking with england seemed the more promising of the two. 
what will be interesting in the coming months is watch­ing how the u.K. will move forward as a still united but fragmented entity. will parliament renege on its offers, which the “yes scotland” campaign claims cameron al­ready has done with some of his key proposals for more devolved powers. what does it mean for the rest of england? manchester and other cities in the u.K. have long asked for more devolved powers. will scotland’s voice send shock-waves throughout this fragile political system? 
as a proud citizen of the united Kingdom, i am happy that scotland chose to remain a part of this auspicious union. however, i hope that this result reminds british poli­ticians that it is their duty to respond to the cares and needs of every citizen. Together, we can move forward, with our flag flying high. 
Kitty Baker is a PLS-FTT major, eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls and proud resident of Cavanaugh Hall (go Chaos) who hails from New York City. She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The bulletproof football league 
Tim Scanlan 
viewpoint columnist 

i love the new orleans saints. That football team transformed an entire city into believers, giving people hope that things could get better after a hurricane took so much away from them. i’ll never forget when they won the super bowl in 2009, and the city partied all the way through mardi gras. it is because i love the saints (and you probably love the chicago bears) that the nFl seems so resilient in the face of what can only be described as a terrible summer. 
players were suspended for substance abuse and for domestic violence against their wives and chil­dren. but when the game comes on, we all tune in. 
sure, nFl fans have been shocked by the video of ray rice and appalled by the way the league has handled the situation. but few people voluntarily turned off the Tv when the seattle seahawks took on the green bay packers in the season opener. The nFl enjoys the type of brand success most retail companies would kill for — it’s untouchable. 
when the nFl referees went on strike in 2012 over a labor dispute, they said the nFl would jeopardize the safety of the players as well as the integrity of the game because the replace­ment referees wouldn’t be as qualified. no one who watched football for the first three weeks of that season would disagree with that assessment. players, broadcasters and fans complained vehe­mently about the replacement referees. yet, the nFl stubbornly refused to give in until it was ab­solutely necessary. 
why would the nFl go through all of this trouble? because the referees were asking for what amounted to four hundredths of a percent of the nFl’s $10 billion revenue stream. 
The league could get away with it though be­cause, through it all, we never stopped watching the games. 
professional football games do not just take place on our Tvs, however. 
The stadiums are built in the middle of our cit­ies and neighborhoods — billion-dollar build­ings that must usually be financed not by the owners of the teams, but by the taxpayers of the cities in which they live. according to a study conducted by a harvard professor of urban plan­ning, 70 percent of nFl stadiums have been pri­marily financed by public dollars. nearly half of the league’s stadiums have actually accumulated more taxpayer dollars than it took to fully build them. 
we spend hundreds of millions of dollars through our taxes alone in order to keep these teams, while the nFl itself operates as a non­profit “trade group.” it may surprise you, but the nFl has been a non-profit since roughly 1942 and has enjoyed an explicit non-profit designation from congress since 1966. how many non-profits do you know that can pay their executive $44 mil­lion? and what’s more, all of this is public infor­mation. The battle over tax subsidies for stadiums happens in the public eye. regardless, even this information certainly hasn’t stopped us from go­ing to the games. 
The most recent set of scandals in football have centered on player behavior off the field. These in­cidents may affect the nFl in a way that requires more than window dressing. between the videos, pictures and police reports, fans have a very good understanding of what happened with rice, adrian peterson and even Josh gordon. These scandals, the kinds that hit closer to home than referee fiascos and taxes, have a chance to strike a chord with nFl fans. 
The league looked the other way for five months when one of its stars was accused of domestic abuse. The vikings owners followed up by try­ing to get peterson back on the field days after pictures of his beaten child surfaced. when the storylines break through the Tv screen and into reality, fans are forced to think about much more than the game. 
The fan base of the nFl is at its core made up of families: fathers, mothers and children who want to come together on sunday and watch their teams play. 
more people watched the bears come back from 17 points down last week than watched most nba Finals games. The nFl continues to grow, despite all of the negative headlines. but if the league continues to spit in the face of its fans by ignoring off-the-field issues and bumbling on the ones it does address, fans may start thinking more about the pictures of peterson’s son than how their fantasy teams are doing that week. until then, though, i’ll see you sunday. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns, and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
my Friday morning 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 

at 5:30 a.m., the alarm went off, piercing through the silence of the early morning. i sat up almost immediately — after all, i hadn’t slept much the night before. i was gripped by an unset­tling combination of nerves and excitement for the events ahead, tossing and turning in my sleep (or lack thereof). Taking a quick look at myself in the mirror, i couldn’t help but see my hands shake a little bit. 
i was nervous and unprepared for what was to come. a flurry of questions ran through my head 
— will i arrive too early? will they be able to offer me what i’m asking for? what if i walk away this morning empty-handed? what will my friends, family and colleagues think about me after i’d been hyping this moment up for so long? 
These thoughts and questions flurried through my head as i walked out to the d6 parking lot this past Friday morning. The brisk september chill didn’t help my shaky hands — rather, it amplified my feelings of uneasiness as i approached my car. The walk seemed significantly longer than the usual five minutes as my feelings of anticipation simply grew stronger. There was a very real chance that, despite all my preparation and passion, i would be denied the fruits of my pursuits this morning. as i fumbled with my keys and slid them into the ignition, i took a final glance at myself in the mirror. 
“you can do this, michael. you’ve been prepar­ing yourself all week. show them who you are and make sure they know you won’t be taking no for an answer!” 
it was at that moment that i started my car, leav­ing the comforts and security of notre dame be­hind and making my way to my much anticipated destination: the verizon wireless store on 505 west douglas road. The morning of Friday, sept. 19, 2014, i had one goal and one goal only — to pur­chase a silver 64 gb iphone 6 plus. 
The decision to pursue this phone at the verizon store instead of the apple store in the university park mall was quickly made for me as i heard of people lining up at the latter at 5 p.m. Thursday evening. as i pulled into the parking lot at around 6 a.m., i found a modest line of seven people al­ready formed. backpack and blanket in tow, i made my way to claim my rightful spot as the eighth person in line. 
on my right was a sociology graduate student who, aside from dealing with my anxiety over which phone type i wanted, was a nice gal. on my left was a seasoned veteran of the iphone wait­ing game — he had been to the launches for the iphone 4 and the iphone 5. between the small talk and anticipation, it didn’t take long for the verizon sales representatives to come outside, take down our account information and phone requests and tell us they would welcome customers in waves of 10 in the heated verizon store at 8 a.m. after this, another woman came around and took down our preferred model and phone sizes and said she was going to label them for us in the store to expedite the process. i told her i was worried about news stories about shortages of the iphone 6 plus model i wanted, and she put her hand on my shoulder and reassured me everything would be ok. 
as the doors opened, the first 10 customers (myself included) flooded into the store and were assigned a random sales representative. my rep­resentative was quite kind and personable (which was much appreciated after waiting in line for two hours), and when it came time for her to get my phone she went to the back of the store for the moment of truth — whether or not i would get the phone i wanted. 
when she returned after what seemed like forev­er, she had an iphone 6 plus in her hand, but in the 16 gb size, saying that it was the last iphone plus the store had in stock in any size or color. Trying to hide my disappointment (and trying to rational­ize in my mind that i could somehow downsize from my current 64 gb model), i signed the digital receipt and eagerly opened the plastic on the box. not even 10 seconds after i took the plastic off the box, the lady who arranged for the phone i wanted turned the corner … with the phone she set aside for me. one massive guilt trip and conversation with a manager later, i eventually walked out of the verizon store at 8:24 a.m. with my mission accomplished. 
and don’t worry guys — i wasn’t paying close at­tention in my physics lecture that morning by any stretch of the imagination. 
Michael is a junior Science-Business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

“new girl” fans around the globe will never forget where they were when “The Kiss” happened. nick and Jess were undoubtedly the two characters everyone “shipped” (slang for fans hoping two characters will be­gin a relationship), and the moment they finally locked lips was one of the more exciting ones i’ve had in my kitchen with a mouthful of chick-fil-a. it seems amazing now that the scene i once replayed on youTube approxi­mately 50 times would bring “new girl” to its present state of mediocrity. 
last Tuesday, “new girl” premiered its fourth season on Fox to less than stellar ratings, and the blame can be pointed to that moment in the hallway between the two roommates turned lovers. 
in theory, it’s brilliant. writers targeting the female 18­29 demographic understand that the best way to hook their audience on the first episode is to dangle a potential 
By DREW KOCAK 
scene writer 

last Thursday, after a packed week of class, i reward­ed myself with a trip in chicago to see one of my favorite bands, a day to remember.  after almost missing the train and sprinting to the arena to make the openers, i finally ar­rived at the uic pavilion, along with 7,000 other hardcore fans. 
i was impressed when show openers and post-hardcore veterans chiodos and sleeping with sirens proved their crowd-moving prowess with songs such as “baby, you wouldn’t last a minute on the creek” and “if i’m James dean, you’re audrey hepburn” (my favorite performances given by each, respectively), but immediately after they fin­ished, 30 minutes of silence ensued. 
anticipation for the headliner, a day to remember, filled the air. The silence was broken by the blabbering intro to “The downfall of us all,” and when it was time, everyone in the crowd shouted the simple, yet famous lyric, “let’s go.” 
if you’ve never heard of the band that put on what turned out to be an amazing performance last week, adTr, com­prised of Jeremy mcKinnon (vocals), neil westfall (guitar), Josh woodard (bass), alex shelnutt (drums) and Kevin skaff (guitar), invented the now-common genre mash-up of pop-punk and metal core during their early “garage-band” days in ocala, Florida. From a simple, albeit powerful, guitar ac­companied by soaring and poppy vocals, to angry growls and heavy chugging, adTr does it all. however, this is 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

couple in our faces and then let us obsess about the pros­pect of these two locking lips for approximately the next season and a half.  and it works … until the hookup actu­ally happens. 
The inevitable down portion of a television roller-coaster relationship is that precarious place where the audience is angry if the couple breaks up but bored if there isn’t any drama between the couple in question. it’s a thin line to walk, and “new girl” seemed to lose its balance during its third season. 
The premiere helped restore some faith to the fandom. The angst about nick and Jess was kept to a minimum and the writers seemed to emphasize the group, the odd community that resides in apartment 4d, rather than the couple. it showed the potential for a nice revert to what made the show hilarious in the first place, and hopefully, the change will revitalize a somewhat lackluster show. 
“The mindy project” premiered its third season the same night to most likely much of the same audience. like a horrific, but amazing, episode of déjà vu, the 
not meant to “scare” you more casual music listeners; the band’s ultimate pop side would not sound out of place on Top 40 radio. 
The lights flashed on as mcKinnon and the rest of the band ran on stage to start their set. opening with the song that attracted so much mainstream attention for the band made the crowd go nuts, as fans jumped and sang along to every line. immediately following, the band played “2nd sucks” to satisfy all the die-hard metal core fans in the crowd. This song begins with the single word, “Fight,” fol­lowed by a bass drop and moshing that probably hurt quite a few fans’ faces. “homesick,” the title song off the band’s third studio album, was another noteworthy performance. mcKinnon hopped into a humongous hamster ball and ran all over the crowd. luckily, i had already made my way down to the floor for this event. 
other favorites from their set include recent hit “right back at it again,” the older fist-pumper “mr. highway’s Thinking about the end” and the heartfelt power-ballad “have Faith in me.” at the end of the set, the crowd wild­ly chanted for a day to remember to play one more song, only to be treated by the return of the band and an encore of three fan favorites: “if it means a lot to you,” “all signs point to lauderdale” and “The plot bomb the panhandle.” i’ve seen well over 50 bands perform live — a day to remember’s performance topped them all. 
adTr attained success because their songs fit per­fectly in a live setting. The unclean vocals “pump up” the crowd, as was evident last Thursday in chicago, while the viewers watched yet another “ship” sail as lead mindy lahiri and love interest danny castellano stumbled through the beginning of their relationship. 
Fearful that the show will go the way of another “new girl,” i watched the premiere prepared for the worst but was ultimately hopeful due mostly to the writing of mindy Kaling. without losing the ability to laugh at her­self, mindy allowed her character to grow in her relation­ship with danny. The show’s creator was able to find the humor in a romance between two such totally different characters while simultaneously portraying the chemis­try and love there that makes the couple work. 
both of these single-camera comedies are off to de­cent starts and worth the watch — if only to see mindy and danny being adorable and the inevitable nick and Jess 2.0 — because let’s face it, we love to see couples get back together even if it’s the second, third or 12th time around. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at lower1@nd.edu 
clean vocals provide the crowd with flawless sing-a-longs. all of this is apparent on the group’s 2009 breakthrough, “homesick.” This was followed up by the more poppy 2010 album, “what separates me from you.”  “homesick’s” opener, “The downfall of us all,” is blasted today through­out high school locker rooms, but the sophomore album’s first single, “all i want,” is the band’s highest-charting song and a fantastic pop-punk anthem. The band followed up with 2013’s “common courtesy,” which stands as a quint­essential adTr album that showcases the band in their best light. 
The release of “common courtesy” was delayed for nearly a year due to adTr’s pending lawsuit with their la­bel, victory records.  Therefore, “common courtesy” was released independently, as the pending lawsuit prevented adTr from signing on with a new label (it is not a secret that sony music entertainment is courting them heavily). in accordance with billboard’s tracking policies regarding digital independent albums, the sales were not tracked un­til its third week. however, it is projected that its first-week sales would have landed the album at no. 1, the first for a hardcore band. 
The future of adTr appears to be filled with promise and sustained success, especially if their live performance is any indication. 
Scene Writer Chris Reiche contributed to this article. 
Contact Drew Kocak at wkocak@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

in a recent, incredibly moving new yorker story, “This old man,” writer roger angell discusses growing old and quotes laurence olivier, who allegedly said in an interview, “inside, we’re all seventeen with red lips.” 
The use of olivier’s words likely would not have struck me the way they did if i hadn’t reflected on my own age of 17 just days before. while in my car driving from my hometown back to south bend, electronic group ladytron’s song “seventeen” came up on shuffle and began blaring through my car’s speakers. 
i’d loved the song since my young teenage years, but i had a different reaction to it this time around. its repetitive lyrics sought to remind me: “They only want you when you’re 17. when you’re 21, you’re no fun.” 
Though the song is presumably about the fash­ion and entertainment culture’s fetishization of young girls (later lyrics allude to an audition), the song felt like a personal affront to my 21 years. after reminding myself that a ladytron song re­leased at the turn of the millennium was in no way accosting me, i couldn’t help but think of all the other songs i knew that referenced being 17. i went from wondering what was wrong with being 21 (nothing, in my experience) to questioning what was so special about the age 17. 
it should be noted first that when considering songs about being age 17, there’s something special about the word “seventeen,” if not the age itself: it is three syllables compared to the other teens’ two, and its rhyming potential far surpasses its numeri­cal neighbors. still, there were so many instances of the specific age of 17 in music, and if laurence olivier insists that we’re all 17 inside, looking to songs referencing the age may tell us more about what that means. 
as was clear in ladytron’s song about being that certain age, 17 is, at least in part, about being want­ed or, as it goes, wanting. Joan Jett’s “i love rock ‘n’ roll” tells the tale of scoping out a boy, aged 17, while the cars sing about a girl: “she won’t give up/’cause she’s seventeen/she’s a frozen fire/my one desire” in their single “let’s go.” and if being 17 is about feeling those first sparks of attraction and pulls of desire, it’s, without a doubt, best exem­plified by meat loaf’s “paradise by the dashboard light.” i can’t even begin to choose a lyric to make an example. 
but age 17 isn’t just about sexual awakenings — it’s about exploration in all aspects. it’s about gaining independence, leaving home and growing up. blitzen Trapper’s “Furr” starts off with a tale of wandering away from home and joining a pack of wolves at 17. Fionn regan sings of following his dreams and confronting loneliness at the same age. 
with exploration comes, unfortunately, disil­lusionment, and songs about anxiety and sad­ness abound. in 1975, Janice ian lamented in “at seventeen” about not being beautiful and the cru­elty faced in teenage years. decades later, broken social scene wrote “anthems for a seventeen year old girl” about losing a friend to the teen world of makeup and high school cattiness. stephen merritt, lead singer of the magnetic Fields, refer­ences his teen angst in his song “i don’t want to get over you,” singing about dressing in black and smoking clove cigarettes. meanwhile, tracks like “This year” by the mountain goats and rooney’s “That girl has love” expose the unhappier side of being just shy of adulthood. 
Though songs range from loneliness to love to plain old angst, my favorite lyrics about the very specific age of 17 look back on the age with neither regret nor sentimentality. instead, they see the age as a time of discovery and potential.  The first is a delightful love song, “you you you you you,” by the 6ths, in which the lead singer confesses, “you make me feel like i’m 17 again. you make every­thing beautiful and new.” 
The second is youth lagoon’s “seventeen,” as the singer/songwriter reflects on advice he was given: “when i was 17/my mother said to me/don’t stop imagining/ The day that you do is the day that you die.” it’s advice i like to think lead singer Trevor powers stuck with, as he wails out the song. 
according to the myriad references to being 17, the age isn’t just one year in a life, but a symbol for growing up and all that comes with it. To be 17 is to be innocent but experienced, bold but afraid, na­ïve but jaded or beautiful but lonely. The age, in the american psyche, is much more than the number of candles on a cake or a three-syllable word that’s catchy to sing — it’s the ultimate time of transition and change. age 17 is the lynchpin in a lifespan, holding together all of the opposites and contra­dictions exposed or created with age. 
or maybe it’s none of these things, and being 17 isn’t so special at all. one thing is for certain: an age has never sounded so good. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen  at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PLAYLIST: BEING 17 
FOLLOW US ON SPOTIFY AT OBSERVERSCENE FOR THIS PLAYLIST AND MORE 




“Edge of Seventeen” 
Stevie Nicks 
“Anthems for a Seventeen Year-Old Girl” 
Broken Social Scene 
“Furr” 
Blitzen Trapper 
“Seventeen” 
Ladytron 
“Born In Chicago” 
The Paul Butterfield Blues Band 
“You You You You You” 
The 6ths 
“Let’s Go” 
The Cars 
“At Seventeen” 
Janice Ian 
“This Year” 
The Mountain Goats 
“17” 
Youth Lagoon 
“Put a Penny in the Slot” 
Fionn Regan 
“17” 
Kings of Leon 
“Paradise by the Dashboard Light” 
Meat Loaf 
“Tree By The River” 
Iron & Wine 
“Dancing Queen” 
ABBA 
“I Don’t Want to Get Over You” 
The Magnetic Fields 
“That Girl Has Love” 
Rooney 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Playoff picture has yet to form 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 
The only thing we seemed to learn from week Four of col­lege football is that we don’t re­ally know much about college football this year. 
which teams will make this year’s inaugural four-team college Football playoff? 
well, we don’t exactly have a clear picture through the quar­ter point of the season for most teams. 
in fact, the best thing that could be said about most of the top-25 teams this week is that they found ways to win. 
Top-ranked Florida state needed clemson to be clemson 
— that is, make costly late turnovers and fail to convert on opportunities — in order to escape with a 23-17 overtime victory. granted, the seminoles were without heisman Trophy winner Jameis winston at quarterback, but the inexperi­ence of backup sean maguire doesn’t excuse their 13 rushing yards and eight penalties. 
along those lines, no. 2 oregon needed marcus mariota to be, well, himself to get past upstart washington state. and the senior quarter­back obliged, throwing five touchdown passes to offset a ducks defense that allowed nearly 500 yards. 
no. 3 alabama posted 645 total yards in its 42-21 win over Florida, but the crimson Tide also turned the ball over four times and led by only a touch­down at halftime. 
no. 4 oklahoma was tied at halftime in a tough road environment at west virginia and despite the second-half dominance of freshman run­ning back samaje perine, still allowed over 500 yards to the mountaineers. 
no. 5 auburn took a tough road trip to Kansas state and escaped with a six-point win after three turnovers and three missed field goals by the wildcats. 
and for the most part, no one in the top 25 really stood out. some teams — i’m looking at you, Texas a&m, michigan state and georgia — had laughably easy wins, but they came against the likes of eastern michigan and winless southern methodist and Troy. 
other teams, such as byu and nebraska, came out with reasonably impressive wins against acc competition to remain undefeated. but it’s tough to say whether the cougars, which will likely play zero ranked teams the entire season, and the cornhuskers, which will likely only play two top-25 teams, are threats to crash the playoff party. 
and yet other teams com­mitted the ultimate sin and lost to unranked teams. no. 8 lsu dug a hole it never could quite get out of and in a rare twist for night games in baton rouge, fell to a then-unranked mississippi state squad. meanwhile, missouri dropped a home game to indiana, which served as the showcase win on a pretty impressive day for the much-maligned big Ten. 
as much as last weekend failed to clear up the playoff picture, this upcoming week­end may prove just as unhelp­ful. one team will fall from the unbeaten ranks when ucla and arizona state play Thursday night, but otherwise, the schedule seems bare of real statement games — bar­ring a major upset like north carolina state over Florida state or arkansas over Texas a&m. 
in fact, the playoff picture might not even come into focus until oct. 4, which might as well be dubbed “sec saturday.” Two matchups of the confer­ence’s current unbeatens — alabama-mississippi and Texas a&m-mississippi state — are on the menu that day, in addi­tion to an equally-intriguing lsu-auburn tilt. 
until then, it’s just best to sit back and enjoy playoff predic­tions that include everyone from the current top four teams to the presence of one-loss teams like michigan state, stanford and georgia. it will essentially amount to a bunch of speculation that will likely bear little resemblance to the actual playoff race. 
but is that speculation re­ally a bad thing? part of what makes college football great is its inherent unpredictability and our attempts to makes sense out of it. any top-tier team can fall to another team on any given day. a single turnover, tackle or gust of wind could be the factor that chang­es one team’s playoff fortunes. 
and that holds great value for you, the college football fan. so, don’t worry about whether your team is elite or a playoff lock at the moment. much like the bcs of yore, the college Football playoff will sort itself out and hopefully — this is a big hopefully — get it all right in the end. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL 
Colts get back on track against Jaguars 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — The colts locker room is suddenly returning to normal. 
players were cracking jokes and cranking up the music monday and the somber at­titude that was around the past two weeks is gone. 
all it took was one win to put everything in perspective. 
“we’re too young into the season to have a ‘victory monday,’” tight end dwayne allen said, referring to coach chuck pagano’s traditional reward -- an extra day off. “but it (the win) definitely energized us on the plane ride home. it was a lot of fun, and there was a lot of energy in the building today.” 
The next challenge is to keep that momentum rolling this weekend when the colts host division rival Tennessee (1-2). 
but in indianapolis, this was a brand new experience. 
never before in the andrew luck-pagano era had the colts lost back-to-back games. since 1999, the colts had only opened 0-2 one oth­er time. and after hearing all the talk about the low per­centage of teams that make the playoffs after an 0-2 start and the even worse percent­age for teams that go 0-3, the colts were determined to re­move themselves from that discussion. 
They succeeded with an impressive 44-17 rout at win­less Jacksonville on sunday. 
“it makes everything feel better,” luck said. “it’s good to have a win, but you realize it’s just one and we’ve got to get our home record back on track now.” 
indianapolis (1-2) certain­ly appeared to take a major step forward. 
luck finished 31 of 39 for 370 yards with four touch­downs, a 140.4 quarterback rating and no turnovers for the first time this season. he benefited again from a strong ground game. indy has rushed for 313 yards in the last two weeks. 
indy’s defense, which was gashed by peyton manning early in the season opener and wore down late against philadelphia’s fast-break of­fense, proved almost impen­etrable against the Jaguars in the first half, held tight in the second half and finished with four sacks -- three more than they had in their first two games combined. 
The result: indy pulled within one game of division-leading houston and put the fun back in the locker room. 
“you know, winning has that kind of effect,” defensive end cory redding said with a smile. 
but there’s plenty to fix, too. 
while luck has reduced his interception total each week and had nine different receivers with at least two catches sunday, he is still getting sacked and hit too often. running back ahmad bradshaw is emerging as a dual threat with three Td receptions in the past two games, but the colts still need Trent richardson to be­come a bigger presence in a budding ground game. 
The defense needs to cut down its penalties, one of which negated a safety sunday, and is still looking for a more consistent pass rush. 
“sometimes it’s hard to keep them from becoming complacent after a victory,” pagano said. “we’ve got to do a great job of making sure we don’t take our foot off the gas and keep trying to get better.” 
after opening the season with back-to-back games against defending division champs, the colts won’t face another 2013 playoff team on the road all season. plus, they’ll play three of their next four -- Tennessee, baltimore and cincinnati -- at home. 
The way the colts see things, they got their post­season aspirations righted sunday. what they must do now is stay there by keep­ing things in sync inside and outside the locker room. 
“we didn’t have to go out and reinvent the wheel,” allen said. “we just had to go out and play our game.” 

NFL | bears 27, JeTs 19 
Bears hold on to beat Jets 
Associated Press 
easT ruTherFord, n.J. — The chicago bears took advan­tage of early mistakes by the sloppy new york Jets. 
Then they had to hold their breath before hanging on for a 27-19 victory monday night. 
Jay cutler threw two touch­down passes to martellus bennett and ryan mundy re­turned an interception 45 yards for a score. cutler finished 23 of 38 for 225 yards and alshon Jeffery caught eight passes for 105 yards for the bears, who got a 45-yard field goal from robbie gould to make it an eight-point game with 3:10 remaining. 
The Jets (1-2) had one last op­portunity to tie, getting into bears territory on geno smith’s 51-yard pass to greg salas. but Jeremy Kerley was out of bounds when he caught smith’s desper­ation fourth-down heave from the bears 9. 
cutler took a knee three times to seal the victory for the bears (2-1). 
“right now i feel i’m very intel­ligent on the field,” said bennett, now in his seventh nFl season. “The game is getting a lot easier. i know the offense better. i know what Jay wants.” 
smith was 26 of 43 for 316 yards and a touchdown with two interceptions — and nearly had a few others. Kerley finished with seven catches for 81 yards, and almost came up with a div­ing grab off a tipped pass in the end zone on the final drive. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
STANFORD -FOOTBALL RENTAL: Close to campus/Eddy Street - prime location. Email nd­house@sbcglobal.net 
Fall Break at The beach in 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Destin FL Call 214-632-2868 www.vrbo.com/71701 www. vrbo.com/582081 BEAT FSU! 
IRISH CROSSING TWNHM For Rent 2015-16 yr from ND Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. Text or call 
John 281-635-2019 
I wandered lonely as a cloud/ That floats on high o’er vales and hills/When all at once I saw a crowd/A host, of golden daf­fodils; Beside the lake, beneath the trees 



MLB | rangers 4, asTros 3 

rangers get 9th win in 10 games, 4-3 over astros 
Associated Press 
arlingTon, Texas — guilder rodriguez had his first two major league hits, including a tiebreaking rbi single, as the Texas rangers opened their final home-stand with a 4-3 victory over the houston astros on monday night. 
rougned odor had a three-run triple for Texas, which won for the ninth time in its last 10 games. The rangers got win no. 63 overall, en­suring that they will avoid their first 100-loss season since 1973. 
The 31-year-old rodriguez made his major league de­but two weeks ago, when the switch-hitting utility in­fielder was called up after 13 seasons and 1,095 games in the minors, then the most by any current player before fi­nally getting to the majors. 
rodriguez got his first major league rbi in the seventh, his two-out sin­gle sending home Jake smolinski and chasing astros starter nick Tropeano (1-2). smolinski was hit by a pitch to start the inning. 

derek holland (2-0) scat­tered seven hits and allowed three runs, two earned, while pitching through one batter in the eighth. it was the left-hander’s fifth start since missing the first six months of the season rehab­bing from left knee surgery. 
roman mendez finished the eighth before neftali Feliz pitched the ninth for his 12th save in 13 chances. 
rodriguez had already ap­peared in five games, but monday was the first that his father got to see him play in the majors. The el­der rodriguez arrived from venezuela on sunday night, and sat in the second row near the rangers bench. 
when his son singled in the third, the elder rodriguez held both his arms in the air. That was the second of three consecutive rangers to reach base before odor tripled into the left-center field gap. 
The astros got even in the sixth after a leadoff double by Jonathan villar before an error by rodriguez at third base. Jose altuve then had an rbi double, his majors-best 221st hit, and chris carter a sacrifice fly to deep right. 
houston’s first run came in the fifth when Jake marisnick had a leadoff sin­gle, and scored after a wild pitch and two groundouts. 
holland had escaped un­scathed after giving up lead-off hits in each of the first two innings. The rangers turned a double play in the first and holland picked off marisnick in the second. 
MLB | yanKees 5, orioles 0 

Jeter’s 3 RBIs lead Yankees over Orioles 5-0 
Associated Press 
new yorK — derek Jeter began his final series at yankee stadium by breaking open the game with a two-run double, and he had three rbis to lead the new york yankees over the baltimore orioles 5-0 monday night. 
michael pineda retired his first 13 batters before 
J.J. hardy singled sharply to left field, pitching 7 1-3 in­nings and combining with three relievers on a one-hit­ter. Jose pirela, the yankees’ team-record 57th player this season, became new york’s first player in 33 years to tri­ple in his first big league at-bat. he went 2 for 3 with the go-ahead rbi. 
despite the loss, al east champion baltimore clinched home-field advan­tage in an al division series starting oct. 2 when detroit lost to the chicago white sox. The orioles open the postseason against the wild­card playoff winner or the al central champion. 
likely to miss consecutive postseasons for the first time since 1992 and ‘93, new york closed within four games of the second al wild card with six games left. 
Fans are being allowed in an hour early before night games during the four-game series to watch the 40-year-old Jeter take bat­ting practice. about 200 were on hand when the retir­ing captain came out for the first hitting group at about 

4:15 p.m., many holding up signs lauding the shortstop, who is sixth on the career hits list. 
The crowd of 35,614 stood each time late public address announcer bob sheppard’s recording introduced the yankees’ last player to wear a single-digit uniform num­ber, and fans remained on their feet throughout each at-bat taking photographs and video. Jeter went 1 for 3 with a walk, hitting a deep flyout, a run-scoring groundout that made it 2-0 in the third and a double down the left-field line on the eighth pitch of his at-bat against wei-yin chen (16-5) in the fifth. Jeter was ser­enaded by fans chanting his name throughout the ninth inning. 
Jeter is 9 for 20 with three doubles, a home run and six rbis on his final homestand, raising his batting average seven points to .256. 
pineda (4-5) struck out eight, walked one and low­ered his era to 1.93. he got some rare offensive support from the yankees, who had scored 19 runs in his pre­vious 15 big league starts, and was given defensive help by second baseman stephen drew, who made a diving stop on alejandro de aza’s first-inning grounder. shawn Kelley, rich hill and david phelps finished. 
pirela, a 24-year-old who spent 731 games in the mi­nor leagues in seven seasons, made his major league de­but in the third. he worked the count to 1-1 and drove a changeup on one hop to the wall in left-center. pirela ran so hard he stumbled after rounding both first base and second, then slid headfirst into third base, pounded the ground with his right arm, then popped up and clapped five times. The previous yankees player to triple in his first at-bat was steve balboni against detroit on april 22, 1981. 
ichiro suzuki, who had reached on third baseman ryan Flaherty’s throwing er­ror, scored from first. pirela hit an opposite-field single to right in the fifth and ad­vanced on brett gardner’s walk ahead of Jeter’s double. chase headley added a solo homer into monument park in the eighth off ryan webb. 
chen, the orioles’ win­ningest left-hander since Jeff ballard went 18-8 in 1989, gave up four runs and six hits in six innings. he had been 4-0 in seven starts since los­ing at Toronto on aug. 6. 
MLB | cardinals 8, cubs 0 
Wainwright wins 20th game 
Associated Press 
chicago — adam wainwright joined clayton Kershaw as the majors’ only 20-game winners, pitch­ing three-hit ball over seven innings, and the st. louis cardinals beat the chicago cubs 8-0 on monday night. 
wainwright hit the 20-win mark for the second time while matching his career-high for victories, and the cardinals moved a step closer toward their second straight division title. 
They remained 2 1/2 games ahead of pittsburgh in the nl central with five to play with the pirates beating atlanta 1-0. st. louis clinched its fourth straight playoff ap­pearance on sunday. 
wainwright (20-9) won his fifth straight start and made it look easy, striking out eight and walking one. 
he gave up a double to anthony rizzo with two out in the first and did not allow another hit until back-to-back singles by luis valbuena and welington castillo with two out in the seventh. 
The only other time wainwright won 20 was in 2010, and that year, victory no. 20 also came at wrigley Field. 
he got plenty of support in this one, with the cardinals pounding Travis wood (8-13) for seven runs and eight hits over five innings. 
They scored four in the fourth and three in the fifth on the way to their eighth win in 10 games. 
matt holliday had two hits and scored two runs. he also drove in one. 
matt adams chipped in with two hits and two rbis. Jon Jay added two hits and drove in three, capping a four-run fourth with a two-run single to make it 4-0. 
holliday also had a run-scoring double to left and yadier molina singled in a run in that inning, and the cardinals broke it open in the fifth. 
matt carpenter led off that inning with a walk and was ruled safe at second tagging on randal grichuk’s fly to center following a replay re­view. he scored on holliday’s bloop single to right, and adams capped the rally with a two-run single to make it 7-0. 

MLB | piraTes 1, braves 0; diamondbacKs 6, Twins 2 
pirates, d-backs get wins 
Associated Press 
Pirates 1, Braves 0 
aTlanTa — andrew mccutchen homered, Francisco liriano won his fourth straight start and the pittsburgh pirates moved closer to a playoff berth by beating the atlanta braves 1-0 monday night. 
The pirates, winners in 10 of their last 12, have a five-game lead over milwaukee with six games remaining for both teams. any combina­tion of two pittsburgh wins or brewers losses will guaran­tee the pirates at least a spot in the nl wild-card game for the second straight year. 
The pirates still have hopes of winning the nl central, but they began the night 2½ games behind first-place st. louis. 
mccutchen, the 2013 nl mvp, hit his 24th homer in the sixth off starter aaron harang. 
pittsburgh has played three consecutive 1-0 games, win­ning the past two. 
liriano (7-10) allowed three hits, walked four and struck out seven in six innings. 
he extended his consecu­tive scoreless streak to 28 innings. 
liriano has a 0.69 era over his last five starts and 39 in­nings. he left the game when Jose Tabata pinch-hit in the seventh. 
mark melancon faced four batters in the ninth to earn his 32nd save in 36 chances. 
Diamondbacks 6, Twins 2 
minneapolis — Josh collmenter pitched six strong innings for his career-best 11th win, mark Trumbo homered and the arizona diamondbacks beat the minnesota Twins 6-2 monday night to snap a six-game los­ing streak. 
Trumbo’s two-run shot off ricky nolasco (5-12) — his fourth homer in the last 11 games — capped a five-run fifth for the diamondbacks, who are 7-11 in interleague play. 
collmenter (11-8) has al­lowed two runs or fewer in his last six starts, match­ing the longest streak of his career. he’s 3-1 during that span. 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL | pasQuerilla wesT 26, Farley 0 
Pasquerilla West shuts out Farley in season opener 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA and HUNTER MCDANIEL 
sports writers 
pasquerilla west kicked off its defense of the inter-hall flag football title with a dominating 26-0 victory over Farley at the labar practice complex on sunday. 
The purple weasels (1-0), still hot off their champi­onship last year, started off strong and received con­tributions from standout players, junior quarterback megan Ferowich and sopho­more receiver monica busse, in the win. 
“[megan’s] stepped up,” pasquerilla west senior cap­tain colleen doyle said. “[we] had a late substitution in quarterbacks, and she’s looking pretty good. also, our defense looks fantastic.” 
The game highlights in­cluded a 40-yard touchdown scamper by Ferowich for the first score of the season, be­fore the defense stepped up with an interception near the end of the first quarter, which led to another touchdown. The Finest (0-1) put forth a good effort until the final whistle but were hindered by new changes to the roster and coaching staff. 

“we have three new coach­es who have never coached flag football before,” Farley senior captain caitlin smith said. “They got to see the lay of the land and kind of adjust. we’ll adjust our place for the next game on Tuesday.” 
on the other hand, pasquerilla west was led by an experienced group of coaches who had already built a solid relationship with the returning championship team members. 
“defense was a collective effort,” third-year purple weasels coach senior michael Judd said. “we had a number of interceptions and we rotat­ed about 13 girls in there on defense. it was really a collec­tive unit.” 
The Finest and the purple weasels both aim to rack up victories in preparation for this season’s playoffs. 
“[our] goals are to start winning games,” smith said. 
doyle shares the same view. 
“[we want to] just keep winning,” doyle said. “we want to make it back to the stadium” 
both teams are back in ac­tion tonight, with Farley tak­ing on walsh and the purple weasels, hoping to build on their winning streak, playing cavanaugh. both games will take place at riehle Fields at 7 p.m. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu and Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
MLB | blue Jays 14, mariners 4; whiTe soX 2, Tigers 0 
mariners, Tigers fall in midst of playoff race 
Associated Press 
Blue Jays 14, Mariners 4 
ToronTo — Jose bautista homered and reached base four times, J.a. happ won for the first time in four starts and the Toronto blue Jays dealt a blow to seattle’s wild card hopes, routing the mariners 14-4 monday night. 
bautista went 3 for 3 with a walk and drove in two runs before getting the rest of the night off. his solo homer off the facing of the second deck in the fifth, against mariners reliever Tom wilhelmsen, was his 35th. 
Kevin pillar hit a two-run homer and anthony gose added a solo blast as the blue Jays handed seattle its third straight defeat. The 14 runs were the most by a mariners opponent this season. 
seattle gained ground on Kansas city in the wild­card race before taking the field when the royals lost to cleveland in a game that had been suspended from aug. 31. 
not much went right for the mariners after that. 
happ (10-11) allowed an rbi double by robinson cano in the first, and Kyle seager’s solo homer in the sixth, but was otherwise sharp. The left-hander walked one and struck out five in seven innings for his first victory since aug. 31. 
seattle’s James paxton (6-4) allowed a career-high nine runs, walked a career-high six and matched a career-high by giving up seven hits in 2 2-3 innings, his shortest ca­reer start. 

paxton came in not having allowed more than three runs in any of his 15 previous starts. That streak ended quickly when he allowed four runs in the first, three of them on a bases-loaded triple by danny valencia. 
paxton, a left-hander from british columbia was drafted by Toronto in 2009 but did not sign, and played in an in­dependent league before the mariners drafted him in 2010. monday marked his first start against Toronto, and his first career appearance in canada. 
White Sox 2, Tigers 0 
deTroiT — chris bassitt pitched into the eighth inning for his first major league win, and the chicago white sox slowed detroit’s chase of the al central title with a 2-0 vic­tory over the Tigers on monday night. 
detroit is one game ahead of the second-place royals, who beat cleveland 2-0 in their reg­ularly scheduled game. hours earlier, the indians finished off a victory in a suspended game against Kansas city. 
Tyler Flowers hit a two-run homer for the white sox, and the Tigers were unable to take advantage of chicago’s inex­perienced starter. 
The loss assured detroit would start a division series on the road, even if it wins the al central. 
The game turned into an unexpected pitchers’ duel be­tween bassitt and fellow rook­ie Kyle lobstein. both were making their fifth career start, but they looked like aces in the middle of a pennant race. 
bassitt (1-1) went 7 2-3 in­nings and pitched out of two early jams. he gave up six hits, walked one batter — the last one he faced — and struck out alex avila three times but no one else. Jake petricka got four outs for his 14th save. 
lobstein (1-1) was trying for his second victory, but didn’t get any offensive support. he allowed two runs on five hits and a walk in a career-best seven innings. 
chicago took a 2-0 lead with a two-out rally in the second. carlos sanchez hit a ground-rule double to left-center and, on the next pitch, Flowers lined a homer into the white sox bullpen. 
detroit had a pair of early threats, but ian Kinsler was caught stealing in the first in­ning — leaving the bases emp­ty for miguel cabrera’s 50th double. right fielder avisail garcia robbed cabrera of a probable rbi double with a sliding catch in the third. 
CLUB SPORTS 
women’s rugby snags first victory 
Special to The Observer 
Women’s Rugby 
notre dame picked up its first win this season against purdue with a final score of 22-14. The game started slowly for the irish, with purdue scoring first. however, the team picked up the pace after the first 10 min­utes of the game, with senior rachel ruddick scoring and se­nior captain claire Kozlowski kicking two conversions. The game hit a turning point when sophomore isabella bianco stole the ball and scored just before halftime. in the second half, junior nina Jones scored with Kozlowski making the kick, fin­ishing the scoring for the game. The irish were also able to get 21 new players game time in their first game together. overall, notre dame started off the sea­son with a sizable freshman class and a win against purdue. 
Women’s Soccer 
The irish traveled to illinois this saturday for a pair of games. Their first game was against the Fighting illini, who came out strong and found a goal early in the first half against a strong defensive line and sophomore goalkeeper Kiley adams. The irish continued to fight back, but illinois added a second goal before the half ended. The irish came back and maintained pos­session for most of the second half, but were unable to find the back of the net, ending the game with a 2-0 loss. 
notre dame’s second game was against illinois state. The two teams went back and forth in the first half and the irish had several offensive opportunities, particularly from sophomore forward destiny anamege. it was the redbirds, however, that scored off of a corner towards the end of the first half to take the 1-0. The irish came back in the second half on the offen­sive attack. within five minutes, sophomore midfielder maddie mccormick earned a free kick just outside of the box for the irish. senior forward mary wickert took the kick, which was deflected off an illinois state de­fender and resulted in an irish corner kick. wickert again took the kick and senior defender erin doone got her head on the ball to tie up the game. shortly after the goal, a thunderstorm developed, causing the game to be cancelled and giving the irish a 1-1 tie. 
Men’s Soccer 
on sunday, two of the top club teams in the area went head to head. notre dame took on a strong and techni­cal michigan state team two years removed from a national championship. The match took place on a soggy day, with a slick pitch that forced an uptempo style of play. out of the gate, the spartans brought intensity and physicality that was not met early on by the irish. as the irish settled into the game, how­ever, they were able to keep up and even threaten the spartans for a majority of the first half. multiple quick passes at the top of the spartans’ penalty box culminated in a hard strike from sophomore peter mcgrane that bounced off the post. Just before halftime, irish junior co-captain, ryan bonner, ripped through michigan state’s de­fense on a 40-yard run, only to have the ball stolen from his feet six yards from the net. out of the gates in the second half, the irish attacked with technical precision, led by a strong perfor­mance in the central midfield from sophomore Joseph grady. he and freshman Kurt roemer kept the ball moving around michigan state’s defenders, creating space for others to op­erate. The irish fell behind 1-0 after a spartan free kick from just outside of the box found the side netting. The irish kept fighting and eventually com­mitted more men to the attack, before they were caught on a fast break from michigan state, resulting in the spartans’ sec­ond goal of the game. despite a spirited performance, the irish fell, 2-0. 

paid adverTisemenT 



SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, KalamaZoo 1 
belles top Kalamazoo, 3-1 
By JOSH DULANY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s took down Kalamazoo on Friday to break a two-match losing streak and end its five-match home stand with a win. 
The belles (4-6, 3-3 miaa) took the first two sets in domi­nant fashion, as they stormed their way to 25-15 and 25-19 victories. Kalamazoo (6-6, 1-5) fought back to take the third set, 25-21, but saint mary’s re­sponded by cruising to a 25-19 triumph in the fourth set to clinch the match. 
belles coach Toni elyea said she felt that the team’s unified effort was the main factor in the belles’ win. 
“we really played a great game as an entire team,” elyea said. “i thought especially on the offensive end we were co­hesive as a unit, found a great rhythm and turned in a great performance. we hit excep­tionally well, but also played solid defensively. we had four players with double-digit digs, and we just really did a great job.” 
senior Kati schneider led all belles with 19 digs and also racked up a game-high 22 kills. schneider now has 120 kills and 136 digs on the sea­son, both of which are team-leading marks. 
elyea said she was pleased with schneider’s effort and the role she played in an im­portant win. The belles won just one set in a pair of losses to Trine and calvin, on sept. 10 and 16, respectively, before earning the victory over the hornets. 
six games into its confer­ence schedule, saint mary’s sits at .500 in miaa play. The belles currently sit in fifth place in the conference, which includes hope and calvin – two of the nation’s top 5 teams. 
overall, elyea said she was happy with how the team has started its conference slate. however, she also stressed the need to continually improve as the season progresses. 
“we have really played well at times and it is just about finding a way to be consis­tent,” elyea said. “we know it does not get any easier from here so we have to stay fo­cused, build on the things we’ve done well and continue to try and always play at the level we are capable of.” 
adrian will be saint mary’s first test, as the belles at­tempt to establish that consis­tency. The bulldogs (9-7, 3-4) are also coming off a 3-1 vic­tory over Kalamazoo. adrian has won seven of its last nine matches, and elyea said its of­fense would be one of the bet­ter ones saint mary’s faces. elyea said she was especially impressed by the efficient way the bulldogs have converted their attacking opportunities. 
“They are a strong team with a lot of hitting that will really stretch us,” elyea said. “adrian has a great outside hitter in [junior] Jordan busse, and they are extremely consistent as a team. we will be relying on our blocking. our blocks have been a real strength for us, so it’s just about maintain­ing that against a team that will definitely challenge us in that area.” 
This is the belles’ final con­ference contest before they travel to hope, which is cur­rently the nation’s top-ranked team. elyea said the team re­alizes that the season is enter­ing a challenging stage and every match will require top­flight focus. 
“This is a key stretch of the season,” elyea said. “every game is big for us, but we have a couple especially crucial conference games coming up, so it will be big for us to go out this week and put in a strong effort.” 
The belles will look to do just that when they square off with the bulldogs on wednesday at 7 p.m., in adrian, michigan. 
Contact Josh Dulany at jdulany@nd.edu 


MEN’S TENNIS | FighTing illini inviTaTional; FarnsworTh ivy inviTaTional 
ND opens fall season at Illinois, Princeton 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
Junior standout Quentin monaghan ended notre dame’s weekend at the Fighting illini invitational on a high note, defeating no. 6 junior Jared hiltzik of illinois in straight sets 6-1, 6-1. The irish split their week­end between olympia Fields, illinois, and the Farnsworth ivy invitational in princeton, new Jersey. 
on the final day of the invi­tational, monaghan teamed up with freshman drew dawson to defeat miami (Florida) freshman christian langmo and sophomore bernard Tefel, 8-2. his last match of the tournament was a singles bout against hiltzik, illinois’s top-ranked player. monaghan beat hiltzik, an all-american last year, with ease, taking both sets 6-1. 
“Quentin played a great match against Jared,” notre dame coach ryan sachire said. “it was extremely satis­fying because Quentin works as hard as anyone we have had at notre dame to be the best player that he can be. he has put in the time and effort to earn the confidence to go out and play like he did on sunday, and the win was obviously very fulfilling for him.” 
ranked no. 88 in the nation in singles play, monaghan started off his weekend poorly, losing his first singles match against miami fresh­man piotr lomacki, 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 (5). in his other two con­tests, monaghan, along with junior eric schnurrenberger, fell in both doubles matches against duos from memphis. monaghan turned it around on day two, as he mounted a comeback against north carolina state junior Thomas weigel to win the match 3-6, 6-2, 6-4. he also won his oth­er singles match of the day against north carolina state sophomore nick horton, 7-5, 6-1. 
The rest of the irish fin­ished 21-19 in all singles and doubles contests over the weekend. Junior Kenny sabacinski shined for the irish on the first day of the tournament, winning two doubles matches with senior wyatt mccoy against north carolina state seniors robbie mudge and beck bond, 8-3, and illinois freshmen aleks vukic and Toshiki matsuya, 8-5. sabacinski also won a singles match, taking down memphis freshman ryan peniston , 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. 
The other irish athletes at the illini invitational, junior nicolas montoya, sophomore eddy covalschi and fresh­man brendon Kempin, all experienced up-and-down performances, combining for a 5-6 record in singles competition. 
“we did a lot of things that our coaching staff was excit­ed about over the weekend, and there are clearly some things that we need to im­prove as our fall season con­tinues,” sachire said, “i really liked how we improved our doubles play as the weekend progressed, and in singles, i believe that each guy compet­ed with a much clearer pic­ture of how we wanted to play his singles matches as well. on the flip side, we know that we are not at the level that we need to be at to achieve the goals that we have set for our­selves.  There are specific ar­eas of each player’s game that need to improve, and we are excited to do that in practice this week.” 
in addition to notre dame’s participation in the Fighting illini invitational, seniors billy pecor, dougie barnard, michael Fredericka and ju­nior alex lawson traveled to princeton for the Farnsworth ivy invitational. 
in doubles competition, the no. 27-ranked duo lawson and pecor made a run in the tournament, making it all the way to the semifinals before falling to the no. 51-ranked duo from st. John’s, juniors vaidik munshaw and lucas hejhal, 8-1. The other irish duo of barnard and Fredericka won its opening match against columbia freshman Taiyo hamanaka and junior eric rubin, 8-5, and its round­of-16 bout against miami freshmen nile clark and andrew harrington, 8-3. The duo’s run ended in the quar­terfinals after a loss to brown freshman Jack haworth and junior ivan Kravtchenko, 8-5. 

sachire said he was im­pressed with the play of the doubles pairs, but he added that improvement is needed throughout all facets of his players’ games. 
“The areas of improvement are obviously individual to each player, when it comes to singles,” sachire said. “as a group, we need to play a bit more confident [and] ag­gressive style of doubles and impose our will on our oppo­nents a bit more.” 
notre dame will continue play this weekend, as the team splits up to compete in the crimson Tide Four in The Fall, the vredevelt invitational and the all­american championships. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at             mdejesus@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 16 
at notre dame. 
“we trained at the same place, awp [sports Training], so he’s just a good guy i could go to and see what things were going to be like when i first came here,” Tranquill said of smith. 
Thus far, the extra guid­ance and coaching seems to have paid off for Tranquill, as he leads all irish freshmen with nine tackles through three games. against purdue, Tranquill was forced into the role of strong safety after sophomore max redfield was ejected for targeting and junior nicky baratti went down with a shoulder injury. 
Tranquill said despite his limited college experience, he was well prepared to step in against purdue. 
“you come to notre dame for a reason; it’s not the sit on the bench or sit on the side­line,” he said. “you want to help this university and help this school win football games, so when you prepare for some­thing your whole life, when the moment comes, you can’t shy down. so, with the help of my guys, my teammates, it’s some­thing where you have to show up when the lights come on.” 
Tranquill is not only balanc­ing multiple roles on the field. he is also an intended me­chanical engineering major with a heavy course load. 
“it’s extremely difficult … i’m balancing 17 credit hours and football’s like a 40-hour­per-week job, so it’s something where you definitely have to have the help of others to get through, but it’s something i’m going to try to push through,” Tranquill said. 
and if irish head coach brian Kelly’s comments are to be be­lieved, Tranquill should have no problem pushing himself or the irish through. 
“he was such a locked-in kid,” Kelly said of Tranquill in his purdue postgame press conference. “we’re able to do some things with him, and he’s only been here, what, eight, 10 weeks? where would we be without that young man? it’s really pretty incredible.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


Kubinski said. “he hit a lot of quality shots and competed very well. liam played very solid golf over 45 holes. he just struggled finishing today off. There’s a lot to be excited about there, though. when you can post numbers over 45 holes, you can post them over 54. liam should take some big positives this week.” 
senior patrick grahek (72­72-75-220) shared 45th with cox. during the second round, grahek had four birdies on the final six holes of his front nine. Freshman Thomas steve (76-72­76-224) tied for 67th place. steve posted nine birdies and tallied a 
4.17 scoring average on par-five holes. 
like steve, the rest of the irish starting lineup represented well in scoring averages on par-fives, with each player scoring a cu­mulative even par or better on par-fives. steve led the group at five-under-par and wingo and cox followed next at one-under­par. rushton and grahek fin­ished even-par on the par-five holes. 
“we’ve proven we can post strong scores and complete with the nation’s top teams over sample sizes,” Kubinski said. we just need to learn to finish these tournaments out. in spite of losing a few places with to­day’s finish, we’re improving. we’ll come out next weekend at home with a goal of competing over 54 holes.” 
The irish will host the Fighting irish gridiron classic on sept. 28-30. The first two rounds will be held at the warren golf course, while the third round will be played at lost dunes golf club in bridgman, michigan. 
Contact Kit Loughran at             kloughr1@nd.edu 


M Golf 
conTinued From page 16 
things in perspective though. we have 80 percent of our sea­son ahead, and there’s enough good within our team to get something going.” 
individually, sophomore matt rushton finished in a tie for 14th place (72-67-73-212). rushton posted the best finish for the irish after day one, closing out the second round at one-under­par. he had two birdies on the afternoon 18, while a bogey on the 18th hole marked his only setback on the round. he shot an even-par 35 on the back nine of the third round, tying for fifth in the tournament with 39 pars. 
“i thought matt played his heart out,” Kubinski said. “he got off to a tough start today. i think he just wants it too much sometimes. he’ll figure that out, that balance between desire and allowing yourself to keep your focus on the process, and accomplish great things. he’s a young player who is growing each week.” 
senior Tyler wingo (74-73-72­
219) and sophomore liam cox (71-73-76-220) completed their fall-season debuts with a share of 41st and 45th place, respec­tively. wingo shot the lowest score for the irish in the third round, with back-to-back bird­ies on holes six and seven. he posted three birdies in the first two rounds. cox shot just one­over-par in the first round and three-over-par in the second. he had an eagle on the par-five sixth hole of the final round, making him one of only nine players in the tournament to log an eagle. 
“Tyler improved each round, which was good to see,” 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
ACROSS 
1 Empty spaces 
5 Writer Roald 
who created the Oompa-Loompas 9 What a landscape
painter paints 
14 Father of Thor 
15 Companyname whose second letter is capitalized 
16 Photocopiercartridge 
17 Saturn’s second-largest moon 
18 Stoop 
19 Birdlike 
20 With 38-Across, a complaint 
23 New World cat 
24 HBO’s “Real Time With Bill ___” 
25 Drink named for a certain small stature 
27 Bergman who directed “Wild Strawberries” 31 Smell, taste or touch 
35 Partner of legis. and jud. 
37 Plotter against Cassio in “Othello” 
38 See 20-Across 
40 With 57-Across, response to thecomplaint 
42 Prefix with 
-gramme 

43 Attire for Antonius 
45 Without 
assistance 
46 Decorative pin 
48 Shoreline 
structure 
50 Subject of a painting byPicasso or Rousseau 

52 Entrees brought out with carving
knives 
57 See 40-Across 

61 Situated near the 
upper part of thehip 
62 Mid-March date 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


63 ___ fixation 64 Capital of Belarus 65 Gaelic speaker 66 1960s secretary 
of state Dean 
67 Party throwers 
68 Jazzy Fitzgerald 
69 Rented living 
qtrs. 
DOWN 
1 Astronaut Cooper,informally 
2 On an ___ basis 3 Gun, in slang 4 Symbol of 
slowness 5 Election year 
event 6 Not yet up 7 Use a whisk on 8 Neighbor of 
ancient Phrygia 9 New York’s ___ 
Island 
10 Beauty on display 
11 Woman’s name 
that means “eat” backward 
12 Like Felix, but not Oscar 
13 Puzzler Rubik 
21 “Les Coquelicots” artist 
22 Marx brother at a piano 
26 Tarzan or Buck Rogers, e.g. 
28 It’s sometimes held at a deli 
29 Not fer 
30 Terminus for all roads, in a saying 
31 Wound for Cassio 
32 Still-life pitcher 
33 Actor Robert De 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

Puzzle by Mike Buckley 
34 Didn’t compromise 
36 “Hairy man” in Genesis 
39 One of the Barrymores 

41 Synthetic material 
44 Hunk on display 
47 Some pottery containers 

49 Bygone record label 
51 Fictional character who cried “Curiouser and curiouser!” 
53 Ancient Greek marketplace 
54 Staple of IHOP booths 
55 Breakfast side dish 
56 Is a sore loser, say 
57 “The Secret of ___” (1982 animated film) 
58 Jumble 
59 Biscuit containers 
60 Wishing place 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 

DOME NUTS | aleXandra wellman 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

SOLUTION TO MONDAY’S PUZZLE 

9/11/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: get everything in order. don’t let uncertainty or confusion lead to procrastination. The less you have hanging over your head, the better you will do when faced with important decisions. Trust in your intuition, not in hearsay. it’s your responsibility to look out for your interests and to maintain a practical path that will protect you from outside influences. your numbers are 7, 9, 20, 24, 33, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): your ability to embrace change and turn whatever is going on to your advantage will lead to a new beginning. offers made may cause uncertainty at first, but once you weigh the pros and cons, you will know exactly how to react. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t count on others to do things for you. let your past performance speak for you. make changes based on experience, fair play and an opportunity to move in a direction that promises prosperity and satisfaction. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stand tall and refuse to let what others say or do bother you. anger never solves anything, but working toward your goals does. prepare to make the changes that will make you feel more at ease personally and professionally.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): make positive changes to your environment and do what you can to cut your overhead. not everyone will like or approve of the changes you implement, but you have to do whatever works for you and eases your stress. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Jumping from one thing to another will make those around you nervous. The ease at which you carry out your plans will help you gain respect. be wary of someone who might be secretly trying to take advantage of your stamina. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you will face opposition and are best to deal with it in a positive, patient and practical manner. getting angry will not solve anything and will probably lead to lies, deception and disillusionment. work on self-improvement, not trying to change others. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): egal, financial or medical matters should be dealt with personally. do not let anyone handle matters that can have an impact on your future. do what you can to protect your home and your family’s interests. get your facts straight. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a position and follow through with your belief and you will achieve great satisfaction from lending a helping hand. Keep a close watch on authoritative institutions, agencies or people to ensure you aren’t being cheated or manipulated. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):Follow through with your plans, but don’t feel the need to take on someone else’s chores or demands. emotional blackmail is apparent and must be kept in perspective to avoid being taken for granted. use your head and do what’s best for you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid being impulsive when engaging in chatter with friends, relatives or peers. you are best to focus on personal and financial self-improvements that will lead to a better lifestyle or environment. protect your assets, possessions and your reputation. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a financial change is heading your way. you can make career moves that will improve your status quo and lead to greater opportunities down the road. open up to business or personal partners and you will get the go-ahead. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep life simple and avoid engaging in disagreements or risky emotional, physical or financial situations. listen carefully to what others say and offer. There will be underlying motives that you are best to address before you make a decision. 

Birthday Baby: you are entertaining and charming. you are fastidious and appreciative. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
FHAWR  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
KRICT  

 
 
 
 
 

SLIDEH  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


PUCRES  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


AND
Answer: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BROWN TRULY HAPPEN SPIRALYesterday’s 
Answer: The owners of the auto supply store weren’t get­ting along and needed to do this — PART WAYS 



make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  

 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information  enclosed is $75 for one semester  
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an  name  
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
city       state  Zip  


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

A ‘Tranquill’ force in the secondary 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
when he took the field before notre dame’s 30-14 win over purdue at lucas oil stadium on sept. 13, irish freshman safety drue Tranquill saw a glimpse of what could have been. 
The Fort wayne, indiana, native originally committed to purdue in July 2013, but he flipped his commitment to notre dame in november of last year. 
Tranquill said he thought about his original commit­ment before the matchup with the boilermakers, but his mind was mostly focused on his role in the notre dame defense. 
“obviously, you have to think about [the past], going into it,” he said. “obviously, i was committed there, i love [purdue head] coach darrell hazell, but it was something where we had to do it as a business, so we had to come in with the preparation to win, and that’s what i was focused on — i was focused on win­ning the football game, not the previous emotions.” 
Tranquill has likely had little time to think about the past with the several differ­ent positions he has played for the irish. Tranquill has played at safety and — in the mold of fellow converted safeties ju­nior John Turner and sopho­more James onuwualu — at linebacker, along with time on special teams. 
Tranquill said several team­mates and coaches have helped get him up to speed in the short time he has been on campus. 
“it’s extremely tough, and it’s something i couldn’t have done on my own,” he said. “as i mentioned before, i had [graduate assistant Kyle mccarthy], obviously the safeties, [defensive coordina­tor brian] vangorder — those guys helped me with the line­backer stuff, and our special teams group did a great job teaching me as well.” 
Tranquill likewise credited fellow Fort wayne native and off-season training partner sophomore linebacker Jaylon smith for helping guide him through his early challenges 
see FooTball PAGE 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish slip to 11th on final day of Windon Memorial 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish finished in 11th place at the windon memorial classic at the evanston golf club in skokie, illinois on monday. 
notre dame entered the third round of the two-day tourna­ment in sixth place. The team posted a solid front nine perfor­mance during the final round, but it could not continue its mo­mentum into the last nine holes. The irish dropped 13 strokes for a final-round score of 296 and 11th place (289-285-296-870, +30). california (285-279-270) won the tournament with a six-under-par score of 834, which broke the course’s lowest 54­hole team score. 
“we were in position for some good wins through 45 holes but let a few slip away over the last nine holes,” irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “we went from a building block to a stumbling-block event. we have to keep 
see m golF PAGE 14 

MEN’S INTERHALL | Keough 7, dillon 0 
Keough defense shuts down dillon 
By MAREK MAZUREK and MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writers 
The wind and the rain came in droves, but it did not stop de­fending champion Keough, as it outlasted dillon, 7-0, in a defen­sive slugfest sunday afternoon. 
The Kangaroos (1-0) scored on their first possession with a touchdown run by sophomore running back conor Kinasz. Kinasz had 65 rushing yards on the day. 
“we have a lot of good receiv­ers and running backs,” Keough junior captain mitchell patin said. “it was rainy and windy to­day, so we did minimal throw­ing. also, our running game was working really well.” 
The Keough defense was stin­gy, not allowing a single score and making two stops on fourth down that put the ball back in the hands of the Kangaroos offense. sophomore defen­sive tackle mark shealy led the Keough defense with four sacks. 
“i think Keough is starting to be known for [its] defense,” patin said. “we kind of have a unique set and a lot of powerful linebackers that can play cover­age and also go down and make a tackle on a run.” 
For dillon, it was a rough day on offense. The big red had to resort to their third-string quar­terback, while junior captain colin cunningham and fresh­man backup dylan volanth sat out due to injuries. 
cunningham said he was proud of the defensive effort the team showed and said dillon will focus on trying to get its of­fense up-to-par in future games. 
“our defense was really, re­ally good,” cunningham said. “[it] only gave them one touch­down. we need to get our of­fense down.” 
Keough’s next game will be against o’neill, while dillon will take on stanford. both games will be sunday at riehle Fields. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu and Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 





