The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 47 | Friday, November 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘These are our brothers and sisters’ 
On a recent trip to the Middle East, Fr. Dan Groody sought solutions for refugee crisis created by ISIS violence 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
For months, the islamic state group commonly referred to as isis has made shockwaves in the middle east and around the world with its swift, merci­less and religiously-motivated violence. on a recent trip to the middle east, notre dame profes­sor of theology Fr. dan groody witnessed the human face of the victims of the islamic state group’s brutality so he could share their story with catholics in the united states and the notre dame community. 

‘Christ gives me peace’ 
“when we were in a bulgarian refugee camp, this guy came up to me and said ‘i’m a christian.’ … i didn’t have my clerics on, but he said ‘i’m a christian,’ and so i said, ‘Tell me more,’” groody said. “and he said isis asked him if he was a christian and he said yes, and they asked him why he was a christian and he said, ‘i don’t find peace in islam. i want to find peace. i’m tired of the fighting, i’m tired of the violence, i’m tired of all the hatred. i want to find peace and christ gives me peace.’ 
“he said he came back later than evening and [isis] killed his mother, his father, his sister and his two brothers. he said ‘i have no one else left in the world.’ he was very much alone in the midst 
see groody PaGe 5 

Courtesy of Fr. Dan Groody 
Notre Dame theology professor Fr. Dan Groody poses with a group of children on a recent delegation to the Middle East. Groody and five others from the USCCB met with refugees and government and U.N. leaders. 



exchange students flourish at notre dame 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
as notre dame students scat­ter across the globe to study at foreign universities, many of those universities send their own students to notre dame. 
according to the notre dame international (ndi) website, the university has student ex­change partnerships with 12 colleges and universities in europe and asia. david younger, associate director of ndi, said each university typically sends one to three students to notre dame per semester. 

younger said the exchange programs are similar to notre dame’s study abroad programs: students apply and are accepted through their home universi­ties, though notre dame makes the final application decision. he said each exchange partner typically sends one to three stu­dents per semester. 
younger said the appeal of studying abroad at notre dame often stems both from the university’s academic reputa­tion and its conventional col­lege setting. 
see eXchange PaGe 5 




Saint Mary’s to host teen writing conference 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
news writer 
The department of education at saint mary’s college and the michiana writers’ center are teaming up to host a teen writ­ing conference saturday called get inked on saturday in the carroll auditorium of madeleva hall. 
The conference, open to stu­dents in grades 8 to 12 and held on the saint mary’s campus, will run from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The event will feature keynote speaker Tracy bilen, author of the young adult novel “what she left behind.” 
Kathy higgs-coulthard, di­rector of the michiana writers’ center and education professor at saint mary’s, said the confer­ence hopes to strengthen teens’ writing skills with engaging workshops and guest speakers. 
“The get inked Teen writing conference is designed to pro­vide teen writers with the same types of experiences adult writ­ers get at their writing confer­ences,” higgs-coulthard said. “our guest author, Tracy bilen, is a huge draw.” 
The teens attending the con­ference will not only get to hear bilen speak, higgs-coulthard 
see conFerence PaGe 4 



Journalist analyzes Russia-Ukraine conflict 


By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
notre dame’s nanovic institute for european studies hosted journalist lawrence sheets to speak about the cur­rent situation in ukraine in a lecture titled “russia and ukraine: a view from the ground,” the third in a three-part series of lectures sheet gave on the political and his­torical nuances of russia. 
sheets, who served as the national public radio’s moscow 
see conFlicT PaGe 4 


news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 6 scene PaGe 8 iriSH iNSider 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s the most artistic thing you can do? 

Nicholas Casillas 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“i can wiggle my ears.” 

Lindsay Huth 
junior 
howard hall 
“graphic design.” 

Michael Ogburn 
junior 
Fisher hall 
“i d.J. for wvFi.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Stephen Cray 
junior 
off-campus 
“interpretive dance.” 

Lara Dulin 
sophomore cavanaugh hall 
“i sing.” 


Michelle Lacouture 
sophomore 
walsh hall 

“cross cultural exploration: food, language and identities.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

Jack rooney mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers Zach Klonsinski madison Jaros manny de Jesus 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
mary mcgraw miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Swimming and Diving Vigil Mass Sunday Mass Common Good “Grand Illusion” 
Jodi lo gabriela leskur 
Rolfs Aquatic Center Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Initiative Info DeBartolo 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart Heart Geddes Hall Performance Arts The Irish face 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Center 
Corrections 

Pittisburgh and Music by the Women’s Music by ND Liturgical Open to graduate and 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
The nov. 6 edition of The observer Virginia Tech. Liturgical Choir Choir. professional students. Free for students. incorrectly stated six notre dame or saint mary’s alumni won seats in the 
Men’s Basketball “Six Characters in “The Sword in the “Man Up!” : Engineering 
u.s. house of representatives. rep. 
Purcell Pavilion Search of an Author” Stone” Reimagining Modern Distinguished 
John ratcliffe (r-TX-4) also won his 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing Manhood Lecture Series 
first term, bringing the total to seven. 
Exhibition game vs. Arts Center Arts Center Hesburgh Library DeBartolo Hall 
The observer regrets this error. 

Lewis. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Student tickets are $7. Free for students. Open to all students. With Wayne Murdy. 

ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, November 7, 2014 | The observer 

Chorale to perform sacred, patriotic works in concert 
By BIANCA ALMADA 
news writer 
The notre dame chorale, the university’s official concert choir, will perform its annual fall concert at 8 
p.m. Friday in debartolo performing arts center’s leighton concert hall. The theme of the concert is “god, country, notre dame.” 
“The concert will feature sacred works (god), patri­otic songs (country) and school songs (notre dame) in addition to irish airs and the scottish song ‘loch lomond,’” chorale direc­tor alexander blachly said. “There will also be a spe­cial feature of the program with the participation of the newly-formed notre dame children’s choir.” 
blachly said the reper­toire of the group ranges from gregorian chants, renaissance motets and classical pieces to more contemporary works. staff pianist paivi ekroth will ac­company the choir’s vocals. 
The show, which will last approximately one hour with no intermission, celebrates the 40th anniversary of the chorale and kicks off a week­end-long chorale alumni reunion. 

“This is a celebration of the past members of the chorale,” blachly said.”The reunion will continue the next day after the concert with singing activities in leighton concert hall and a visit to the dpac organ hall.” 
senior mimi michuda, chorale president, said she 
“Chorale is more than just close friendships, we are a family. ” 
Mimi Michuda 
president 
Chorale 

appreciates the emotion and excitement surrounding the reunion. 
“chorale is more than just 

close  friendships,  we  are  a  
family,” she said.  
Junior  erin  bishop,  

chorale treasurer, said the concert will feature many changes from of the past performances. 
“The officers and myself have worked really hard with alex [blachly] to revamp our concerts and to hopefully in­crease attendance,” she said. “This concert, we’re singing a much greater variety of pieces, especially with the more modern patriotic and school songs.” 
blachly said the chorale has about 50 members, both male and female, most of whom are undergraduate students representing every college. besides the fall con­cert, the chorale also per­forms handel’s messiah with the notre dame Festival orchestra each december, embarks on a winter tour each January and travels for an international tour every three or four years. The chorale has also per­formed with the south bend symphony orchestra, and the group will partici­pate in a performance of mendelssohn’s elijah next march. 
“many students do not know about chorale because there are many other choirs on campus that sing much more modern music,” bishop said. “we want people to know that we’re here as well and just as great of a group.” 
Tickets for the fall concert are free for students and $10 for the general public. They can be purchased at the dpac box office or online at performingarts.nd.edu 
Contact Bianca Almada at balmada@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


SMC concludes supply drive for Ebola patients 
By RONI DARLING 
news writer 
saint mary’s associate pro­fessor of nursing ella harmeyer, the sisters of nefertiti and belles for africa concluded their supply drive for the ebola outbreak wednesday. They placed bins in spes unica hall to collect supplies to send to african countries that would help prevent the spread of the virus, including hand sanitiz­ers, thermometers, gloves, sur­face wipes and masks. 
harmeyer said she encour­ages people to stay calm and approach the ebola virus in a sensible manner. 
“ebola has been around for over 30 years,” she said. “currently the numbers in western african, in a small number of countries, have risen significantly. we should not ig­nore it, but we should also not become hysterical.” 
she said it is important to donate items because many affected countries have popu­lations who live in rural areas without access to the resources they need. due to poor health­care, any illnesses impover­ished people in africa face have the potential to be life-threat­ening, harmeyer said. 
“already, of the seven cases treated in the us, only one per­son has died,” she said. “That is a much lower level of mortality than the disease has in western africa.” 
she said influenza will be more of a problem for americans over the next few months or so. 
“real influenza, not the com­mon cold which is sometimes referred to as ‘the flu,’ will cause death in a number of people over the next four months,” she said. “but we ‘know’ the flu, and therefore we don’t panic.” 
she said ebola transmission is not airborne and requires contact with body fluids. 
“sitting next to someone on a plane is not going to transmit this virus,” she said. 
harmeyer said there are only three countries in africa that are experiencing this epidemic, not the whole continent of 58 countries. 
“we tend to fear those things that are new and different,” she said. “we do need to make sensible decisions based on the facts.” 
assistant professor of nursing Juliana mwose said although ebola is not a new disease, this happens to be the largest and most complex ebola outbreak since 1976 when it was first discovered. 
“This time around, ebola has claimed more lives and spread across land boarders and abroad,” mwose said. “i think the best way to deal with this disease right now is to try and contain it and restrict its spread while the scientific world fig­ures out a vaccine. 
“we have eradicated many other serious diseases, and i think this is not an exception. but in the meantime, we need to do all we can to get educa­tion about the disease and keep it contained. That is why i think the simple method of using hygiene will go along way into fighting the disease.” 
she said as a country, it is im­portant for americans to keep up with news to know what is happening, and also to get the truth about the disease and educate families and commu­nities on how to prevent the spread of the virus. 
as a college community, mwose said the most impor­tant contribution students and faculty can have on helping the ebola crisis is donating basic yet necessary supplies needed to fight the disease. 
sophomore mairead Zigulich said in the saint mary’s com­munity, it may not seem like students are making a major impact just by donating sup­plies because ebola is such a huge problem, but every little bit counts. 
“if everyone gave just a little, that has the power to make a major difference,” she said. 
students interested in do­
nating  money  or  supplies  
can  contact  diane  Fox  at  
dfox@saintmarys.edu  

Contact Roni Darling at vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | Friday, November 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Conference 
conTinued From page 1 
said, but will also be able to write with her in small group sessions. 
saint mary’s junior Teresa guerrero will co-teach some of the workshops. 
“as an english major and secondary education minor, my involvement in the conference is to help teach a brief lesson about the workshops i am help­ing to conduct and help students with any[thing] they may need,” guerrero said. 
according to a list provided upon registration, students can choose from workshops covering a variety of topics including how to find inspiration, write body language, establish effective settings and write compact sto­ries. beyond traditional story themes, the conference will ad­dress additional topics relevant to teens through a college essay workshop. 
higgs-coulthard said the big­gest benefit for the attending stu­dents will be the opportunity to meet like-minded teens. 
“The conference is geared to­ward students in grades 8-12 be­cause those writers are usually functioning at a more sophis­ticated level of writing — both creatively and analytically — than younger students,” she said. “Those students are often able to adopt new strategies into their writing and consider suggested revisions.” 
guerrero said she is excited to work with the students who are willing to devote their saturdays to writing. 
“i was motivated to get in­volved with the conference be­cause of the students who are coming,” she said. “hopefully i can incorporate some of the ideas presented at the conference into my own teaching one day.” 
The conference is also going to be helpful for writing teachers, higgs-coulthard said. 
“area teachers are invited to attend the morning session for free in order to learn more about teaching writing,” she said. “mary nicolini, the site director for our area’s national writing project, will be on hand to an­swer questions.” 
additionally, most presenters are not just teachers, but writ­ers themselves, higgs-coulthard said. This gives the presenters an increased understanding of the struggles the teen writers are facing, she said, which will help make them more able to help the teens. 

she said this is the second year for what she hopes will be­come an established annual conference. 
“The conference exists to cel­ebrate and support teen writers,” higgs-coulthard said. “while sporting events showcase ath­letes and other events like band concerts and theater plays show­case performers, there is noth­ing else around to showcase the talents of michiana’s young writers.” 
The get inked registration website advertises an auto­graphed copy of bilen’s novel, “what she left behind,” for each attendee. The $40 registration fee covers a full-day’s attendance and lunch. 
“saint mary’s education students are invited to at­tend the morning session from 8-11:30 in carroll auditorium for free,” higgs-coulthard said, but must email her at 
higgscou@saintmarys.edu  to  
rsvp.  
“i  hope  that  students  will  

take away new ways to write,” guerrero said. “i am still learning … just as these students are.” 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
Conflict 
conTinued From page 1 
bureau chief and currently works for the international crisis group (icg), focused his talk on the political instability that characterizes ukraine. 
“what we face is a very, very serious challenge to all of europe and to the international order,” he said. 
according to sheets, the current situation in russia is product of russia’s imperial­ist attitudes, which translates to serious consequences in ukraine. sheets said while ukrainians have a unique perspective on their identity with regards to russia, they characterize their country as more than an extension of the russian federation. 
sheets said russia’s ethnic makeup and its variety in lan­guage usage make it so difficult to categorize. 
“if you ask me which coun­try is most difficult to model in terms of stability, i would say its ukraine,” sheets said. “ukraine is a very divided country.” sheets said it was problematic that many american citizens don’t know what is going on in ukraine and attributesd this to the fact that around 1992-1993, there was serious discourage­ment to learn russian culture or the history of the soviet union. 
“There’s very little expertise on the country,” he said. “it has to do with the fact that there is a decreasing expertise on the former soviet union. … There seems to be a conscious effort to avoid discussing what is hap­pening in ukraine.” 
sheets said the nation of georgia also currently faces 
paid adverTisemenT 

problems because its govern­ment is characterized by a lose joining of politicians with dif­ferent ideologies, agendas and political strategies, which leads to destabilization within the country. 
“if you’ve been noticing what’s been happening in georgia, there’s a very seri­ous political unraveling in that country, and it’s been predicted for a long time,” sheets said. 
according to sheets, this po­litical unraveling, along with economic destabilization in ukraine could potentially spell problems for russia. 
“This brings up the question of serious destabilization with­in russia itself,” sheets said. 
sheets said ukraine also cur­rently faces severe problems with its economy. 
“it reflects deep divisions within ukrainian society and issues of ukrainian identity,” he said. “This history of ukraine, militarily, is not a classical military history; it’s a history of partisanship.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, November 7, 2014 | The observer 

with refugees themselves. 
Groody 
groody said these encounters 
conTinued From page 1 
with refugees were the most 

moving aspect of the experi­of bulgaria. he couldn’t go back ence. he said a medical student to his homeland, and he really from syria fleeing isis violence couldn’t go forward at this point, with his brother, both of whom either.” groody met in greece, told him 
groody travelled to bulgaria, a particularly powerful story. Turkey and greece from sept. 21 “i asked, ‘was god present at to oct. 3 with a delegation of six any point’ and the one brother, people from the united states who was muslim, said, ‘yes, ab-conference of catholic bishops solutely. we were constantly (usccb) that focuses on mi-looking death in the face, and grant and refugee ministry. death was in front of us ev­
as christians visiting the re-eryday,’” groody said. “This is gion, groody said the delegation someone who was a medical faced some of the same threats student in syria and now a refu­the refugees they encountered gee in greece. i said, ‘what did did, but nothing compared to you say to god or what did you their reality. hear from god?’ and he said, ‘i 
“There’s always a risk. life’s prayed everyday, and it was this: a risk,” he said. “i didn’t feel you are my god, my life is in your threatened at any time, but we hands, help me.’ it’s those kinds gain politically because they are Though he travelled with the notre dame playing a role in es-were aware that some of the of stories, for me, that are par-our brothers and sisters,’ where-usccb and continues work tablishing satellite learning op-towns we were in, isis was there, ticularly important.” as we’ve said, ‘because we have with them, groody said he also portunities for refugees. he also and even some of the houses we something to lose politically, we made the trip to the middle east said he thought the alliance for were in it wasn’t clear who we ‘These are our brothers will not do anything for these as a notre dame faculty mem-catholic education could help were dealing with. and sisters’ people.’” ber with an eye towards the give migrant and refugee chil­
“but still, our job was not to unlike the united states, groody said united states and university’s role, or lack thereof, dren an education in the united play it safe. our job was to find groody said countries such as the usccb still do accept and in the refugee crisis. states. out what was happening, and Turkey, which has about 1.7 mil-help resettle millions of refu-“while i went as a member overall, groody said the refu­unless we were able to hear the lion refugees, willingly accept gees, making the delegation an of the bishop’s conference, and gee crises in the middle east, stories of the people where they large volumes of refugees. important tool for understand-while i went as a member of central america and other parts work, we really couldn’t of-“i’ve often asked the govern-ing where the refugees come the committee, i actually also of the world call catholic com-fer anything substantial. but ment leaders — we’ve met with from. went there as a member of the munities such as notre dame to whatever risks we took, they prime ministers and secretaries “The united states resettles faculty, and i can’t help but go examine their role as advocates were nothing compared to what of state on previous visits — more refugees than any other to these places and continu-for the marginalized. people we were talking to were why is it that you accept [the country in the world, and the ally ask, ‘what more can notre “i think the presence of the going through. … anything we refugees],” he said. “i mean, [the bishop’s conference resettles dame do, and what can we do as refugee crisis is very significant faced was just so miniscule in u.s.] goes crazy over 60,000 chil-more refugees than any other or-human beings, as christians, as right now,” he said. “we live in comparison.” dren coming across the border. ganization in the united states,” catholics,’” groody said. age of migration and we live at 
groody said members of this “so i said, ‘why do you accept he said. when he visited a school on a time when there are pressing committee travel to different them?’ They said ‘These are our “if you just took the number the border of Turkey and syria, human needs. and i think it’s a parts of the world with pressing brother and sisters.’ so it’s re-of resettled refugees that the overflowing with 3,000 refugees, time when our government is migrant and refugee issues each ally rather striking to see the bishop’s conference resettles, it groody said a classroom full of doing something — it is trying to year. in the past two years, they level of humanitarian commit-would be larger than any other young girls told him what they respond to some of these issues have been to central america ment they have, even with the country in the world other than would want to tell the u.n. — but it raises the question of to examine the issue of migrant political costs that are involved. the united states. so it’s a tre-“They looked at me and said, how much of a responsibility is children coming to the u.s. and and that was one of the things mendous amount of work that ‘First of all, don’t forget about upon us to not be indifferent and the middle east to address the i paid close attention to. if you the bishops do, so these kinds us, but secondly, what we really to really rise up to the humani­overflow of refugees from the look at the calculus between hu-of delegations are important be-want is an education, and we tarian challenge that’s there, syrian civil war. manitarian costs and political cause they give us firsthand ac-want to have a future with hope. and i think even more so from 
on each trip, groody said dele-costs in both Turkey and in the counts of what’s going on with we want to have a peaceful place a christian perspective, to see gation members meet with high-united states, Turkey — even the refugee situation in various to live,” he said. “what i heard how central that is to our own level united nations (u.n.) and though i’ve got a lot of issues parts of the world.” again and again is they want an life of faith.” government officials, aid work-with Turkey — Turkey has re-education. i ask what can we do ers with groups such as catholic ally said, ‘we will welcome these ‘What more can Notre to contribute to that.” Contact Jack Rooney at charities and the red cross and people even if there’s nothing to dame do’ groody said he could envision jrooney1@nd.edu 

exchange 
conTinued From page 1 
“[it’s] a traditional american college experience — going away to college, living on cam­pus, having athletics programs that are by and large relatively successful, ways for students to engage with faculty, ways for stu­dents to engage with the com­munity, things that really feed into a stereotypical university experience,” he said. 
exchange students can take any course for which they qual­ify, and with the exception of the university of east anglia partnership (which is open only to english and american stud­ies students)  students come to notre dame to study a variety of fields, younger said. 
“we’ll get students from hong Kong in both chemistry and american studies or econom­ics, really all over the place. engineering, even,” younger said. “we have students from all the different disciplines.” 
léa michelin is a student at institut d’etudes politiques de paris (commonly referred to as sciences po), where all students 
“What appealed to me was the familial experience, the fact that everyone seems to be so nice to each other.” 
Léa Michelin 
exchange student 
Institut d’Etudes Politiques de 
Paris 
go abroad during their third year. michelin said she chose notre dame after reading other stu­dents’ reviews of the university. 
“what appealed to me was the familial experience, the fact that everyone seems to be so nice to each other,” michelin said. “… i’m catholic, so the fact that it was a catholic school was kind of appealing too.” 
michelin, who is taking classes in political science, american studies and peace studies, said she appreciates that notre dame professors go out of their way to help students. 
“it’s really different, the fact that teachers are really here to make us learn and make us love what we are doing,” she said. “i feel that they are not a dis­tant person telling something and leaving. They’re really in the class trying to make us un­derstand. They are much more present.” 
nadège lejeune, a second-year master’s student at université paris diderot who is completing the final year of her english de­gree at notre dame, said classes at notre dame are smaller and more discussion-based than in France. 
“classes are very different,” she said. “at home you have a very large number of students, and you just sit down and write what the professor says. we write everything down and we don’t talk, whereas here, i’m in classes with seven people and the class is basically conversation. i was quite taken aback; it was quite difficult for me, but i’ve gotten used to it. it’s interesting to see the different ways of learning.” 

michelin said one of the biggest differences she found between notre dame and sciences po was the depth of relationships. 
“it’s complex to have profound relationships and to be true friends with people,” she said. “it stays at the ‘what’s up’ stage. i call it the ‘what’s up relationship.’ . . . at first, when i heard ‘what’s up,’ my French reflex is to say, ‘oh my god, i’m so tired, i have so many things to do’ — to actually talk about things that really matter. and they’re like, ‘oh yeah. well, see you…’ now i understand it’s another way to say hello.” 
despite this, michelin said she liked how friendly people were both in academic in social settings. 
“it’s quite difficult to make close friends here, but the fact is, it is really pleasant to be able to talk to everybody and never be disregarded for something,” she said. 
lejeune said she was consider­ing applying to notre dame for her ph.d. and studying abroad affected her career plans. 
“it’s changed a lot of the things that i’ve been thinking over the past few years,” she said. “i didn’t want to teach, and now i’m con­sidering it.” 
michelin said her time at notre dame helped her improve her english proficiency as well as her knowledge of other cultures. 
“i will become much more open-minded to each person,” she said. “i will be able to speak with people really different from who i am much more easily. it’s easier now to speak to someone who is from another culture, an­other nationality.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 


interview season 
Michael Kramm 
photographer 

i have recently accepted an internship of­fer with a consulting firm in chicago. after the lengthy process of first round inter­views, followed by second round interviews, followed by office visits at multiple firms, it is very satisfying to look back on the experi­ence and reflect. 
For some, interviewing with companies for internships or full-time positions is fun. For others, it is a nerve-filled experience that is dreaded. Thankfully, i think interview­ing is fun and also a great opportunity to get to know someone new sitting across the table. it was like every interview i had was a new potential life path based on the type of work or part of the country i would be venturing to. personally, i think this outlook on interviewing is what made me success­ful in getting internship offers and creating personal connections with various profes­sional contacts in the industry. 
so many people go into interviews hav­ing their resume studied, their answers to the generic questions memorized and their posture in perfect form. personally, i think this classic approach is overrated and creates a line of candidates that are cookie cutter in nature. cookie-cutter candidates are ready to draw attention to the accolades and skills on their resumes with polished delivery just like they practiced. in my opinion, these candidates are missing the most important aspect of interviewing: the human connection. sure, a high gpa and an extensive skill set are wonderful and sometimes necessary, but they just get your foot in the door. 
From there, it is all about the connection you can make with the interviewer. That person is assessing your fit for the company, but more importantly, that person is judg­ing whether or not they want to work with you. Things as simple as similar hobby in­terests or making them laugh immediately forms a human connection that will always be more powerful than the cookie-cutter answers. in one of my best interviews, we spent 20 out of 30 minutes talking about our interest in photography and sharing photos with each other. in another great interview, we spent 15 minutes talking about how we both play the saxophone and about my involvement in band. 
The purpose of writing this column is to encourage everyone interviewing to set aside the cookie-cutter approach and let the human side shine through. interviewers know that as notre dame students, we are all very gifted intellectually. They are interested in our skills, but more impor­tantly, they are interested in us as people. Therefore, i encourage everyone to ap­proach interviewing as an opportunity to explore new and exciting paths in life and to really get to know the person sitting across from you. They may just turn into a lifelong colleague and friend. 
Contact Michael Kramm at mkramm@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 

you knew it when you saw that fateful email arrive in your inbox at 10:14 a.m. oct. 31. you knew the blissful, carefree portion of your semester had to come to an end when that subject line – “spring 2015 registration (darT) information” – graced your screen, along with all other nd­selecTed-sTudenTs@listserv.nd.edu 
until now, darTing days were the low point of the semes­ter. They were filled with anxiety as you tried to fit in every class perfectly, stress when the spots in those classes were snatched before your eyes and fatigue as you had to wake up at the crack of dawn to sign up for classes you didn’t want in the first place. 
but that’s all about to change. as you begin to plan your schedule and plot your darT, the following list is the essential and authoritative official observer guide to your perfect darT. on behalf of the entire editorial board, you’re welcome. 
rule No. 1 

your dart time is 7:40 a.m.? you’ll need to wake up at 5 
a.m. and check class search every 10 minutes to make sure all the slots in your desired classes didn’t fill up during the last darT time. you’ll want to give yourself ample time to panic and pout before 7:40 a.m. rolls around. understand that if you don’t get the exact schedule you envisioned, there are no solutions, so you should be unhappy all day and complain to your friends as much as possible. be pre­pared for this – drink plenty of water in anticipation of a lot of indignant speeches about how notre dame is trying to sabotage your academic career. if you are a business major, make sure you have a non-business friend around so you can make him or her understand there is nothing more challenging or stressful than life in mendoza. 
rule No. 2 

do everything in your power to win a precious darT time on the first day of your level — vigilantly wish on every 11:11 and shooting star you see, and avoid black cats at all costs. if you fail, forget about coordinating a good schedule. your chances of getting a spot in that 11 a.m. seminar with notre dame’s best professor are over. welcome to the 8:30 a.m. lecture lifestyle. in fact, if you’re on the second day, you might as well not darT at all; after all, wouldn’t you rather have no class than have to wake up before 9? 
rule No. 3 

The best way to assure the best possible chances of maybe getting into a class where the average is at least a c, at best a c+, is to become an athlete. start each day with 20 reps of 100 push-ups, 25 reps of 150 sit-ups, and run a mara­thon as cool-down. you can also hire a professional trainer for a couple of thousands of dollars each day and hope he or she can get you in tip-top shape. Find a sport that allows walk-ons, offer prayers to Jesus, mary and Joseph in hopes of making it on, and secure that first time slot. alternatively, you can accept defeat and pull out your mcdonald’s job application while preparing for a life of flipping patties. no pressure. 
rule No. 4 

make sure you check nd Today or ratemyprofessors and read every professor rating and review for every potential instructor you may have in the upcoming semester. you should especially make sure to read the comments, because everyone knows that disgruntled students unhappy enough with their final grades to write a review are the most reli­able sources on a professor’s teaching ability. if a professor has less than a five on the personality scale, eliminate the class from your list of options. There is absolutely no way you’ll make it through the class with an instructor so alleg­edly boring. does this dud professor teach the only section of a required class that fits in your schedule? easy: change your major. any other option is futile. 
rule No. 5 
many students feel powerless about their darT, but your success comes down to those 10 seconds between when you log in to insidend and when you copy-paste the crns. and that is a matter of your wifi signal. start now. Find the pre­cise spot on campus where the wifi signal is optimal, which can only be done by trial and error. commit the next few weeks to examining every classroom, lounge and maybe even dorm room until you’ve determined where you need to be. if you become discouraged, purchase a new laptop 
— don’t cut corners. arrive at your chosen spot a night in advance, if possible, and set alarms to wake up every hour to test the wifi strength and be sure no one is sabotaging your darT. and when it’s time, own those first 10 seconds and secure the last spot in your top-choice class. The key to a masterful darT is preparation and location, location, location. 
rule No. 6 
do you want to get the top job in your field after gradua­tion? well, forget about earning a high major gpa. likewise, don’t focus so much on internships — they’re just experi­ences you can make up later. instead, focus on your darT time because that is the most important preparation. don’t you remember from middle school motivational posters that knowledge is power? well, you’re never going to hold any power if you don’t learn from one of the top scholars in your field or take that cool elective about “cutting-edge technology in biology/aerospace engineering/Finance/ [insert major here].” Therefore, use the brain that got you into notre dame to devise any method — hacking into the darT system, creating an algorithm that alerts you when precious class spaces open or even resorting to good ol’ fashioned bribery — to get into that class you absolutely need to land that job you absolutely have to have. and when you don’t land said job after graduation, don’t say i didn’t warn you. 
rule No. 7 
since this is happening in november, make sure you wear layers — this isn’t bro tanks and chubbies season. you never know how the weather will be in south bend, so you might want to lug that warm winter coat around with you just in case. besides dressing for the elements, the other big rule is to pace yourself. you don’t want to be that kid who has to cab back to campus well before the day is over because he is a lightweight and tried too hard to keep up with his heavyweight friends. be sure to eat plenty of carbs throughout the morning and afternoon to absorb all that alco — oh, you want to know about darTing, not dartying? sorry, can’t help you with that one. 
rule No. 8 
you can’t darT without your hands. you have to type in those precious pins somehow.  stop using them. now. no more shaking hands for networking or for interviews. you’re not going to get a good job anyway if you aren’t able to darT. no more holding hands with your significant other. no one will love you if you don’t have the 11 a.m. class which will be the gateway to your future career. do not take notes in your current class. everyone knows your future classes are more important than the classes you are taking now. simply do not take your hands out of your pockets, ever. a tree branch might fall on them, a crazed biker could zip by and take them clean off, and a high five may leave you permanently crippled. don’t take such a risk when darTing is on the line. if you have to take them out of your pockets, do so only in a safe, empty and locked room for strength and dexterity exercises. on second thought, don’t do that either. you may pull or tear a muscle. put down this paper, immediately. 


The observer | Friday, November 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Michael and the whale 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 

bearing two exams and a paper, last week wasn’t the most gentle of welcomes back to notre dame after a relaxing and blissfully unproduc­tive fall break. as i am confident we all know by now, being subjugated to the crucible of academ­ic stressors often brings out some interesting reactions and coping mechanisms in a person, as was my personal experience the night before my physics exam last Thursday. 
after working through well past my wit’s end of pulleys, incline planes and frictionless loop­de-loops, i was taking a “well-deserved” study break (meaning, of course, that i was scrolling through Facebook). after finding some innova­tive how-little-clothing-constitutes-an-outift halloween ideas, i stumbled upon a youTube link that would end up having a much more pro­found impact on me that i anticipated or thought possible. 
The three minute-long video — entitled “sleeping humpback whale,” with self-ex­planatory subject manner — was recorded by a researcher by the name of Kieran brown in an unspecified ocean. perhaps i didn’t pay close enough attention to the whale sleeping habits section of general biology b, but apparently they normally sleep with their bodies completely vertical with their heads down. i kept watching the video until about the 2:30 mark or so, won­dering if anything special was going to happen (and also wondering what exactly i was expect­ing from a video called “sleeping humpback whale”). 
it was at that moment that the whale awoke from her deep slumber, rapidly raised her body to the horizontal, shook her head back and forth and briskly swam on her merry way. That simple, typical-for-an-awakening-whale moment was the spark that led to an unexpected journey of self-reflection (and procrastination). The suggested videos sidebar fueled my addiction as i flitted from video to video about whale migration pat­terns and mother-child interaction, culminating in the eventual discover of a “whale call” playl­ist on spotify (so you know it’s real). 
being consumed by this sense of whale won­der, i pondered the immense scale and scope of these animals, reflecting upon how utterly unbelievable it was that nature molded such a complex creature from the same molecular ma­chinery found in the smallest mouse. i meditated on the vastness of the ocean and the incompre­hensible variety of life it fosters, a topic with which even the most intelligent of scientists are still grappling. when i finally got back to work­ing on physics and contemplating how much work needed to happen between that moment and my exam the next day, i had quite a difficult time getting motivated again. 
That video got me thinking about the sheer vastness of our world in terms of space, time and content, along with how difficult it is to wrap our heads around that complexity. The context we live in inevitably feels all-consuming — between work, play and life’s daily challenges, it’s often times difficult to fathom the enormity of some­thing so much bigger than ourselves. attempting to do so can perplexingly lead to both wonder and fear — both an appreciation of immensity as well as worry of how we fit in the grand scheme of things. 
it can make you question how you — one little brush stroke of the seven billion on the canvas of the world — can possibly be of any signifi­cance whatsoever. if you sit and just really think about this fact and let it sink in, it’s actually remarkably overwhelming and disorienting. and this sense of smallness doesn’t stop at the pres­ent moment, either. From a reductionist stand­point, we are simply the latest endpoint of the long, relentless timeline of human history, with millions coming before us and even more to fol­low. i hope i am not alone in marveling at some of the greatest figures of history and thinking, “well crap, what the heck am i doing with my life?!” 
i think that this sense of insignificance is, on balance, a good thing. Taking a step back to ap­preciate the enormity of the world and the end­less wealth of possibilities it offers provides an essential sense of perspective with which to view our lives. while some would say that the fact that it is physically impossible to experience the entire wealth of human experience the world can offer as discouraging, i see it as motivation to appreciate the small sliver of that whole we are fortunate enough to get. 
whether it is a humpback whale, history les­son or a higher power, recognizing that there are things in this world and beyond that are so much greater than oneself is a humbling, wor­rying, yet necessary experience. Find wonder in the mundane and the supreme, for it is that wonder that will inspire true introspection and self-awareness. 
michael Fliotsos is a junior science-business major living in duncan hall. he would sincerely appreciate feedback or suggestions for future topics. contact him at mfliotso@nd.edu 
Michael Fliotsos is a junior science-business major living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely appreciate feedback or suggestions for future topics. Contact him at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
building god’s house 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

“i thought sunday was a day of rest?” This is the question i ask myself every two weeks as i arise at 6 a.m. to begin preparations for the confirmation sessions i coordinate through my indianapolis parish. 
on this particular day, like most days, there’s silence at this hour. i am the only one that’s stir­ring, save for the fog that has pitched camp in the grass just beneath my window. past the fog, though, i can only see one thing – darkness. 
soon, however, my morning routine fills the day with light and activity. i shower, dress and grab my smiley face mug to fill it with coffee. it doesn’t take long before my own morning fog has begun to lift. 
it lifts just in time for me to be able to drive to work. after the short drive to the parish, the fog greets me again. it has apparently decided to camp here too. Through it, however, i catch a glimpse of the sanctuary lamp through the win­dows of the church. it casts a small light, and i smile to myself as i remember the big truth it sig­nifies: Jesus is really there. 
and you know what? i can’t stop smiling. The reality of the darkness that i awoke to is no more. in its place, i encounter the reality of a light that is so much greater. it is the light of christ, one whose love shines no matter the weather of our lives. 
of course, this is the same Jesus that had to weather a lot himself. This is the same Jesus that was beaten and spit upon, the same Jesus that was crucified, the same Jesus that was nailed to a cross and left to die. That Jesus is really there in that sanctuary. 
right in front of me is the most awesome re­minder that no matter the weather, no matter what we do to him, god never turns his back on us. 
i get to the office and i have a stack of e-mails waiting for me. “sorry, scott, my son can’t be at confirmation due to a homework group meet­ing.” “scott, my daughter has a soccer tournament out of state. she will not be in attendance today.” sure, Jesus never turns his back on us, but some­times it feels like we turn our backs on him. after reading more of these, i have to admit that i get a little bit deflated. 
after such a good start to the day, i can’t help but think to myself now: why do so many things take precedence over spending time with god? 
we put so much ahead of him. and, as i’ve experienced, spending time with god is never convenient, especially when there’s homework or soccer to worry about. Fortunately for us, god’s promises to us transcend convenience. 
c.s. lewis once wrote in this manner in his book, “mere christianity”: 
“imagine yourself as a living house. god comes in to rebuild that house. at first, perhaps, you can understand what he is doing. he is getting the drains right and stopping the leaks in the roof and so on; you knew that those jobs needed do­ing and so you are not surprised. but presently he starts knocking the house about in a way that hurts abominably and does not seem to make any sense. what on earth is he up to? The explanation is that he is building quite a different house from the one you thought of – throwing out a new wing here, putting on an extra floor there, running up towers, making courtyards. you thought you were being made into a decent little cottage, but he is building a palace. he intends to come and live in it himself.” 
why do we live within the constraints of our own agenda when god promises us so much more? he wants to make our hearts so big, so “palatial” that they will be able to absorb and be filled with as much of his love as possible. 
but, of course, it costs our hearts something to be fashioned in this way. as lewis observed further, “we are half-hearted creatures, fooling about … when infinite joy is offered us … we are far too easily pleased.” we fool about with worldly things we think will satisfy us, only to realize they weren’t the things we really desire. 
Thus, as lewis remarked, “if we find ourselves with a desire that nothing in this world can satis­fy, the most probable explanation is that we were made for another world.” 
want to know the exciting thing? That world is not completely beyond our grasp. we can build god’s kingdom now; our hearts can become the palaces of the most high. we just have the take the time to open our hearts to god’s will. he can do the rest. 
Scott Boyle graduated in May of 2012 with a degree in theology and a minor in medieval studies. He cur­rently lives and works as a Campus and Youth Minister in the Archdiocese of Indianapolis as a member of Notre Dame’s Echo Program. Contact him at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 

as the weather gets colder and all the colorful autumn leaves are swept away, many students are left yearn­ing for warmer climates. in an effort to keep early winter’s sting away, many turn to hot seasonal foods such as soups and stews to keep them warm. For students seeking some­thing more tropical, mango café provides the south bend community with authentic venezuelan food at low prices. 
although mango café is located at 1740 south bend ave., patrons will be just as likely to think they are next to the beach somewhere in the caribbean nation of venezuela. “mango is a very popular fruit in venezuela, because it grows over there,” said owner guillermo mendez on the naming of the restaurant. “you think of a mango and you think ‘ex­otic.’ i was trying to be tropical and caribbean, make you think of south america.” with brightly colored or­ange walls lined by numerous plants, the restaurant certainly evokes 
MARC DRAKE | The Observer 

images of a tropical paradise. run by the five members of the mendez fam­ily, mango café represents a connec­tion to home for a family that chose to leave their native country. 
with the rise to power of hugo chávez, guillermo mendez and his family sought political refuge in the united states when they left venezuela in 1999. “we left right be­fore chavez took over in 2000. we knew it was going to go downhill. right before that, we got everything ready and met up with family that had been living here,” mendez said about the decision to leave his native country. despite the political situa­tion, in the country that forced the family to move to the united states, he describes the local venezuelan community as very supportive of the restaurant. “There really is a huge venezuelan population in the area, i was surprised,” said rene mendez, guillermo’s wife. 
“i know a lot of people, but there have still been a lot of people i’ve never seen in my life. They all say good things about the food though,” guillermo mendez said. 
despite the large venezuelan popu­lation in the area, the mendez family claims the success of the restaurant crosses cultural lines. “There have been a lot of hispanic students [from notre dame],” guillermo said. 
“i feel like it’s been more americans though. we have had a lot of venezuelans, but i feel absolute­ly way more americans, especially around lunchtime,” rene said. 
a relative newcomer to venezuelan food, i decided to try it for myself. after several minutes of wavering between various menu items, i fi­nally decided on the dominó arepa, a traditional venezuelan dish made of ground corn dough and filled with assorted items, in this case beans and cheese. at $3, i was shocked with how much food i received and was forced to resist the urge to buy several more arepas. as delicious as the main course was, for me the real star of the show was one of the sides that i decided to order: the plantains. as a self-proclaimed con­noisseur of the banana variant, i knew immediately that i had to try the fried plantains, and i was not disappointed. covered in a delicious cream sauce and white venezuelan cheese, this delicious dessert item had a distinctly venezuelan twist to an already tasty food. in addition to arepas and empanadas, pabellón is one of the most popular dishes at the restaurant. made up of rice, black beans, beef and fried egg, the dish is considered to be the national dish of venezuela by many. “we could eat it everyday and never get sick of it,” mendez said proudly as he described the ingredients of the dish. 
Featuring a variety of other dish­es and sides, the restaurant offers something for everyone, from people who grew up eating venezuelan cui­sine to those who are trying it for the first time. with a menu offering nu­merous delicious items, the restau­rant definitely will keep you coming back for more. For those who aren’t sold by the entrees, delicious des­serts such as the fried plantains will have you returning time and time again. 
Contact Marc Drake at mdrake@nd.edu 
The observer | Friday, November 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

it is a particularly dire time for the net­work sitcom. The broadcast networks boast just two ultra-popular comedies 
— “The big bang Theory” and “modern Family” — and neither are particularly ful­filling on a creative level. This season, nbc pulled its two-hour comedy block from Thursday nights, ending its iconic “must see Tv” lineup after 32 years. of the nine comedies that have debuted this fall, three have already been cancelled and the truly unfunny “mulaney” seems headed toward the same fate. is the network sitcom still vi­able in an age dominated by football, cbs procedurals and four hours a week of “The voice”? 
The network sitcom faces two major roadblocks. The first is the inclination for every comedy to feature an overly con­trived concept. “broadcasters have be­gun vetting sitcoms like blockbusters,” Tv critic andy greenwald wrote in a recent grantland article. “meaning: premise is valued over character, hooks matter more than tone, and if the entire show can’t be sold on a poster, it’s not getting on the air.” The deluge of rom-com sitcoms, which have their hook built into the premise, like 
By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

on nov. 4, Trinidad-born rapper Theophilus london released his second full length album, “vibes,” on warner bros. records. london’s first album, “Timez are weird These days,” was released in 2011, gaining him startling notoriety and fame — the 27-year-old’s list of friends, connections and material successes (he’s bought humphrey bogart’s old house, as he reported to elle) are startling enough to give his music a listen. and with a musical style to accompany his loud, flamboyant rise to fame, london has combined pop-synth gratification with conscious-style r&b composition. and to add to his list of connections, “vibes” brought on board as executive producer the 21-time grammy award winner Kanye west. 
and as mentioned, much of the hype “a to Z” and “manhattan love story” (both of which have been cancelled) suggests as much. but ultimately, sitcoms hinge on well-written characters and chemistry between the actors. “a group of regulars hang out at a bar” is not a great tagline, but “cheers” stayed on the air 11 seasons because of its great writing and charming cast. 
secondly, sitcoms need to be given time to find their footing. so much of the humor results from the dynamic between familiar characters, which takes time to develop. as The new yorker critic emily nussbaum put it, “panning a comedy’s first six episodes is like complaining that a newborn has insufficient neck strength.” go back and watch the first few episodes of “seinfeld” or “The office” as proof that even the best comedies often have rocky beginnings. Judging a sitcom’s potential from a 22-min­ute pilot is next-to-impossible, and in to­day’s Twitter-driven conversation, shows are dismissed instantly before they have the opportunity to find their voice. 
luckily, two of this fall’s new sitcoms, while not perfect by any means, have shown potential to emerge as truly enjoy­able series. The first is abc’s “black-ish,” which is also the highest-rated of the new crop of comedies. The show follows an 
and air of sophistication surrounding london has a west-esque feeling to it. it’s the kind of music that makes you ques­tion “what does good music really mean?” upon my first, second and third listen to the album, i was under the impression that the confident, charming artist has simply faked himself into high society. The open­ing track, “water me,” has all the makings of a fantastic, inventive r&b track — a cre­ative opening beat reminiscent of little dragon, a clearly articulated and smoothly delivered lyrical melody, rounded out by a complex and accommodating bass line. sounds great, right? however, maybe i just don’t have enough of a developed ear but the pieces don’t seem to fit together — it’s still a tough listen. 
so the album is good, not great. Tracks all have moments of dance-ability, some have quite good moments of innovation from the r&b model. The synth-y and inflated upper middle-class black family, whose patriarch andre Johnson (anthony anderson) feels his four children are out of touch with black culture. Tracee ellis ross holds the show together as andrew’s anesthesiologist wife rainbow, while their four children are the best Tv kids this side of sally draper. 
with “black-ish,” showrunners Kenya barris and larry wilmore have created a series that balances the reliable humor of family comedy with intelligent racial discourse. The show offers a relatively nu­anced portrayal of race and what it means to be black in america in 2014. as their teenage son andre Jr. (marcus scribner) tells his father at the end of the pilot, “you feel like i’m turning into a white boy. but i’m not. i’m just being me. but i don’t know what that is yet.” 
The other is nbc’s “marry me,” the new show from “happy endings” creator david caspe. like the many other rom-com sit­coms that debuted this fall, its pilot focuses on a hokey premise. Jake (Ken marino) and annie (casey wilson) have been dating for six years, but everything goes wrong ev­ery time one tries to propose to the other. luckily, the following episodes largely dis­pense with that high-concept narrative. instead, it is slowly becoming a show about 
guitar infused “neu law,” the deep-house feel of “Take and look” and the air-filled, organ-accompanied, pop track “need somebody” are all examples of london’s solid songwriting ability and his forward-thinking attitude towards production. but the songs all lack cohesiveness and lack substance in many places. many songs have moments that seem to lack purpose 
— “water me,” “smoke” and “Figure it out” are the prime examples of this. The album eventually becomes to feel like a collec­tion of ideas not yet formed into complete songs — “vibes” is the brainstorming for an album, albeit the brainstorming for a very good one. 
now don’t get me wrong — london is still on his way up. he’s got places to go, and he knows it. everything from his look to his album art (shot by Karl lagerfeld) says he’s here for the glamour, and his music reflects it too. The self-promoting, throaty tag line a group of friends hanging out in chicago. caspe pulled the same trick with the dear-ly-missed “happy endings” — whose pilot was equally uninspiring — and “marry me” is already adopting that show’s zany, joke-a-second energy. 
both marino and wilson are hi­larious and charming, and the cou­ple has great chemistry, even if their characters are still caricatures. The supporting cast is equally strong, if not as fully developed yet. especially great is Tymberlee hill, who was also the stand­out in hulu’s hilarious “The real hotwives of orlando,” as Kay, annie’s next door neighbor. cameos from upright citizens brigade alumni like rob huebel and Jessica schneider round out the show, and i found myself laughing so hard i had to rewind several times an episode. 
neither show is perfect — each rely heav­ily on sitcom plot tropes and need to take the time to develop their supporting char­acters. but they are a bright spot in an oth­erwise disappointing season for sitcoms and hopefully both are given the time to become confident, hilarious sitcoms wor­thy of their talented casts. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at          mmunhall@nd.edu 
“vibes” mixed in throughout the entire al­bum, to the expensive, norm-core eighties slow jam production quality, all scream the attitude that got Kanye to where he is, and it’s bound to work again. london doesn’t make bad music by any means — but even if it was worse than it was, he’s got the at­titude to fake it ‘til he makes it. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
“Vibes” 
Theophilus London 
Label: Warner Bros. Records Tracks: “Tribe,” “Heartbreaker” If you like: Kanye West, J. Cole 


MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


SPorTS auTHoriTy 

A Golden, though injured, fate 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
senior sports writer 
The nFl’s most talented wide receiver has barely played in half his team’s games, and most fans would barely rec­ognize his name. Fair, that’s a bit of hyperbole, but calvin Johnson Jr.’s absence hasn’t been well publicized. 
currently, his detroit lions lead the nFc north with a re­cord of 6-2. The lions are still 9th in the league in passing yardage, throwing for just un­der 260 yards a game. Though no one can replace the physi­cal freak that is Johnson, who stands at 6-foot-5 and runs a 
4.35 forty-yard dash, offseason signee golden Tate is having a career year and is currently fourth in the nFl in receiving yards. 
no, Tate is not pulling down the touchdowns. he only has three this season. nor has he been the dangerous downfield threat Johnson historically has been, failing to fall into the top 10 in receptions of 20 yards or more. 
yet, Tate has thrived in the two most essential areas for an offense to thrive. First and foremost, the 5-foot-10 receiver is moving the chains. Thirty two of Tate’s 55 receptions have gone for first downs. That mark sits at eighth in the nFl. in other words, Tate is helping detroit’s offense stay on the field. 
more explicitly, Tate is the no. 1 receiver in the nFl in first-down receptions on third down with 15. often termed the “money down,” Tate is moving the ball when he is most needed. There is no receiver or tight end more de­pendable on third down when an offense needs to convert for a first down. 
speaking of dependability, that is where Tate thrives the most. Tate has pulled in 55 of his 80 targets, for a mark of 69 percent. of eligible receivers, Tate is fifth in the nFl in that mark. 
dependability is a highly valued trait in a receiver. That sense of reliability, where a player can act as a quarter­back’s security blanket, cannot be understated. every offense needs a go-to player, a player who can move the chains and a player who can consistently provide yardage. so far this season, detroit has had that in Tate, as he has helped lead the team to the top of the division. 
golden Tate is no calvin Johnson Jr. in fact, few players can come close to matching his freak athleticism and knack for making big plays. yet Tate’s reception rate this season exceeds any mark previously attained by Johnson. 
if i ever cam close to saying golden Tate is better, or even as good as calvin Johnson, i would be run out of dodge. no, he isn’t making the splash, double-coverage plays that make Johnson so special. no, he isn’t averaging almost 18-yards per reception or on pace for 16 touchdowns in a season. 
but he is doing what is asked of him. he has developed into a legitimate no. 1 receiver. Tate is on pace for 1,600 yards and 110 receptions, all while being one of the most reliable receiv­ers in the nFl and consistently coming up big on the “money down.” 
This is a big step in Tate’s ca­reer development, as he was al­ways overshadowed in seattle. soon, he will be overshadowed again, when Johnson returns to front and center stage. yet, what will become of that detroit offense when Johnson does return? 
For years, lions fans have been calling for a legitimate threat opposite Johnson. They have been calling for a receiver to make tough catches over the middle. They have been calling for a player to take pressure off of Johnson. 
no, Tate isn’t the next calvin Johnson Jr. but, he is the ex­act player detroit needs. he will continue to move the chains and pull in tough catches. most importantly, Tate will continue to make the lions’ offense dangerous and consistent. 
watch out nFl. when Johnson comes back, the lions will have arguably the best re­ceiving tandem in the nFl and two legitimate no. 1 receivers. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


PGa 

Cappelen leads at Sanderson Farms Championships 
Associated Press 

JacKson, miss. —  sebastian cappelen narrowly missed earning his pga Tour card last season and needed a spon­sor exemption to make the 
field in the  sanderson  Farms  
championship.  
The  24-year-old  from  

denmark is making the most of his opportunity. 
cappelen shot a 7-under 65 on Thursday in his first pga Tour round to take the lead at the country club of Jackson. he opened with a bogey before making eight birdies to take a two-shot lead over robert streb, scott pinckney and canada’s nick Taylor. 
“i couldn’t be happier, to be honest,” cappelen said. “obviously, i came here just try­ing to get a new experience and get a feel of how it feels like to play on the real tour, and i had a great time out there today. hit a lot of good shots.” 
cappelen was an all­american in college at arkansas. he won the air capital classic in June on the web.com Tour. 
he was in good position to earn his pga Tour card, but a poor performance in the final regular-season web.com Tour event dropped him to 26th place on the money list — one spot shy of the top 25 finish needed to make the pga Tour. 
“i mean, obviously, it’s a heartbreaker being so close and then not getting it,” cappelen said. “so getting a chance here where i felt like i should been, it’s everything. i couldn’t thank the sponsors here more for what they’ve done.” 
cappelen said he had some nerves before the round, but the early bogey was a sobering moment. 
“That’s usually how it is for me when i have a good round,” cappelen said. “i usually start with a bogey on the first hole, and then just kind of like, ‘oK, i’ve got to get going.’” 
play was suspended because of darkness with 15 players un­able to finish. 
The tournament is being played at the 7,354-yard country club of Jackson, a course about 10 miles south of annandale country club, where the tour­nament was held for 19 years. 
overnight rain made for a soft course early, but players said it firmed up as the day progressed. 
streb is back in contention two weeks after winning the mcgladrey classic in a playoff for his first pga Tour title. after taking a week off to relax at home and watch his hometown Kansas city royals in the world series, streb made six birdies and just one bogey Thursday. 
NCaa FooTball 

Big Ten rivals clash for division lead 
Associated Press 

a look at what to watch in the big Ten this weekend: 
Game of the week: 

game of the week? Try game of the big Ten regular season when east division heavyweights ohio state and michigan state duke it out in east lansing, michigan. 
The teams are both 7-1 over­all and 4-0 in conference play. barring a november collapse, the winner emerges as the likely division winner for a berth in the league championship game in indianapolis in december. 
The loser drops out of the discussion for college football’s new four-team playoff. 
seventh-ranked michigan state will get an emotional lift playing under the lights at spartan stadium. The 13th­ranked buckeyes enter the night with four straight road victories in the series, dating to 2004. 
The prime-time matchup might also add some luster to a conference that suffered early season losses in prominent non-conference games. Top players such as michigan state quar­terback connor cook and ohio state defensive end Joey bosa could raise their national pro­files with clutch performances 

best matchup: 
ohio state-michigan state wins. but after that, there’s an elimination of game of sorts, too, in the west division with iowa visiting minnesota, each 6-2 overall and 3-1 in conference. 
The winner stays in the mix among the one-loss teams atop the west, while the loser essen­tially falls out of the race. 
going by the schedule alone, this is a must-win more for minnesota, which hosts ohio state next week. Then comes a daunting two-game road stretch to end november with games at nebraska and wisconsin. 
iowa hopes to build off its 48-7 victory last week over northwestern. The gophers will need to stop senior running back mark weisman, who has rushed for at least two touchdowns in each of the last five games. 
The last time minnesota start­ed 4-1 in the big Ten was in 1990. 
inside the numbers: 
maryland’s brad craddock and penn state’s sam Ficken are among the best kickers in the country. craddock has hit all 14 of his attempts to lead the country in field goal percentage. Ficken is third in the country with 2.12 field goals per game. ... Ficken last week became the first penn state kicker since 1982 to make three field goals of at least 45 yards in a game. ... iowa rb akrum wadley ran for 106 yards last week against northwestern, becoming the first hawkeye to rush for more than 100 in his first game with a carry since 2009. 
long shot: 
The general consensus around the league is that purdue has improved through the sea­son. it’s probably of little com­fort to the boilermakers, who have lost three straight and face surging wisconsin. 
The purdue defense is 11th in the big Ten in rushing de­fense at 174.3 yards per game. That’s not going to cut it against the badgers’ dynamic duo of gordon and clement. 
on the other side of the ball, wisconsin’s defense has steam­rolled maryland and rutgers in its last two games by a com­bined score of 89-7. The badgers lead the nation in total defense at 253.8 yards per game. The boilermakers are a respectable seventh in total offense (367.6 yards) in conference games. They also got within 38-31 of michigan state with 6:19 left in last month’s game before the spartans returned an intercep­tion for a touchdown to seal the win. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, November 7, 2014 | The observer 

iNTerHall meN’S SWimmiNG aNd diviNG 
Undefeated Manor to meet Knott in first round 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
The interhall football playoffs get underway this weekend as eight men’s and eight women’s teams take to the field sunday, standing two games away from the championship games in notre dame stadium. 
Two teams enter the women’s tournament with unblemished, 6-0 records as division winners 
— pasquerilla east and welsh Family — but have done it by leading the regular season in opposite categories. The pyros boast the highest-scoring of­fense in the competition, scor­ing 27.5 points per game, while the whirlwinds defense has al­lowed just 24 points all season. pangborn holds the third seed after a 5-1 season — a 14-6 loss to pasquerilla east last month could be avenged next weekend in a semifinal — and the phoxes allowed just 13 total points in five other games. 
after an impressive 4-0 season that saw it outscore opponents, 95-36, morrissey enters the men’s tournament as the top seed — and the only team with a perfect record. Keenan’s had lone blem­ish en route to a division a 6-6 tie with Keough — the only time the Knights (3-0-1) surrendered points all year — while carroll topped division c after a 3-1 sea­son that saw the vermin score 66 points in three shutout wins. 
despite regular-season suc­cess, morrissey junior running back and captain erik rayno said his team knows the importance of moving on to the playoffs. 
“it is a brand-new season,” rayno said. “it’s no longer us be­ing 4-0 on top — we’re in a good place with a good seed … and my guys understand that if we don’t show up, we’re going home. and we don’t want to let that happen.” 
on the horizon for two men’s and two women’s teams is a date on the turf at notre dame stadium; however, rayno’s manor team is not thinking about it. 
“we’re just focused on this weekend,” rayno said. “we’re gonna take it one game at a time, and we’re not looking ahead to the stadium at this time.” 
men’s games will take place early sunday afternoon at riehle Fields while women’s games will be played at the labar practice Facility later in the day. 
No. 1 morrissey (4-0) vs. No. 8 Knott (2-2), 2:15 p.m. 
The top-seeded manor open the playoff campaign with a week-two rematch, playing the team that gave them their clos­est contest of the year. morrissey won the sept. 28 contest 22-21 over Knott before the Juggerknots — once 0-2 — won their final two games to sneak into the playoffs. 
No. 2 Keenan (3-0-1) vs. No. 7 Sorin (2-2), 2:15 p.m. 
The Knights enter sunday hav­ing given up just six points all season long while the otters en­ter the playoffs on a two-game losing streak. after starting 2-0, sorin has lost back-to-back games against Fisher and pre­viously-winless Zahm and will have to stop its skid to pull out an upset win. 
No. 3 Carroll (3-1) vs. No. 6 Siegfried (2-2), 1 p.m. 
The vermin have a lone loss on the season to sorin — an 8-0 

paid adverTisemenT 

defeat — but have outscored op­ponents 66-0 otherwise, while the ramblers needed a win sunday over duncan to make the playoffs. siegfried gave up 32 points in a midseason loss to morrissey but scored 21 last week — 12 points more than it scored in the first three games this year. 
No. 4 Fisher (3-1) vs. No. 5 Stanford (2-1-1), 1 p.m. 
after a 21-0 opening-week de­feat to carroll, the green wave have run off three straight victo­ries and enter the playoffs as one of the league’s highest-scoring teams, averaging upwards of 17 points per game since the week-one loss. stanford, however, has not surrendered more than eight points in a single game all sea­son and ground out a 6-6 tie with o’neill last week to secure its spot in the field. 
No. 1 Welsh Family (6-0) vs. No. 8 mcGlinn (2-3-1), 5 p.m. 
The whirlwinds hold the best defense and have been held under 20 points on just two oc­casions this year. They take on mcglinn, who needed a 12-12 tie monday against howard to clinch a playoff spot. The shamrocks have lost just one game since september, however, and will look to pull the upset. 
No. 2 Pasquerilla east (6-0) vs. No. 7 Walsh (3-3), 4 p.m. 
The pyros rode a high-scoring offense to an unbeaten regular season; however, sunday’s game will mark their first contest in four weeks. after an 0-2 start, walsh won three of four to make the playoff field, and all six of the wild women’s games have been a shutout one way or the other. 
No. 3 Pangborn (5-1) vs. No. 6 Cavanaugh (3-3), 4 p.m. 
pangborn’s defense surren­dered just 27 points all season while its offense scored 23 per 
game,  and  the  phoxes’  lone  
loss  came  to  second-seeded  
pasquerilla  east.  The  chaos  

have not surrendered a point in a month and are riding a two-game winning streak entering the playoffs. 
No. 4 ryan (4-2) vs. No. 5 Pasquerilla West (4-2), 5 p.m. 
in a rematch of last season’s championship game, which the purple weasels won, ryan and pasquerilla west will bat­tle simply to move one round closer to notre dame stadium. after starting the year 3-0, the wildcats have lost two of three while the purple weasels’ two losses came by a combined eight points. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 

irish to host hokies, panthers 
By HENRY HILLIARD 
sports writer 
after losing to purdue at home last weekend, the irish welcome two more opponents to rolfs aquatic center as they contin­ue their regular season schedule. 
notre dame (1-1) hosts a tri-meet against acc op­ponents pittsburgh and virginia Tech, split be­tween tonight and tomor­row morning. 
“we need to improve this weekend — these are both winnable matches, just like last weekend was a winna­ble match, but we need to clean it against pittsburgh and virginia Tech,” irish coach matt Tallman said. 
after a fast start in the annual dennis stark re­lays oct. 10, in which notre dame won, 240-140, it stumbled in its meet against purdue last week­end. The 161-139 loss was the first for Tallman in his inaugural year at the helm of the program after replacing longtime irish coach Tim welsh over the summer. 
“The transition has been seamless,” Tallman said. “having coach welsh around to help with the women’s team has made the switch even easier because we have him as a resource. i have coached three of these classes and helped recruit the whole team, so this has been a natural transition.” 
despite the narrow loss, notre dame logged several top times for the young sea­son. The 200-yard medley relay team of junior bogac ayhan, senior cameron miller, freshman Justin plaschka and senior Zach stephens claimed first place, finishing in 1:30.72. Freshman benjamin Jany also claimed first in the 500-yard freestyle. 
“we swam well last week­end, but we can always to better on the margins,” Tallman said. “i want every guy to come out of the water in these meets and be able to say they did everything they could in the pool. my goal is for us to be sharper from top to bottom.” 
pittsburgh (3-1) travels to notre dame on two weeks’ rest after besting bucknell, 185.5-109.5, on oct. 25. The panthers’ showed off their depth in that meet, beating the bison in 28 of 32 events in the meet. 
The hokies (3-1) also en­ter the meet coming off a victory, topping duke on sunday, 180-115. unlike both pittsburgh and virginia Tech, the irish have yet to face a confer­ence opponent. 
“acc is competition is valuable for us because it allows us to size up the competition for later in the season. it is good for our guys to swim against guys that they will face later,” Tallman said. 
This weekend’s tri-meet will be the final time that notre dame hosts compe­tition in 2014. The team will travel to east lansing, michigan, next weekend for a dual meet against michigan state, and it does not have a home meet until the shamrock invitational on Jan. 30-31. 
“swimming at home is definitely easier,” Tallman said. “i would not say that we necessarily swim bet­ter in this pool but having the crowd and not hav­ing to travel are obvious advantages.” 
The irish take on the panthers and the hokies tonight at 5 p.m. and to­morrow at 10 a.m. at rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Henry Hilliard at rhillia1@nd.edu 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish senior Zach Stephens swims a breaststroke event against  Purdue on Nov. 1 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Purdue won  161-139. 

The observer | Friday, November 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WomeN’S SWimmiNG aNd diviNG 
Notre Dame to welcome ACC rivals to campus 
we were faster, and we were faster a former olympian in the 10-meter trying to build that relay a little focused,” welsh said. “she com-
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

sports writer pretty much every event,” welsh synchronized dive, to claim the faster, but they’ve been doing a mits herself to do a great job in said. “and in most cases, signifi-victory. great job.” practice every day. and so when 
seeking to keep improving, cantly faster, so it was just a good, “whatever she accomplishes, reaney and mulquin have been there’s a time to do a great job in a notre dame returns to the pool breakthrough week for us.” she does it the right way,” welsh top performers for the irish all sea-meet on saturday, been there, done this weekend as it hosts pittsburgh one of the brightest spots of the said. “she works hard; she works son, individually as well, and that that. she just keeps it going.” and virginia Tech for two days’ day for notre dame was the div-conscientiously. she has a great at-trend continued against purdue. however, while the irish have worth of acc swimming Friday ing of lindsey streepey. The junior titude. you just love to see her suc-reaney, the reigning ncaa shown improvement from the start and saturday. took home the top spot on the po-ceed. but that was a major win for champion in the 200-yard breast-of the season, there are still areas 
The irish (2-4) fell to in-state rival dium in the 3-meter diving event her last weekend. it’s allowed her to stroke, swept the 100- and 200-welsh said need work. no. 24 purdue, 170-128, saturday at with a score of 313.28. welsh had become the acc diver of the week.” yard breaststroke events against “i think overall, we could use rolfs aquatic center, yet irish in-said before the meet that purdue The diving program in general purdue. mulquin claimed a victory more team depth,” welsh said. terim coach Tim welsh said he was diving was always good and that if has been a strength so far this sea-in the 100-yard backstroke while “part of that is a function of hav­very pleased with what he saw out he had to only watch a few events it son for the irish. streepey’s victory also posting a runner-up finish in ing a small roster, but we could use of the team. would have been the diving ones, saturday was the sixth for the team the 50-yard freestyle to continue more team depth. 
“if you look at our times prior and streepey backed up her coach’s already. the hot start to her season. “The most important things to the purdue meet and then look words. she beat boilermaker red-“we’ve had great diving here “not only for the younger girls about this weekend are first that at our times in the purdue meet, shirt junior mary beth dunnichay, so far this year, and this coming but for all of us, [reaney] is a model these are acc opponents. … That weekend, virginia Tech divers are for taking care of business,” welsh brings an excitement all by itself, great, pittsburgh divers are great, said. “not only in the athletic world so we’re looking forward to that. our divers are great,” welsh said. but in any performance world, we are swimming back-to-back “it’s going to be another great div-there’s what they call ‘deliberate days, but the whole thing takes ing weekend.” practice,’ where you deliberately place in less than 24 hours, so 
another irish strong suit has focus on something that needs to it’s a very compact, competitive been the 200-yard medley re-get done, and you work on it until environment.” lay of seniors emma reaney and it’s right. The irish will host their acc courtney whyte, sophomore “emma does that, and she’s good foes Friday and saturday at rolfs catherine mulquin and junior cat at it. she doesn’t call attention to aquatic center. The teams will galletti. The quartet picked up its herself, there’s nothing flamboy-get their feet wet starting at 5 fourth victory in only six meets ant about her, she just takes care of p.m. Friday, and then they will saturday, beating the second-place business.” dive right back in saturday at 10 team from purdue by almost one-mulquin is developing in much a.m. and-a-half seconds. the same way, welsh said. 
“it was a great way to start off “she’s very strong, she’s very Contact Zach Klonsinski at the meet,” welsh said. “we’ll keep competitive and she’s very zklonsin@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, November 7, 2014 | The observer 

Nd volleyball 

notre dame seeks to make ‘progress’ into wins 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
managing the puck, but they created a lot more turnovers as the game progressed, too many extended shifts that led to bad changes and a lot of different things, so it’s just a matter of us making sure we get better as we play these high-tempo teams.” 
once again against minnesota, lucia revives his rivalry with his father, for­mer irish player and current gophers head coach don lucia. mario may threaten his father’s 5-1-0 record as he enters the weekend the hockey east leader in points and goals, with eight goals and two assists in eight games. he was recently named the hockey east/ warrior player of the month for october, and against his father’s team, the younger lucia has netted two goals and one assist. 
while lucia continues to help the irish offense to find its rhythm on the ice, notre dame also works to­ward building its defensive lines. during the season’s start, veteran defensemen junior andy ryan and senior robbie russo have worked to create chemistry with the underclassmen as the irish continue to develop their lines. russo is second be­hind lucia with six goals and three assists for nine points, while ryan has tallied three assists in eight games. 
ryan and russo both recorded assists against vermont on Friday, and ryan said they can apply what they learned defensively against vermont, especially saturday’s third period play, to minnesota this weekend. 
“we were on our heels the whole period, [and] we played not to lose, which definitely isn’t a good thing,” ryan said. “if we get a lead like that, we need to keep the pressure on them. They were obviously coming at us hard because they were down by two goals, but we need to make sure to make plays un­der pressure, so hopefully we can learn from that [going forward against minnesota].” 
senior forward Kyle rau and sophomore forward Justin Kloos currently lead minnesota’s scoring effort with three goals and five goals, respectively. Junior defenseman mike reilly fol­lows behind point-leader rau with eight points from eight assists, while senior forward seth ambroz nears his 50th career point with one goal and one assist on the season. 
The irish defense will look to end minnesota’s 15-game home unbeaten streak this weekend by shutting down the top-ranked gophers’ of­fensive efforts. 
“The biggest thing is their team speed and how fast they are at transitioning from de­fense to offense,” ryan said. “if i remember from last time, all four lines had fours that could really skate and could put pressure on you when they had the puck. as a defenseman, you have to be conscious of guys getting behind you because some of their fours like to jump to offense.” 
The irish take on no. 1 minnesota tonight at 8 p.m. and again sunday at 5 p.m. p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 

on a four-game losing skid against conference opponents, the irish have a chance to rebound and turn their progress into a win when they take on louisville on sunday at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (5-18, 2-10 acc) is coming off a 3-2 loss to boston college last sunday in which a comeback run in the third and fourth sets fell short (25-21, 25-18, 21-25, 23-25, 15-6). 
heading into the final set, the match seemed eerily reminiscent of the first time the irish played the eagles — the irish won that match 3-2 at home after falling behind 2-0. however, they were unable to complete the come­back on the road the second time around. 
The loss marked the third con­secutive 3-2 loss for notre dame, showing improvement from the beginning of their conference schedule. in their first seven matches, the irish posted a 1-6 re­cord, which included four 3-0 loss­es. They have since won nine sets in their past five matches, despite putting up just a 1-4 record. 
“we’ve been a little inconsistent still, but our overall level of play is definitely better,” irish associate head coach robin davis said. “we just unfortunately haven’t been able to come up with the wins like we feel we should have. “ 
The cardinals (14-9, 6-5) will also come to purcell pavilion this weekend on the heels of a loss, having dropped a hard-fought game against virginia, in which they lost the decisive fifth set, 15-12. 
louisville, currently ranked seventh in the acc, is powered of­fensively by two sophomore out­side hitters, Janelle Jenkins and maya mcclendon. Jenkins has tallied 273 kills on the year (3.1 kills per set), while mcclendon is just behind her at 269 kills (3.06 kills per set). Freshman middle blocker Tess clark has added 210 kills and boasts a 0.421 attack percentage. 
“louisville plays the net game really well, so we have to try to neutralize that,” davis said. “our serving will be key to keeping them off the net a little bit, and our floor defense will have to be a little bit better like we’ve done lately.” 
in the first match between notre dame and louisville on oct. 12, the cardinals swept the irish easily in three sets (25-14, 25­19, 25-13), showing off their power with 46 kills, compared to 26 for the irish. 
Following 10 consecutive weeks of multi-game weekends, which has taken the irish to nine different cities, the sunday’s home game is the only one this weekend. 
“i think it’s great for us [to get some rest], especially with the academics that the players have,” davis said. “we’ve been able to shorten the practice a little bit this week and get in a couple extra practices, so we’re … still getting quality touches throughout the week.” 
davis also said he hopes the extra rest will give them some re­juvenation and fresh legs heading into the game. 
notre dame will square off against louisville at 1 p.m. sunday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
shots off and crash the box.” 
There are three areas the irish need to key in on if they want to defeat Florida state and move onto sunday’s championship game, romagnolo said. 
“defensively, we need to makes sure we’re very organized, and we’re committed to keeping them in front of us,” she said. “i think, number two, we need to make sure we’re winning the 50-50 [balls], so we can establish pos­session, and i think the third thing from me would just be bringing a quality finish to the attack.” 
notre dame and Florida state will play Friday at 5:30 p.m. at the uncg soccer stadium in greensboro, north carolina. The winner of the match will ad­vance to play the winner of north carolina and virginia on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

over the course of the season,” she said. “… i think we’ve just contin­ued to evolve and get better, which is something i’m really proud of, and we want to continue to keep improving over the course of this final season we’re entering.” 
Florida state was also well rec­ognized when acc accolades were announced, as the seminoles cap­tured many of the conference’s major awards. Florida state coach mark Krikorian was named acc coach of the year, while senior midfielder dagny brynjarsdottir was selected the acc offensive player of the year. 
The iceland native is tied for second in the acc with 13 goals, scoring an average of 0.87 goals per game. 
“she’s definitely a good player,” romagnolo said of brynjarsdottir. 
“she gets forward a lot, so we just need to be aware of where she is at all times and make sure some­body’s picking her up when she comes into the zone.” 
Florida state senior defender Kristin grubka was named the acc defensive player of the year. grubka serves as the cen­terpiece of a seminoles defense that allowed only eight goals in 18 regular-season games. The seminoles allowed more than one goal in a game this season only twice — one of those occur­rences was their 2-1 loss on sept. 5 to in-state rival Florida, the na­tion’s no. 8 team. 
romagnolo said the irish will plan to attack Florida state’s de­fense with the same strategy they’ve used all season. 
“we can do the things we do well. … Try to get it outside and serve it into the box,” she said. “really, we need our attacking players to step up and look to get 


The observer | Friday, November 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

m Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
“we’re playing a team that’s the no. 8 seed [in the acc tournament] that could easily win a national championship.” 
This will be the second time the two teams have squared off this season. The irish and cavaliers met sept. 21 in charlottesville, virginia; the match ended in a 1-1 draw. 
“it felt in the bus and the reac­tion around the team that it was a loss,” clark said. “we lost a, i would say, a fairly bad goal almost imme­diately after going up, so that was disappointing.” 
in that prior matchup, junior midfielder patrick hodan regis­tered his first goal of the season on a penalty kick in the 65th minute. hodan had been quiet for the irish up to that point after netting 11 goals in the 2013 national champi­onship campaign, second on the team behind former irish forward harry shipp. 
hodan has been anything but quiet since: in notre dame’s last eight games, the junior has seven of his team-leading eight goals. 
“patrick is goal scorer. he’s a predator,” clark said. “That’s part of who he is on the soccer field. but it’s so important, and i think this has been the great thing for us re­cently, is that we’ve been getting a lot of other people who have been starting to come into the scoring sheet.” 
The whole offense has picked up its scoring coming into the acc tournament. over notre dame’s last five games, the team has tal­lied 12 times (2.4 goals/game), af­ter only registering 15 times in its first 10 matches (1.5 goals/game). graduate student forward leon brown scored twice last game in a 4-1 win over pittsburgh while junior midfielder evan panken chipped in one as well. brown and panken are the second and third leading goal scorers, respectively, for the irish, but the team has also benefitted from the recent play of forwards vince cicciarelli, a senior, and two freshmen in Jon gallagher and Jeffrey Farina. 
“[hodan’s] partner in crime on the other side, panken, has been getting some goals,” clark said. “Then you’ve got the two young forwards. Jeffrey Farina, he’s now at six or seven assists, which is un­believably good for a freshman, and he’s certainly capable of scor­ing goals also. 
“Jon gallagher can score goals; leon brown can score goals. leon could have easily had a hat trick last week against pittsburgh.” 
still, the irish felt like they let one slip away from them after the draw in charlottesville, clark said. 
“i think the hardest thing was when they got a player sent off, and we felt going into the remainder of the half and into the two overtimes with being a man up, we were dis­appointed we didn’t take some­thing out of that,” clark said. 
cicciarelli was tackled hard in­side the box by a virginia defender, earning the cavaliers player a red card and putting notre dame a man up and then a goal up after hodan converted his penalty kick. yet only three minutes after taking the lead, the irish gave it away on a shot by cavalier senior midfielder eric bird. 


while the recent offensive out­burst has been nice, clark also said the irish have to improve on the defensive side of the ball. 
“i want us to get some more shutouts,” clark said. “if we’re go­ing to win a national champion­ship, we’ve got to defend. and i’m not talking about the goalie; i’m not talking about the back four. i’m talking about defending as a team. The whole team defends, and the whole team attacks.” 

notre dame won the acc regular-season title last week­end with its 4-1 victory against the panthers, finishing first in the coastal division with 19 points, three ahead of no. 9 north carolina in the division. no. 1 syracuse and no. 20 clemson finished tied atop the atlantic division with 16 points as well. The title means the irish clinched the no. 1 overall seed in the acc tournament, which earned them a first-round bye and a home match against the cavaliers. The winner of the game will advance to the acc semifinals next Friday in cary, north carolina. 
“it’s going to be a great game,” clark said. “it’s a game we’re re­ally excited about, but i’m not kidding myself, i think virginia will be equally excited about it. … you’ve got two very good teams … and it’s a game where there’s an excitement and you get an extra 5 percent, 10 percent out of every player.” 
The irish will look to keep their quest for the second part of the trifecta alive when they host the cavaliers on what will be a chilly sunday afternoon at alumni stadium. The game is scheduled to kick off at 1 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
responded well.” 
Jackson was the first to focus on areas he still wanted to improve upon after his performance. 
“The first thing i noticed was my turnovers,” Jackson said. “we take pride in taking care of the ball, so that’s definitely some­thing i want to work on … [along with] having more assists. Then throughout the whole year, i just want to remain aggressive.” 
Jackson was noticeably more talkative on the court against the bulldogs, something he at­tributes to his relationships with his teammates and coaches. 
“i just feel like a year of matu­rity as well as getting closer to my teammates and coaches really helped me out,” Jackson said. “i feel like i can say anything, and so i just want to communicate, be a good leader and help the team. 
“i know how hard we worked this summer, i know how hard we worked all off-season, so i’m very confident in the things we can do. we have a lot to improve on, but we’re just going to keep working hard and see where it goes.” 
brey said Jackson’s develop­ment as a vocal leader started on the team’s trip to italy this sum­mer and has continued through to the start of the season. 
“he’s becoming more of a voice,” brey said. “i think he will become even more of a leader month-to-month. That’s his per­sonality, and when you’re the point guard you’ve got to use your voice. i think he has a really good feel of our system … and i think as the year goes on, i think he will become as strong a voice as [senior guard] Jerian [grant] and [senior guard/forward] pat [connaughton].” 
while Jackson and auguste stole the show in the opener, one of the most intriguing early-sea­son storylines flew under the ra­dar for much of the game. grant, who played for the first time since december when he took the court against minnesota duluth, got off to a cold start, managing only two points in the first half. in the first few minutes of the second half, he appeared visibly frustrated, shaking his head after failing to connect on a couple drives to the rim. 
yet the senior finished with 12 points, a team-high nine as­sists and a reestablishment of his presence on the court, some­thing connaughton said would be imperative for the irish to find success this year. 
“if you look at last year, we had a bunch of games we were in but couldn’t get that final stop or hit that final shot,” connaughton said. “he brings that leadership and experience to both ends of the floor. he’s that guy that can do those two things.” 
“in italy, we shot better be­cause [grant] was on the floor,” brey said. “he’s able to break down the defense and gets guys looks and that’s a key for us. … we have some shot-makers he can find when he breaks the de­fense down.” 


Then there was connaughton himself, who, for the first time in his notre dame career, is a single-sport athlete. The se­nior put up 15 points and 11 rebounds on his way to a qui­et double-double against the bulldogs, and as a second year captain, connaughton has be­come the voice of the team, brey said. 
“he is truly the main voice of our leadership,” brey said. “he takes a lot of pride in setting the tone, bringing the young guys along.” 
when the team takes to the court against lewis, brey said defensive rebounding will be something he really wants it to focus on. 
“you’ll hear me say that throughout the season,” brey said. “Team rebounding, team rebounding. can we get our guards down there to help us? can Zach be a eight, nine, 10 
— can he join pat as a double-figure guy? who else helps us rebound? That is a thing that concerns me.” 
some of those questions may be answered some when notre dame meets up with lewis on Friday at purcell pavilion. The opening tip is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | Friday, November 7, 2014 | The observer 

CroSSWord | will shorTZ 


HiGHly PuNliKely | chrisTopher brucKer 

dome NuTS | aleXandria wellman SudoKu | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HoroSCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: stick to your game plan. don’t let anyone talk you into spending or indulging more than necessary. Keeping your life in perspective will allow you greater freedom to do as you please. don’t be afraid to take the road less traveled. Follow a dream that will bring you happiness and self-satisfaction. Focus inward and strive to improve. your numbers are 7, 12, 19, 25, 31, 34, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you’ve got a lot to deal with, but anger is not the answer. Take a step back and do your best to rethink what’s transpired before you take action. say little and do what’s necessary to maintain peace. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a short trip. make a visit to someone who can offer you insight, knowledge or a helping hand. a partnership will help you secure your position and give you the clout you need to convince others to share your concern. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you can make a difference if you offer suggestions and implement diverse ways to use your skills. your ability to find solutions will increase your popularity. cutting domestic expenses will help you get ahead financially. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let last-minute changes bother you. do your own thing. show everyone how innovative you are and you will build a support system that doesn’t depend on what others do. romance is on the rise. check out an unusual interest. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get together with friends or sign up for a course. The experience you have and the knowledge you gain will be enriching. getting back to basics and controlling your emotional response will help you bypass someone who is critical. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): getting involved in social events that are geared toward meeting new people and learning about opportunities in your chosen field will be enlightening. don’t be too quick to make a move. do your research first in order to get the best deal. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let personal matters slow you down or stand in the way of your professional advancement. interact with people who have something to offer, not on those asking for something or putting demands on your time. a partnership can help expand your financial intake. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make a concerted effort to get along with your peers. overreacting or taking on more than you can handle will not work in your favor. choose self-improvement over trying to change others. Taking an unusual approach will prove beneficial. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen, learn and put your findings into play. you can make positive changes that will benefit you at home and at work as long as you avoid making rash moves based on anger instead of facts. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): emphasis should be put on being productive at work where you can make a difference to your financial future. don’t waste time on emotional matters that are unpredictable and can only lead to upset and wasting valuable time. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): group endeavors will be costly and lead to negative encounters. Think matters through and put your money where you feel it will bring the highest return. invest in yourself, not someone else. Follow your gut and don’t look back. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make financial, legal or medical decisions based on the information you discover and you will improve your chances on all counts, making your life fuller, richer and less stressful. love is in the stars, and a promise can be made. 

birthday baby: you are determined, dedicated and relentless. you are a strong contender. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | Friday, November 7, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Nd WomeN’S SoCCer 

postseason play to begin for nd 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
after a top-four finish in the acc regular season, notre dame be­gins its second season Friday night when it travels to greensboro, north carolina, to face Florida state in the semifinals of the acc championships. 
The irish (12-4-2, 7-2-1 acc), seeded fourth, will face top-seed­ed Florida state (16-1-1, 9-0-1) in a game irish coach Theresa romagnolo characterized as both a prize for a strong season and a potential resume-booster for the upcoming ncaa tournament. 
“i think the acc tournament is kind of a nice reward for playing well over the course of the regular season,” romagnolo said. “we’re going to go out there and try to get some results because we know all we can do is put us into an even better position heading into the ncaa tournament.” 
The irish will enter the tourna­ment coming off a strong end to the regular season. notre dame has won five of its last six games and hasn’t lost since oct. 5, when the irish fell to virginia. 
notre dame also received good news Thursday, when it was an­nounced that six players have re­ceived all-acc accolades. 
Junior midfielder cari roccaro earned first-team all-acc hon­ors for the third consecutive sea­son, while junior defender Katie naughton and sophomore mid­fielder morgan andrews earned second-team all-conference honors. senior forward lauren bohaboy and sophomore goal­keeper Kaela little made the all­acc third team, and freshman defender sabrina Flores rounded out the selections on the acc’s all-freshman squad. 
The team’s recent successes are a testament to its improvement over the course of the season, romagnolo said. 
“i think we’ve improved a lot 
see w soccer PaGe 13 
meN’S SoCCer 

Irish host Cavaliers in ACC Tournament opener 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 

The first part of the trifecta is complete; the second portion is ready to begin. 
That was the message from irish coach bobby clark as no. 4 notre dame readies for its acc tourna­ment opener sunday against no. 15 virginia at alumni stadium. The cavaliers (10-5-2, 3-3-2 acc) beat in-state rival virginia Tech, 1-0, on wednesday night in the first round of the tournament to advance and meet the irish (10-4-3, 6-1-1 acc). 
“we’re where you want to be; you’re still involved in all three, and you’ve won one,” clark said. “you take it as you’re well positioned, but that doesn’t mean very much. … we’ve got the regular season [title] in our back pocket, and that’s one of the hardest things to win because it’s consistency. but you’ve got to put that behind you very quickly, and i think we’ve done that. 
see m soccer PaGe 14 

KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer 

Irish junior midfielder Patrick Hodan dribbles upfield against Northwestern on Oct. 14 at Alumni Stadium. Notre Dame won 1-0. 
meN’S baSKeTball HoCKey 
Notre Dame finishes exhibition play Friday 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

sports writer  
mature. vocal. slowed down.  
These words, among others,  
were used by irish coach mike  
brey when describing the de­ 
velopment of two of his players,  
sophomore guard demetrius  
Jackson and junior forward Zach  
auguste, after notre dame de­ 
feated minnesota duluth, 88­ 
71, in its first exhibition game of  
the year. The irish meet lewis  
at purcell pavilion on Friday in  
their second and final preseason  
game.  
both players put up point to­ 
tals that topped their best from  
any game last season — Jackson  
with 20 to lead the team and  
auguste hot on his heels at 19.  
brey said the two would be in­ 
strumental in helping to turn the  
team around after last season.  
“These two guys are getting to  
the point where they can be reli­ 
able day-to-day,” brey said. “That  
was my focus in italy — Jackson  
having the ball and knowing he’s  
our quarterback and auguste  
knowing he’s our main low-post  
guy. They started every game  
over there, and i think they’ve  ALARISSE LAM | The Observer  
Irish sophomore guard Demetrius Jackson goes up for a layup  
see basKeTball PaGe 14  Nov. 1 during Notre Dame’s 88-71 win over Minnesota Duluth.  

lucias to reunite in gopher state 
By KIT LOUGHRAN sports writer  
The irish travel minnesota to face top-ranked gophersweekend.  to the  this  

no. 15 notre dame (5-2­1, 1-0-1 hockey east) kicks off its first road series with games tonight and sunday at the gophers’ mariucci arena in minneapolis. This marks the 42nd all-time meeting between notre dame and no. 1 minnesota (5-1-0, 0-0­
0) — a series the gophers lead 24-14-3. last season, the irish also competed against the gophers when they held the no. 1 ranking, a home series the two teams split. 
“They are the best team in the country — that’s the biggest challenge [going up to minnesota],” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “They have depth in every position, [and] they’re a great speed team, a great transition team. 
“in the past, we’ve had re­ally great games with them, but like i said, we are still growing up as a team, so we just need to make sure we do a good job with the puck, don’t put ourselves at risk on transition, and we are going to have to defend. we have to make sure that we get back because they are a very tal­ented team.” 
The irish enter the se­ries on an unbeaten streak. notre dame opened its 2014 hockey east campaign last Friday against vermont, with a 3-2 win and a 2-2 tie against the catamounts. Junior cen­ter Thomas dipauli and ju­nior left wing mario lucia put the irish up 2-0 in the first period Friday. while the catamounts equalized the game in the second period, dipauli netted a third-pe­riod goal for an irish vic­tory. goals from lucia and freshman right wing Jake evans, along with freshman goaltender cal peterson’s career-high 42 saves, lead to saturday’s 2-2 tie. 
“vermont is a very good team, and they put a lot of pressure on us,” Jackson said. “i thought we did a re­ally good job early in the game on saturday night of 
see hocKey PaGe 13 




