The independenT newspaper serving 
CONNECTICUT 79, noTre dame and NOTRE DAME 58 sainT mary’s 


wednesday, april 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
THe dOGs’ day 

GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Irish coach Muffet McGraw exits the court under a shower of confetti after Notre Dame’s 79-58 loss to Connecticut in the national championship game Tuesday at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tenn. The defeat was Notre Dame’s first of the season after entering the contest with a perfect 37-0 mark and brings the team’s record in the Final Four to 5-5. 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
nashviLLe, Tenn. — no. 2 notre dame’s perfect run came to an ugly end Tuesday night, as top-ranked connecticut broke away from the irish in the second half of the ncaa national champion­ship game on the way to a 79­58 win. 
in the second half, the huskies (40-0, 18-0 aac) out­scored the irish (37-1, 16-0 acc) 34-20 and dominated on the boards with a 34-13 edge in rebounding. with the absence of senior forward natalie achonwa, the irish had no an­swer for connecticut senior center stefanie dolson, who scored 17 points on 10-for­15 shooting and grabbed 16 rebounds. 
“obviously, not having ace [natalie achonwa] is very cru­cial,” irish sophomore guard Jewell Loyd said. “she brings so much to the table. but we didn’t do the little things. we didn’t box out, we didn’t com­municate. we were kind of playing on our heels a little bit.” 
Loyd finished the game with 13 points on 4-for-15 shooting, including just 2-for-12 in the second half. 
“we made them look like the miami heat,” Loyd said. “it was us. i personally don’t think that they’re better than us. They’re definitely not deeper than us. we just played scared. we played tentatively. we let them control how we played. it happens.” 
with 14:54 left in the first half, dolson scored a quick layup that put the huskies up 10-8 and sparked a 14-0 run. 
They would never trail again. sophomore forward breanna stewart dominated inside and scored 14 points in the first half, tied for the lead among all scorers. 
but the irish rallied from the 22-8 deficit to keep the game close in the first half, closing to within five with 27 seconds left in the period. Loyd, se­nior guard Kayla mcbride and sophomore guard michaela mabrey combined to score 34 of notre dame’s 38 first-half points, producing most of their offense from behind the 3-point arc, where the irish shot 62.5 percent in the period. 
in the second half, the huskies came out aggressively and pushed their lead to 21 on an 18-4 run, while limiting the irish to just 26-percent shoot­ing in the period. The huskies relied heavily on their start­ers, with just six points com­ing from the bench. 

“i thought we were just over-matched,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “if we could have made them go to their bench a little earlier in the second half, we might have had a chance. That’s when we made our run in the first half, but unfortunately, they didn’t have to go their bench in the second half.” 
after posting a career-high 12 points and nine rebounds against maryland in the semi­finals sunday night, junior forward markisha wright was held completely in check by the huskies, with no points or rebounds in 10 minutes of play. Freshman forward Taya reimer scored six points and collected four rebounds while struggling to contain dolson and huskies junior forward Kaleena mosqueda-Lewis. 
“it was a very physical game and we knew it was going to be physical,” reimer said. “They just came out and punched us in the mouth. They are a great team.” 
The matchup marked the first time in women’s basket­ball history that two unde­feated teams were playing for the national championship. despite entering as the favor­ite, connecticut coach geno auriemma said that before tipoff he had been unsure of how his team would handle the pressure. 
“you just don’t know how college kids are going to play on the biggest stage,” auriemma said. “you don’t know how … the hype of the 
see deFeaT paGe 2 The observer | wednesday, april 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 




cOmmenTary 

matchup failed to live up to the hype 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 
nashviLLe, Tenn. — The Uconn huskies, as they have so many times before, accomplished the improb­able. They made the first-ever matchup between unbeatens in the national title game — dare i say it? — a little bit boring. 
Tuesday’s contest had all the makings of a game for the ages: a newly re­kindled rivalry, the two undisputed best teams in the country and feuding coaches, not to mention finalists for the nation’s individual player awards on both squads. There were some writers suggesting monday’s game could help propel women’s basketball to national prominence the same way Larry bird’s and magic Johnson’s meeting in the 1979 final promoted the men’s game. 
That’s definitely not what this game will be remem­bered for. 
sure, the irish bounced back from a lackluster start to cut the halftime deficit to seven points, and they certainly would have been much more successful in the paint had they not lost senior forward natalie achonwa to a torn acL in their elite eight win over baylor. but even in the early going it was clear which was the better team. 
it didn’t take a box score to see Uconn’s 6-foot-5 center stefanie golson was unstoppable in the paint (although her stat line of 17 points, 16 rebounds and seven assists made that pretty clear as well). The irish had no answer for sophomore forward breanna stewart, the ap player of the year and eventual winner of the tournament’s most outstanding player award, or the comparatively under­the-radar junior forward Kaleena mosqueda-Lewis. The irish have won games when their opponents’ stars have big nights, but not when three of their oppo­nents put up big numbers. 
if we are being honest, when connecticut stretched its lead from seven points to 20 in the opening min­utes of the second period, no one who watched the first half was really all that surprised. 
The huskies simply looked more comfortable on the floor. maybe that was due to their size advantage, maybe it’s just because they got off to a fast start and did not have to worry about clawing their way back into a game. maybe, despite all their protests to the contrary, the huskies really have gotten into the heads of the irish. (after all, the barbs traded between the two teams on monday were par for the course for Uconn coach geno auriemma, but less subtle than what we would usually expect from irish coach muffet mcgraw.) but whatever the reason, Uconn played like the looser team: they made the open shots the irish missed too many times. Uconn dominated the boards almost as ef­fectively as the irish did against maryland, grabbing 54 to notre dame’s 31. The irish, on the other hand, sent passes out of bounds and were visibly frustrated when a call did not go their way. some teams can chan­nel that sort of emotion into wins, but it was not work­ing for the irish on Tuesday night. 
and while you do not have to like them, you have to admit connecticut played an exceptional game made all the more impressive by the fact that it took just six players to complete. 
The irish finished an excellent season with an excellent team. but it’s connecticut who was perfect. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


defeat 
conTinUed From page 1 
game with two great un­defeated teams [will affect them] … and just cross your fingers and hope that they play up to their ability. so i couldn’t be more proud of how we played the entire 40 minutes.” 
with the win, auriemma improves to 9-0 in national 
championship  games  for  
his  career.  his  nine  na­ 
tional  titles  surpass  for­ 
mer  Tennessee  coach  pat  

summitt’s previous record of eight. The huskies also set an ncaa record this weekend by playing in their seventh-straight Final Four. 

“it means we’ve done something that no one else has ever done,” auriemma said when asked what the nine titles meant to him. “so, you’re flattered and you’re grateful and you’re all the things that come with this kind of accomplish­ment, of course.” 
The loss is notre dame’s third in the national cham­pionship game in the past four years and marks a bit­ter end to the careers of se­niors mcbride, achonwa and ariel braker, who leave the program with a record of 138-15 but no national championship. 
“[my time at notre dame] has been amazing,” braker said. “i came in with two other girls who were just dominating and we set re­cords. … we went undefeat­ed until the last game of our senior year. i couldn’t ask for anything better than that.” 
mcbride echoed braker’s sentiments. 
“we’ve been through so much this year, so much adversity,” she said. “if you look at what our bench has done this year, i couldn’t be more proud of them. i wouldn’t want to be any­where else or playing with anyone else.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at   ghadley@nd.edu 

McBride, Loyd named to All-Tournament Team 
Observer Staff Report 
senior guard Kayla mcbride and sophomore guard Jewell Loyd were named to the Final Four all-Tournament Team, as were huskies junior forward Kaleena mosqueda-Lewis and senior center stefanie dolson. huskies sophomore forward breanna stewart was named most outstanding player. 
dolson finished Tuesday’s game with 17 points and 16 re­bounds, while mosqueda-Lewis and stewart added 18 and 21 points, respectively. 
nd cold from floor 
connecticut shot 46.6 percent during Tuesday’s national cham­pionship, while notre dame shot 

35.5 percent. during the second half, the irish shot just 25.9 per­cent. during the season, notre dame averaged 51 percent from the floor. 
notre dame went into half­time with a seven-point defi­cit, but scored just four points in the first 10 minutes of the second half. during that time, connecticut scored 16 points to open up a 21-point lead. The irish scored just 20 points in the sec­ond half after reaching 38 in the opening period. 
The irish finished the game with 58 points, their lowest to­tal score of the season. before Tuesday night, their lowest offen­sive output came in a 69-53 win over duke in the acc tourna­ment title game on march 9. 
connecticut makes history 
This is connecticut’s ninth na­tional championship, the most of any women’s basketball pro­gram. The huskies are still unde­feated in national championship games. This was their fifth unde­feated season. 
Huskies’ stellar six 
no bench? no problem: only six connecticut players played for more than one minute. all five starters played at least 29 minutes. 


The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 47, issue 120 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The Bald and the Beautiful returns to ND 
TBAB supports cancer research for sixth year in a row 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
in 2009, 140 notre dame stu­dents participated in the first iteration of The bald and the beautiful (Tbab). since then, senior and co-chair Frank soler said the event has grown exponentially in size. 
“students, faculty, members of the south bend community and many other staff members participate in Tbab,” soler said. “with close to 300 shaves per year and close to 2,000 
see bald PAGE 4 


Community members shave heads for charity 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
Junior Kat stultz said she first heard about The bald and the beautiful her freshman year, when some friends donated their hair to raise money for cancer re­search and treatment. That was when stultz, whose friends and family have experienced various forms of cancer, began to think about participating. 
“my best friend patrick lost his friend neil at age 19 to leukemia, and ever since then i’ve wanted 
see beauTiFul PAGE 4 

Mendoza receives No. 1 ranking 
By MEG HANDELMAN 
news writer 
mendoza college of business has done it again. 
The college pulled off a five-peat, achieving the no. 1 spot for the fifth year in a row in bloomberg businessweek’s 2014 rank­ing of best undergraduate business schools. 
“what makes mendoza unique among business schools is our clearly defined mission to develop leaders who view business as a force for good in society,” roger 

d. huang, the martin J. gillen dean of the mendoza college of business, said. “a lot of schools now say they have the same mission.” 
according to a press re­lease from the college, mendoza’s undergraduate studies program ranked first in student satisfaction, sec­ond in academic quality and fourth in employer satisfac­tion. The college earned “a+” scores for teaching quality, facilities and servic­es and job placement. 
huang said mendoza’s top ranking this year is due to the efforts of many groups, programs and individuals across the entire university. 
“The undergraduate ad­missions office recruits stu­dents who are passionate about their interests as well as high academic achievers,” huang said. “The career cen­ter works tirelessly to place our students in jobs. The division of student affairs is dedicated to providing stu­dents with the kind of expe­rience that is the essence of notre dame.” 
huang said numerous alumni who help mentor and help students are also to thank. 
“we describe ourselves as the notre dame family, and the ranking is a family achievement,” huang said. 
in the midst of the new digital revolution, huang said the college has evolved to teach students newly im­portant skill sets such as business analytics and social 
see mendoZa PAGE 4 
‘Nuns on a Bus’ tour stops at SMC 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
sister  simone  campbell spoke on the “The contemplative call to do Justice” at saint mary’s on Tuesday evening as part of the “life and leadership of catholic women religious” lecture series. 
during the presentation, campbell shared stories about her numerous political expe­riences and personal interac­tions, describing the success of her endeavors as under the guidance of the holy spirit. 
“over the past couple of years, the amazing things that have happened for me have been all about the holy spirit being alive and well, and as i add, making mischief,” campbell said. 
These include writing the nun’s letter supporting the pas­sage of the affordable care act and organizing the famous 2012 and 2013 “nuns on a bus” tours, which addressed cuts in federal funding for people in need and immigration reform. she is also a member of neTworK, a so­cial justice lobby founded by 
see nuns PAGE 4 

sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame security police (ndsp) sent an email to students Tuesday evening alerting them of a report of sexual assault commit­ted by an acquaintance in a north Quad men’s residence hall early saturday morning. 
The email stated the report was made to a university administra­tor and warned students of the risk of sexual assault. 
“sexual assault can happen to anyone,” the email stated. “ on college campuses, perpetra­tors are more likely to assault an acquaintance than a stranger. being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sex­ual assault. 
“The perpetrator, not the sur­vivor, is responsible for any in­stance of sexual assault.  nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault.” 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 men’s lacrosse PAGE 16 nd soFTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                            peter woo 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Kirby mcKenna Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: emily Kopetsky Ad Design Manager: sara hillstrom Controller: alex Jirschele Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

Who would you like to see participating in The Bald and The Beautiful? 

Agustin Garcia 


Miranda Reed 
sophomore 

freshman 
morrissey manor 

mccandless hall 
“maggie guzman.” 

“michelle obama.” 
Katie Brennan 


Paige Hardman 
junior 

freshman 
lewis hall 

pangborn hall 
“Fr. Jenkins.” 

“professor igusa.” 
Kwame Nuako 


Thom Berens 
junior 

sophomore 
sorin college 

duncan hall 
“arnold schwarzenegger.” 

“walter white.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kelly Konya Joseph monardo Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haileigh ehmsen a.J. godeaux margaret hynds henry hilliard 
Graphics Scene 

emily hoffmann allie Tollaksen Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Photo Viewpoint 

michael yu gabriela leskur Fascism and War Bookish History Ten Years Hence Blue-Gold Spring Conference Cycling DeBartolo Performing Flanner Hall Mendoza College of Football Festival Race Arts Center 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Business Notre Dame Stadium South Bend area 
Corrections 

4 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Lecture on Irish 10:40 a.m.-12:10 p.m. All day 8:30 a.m.-2:15 p.m. in the april 7 issue of The observer, Panel on the Spanish romanticism and the Lecture on emerging Irish civil war. Kick-off Hosted by ND cycling the article “mass commemorates Civil War. culture of the copy. issues in business. at 12:30 p.m. club. 
genocide victims” incorrectly stated that only three holy cross brothers 
We Are What We Tell ZumbaThon Women’s Lacrosse Theater: Blood Mass in Spanish: 
lost their lives in the genocide. a total 
McKenna Hall Rockne Memorial Gym Arlotta Stadium Wedding Dillon Hall Chapel 
of five holy cross brothers and one 
7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 1:30 p.m. 
holy cross priest were killed. The 
Lecture by Margaret Register online via The Irish take on the Arts Center Celebrated by Fr. Joe 
observer regrets this error. 

Atwood on the impact RecRegister. Duke Blue Devils. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Corpora. of stories. Lorca on lovers. 


SMC Pride Week hosts panel on LGBTQ issues 
By SAM CASTANEDA 
news writer 
The saint mary’s group straight and gay alliance (saga) hosted a panel of pro­fessors to address lgbTQ current event policies and social justice issues as part of pride week on Tuesday in the college’s student center. 
professor of history patrick pierce, professor of reli­gious studies stacy davis and professor of psychol­ogy catherine pittman, dis­cussed the difficulties the lgbTQ community may face and how there may be a va­riety of interpretations of is­sues and policies. 
davis began the panel by presenting how some areas of the bible are viewed based on the way individuals view the lgbTQ community. 
“There is no concept in the ancient world of sexual ori­entation,” davis said. 
davis interpreted different areas of biblical texts which are used to shape an opinion on sexual orientation, stating that the culmination of views is often “more based on tra­dition, not scripture.” 
pierce then addressed how geographic religious views and generational gap differ­ences can have an impact on policies of the lgbTQ community. 
pierce noted how states have a variety of reli­gious make-ups, includ­ing Fundamentalists and evangelicals, and because of this, there are restrictive pol­icies that are shaped around strict moral beliefs. 
“legislatures at the state level are disproportionally white and … much more like­ly to be [composed of] males, which means that it is dif­ficult to make the [lgbTQ] 

policies  push  forward,”  
pierce said.  
pierce  finished by  pre­ 

senting how different tools, such as emotional responses, frame the lgbTQ issues by using symbols the commu­nity identifies with. 
“That matter of framing is really crucial, because if you can get control over the frame by which the issue is discussed, you can control the outcome,” pierce said. 
pittman concluded the pre­sentation by pointing out the difficulties and circumstanc­es of coming out for members of the lgbTQ community. 
pittman explained how family could be a major in­fluence on one’s decision to reveal their sexuality, as some families may strug­gle accepting transgender issues. 
Contact Sam Castaneda at      scasta01@saintmarys.edu 

ambassador lectures on mandela’s leadership 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
south african ambassador to the united states and an-ti-apartheid leader ebrahim rasool presented the 20th annual hesburgh lecture in ethics and public policy on Tuesday, in which he detailed nelson mandela’s legacy on south african and global state building and peacemaking. 
The lecture, titled “relic of the past or Template for the Future: nelson mandela’s impact on peacemaking and statecraft in the 21st century,” featured both rasool’s per­sonal reflections on his friend and colleague nelson mandela and a broader expla­nation of his significance to peace movements around the world. 
rasool said mandela cap­tivated the world with his strong yet peaceful leader­ship, an attribute rarely seen in the world today. 
“[mandela] captured the global imagination for his unyielding sacrifice, indomi­table spirit, consistent dignity and remarkable generosity,” he said. “most of all, the world saw in him leadership that was principled yet pragmatic, firm yet flexible, decisive yet popular.” 
it would be easy to forget the impassioned and strenuous service mandela performed, rasool said, but those who wish to continue building 
“[Mandela] captured the global imagination for his unyielding sacrifice, indomitable spirit, consistent dignity and remarkable generosity.” 
Ebrahim Rasool                          
South African ambassador 
peace and progress will look to mandela and his legacy as a model. 
“The people who yearn for something better are the ones who see nelson mandela as a template for the future,” rasool said. “They look at his words, spoken when facing a death sentence when having no prospect of emerging from prison, when leading a risky negotiating process, when as­suming the presidency of a fundamentally flawed coun­try, when launching a consti­tution that directed a nation to its highest ideals which it had not yet discovered … From his words, they extract a template for peacemaking and state­craft for this very troubled world in the 21st century.” 
rasool said mandela’s lega­cy can serve as a basis for fu­ture movements because of the way in which he learned to develop peaceful and digni­fied relations. 
“what makes nelson mandela a template for the future is precisely that his leadership is … hard-won,” he said. “in his self-deprecating ways, he tells stories of learn­ing to overcome prejudice, controlling his anger, disci­plining his soul and embrac­ing the counter-instinctive. certainly what he teaches us is that courage is learned.” 
The simple dictum of “firm­ness of principle and flexibil­ity of tactics,” which rasool said mandela lived by, allowed the south african people to recognize the system in which they lived caused the evil they experienced. 

“it’s because we recognized our enemy as a system that we could then embrace white people even as integral in the anti-apartheid struggle,” 
“The long walk to freedom is not over. In words of Nelson Mandela, more hills are waiting to be climbed. He is not here to light the path with his courage, but we are here.” 
Ebrahim Rasool 
South African ambassador 

rasool said. “There was no predisposition against the capacity of white people to be good and the possibility of black people to betray a vision of freedom. 
“The struggle against apart­heid was therefore both a struggle against an evil sys­tem as well as a struggle for the redemption of people.” 
rasool said people today must not lose sight of the struggle mandela led or grow complacent because of the progress he made. it is up to present and future gen­erations, he said, to carry on mandela’s legacy. 
“we must fear so much today the lynchings of the south or the bullets of sharpeville, but we must fear the deadening of our consciousness and its in­tended complacency that tells us that our struggle is over and a post-racial dawn has arrived because nelson mandela once strode the union buildings and barack obama occupies the white house,” he said. 
“The long walk to freedom is not over. in words of nelson mandela, more hills are wait­ing to be climbed. he is not here to light the path with his courage, but we are here. we must continue the long walk until we have won a world that is more equal, where wom­en are respected, where the stranger is not ‘otherized’ and where our young can dream again.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

Discussion highlights conflict in Ukraine 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
The hesburgh center for international studies host­ed the event “dinner and discussion: The crisis in ukraine,” a discussion that focused on russia, ukraine and the political and ideologi­cal motivations that encom­passed them Tuesday evening. 
The discussion was led by russian scholar alexander martin and leading interna­tional relations scholar dan lindley, who are both fellows of the nanovic institute for european studies. The pair at­tempted to explain the histori­cal, political and ideological relationship russia has with ukraine, europe and naTo. 
martin said while there are similarities between the crisis in crimea and the cold war, there exists a failure to un­derstand the russian political system. 
“russia is not a dictatorship in the sense that you might assume,”  martin said. “The russian government is a po­litical machine. it’s a system in which multiple groups have to work together, but that is dom­inated by a small number of people, particularly vladimir putin.” 
martin said russia’s political system is largely influenced by people who occupy positions in the military, police and other occupations relating to defense and security, which is influential in international relations. 
“The people who dominate the russian political system are people whose careers have mostly been spent in what russians call the ‘power min­istry,’ [where the] people’s number one concern has been national security. That leads them to view international af­fairs in terms of threats,” he said. 
russia’s history and ideo­logical viewpoint is crucial to understanding the events in crimea, martin said, for russia is not just a nation, but a multinational empire. 

”[russia] is a state with a unique purpose and a unique destiny,” martin said. “russians see themselves as having a special role or mission that is reflected in russian or­thodoxy and soviet socialism.” 
lindley mainly discussed the relationship between russia and naTo. 
naTo created part of the problematic relationship be­tween the u.s. and russia, lindley said, due to its role in the fall of the soviet union. 
“The u.s. looks at events in crimea and the ukraine from two main perspectives: liberal internationalism and conser­vative primacy,” lindley said. 
lindley defined liberal in­ternationalism as an ideology centered on spreading west­ern values and democracy to other countries, while conser­vative primacy places more importance on america’s rela­tive position of power in the world.  
both views support naTo expansion in countries bor­dering russia, yet fail to un­derstand the implications, he said. 
“both are wrong and both are dangerous in their ap­proach and explanations to what’s going on,” lindley said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Nuns 
conTinued From page 1 
47 sisters to influence legisla­tion in washington, campbell said. 
“[The vatican] named our little organization [neTworK] as being a bad influence on catholics,” campbell said, “we only had nine full time staff at the time, and we made the vatican nervous? it was a bit shocking … but it was because of that we had nuns on a bus.” 
by using moments like the spotlight brought on by the vatican as moments of mission, campbell said she has been able to act on her belief that ac­tive, contemplative life has two aspects: radical acceptance and fighting. radical acceptance is the key to building bridges and end divisions that are tearing america apart, campbell said. 
“how do we welcome in the folks we would rather not even deal with?” campbell asked. “if we’re at odds with the god in them, we’re at odds with the god in us.” 
once people can radically accept each other and their differences, everyone can stop fighting against each other and instead fight for a different, bet­ter vision, campbell said. 
she said listening to one an­other allows us to move for­ward in healing society. 
“when we have radical ac­ceptance, we can have a con­versation long enough to find commonality to be able to talk to each other, to share some real concerns,” campbell said. 
by referencing the story of moses and the burning bush from exodus, campbell said we are called to listen to the cries of the oppressed in our country. 
“if we let their cries pene­trate our ears, we are called to be a burning bush for them,” campbell said. “when you put radical acceptance and fighting for something together, it cre­ates fire, it creates the unex­pected, it creates light, heat [and] hope. 
“but it all depends on being 
“At the heart of this is the powerful truth that we are one body ... and our body is in pain, is ill, is divided.” 
Sister Simone Campbell 
activist 
touched, fire can only be gener­ated when you touch a person’s life, a person’s story, and make that person’s story part of you.” 
sharing stories of people who have touched her life, including a woman who died because of pride and the inability to ac­cess health care, as well as an 11-year-old girl who is indepen­dently raising her twin because her parents have been deport­ed, campbell said as the richest nation on earth, it is immoral to allow these sorts of stories play out. 

“Too often we get paralyzed, isolated … we don’t do any­thing,” campbell said. “we, the people of god, i believe, are called to act … we’re each called to do one thing, and if we each do one thing, everything will get done. This is the whole point of community.” 
campbell said everyone is called to act in a different way, and she hopes to encourage young people to get involved in politics because they are not old enough to be timid, and they have the chance to test new ideas. 
“at the heart of this is the powerful truth that we are one body … and our body is in pain, is ill, is divided. we, this one body, need to be healed, and how can we do it? by radical acceptance, by fighting for the better way, by speaking up … whatever part of the body you are, do your part,” campbell said. 
Junior Karlie wolff said she was impressed with way that the lecture went against the traditional perspective that catholic women can’t be influential. 
“i thought it was really good, especially since i’m not catholic myself,” wolff said. “i always like seeing the talks that bring the catholic per­spective and catholic ideas to something all of us can see and connect with, especially social justice issues.” 
The lecture concluded the “life and leadership of catholic women religious” se­ries sponsored by the college’s center for spirituality. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Beautiful 
conTinued From page 1 
to do something in his honor and to help combat pediatric cancer,” she said. “on the old­er end of cancer, a very dear friend and theology professor, mr. scurro back home, had pancreatic cancer last year and thankfully won that fight. 
“my mom also lost three of her good friends within the past three years to various forms of cancer, so i want to be in solidarity with all of them and show my support in the various fights, even if they didn’t necessarily win it.” 
stultz passed on partici­pating the next year because her hair had not yet grown to the eight inches required for donation. on Thursday, how­ever, stultz will become one of hundreds of participants in The bald and the beautiful when she shaves her head and donates the hair. 
The event, which takes place today, tomorrow and Friday in the sorin and dooley rooms of the laFortune student center, raises money for the st. baldricks Foundation, which funds cancer research, and the pediatric ward of memorial hospital of south bend, according to its web­site. hair donations go to pantene beautiful lengths, which makes wigs for cancer patients. 
Freshman erich Jegier, who also participated in the gentleman auction on march 26, which is a foundation that benefits childhood cancer research, said he decided to shave his head because it was a visible way of raising aware­ness about cancer. 
“i like the fact that it raises awareness,” Jegier said. “i’m the kind of person who can take a risk and put myself out on the line and do something that’s a little bit crazy, just so that people notice it. 
“i feel like awareness is something that’s overlooked as far as service goes. you can be focused on raising money, but the service is futile if no­body knows where that money is going to, and awareness can be just a huge aspect because long-term it provides lots of benefits.” 
many students participate through a club or dorm, or hear about the event through their friends. Freshman daniel pedroza said he heard about The bald and the beautiful through a member of the notre dame glee club, who was encouraging fellow members to sign up. 
“all these questions started popping up, like what would my parents think or what would it look like ... i found myself debating with myself about whether or not it would be a good idea,” he said. “it was yesterday when i decided that i found it silly that i was doing that debate, the fact that i was going to make a choice about it, because i started thinking about the people who don’t get a choice. They don’t get to choose. They don’t get any say in the matter.” 

according to its website, the event, now in its fifth year, raised more than $40,000 in 2013 and donated more than 400 inches of hair. stultz said in addition to the $10 registra­tion fee, she is hoping to raise $500, soliciting donations from family and friends and through social media. 
Jegier, who is getting his head shaved Friday night, said he hopes to raise more than $250 from his friends and family. 
“since it is on a Friday evening, i’m hoping to get a big turnout with my friends and instigate a lot of dona­tions then,” he said. 
stultz said though she will miss things like French-braiding her hair, she is ex­cited to be raising awareness about the struggles of having cancer. 
“something that i’ve been learning through the vari­ous experiences with cancer in my life is how special and precious the gift of life is, and how everything that we have can be taken away at any mo­ment,” stultz said. “so the small sacrifice of giving up my hair for all of these people who are going through much bigger battles than i am is just to be able to be in solidarity with them is what i’m hoping to get out of it.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Bald 
conTinued From page 1 
participants in six years, Tbab continues to expand through­out the nd community.” 
soler said his sister, junior catherine soler, and her friend from duncan hall started Tbab in response to a notre dame student they knew who died from cancer. in his mem­ory, Tbab raises funds and awareness for cancer research. 
“The event has two ben­eficiaries, the st. baldrick’s Foundation, which supports pediatric cancer research, and memorial hospital, who cares for those inflicted with pediat­ric cancer right in our commu­nity of south bend,” soler said. “The money that goes to st. baldrick’s is used to help fund their existing charity work, while memorial has used the money to fund a new oncology renovation, which will help patients live more comfortably and fight their diseases with hair cut, every girl can get the newest technologies and a hair extension, which is a medical care.” great way to support and show 

soler said every year, rough-solidarity.” 
“The event has two beneficiaries, the St. Baldrick’s Foundation, which supports pediatric cancer research, and Memorial Hospital, who cares for those inflicted with pediatric cancer right in our community of South Bend.” 
Frank Soler 
senior 

co-chair of The Bald and the Beautiful 
ly 100 girls show their solidar-soler said planning the event ity in the fight against cancer is an ongoing commitment by by donating their hair. the organization’s members. 
“each year, we have close “we are continually con-to 100 girls who generously firming commitments for the donate their hair for pantene next year from all sponsors, beautiful lengths,” he said. donors and participants,” “additionally, we even have soler said. “as co-chairs, we a few girls shave their heads. are constantly in contact over if girls don’t want to get their the summer and throughout the semester.” 
Tbab hopes to raise a record amount of money this year, he said. 
“Tbab has averaged any­where from $40,000 to $60,000 each year,” soler said. “This year, especially after partner­ing with notre dame baseball who fundraised over $18,000 in February, we’re hoping to make a Tbab record and raise $70,000.” 
Tbab recently became an official club whose members help run the event, junior member amanda buerger said. 
“The members of The bald and the beautiful work before the event and the day of the event to make sure that every­thing runs smoothly,” buerger said. “a lot of work goes into making this event successful, from ordering the extensions, getting volunteer stylists, ad­vertising [and] having various smaller events throughout the year.” 
soler said club members were integral to the planning of Tbab. 
“we couldn’t have done it without the help of our fel­low club members,” soler said. “each sunday afternoon of the spring semester, Tbab members gathered to discuss and plan every aspect of the event. From dorm sponsor­ship to stylists who volunteer their time, everyone involved in Tbab is integral to making it all work.” 
buerger said the event is powerful to witness. 
“The most meaningful part of helping with Tbab is see­ing the kids from memorial come to this event,” buerger said. “a few patients from the hospital come in each year to meet the football team and see what this event is. To get a chance to see the kids that this event is aimed to help is really special.” 
Contact Katie McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 



Mendoza 
conTinued From page 1 
media marketing. in addi­tion, he said, the global mar­ketplace has replaced the domestic marketplace, which has elicited a need to educate students on how to obtain a “big picture” perspective. 
“at mendoza, we focus on what i call magi – mission, academic excellence, globalization and innovation. Together, these four areas en­compass a lot of new devel­opments, from coursework to international studies op­portunities,” huang said. “we must continually innovate to address the ever-changing business world.” 
The college plans to con­tinue expanding the magi vision, incorporating inno­vative coursework and ex­panding global programs to remain a trendsetter in busi­ness education, huang said. 
“The higher business edu­cation landscape is rapidly changing, and we have chal­lenges on all fronts,” he said. 
huang said student comments published in bloomberg’s survey spoke about business ethics, sus­tainability and corporate social responsibility perme­ating the classroom. 


“That’s very inspiring and humbling for a dean to hear,” huang said. 

The magazine’s ranking, which was released april 4, looked at a total of 132 u.s. undergraduate business 
paid adverTisemenT 

programs. The report was re­leased on businessweek.com. 
according to the press re­lease, university of virginia’s mcintire school of commerce ranked second and cornell’s dyson school of applied economics and management ranked third. 
bloomberg businessweek’s undergraduate business school rankings are based on five components: student as­sessment, academic quality metrics, employer opinion, median starting salary and a “feeder school” score. 
The mendoza college of business, which currently en­rolls 1,950 undergraduate stu­dents, offers students a choice of six majors: accountancy, finance, marketing, manage­ment consulting, iT man­agement and management entrepreneuriship. 
Contact Meg Handelman at mhandelm@nd.edu 




INSIDE COLUMN 

Writing my own HIMYM ending 
Maria Massa 
graphic designer 

with the how i met your mother (himym) series finale still on fans’ minds, i’m sure we all know how much it sucks to watch one of our favorite shows end. and judging by everyone’s reactions to the himym finale, we all also know what it’s like to have a series end in an incredibly disappointing way 
— maybe even a way that ruins the se­ries for you. so why watch it? 
being a huge fan of himym myself, i’ve been asking myself the same ques­tion the last few days. when the finale aired march 31, i was a couple of epi­sodes behind, so i hid in my room with my headphones in to avoid any spoil­ers, planning on binge watching in the next few days to catch up so i could join the global series-finale discussion. but after my roommate’s reactions, i’m not sure i want to watch it at all. ever since a particularly unproductive month of my sophomore year when netflix took over my life, himym has been my go­to show for time wasting. it’s given me both hope for life and friendships after college and a reason to hang out with my girlfriends on monday nights. The characters are part of my imaginary family of characters, and their stories are my stories. To have it all end in a dis­appointing way ... maybe it’s just better to never see the finale and make up my own ending. 
This predicament is not without pre­cedence in my life: i take you back to my middle school days, when gilmore girls was my bible. i grew up with the show, learning what i knew about relation­ships, high school and eventually col­lege from rory gilmore. when the show ended, i simply wasn’t ready. i watched the second-to-last episode of the series, watched rory turn down logan’s mar­riage proposal and then decided the series ending was going down a path i wasn’t ready to follow. so i just never watched the finale. This way, i got to make up my own ending in which luke and lorelai get together and live hap­pily ever after and, more importantly, i didn’t have to face the fact that my all-time favorite show was ending forever. 
i don’t know what the right way to go is with the himym series finale. most people think i’m crazy for even thinking about not watching it. and part of me thinks i’m crazy too — the part of me that is dying to know what everyone is talking about. but these characters are my characters now, so why not write my own ending? either way, it’s a sad fare­well to a beloved show. 
Contact Maria Massa at mmassa@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
a case against scop 
regarding his and his partner’s decision to have children, neil patrick harris told oprah, “we really had thought it through financially, emotionally and relationship-wise. we didn’t just accidentally get preg­nant. These kids come into our world with nothing but love.” how many heterosexual parents can say the same? 
whether or not you believe that a loving, heterosexual union is the best moral con­text for raising children, it is inaccurate and naïve to ignore the fact that not all hetero­sexual unions produce such ideal family contexts. currently, four in 10 babies in the 
u.s. are born to unwed mothers; 19 percent of pregnancies are unwanted and another 29 percent are unplanned, meaning that in only 52 percent of births (these figures exclude abortions) the resulting child is both wanted and planned (guttmacher institute). This is not to say that accidental or “oops” pregnancies cannot result in loving, parent-child relationships — many times they do. rather, it points out that heterosexual parents often deviate from traditional family models, and that since gay parents face enormous obstacles to be­come parents, they tend to be immensely invested and dedicated when they make the decision to have or adopt a child. 
The type of logic that ignores empirical data surrounding the social reality of mar­riage and parenting moved me to write an initial petition against the group students for child oriented policy (scop). i apolo­gize if the initial petition framed scop as a bigoted or heartless group. my intention was certainly not to frame scop as heart­less or to criticize their moral view; rather, my intention was to point out that there are fundamental issues with the group’s argument. 
in the group’s marriage petition, scop claims to place primary emphasis on how the particular policy, meaning gay mar­riage, will affect children. our petition is not taking a stand against the group’s moral stance on same-sex marriage. we re­spect the group’s right to object to same-sex marriage on moral and religious grounds. however, the petition addresses that if scop stands for “child-oriented policy,” this implies that they want the best out­comes for children. if this is the group’s pri­mary focus, then they must recognize that social science has shown that same-sex unions produce no differential outcomes for children. in fact, in many cases, same-sex parent households provide a loving and caring home for children who would otherwise remain in institutions such as foster care. Thus, same sex marriage can be empirically accepted as a child-oriented policy. in ignoring this data, scop’s policy discriminates against all non-traditional family structures in a way that is in opposi­tion of university policy on diversity and inclusion in du lac. 
when i met with a scop representative Tuesday, he did clarify that scop is primar­ily interested in reinforcing the institution of marriage as a union that should be ori­ented towards lovingly raising and caring for children. This not only focuses on gay marriage but also includes criticizing no-fault divorce and how it has damaged tra­ditional family structure. additionally, he clarified that in extreme situations, where children cannot possibly be raised by their biological parents, scop is not against same-sex adoption as an alternative. 
however, the primary grievances stated above remain unresolved. scop can­not claim to be inclusive and implicitly nondiscriminatory without recognizing the empirical data surrounding same-sex parenting. in a recent study published in The american Journal of orthopsychiatry (“can gay and lesbian parents promote healthy development in high-risk children adopted from Foster care”) authors lavner, waterman and paplau concluded that children adopted out of foster care experienced the same level of improvement across the board, despite the fact that gay couples were dispropor­tionately more likely to adopt high-risk children. additionally, an objective study from michael rosenfeld examined grade repetition using census data to measure “same-sex parenting and Kid’s educational success.” in the study of the same title, he concluded that there were no differential outcomes in grade repetition — a crude, but nonetheless telling, measure of child­hood success, especially considering that children in foster care are highly more likely to repeat a grade. 
when asked why scop does not recog­nize or reference this and other empirical data that explores same-sex parenting, my correspondent claimed that the social sci­ences are not “hard” sciences and that this literature is not relevant to scop in its cur­rent foundational stages. 
while there are certainly issues in at­tempting to study same-sex parents and their children, and more data is needed for a complete evaluation of childhood outcomes, the studies i reference in the petition provide adequate measures that same-sex couples are perfectly acceptable parents. The existing data has been suffi­cient enough for the american sociological association, american psychological association, american medical association and the american pediatric association to issue statements that disavow the notion that same-sex parenting is in any way dam­aging or produces differential outcomes, for children. 

if you disagree with me, i encourage you to explore the empirical data and academic literature. The reality is that moral opinions surrounding the same-sex marriage debate are completely separate from the empiri­cal data that should constitute a same-sex parenting debate. 
i am not criticizing moral or religious beliefs on same-sex marriage, but i am challenging us, as a university community “in the pursuit of truth and knowledge,” to separate empirical fact from moral opinion. The existence of a club entitled “students for child-oriented policy” that focuses on reorienting the marriage debate without addressing literature that suggests that same-sex unions produce perfectly healthy childhood outcomes is problematic. it does not frame the marriage discussion on com­pletely moral or empirical grounds; instead it implies the moral as empirical and is a poor representation of our university’s mission. 
choosing to frame the discussion in this way does not stand for acceptance or inclu­sion; it assumes that heterosexual marriage is the most superior context for childrear­ing. There is nothing about a heterosexual union that is, on the surface, more oriented towards favorable childhood outcomes. rather, this is dependent on the commit­ment of the spouses to each other and their children. ultimately this is a question and challenge to individuals, not the entire institution. ideal is not reality and, whether or not you agree with same-sex marriage from a moral standpoint, the reality is that, in 2014, the context of same-sex marriages produces no differential outcomes for children. 
shannon sheehan sophomore pasquerilla west hall april 8 



LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

scop president defends panelist 
in april 1963, a group of eight white cler­gymen penned “a call for unity,” which criticized the efforts of rev. martin luther King, Jr. as “unwise and untimely.” That letter noted a particular concern about “outsiders” who were disturbing the peace of their community. rev. King responded to these “men of genuine good will” in his justly famous “letter from birmingham Jail,” which explores great themes of justice and law with characteristic charity and eloquence. 
in a recent letter to the editor, prismnd 
— whom i assume to be students of genu­ine good will — has objected to the pres­ence of an outsider on this campus, who has disturbed what they perceive to be the comfortable limits of conversation. even recognizing the difference in gravity of the situation (and in virtue of the respondent), this is a sad and serious development. 
on april 3, students for child-oriented policy (scop), a secular organization, hosted a conference to explore the defini­tion and importance of civil marriage. as part of that conference, we invited bishop harry Jackson, Jr., presiding bishop of the international communion of evangelical churches, to speak to the importance of marriage from the perspective of the african-american community. in the course of a 45-minute session, bishop Jackson made one comment that, in a form they have altered (unintentionally, i presume), the officers of prismnd find objectionable. drawing on the experience of his washington, d.c. community, bishop Jackson noted his impression that “coming out as gay can be, if it’s alright to use this phrase, the flavor of the week.” as a sup­porting example for this claim, he noted that the wife of the current mayor of new york city started her career as a writer iden­tifying as a lesbian. 
bishop Jackson made no disparaging comment about the dignity of any person, same-sex attracted or not. his overriding point was to distinguish the present move­ment to redefine marriage from the civil rights movement, about which he speaks with some authority. as he noted in his pre­sentation, his father was threatened at gun­point by local law enforcement in Florida merely for registering african-americans to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right to vote. 
now, bishop Jackson was an invited speaker, not a spokesman for scop. we endorse not his every word, but his credibil­ity as a worthwhile contributor to the dis­cussion about marriage. as scop noted in the notre dame marriage petition, “we … affirm the inherent dignity and special vo­cation of every human being” and we have never understood the definition of a human being to be in any way affected by same-sex attraction. Then again, neither does bishop Jackson, and we are troubled that prismnd so uncharitably interprets his words. prismnd claims that this evangelical cler­gyman has acted contrary to the teaching of the catholic church, appropriating a recent remark by pope Francis in support of this view. scop does not object to its critics’ use of religious argumentation on principle, but we must ask: would pope Francis care­lessly misinterpret the words of a fellow christian as a discussion that “degrades the lives of those who identify as glbTQ?” 
i do not claim to be wise in the ways of the world, but i have lived in washington, 
d.c. There, in a city still sharply divided by de facto segregation, i had the privilege of meeting heroic women who had overcome early and persistent sexual abuse and drug addictions with the help and support of evangelical christian communities. These good women came from fatherless families and continued the cycle of bearing children out of wedlock into terribly unsafe and unstable circumstances. They would be the first to say that their children deserve a society that promotes the right of every child to be raised by his or her mother and father, a society that makes such a situation possible, even likely. 
i do not know bishop Jackson’s circum­stances. i do not share the experiences that lead him to phrase things as he does, but i consider the possibility that he may speak as one from a field hospital trying to stop the bleeding in a society whose marriage culture is decimated, whose children too often go without fathers. This makes me hesitate to suggest — based on one com­ment in relation to a movement he thinks would exacerbate the problem by redefin­ing marriage — that he does not “keep in mind that behind the issue are glbTQ­identifying people who hold god-given dignity.” 

moving forward, if we are to conduct any academic discourse at all on this campus, we must realize that to criticize (however well or ineptly) an action, a lifestyle or a concept is not the same as demeaning a person. easy examples of what the latter looks like were offered by bishop Jackson in his discussion of the civil rights movement. while one should not intentionally hurt the feelings of another person, one’s primary commitment as a student and a scholar is to pursue the truth, not to accommodate sincerely held views to the dictates of a self-appointed board of censors. if criticisms are equated with deliberate harm, it is difficult to see how the academic life is possible. come, let us rea­son together. 
Tiernan Kane ph.d. candidate president students for child-oriented policy april 7 
The campus that cries wolf 
Mark Gianfalla 
pledging gamma omicron pi 

much like the united states itself, notre dame is a dynamic melting pot where people of varying backgrounds connect to offer insight into various cultures and ide­ologies. also not unique to notre dame is its students’ tendency to cry wolf all too often in response to campus activism. it is no se­cret that the college republicans (of which i am the president) is hosting ann coulter as our lincoln day speaker this Thursday, that a group of students published the “i, Too, am notre dame” photo blog and that a group of students formed a new campus group named scop, or students for child-oriented policy. 
in the day and age where media relays in­formation faster than ever, it is no surprise that news of these happenings spreads like wildfire around campus. however, the re­actions that followed and surrounded these announcements is actually more telling of the university’s student body. 
as the president of the college republicans, i have been the center of at­tacks as well as interviews focusing on the question, “why coulter?” our club has been accused of intentionally polarizing the student body, and the founders of scop have been accused of fostering the degrada­tion of those identifying as glbTQ. There have even been murmurs of a demonstra­tion against ann coulter and our club’s decision to host her, planned by racially exclusive special interest clubs. 
none of these accusations and objections is sound, yet a vocal, hypocritical minority is behind these baseless claims aimed at liberalizing the student body and misin­forming our lady’s students. 
our club’s decision to host ann coulter is simple: no other speaker is capable of bringing the same level of relatable energy and attention to the social conservative platform that is at the core of catholic social Teaching and our club’s mission; i.e. tradi­tional marriage and abortion, to name a few. Those who have spoken out against our hosting of miss coulter have falsely stated, aside from accusing our club of intentional polarization, that she is a racist and encour­ages hatred. 
i would like to lead your attention to two events on campus that went unnoticed and without criticism in the same light, one of which was even promoted by one of the organizations planning to demonstrate against miss coulter. 
on march 28, the rap artist mike Jones performed at legends on campus. The week before, the “i, Too, am notre dame” photo blog launched, promoted and sup­ported by the black student association (bsa). The bsa, along with the national association for the advancement of colored people, have been vocally opposed to the college republicans’ hosting of ann coulter on terms including her being ra­cially offensive, and have been planning a demonstration in opposition to the event Thursday. however, when mike Jones performed at legends, no such demon­stration or outrage existed. ann coulter, a best-selling author, journalist and juris doc­tor, has never used the n-word to my knowl­edge, yet mike Jones has a song titled “Type of n***a you need” and he raps other racial slurs. ann coulter, who often addresses inner-city poverty and radical islam, speaks to real issues based on history and fact, yet gets attacked by campus minority groups instead of a rapper who openly uses racially derogative language just for the sake of entertainment and record sales. 
additionally, the college republicans’ invitation of a conservative figure to speak to a conservative club is not polarizing. The outspoken opposition and demonstration are, in fact, the polarizing reactions. The “i, Too, am notre dame” photo blog, which accuses members of the notre dame stu­dent body of being racist (without proof that these racist statements ever took place) is a much more polarizing project, not surpris­ingly supported by racial special interest clubs whose own racially exclusive names and mission statements are much more polarizing and discriminatory than any speaker invitation. 
with that said, i want to highlight a spe­cific quote by the blog’s founder from the april 3 article in The observer detailing the blog: “if you were to take this project, re­spond to it negatively and move backwards, that would be a problem.” another student involved in the blog told The observer that although she has heard people call the proj­ect “attention-seeking” or “unnecessary,” she believes the blog strikes at the heart of issues of diversity of notre dame. The bsa is supporting this blog project via their listserv (bsa listserv email dated march 24), yet have reacted negatively to and are planning on demonstrating against miss coulter’s visit, which strikes at the core of notre dame itself: a conservative, catholic university. The axe swings both ways. 

scop, another club at the center of recent attacks, is being wrongfully persecuted for supporting something that the university’s catholic identity already represents: the unitive and procreative nature of heterosex­ual marriage. This club has unfortunately been painted as a group of homophobes by outspoken liberal groups that favor the overtaking of the university’s catholic iden­tity in order to secularize it in favor of sup­porting gay marriage. although i have no involvement with scop, i empathize with the wrongful outcry against this group for standing for unpopular conservative ideol­ogy. Those in favor of traditional marriage are not contributing to the devastation of gay persons’ dignity as suggested in numer­ous observer viewpoint articles and social media outcries. 
eventually, the liberal minority will have used all of its opportunities to reputably oppose actions and issues on campus; and they will have all been used unscrupulously in situations like these. 
Mark Gianfalla is a junior studying finance and a resident of Morrissey Manor. He can be reached at mgianfal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

once upon a time, long ago (three whole decades), a Japanese company named squaresoft made some of the first roleplaying video games that took the world by storm. Known as Jrpgs (for “Japanese roleplaying games”) squaresoft’s roleplaying video games involved players controlling a protagonist in a story-based game, often set in a fantastical world. Today, that company is known as square enix, but the brand has not stopped developing games, some still Jrpgs. 
one of those video games, titled “bravely default,” is an excellently-produced Jrpg that sold more than 200,000 copies in its first three weeks in the united states after its release in 2012. sales numbers can be deceptive or hard to put into context, and this may be catastrophic for an aaa home console game such as “call of duty” or “grand Theft auto.” but for a handheld Japanese roleplaying game, however, the numbers are outstanding and surprising. 
in a recent interview with Japanese magazine nikkei Trendy, square enix president yosuke matsuda com­mented on the unexpected success of “bravely default” in western markets. 
“Fans of Jrpgs are really spread around the world,” yosuke matsuda said, “For the new games we’ll be developing from this point on while this may sound a bit extreme, we’ve been talking about making them as heavy Jrpgs.” 
by “heavy Jrpgs,” matsuda means genuine, 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

after a streak of smart and successful programs on comedy central, including new acclaimed shows “broad city” and “review,” the network appears to have made a mis­step with the premiere of its new cartoon show “TripTank.” 
The show’s pilot, which aired april 2, jumps immediately into a bizarre, self-aware cartoon world with a short atten­tion span and some seriously disturbing imagery. Jumping from one twisted, trippy animated skit to another, it becomes clear within the show’s first few minutes that “TripTank” is a response to the success of cartoon network’s adult swim shows, like “robot chicken” and the new “rick and morty.” like these shows, “TripTank” is violent, wildly inappropriate and entirely nonsensical, appealing to the adult crowd that is awake late (and likely not sober). 
responsible for this half-hour slot of chaos is a team of in­credibly talented comedians, including Zach galifianakis, Kyle Kinane, wayne brady, bob odenkirk, Kumail nanjiani, wayne brady and larry david. each is responsible for writ­ing or voicing one of the dozens of gruesome skits, which include a rocket ship that cheerily, irresponsibly brings chil­dren to space without spacesuits and a homeless, schizo­phrenic talk show host, tastelessly propagating any and all stereotypes about mental illness and homelessness. 
it is clear that these comedians are taking a stab at a level 
EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 

traditional roleplaying games, which the company has been attempting to move away from in unsuccessful attempts to reach a global market in recent years. This makes the success of “bravely default,” a real Jrpg, all the more surprising. 
still, many Japanese developers are currently strug­gling in the roleplaying game market, even within Japan. what’s needed is for these developers to take a closer look at the global gaming landscape and real­ize that there is an unbelievable demand for Jrpgs. it’s amazing that square enix and a number of other Japanese developers have been so hesitant to expand on the worldwide success of their Jrpgs. in fact, most developers simply appear to not be concerned with their global audience. 
For instance, Japanese developer From software produced “dark souls,” one of 2011’s most critically ac­claimed games. The game received an 89/100 on the metacritic scores for both its ps3 and Xbox 360 versions and was a financial hit as well, selling more than 1.19 million units in just the u.s. and european markets. 
nintendo’s pokémon Jrpgs have always been incred­ibly prosperous as well, with the most recent games, “X” and “y,” selling over 12 million copies worldwide. 
with so much profit to be had over here in the west, the apathetic attitude of most Japanese developers is almost unfathomable, yet they still continue to ignore these markets. sega is another example of this disen­gagement. Two years ago, the company promised that “phantasy star online 2” would come west in early 2013, but silence is the only thing they’ve given the western market since. square enix’s “Final Fantasy Type-0,” 
of anti-humor and absurdity they can’t exercise in regular roles. late-night animation means anything goes:  there are infinite possibilities in animation and no face to associ­ate with such offensive and appalling jokes. This combina­tion with such a brilliant group of comedians seems like it should be an unwavering success, but “TripTank” didn’t hit the mark. 
The issue was not the gore, filth or offensiveness; the problem was that, for the most part, the show simply wasn’t funny. most skits felt more self-indulgent than humorous, as if their creators were simply reveling in the possibilities brought on by the anything-goes style. like preteen sneak­ing a car for a joyride, it may be plenty of fun for the kid, but no one is enjoying his driving. 
continuing with the self-indulgent feel of “TripTank” was show’s overemphasized self-awareness. every few skits cut back to “TripTank” employees in the office, who take calls of complaints about the skits. The act of poking fun at itself and anticipating a negative response seemed funny at first, but becomes too frequent in the show. The recurring bit is also an opportunity to really take a jab at those who take offense at the show or the show’s creators itself, but complainers in­stead are just as awful as everyone else on the show. These skits end up self-congratulating and self-encouraging in­stead, and the joke is on us for expecting anything else. 
despite a largely unfunny pilot, there is some definite raw potential for “TripTank.” First of all, the animation was announced back in 2006, still has not made it over here either, though it was released in Japanese markets in 2011. 
even the games that do arrive in the west take an absurdly long time to make it. games like “Tales of symphonia chronices” have taken months after their Japanese release to reach western gamers, while many others do not even have a release date. 
when Japanese developers have tried to appeal to western audiences, they have gone about it with an “americans don’t get it” mentality, trying to make games more global. This has proven to be a resounding failure. Konami tried to create a castlevania game that attracted american gamers with “lords of shadows 2,” but it was nothing but a disappointment, flopping both critically and financially. 
This regional approach is not good for Japanese devel­opers, and it has definitely been damaging. developers need to realize that americans want more than their latest football game or military simulator, and are pre­pared for “heavy rpgs.” hopefully now that square enix is planning to give more attention to their american consumer base, other companies will follow suit. 
There are a slew of incredible Jrpgs set to come out this next year, from “Final Fantasy Xv” to “persona v,” and it would be great if these publishers finally gave the western world the consideration (and games) we’ve been waiting for. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at  jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
diverse, interesting and often the best part of a skit. while the skits are distractingly jumpy and scattered, the variety of animation was the plus side. From classic “loony Tunes”­style to computer animation to a “napoleon dynamite”­esque aesthetic in the office skits, it was at least entertaining to see the range of animation, the distortion of childhood cartoons and the show’s take on the grossly-detailed, un­appealing style seen on other adult cartoons like “rick and morty” or “beavis and butthead.” 
a few skits stood out as gems as well, though almost drowned in a sea of nonsense. a skit in which two bees try to determine whether they’re killer bees and go out on a vio­lent murdering spree was short and clever enough. a skit in which a doctor tells a mother her son has been in a terrible accident sings, “so make another boy!” and another skit, in which parents describe “the birds and the bees” to their young son and take the metaphor too far are two examples of how “TripTank” has the potential to be funny rather than simply shocking. 
what makes “TripTank” so upsetting is that i want so bad­ly for it to be funny. it has network and team of comedians too good to simply be played in background of a faded night. while the show’s format has clearly been an exercise so far in pushing limits, it also has the potential to be something bet­ter. but for now, “TripTank” is, disappointingly, just okay. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JAY MICHUDA 
scene writer 

since its formation in 2009 until its most recent al­bum release this year, washington d.c. group animals as leaders has completely changed the way most people view metal music. The band’s lack of vocals, use of dy­namic (9/7 to free time, anyone?) time signatures and jazz-fusion elements make them unique to say the least. in fact, they helped pioneer a new genre of music that is quickly gaining popularity: djent (pronounced “jent”), a progressive style of heavy metal. however, while the term djent is being overused to describe a myriad of progres­sive metal bands that currently exist, animals as leaders, with its newly-released album “The Joy of motion” is so much more. 
The group’s first self-titled album was released in 2009 and quickly captured the attention of metal and non­metal fans alike through their technical, lyrical melodies juxtaposed with dark, heavy chugging chords that drive and define their music. behind what some may claim to be “just noise” lies proof of a thorough comprehension of music theory by Tosin abasi, the groups lead guitar­ist and frontman, who — prior to the bands creation — rejected an offer for a solo album by prosthetic records in order to return to music school. what emerged a year later was one of the greatest guitarists of our time. 
unfortunately, music embedded with complex music theory can often be dismissed as “showy” (see: jazz), and many musicians who are capable of playing lightning-fast riffs lose their audience because they feel the need to fill bars with superfluous 32nd notes, losing any sort 
By BRIDGET DEDELOW 
scene writer 

writers have many ways of approaching poetry. some come at it from a more tender, sappy angle, while others are more abstract. poetry is a tough writing style to tackle: it is a process that requires putting your own feelings out onto the line, in hopes they will be described accurately. at times, this is troublesome, but poets have a gift of telling the world just how they feel in a moment with precision and beauty. in the case of poet andrea gibson, her work approaches you with the force of a train, no holds barred. 
andrea gibson, who will be performing a saint mary’s college on Thursday, not only uses her poetry as an art form, but also as an outlet for activism, performing poems about controversial topics. her work, which mainly comes in the form of spoken word poetry, deals with topics of an impressively wide range, including war, sexuality, gender, spirituality and bullying. 
of musicality or expression in the process. however, the brilliance of animals emerges from a careful balance of technical prowess and pure expression. Their second album, “weightless,” displays this perfectly. under the same style as the first album, the group introduced more separation between the driving chords and the soaring melodies that have grown to define the band. its use of space and time is masterfully executed, creating in some spots a feeling of almost suffocating under a dark, heavy weight, only to have it lifted and being given a breath of fresh air. listening to the solos, you get the feeling of gui­tar legends Joe satriani or steve vai with a more complex twist. 
as a listener, you are almost are afraid that somehow they will mess something up; there is no way a band can keep doing this well while continuing to release new mu­sic. pre-release chatter of the introduction of vocals raised a substantial amount of controversy in their fan base. however, abasi has proven himself again to be a creative powerhouse, and still without the use of vocals. “The Joy of motion” is the next installment in their already power­ful repertoire, gracing us with 12 new songs to play until our ears bleed. again, they use the same style they have in their previous two albums, but with a new twist: the focus this time is on rhythmic experimentation, which results in an album with more drive and intensity than their previous two. From here we can fully understand the title of “The Joy of motion.” by intentionally removing a lot of the space and virtuosic guitar solos that normally appear in their music, they generate and explore a feeling of constant forward movement. The end product is a lush and complex “soundscape” where you can discover new 
gibson has also written and released five full-length albums of spoken word poetry, including her best selling “Flower boy,” and two books of poetry. she was the first-ever winner of the women’s world poetry slam, and has been featured on cnn, Free speech Tv and c-span. in 2010, her poetry was read by a state representative in lieu of morning prayer at the utah state legislature. 
all of the words in gibson’s poems are meaningful, colliding with each other in a conglomerate of sincerity and brutality. her poetry is raw and real, provoking deep though no matter the subject, all the while making deep personal connections to the reader or listener. one of her most popular poems, “Jellyfish,” displays this unique con­nection of words about love: “my heart is a runway/i’ve been staring at the sky since my love took off/will you be my friend? will you punch me in the tough just once/i need to reset my bones, swingset my ribcage, so the next time someone pushes me away, i’ll push right back ...” 
ideas or motifs with consecutive listens. it’s definitely a slightly heavier departure from their normal style, which isn’t a bad thing at all. 
For me, this album was a great listen, and although rhythmic emphasis normally isn’t that appealing to me, i always enjoy hearing to the unique new concepts these guys can put out. i’m also interested to see where the group will go next, as they have consistently developed a creative force, bringing something new to the table. even if metal isn’t your thing, i would recommend animals as leaders, especially their earlier work, and when you do, there are two routes you can take when you listen to animals: The first is to go nuts and jam out to their heavy riffs. The second (and probably more common method) is to sit back and actually listen to what they’re playing. 
whichever you choose, there’s really no way you can go wrong. 
Contact Jay Michuda at jmichuda@nd.edu 
“The Joy of Motion” 
Animals as Leaders 
Label: Sumerian Tracks: “Air Chrysalis,” “Another Year,” “Lippincott” If you like: Pomegranate Tiger, CHON, Periphery 

another poem, “i sing The body electric, especially when my power’s out,” deals with self image: “she said, our kneecaps are our prayer beds/everyone can walk bet­ter on their kneecaps than they can on their feet.” The di­versity of gibson’s work is what makes her such a unique poet for the modern day: she does not just stick to just one subject. 
saint mary’s college has been participating in pride week this week, which raises awareness for issues in the lgbTQ community. events have included a student panel, tie-dying t-shirts and signing an ally banner in support of the lgbT community. saint mary’s college is fortunate enough to host gibson in carroll auditorium of madeleva hall as part of this week, and her poetry and presence is sure to amaze and inspire. This event is free and open to the notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross community. 
Contact Bridget Dedelow at bdedel01@saintmarys.edu 

EMILY HOFFMANN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Baseball brings best time of year 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
america has made it through about a week of base­ball so far, and what a joyous time it has been. 
spring has even attempted to take over south bend, so in the interest of staying posi­tive, here are the top-5 best things about having baseball back in our lives. 
5. Baseball means good weather 
it might come back slowly and painfully, but darn it, it will be here. There is hope. 
4. All sports, all the time 
now that baseball season is underway again, there are sports on all the time. and it’s not exclusively report­ers trying to fill airtime with speculation and ill-advised commentary. There are games happening all day long, every day to break things up. don’t be alarmed: This is awesome. 
it might take some adjust­ment to get back in the swing of following sports at such a frenetic pace, and humility will be required to acknowl­edge that you cannot watch every single one of your team’s favorite games, but we will all get there. consider march madness to be a warm-up and remember to support your fellow fans. 
3. Historic events 
if you miss a game, don’t sweat it. your team will play tomorrow. even if something historic happens, and you miss the game, something monumental will happen again soon — at least accord­ing to the various sports sta­tistics bureaus. 
let’s say you miss the first perfect game of the season. That’s o.K., because tomor­row, someone might very well break the record for most hits ever in a game on a Thursday afternoon by a player whose name starts with “Q.” 
i have to admit, i enjoy reading some of the absurdly specific “records” that base­ball statisticians track. it makes every day feel special and historic, and i can tell my kids someday that i was alive when someone set the record for most hits ever in a game on a Thursday afternoon by a player whose name starts with “Q.” 
i like to wake up in the morning knowing that espn will probably have history to report by the end of the day, and only baseball provides that sort of confidence. 
2. Hope 
your team could still win it all. after the first couple weeks of a football season, some teams are inevitably ruled out of the playoff pic­ture, if not mathematically, then at least through com­mon sense. 
baseball, however, pro­motes blind and enduring hope deep into the season. is your team 20 games out of first in July? There’s a lot of baseball left to play. 
disclaimer: The type of hope mentioned above is un­reasonable and possibly un­healthy, but technically, there is still a lot of baseball left to play in July. it’s hard to argue with that logic. 
right now, the best part is, we haven’t even gotten to may yet, so every team is still in it. 
This point aside, some people fall on the opposite end of the hope spectrum. even though there are hun­dreds of games left to play, if your team is in first place, you probably feel pretty good about yourself because winning that opening-day game sure makes it seem like your team is going to win the world series—because, obviously. 
1. A serious reason 
baseball is, in some ways, an odd duck in today’s sport­ing world. each team plays 162 games, and even dedicat­ed fans have to miss a large portion of those. The game seems slow and consequently outdated in a culture that puts a premium on instant gratification and has a short attention span. 
but the contests that hap­pen in between each pitch is unparalleled. watching a baseball game forces a person to take stock of the most min­ute details, and that’s a pow­erful exercise. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB | gianTs 7, diamondbacKs 3 

Hudson leads Giants to win 
Associated Press 
michael morse hit a two-run single to back Tim hudson as each made memorable home debuts with their new team, and brandon belt hit a two-run homer for the san Francisco giants in a 7-3 win against the arizona diamondbacks on Tuesday. 
hudson (2-0) shut down the d-backs for the second time in seven days with an eight-inning gem in his first outing at aT&T park since agreed to a $23 million, two-year contract in november. 
belt’s drive off Trevor cahill (0-3) gave him five homers and the giants a majors-leading 12. 
new giants left fielder morse emphatically pumped his fist at first base after a third-inning single, then added a two-out double in the fifth. 

san Francisco scored four runs with two outs. 
belt became the first giants player since Jose cruz Jr. in 2003 to hit five home runs through the first eight games. 
nine months after ending his 2013 season with a broken right ankle, hudson followed up 7 2-3 scoreless innings at arizona last wednesday with impressive outing. he allowed three runs — two earned — and seven hits with four strikeouts and no walks in a 101-pitch performance. 
he stayed strong into the late innings, getting through a perfect, seven-pitch seventh with six strikes and a trio of groundballs. 
arizona has now dropped four openers this season. The diamondbacks lost in australia to the dodgers, at home to the giants, and at coors Field. 
“can we get one more in?” d-backs manager Kirk gibson quipped. 
mark Trumbo failed to hom­er, ending his streak of games with home runs at four, which tied the club record. he also lost the ball in left-center on morse’s double. 
brandon crawford followed with a two-run single. 
cahill, who received no runs of support in his first two starts, gave up five runs and eight hits in 3 2-3 innings. 
brandon hicks earned the start at second base for the giants and had a first-inning error that led to arizona’s first run. 
MLB | orioles 14, yanKees 5 

Orioles route Yanks on road 
Associated Press 
after a week of popups, the baltimore orioles showed off real pop. 
delmon young, adam Jones and matt wieters homered as baltimore teed off for 20 hits, battering the new york yankees 14-5 Tuesday. 
“it was a lot of fun,” reigning major league home run cham­pion chris davis said. “it was a long game. it was long — in a good way.” 
after a 2-5 start in which they totaled just 22 runs, the orioles broke loose. young and wieters each drove in three runs, and Jones delivered one of baltimore’s four doubles at a half-empty yankee stadium. 
everyone in baltimore’s starting lineup got a hit and scored a run. The orioles post­ed their second-highest hit to­tal in the bronx, eclipsed only by a 22-hit outburst in 1986. 
“everybody’s trying to find it right now,” davis said. “it felt good, as an offense, to score some runs.” 
by the late innings, the game took on a spring train­ing feel. The yankees pulled several starters and the often-demanding crowd didn’t even bother to boo while the birds 

FOR RENT 
2 BR 1.5 BA close to campus. 1 to 2 year lease. Call 574-360-6910 
Commencement and Football. GREAT location -next to Eddy Street Commons. Call 
ran around the bases. 

There was a big cheer, how­ever, when two fans sprinted onto the grass and were tackled in the outfield by a wave of se­curity personnel. 
Jones said it was “stupid” for anyone to trespass on the field and said the punishment should be harsh. 
“They should let us have a shot to kick ‘em with our met­al spikes,” the all-star center fielder said. 
wei-yin chen (1-1) weathered five innings for the win, giving up four runs and nine hits. 
ivan nova (1-1) was tagged for seven runs and 10 hits in 3 2-3 innings. 
For all the big hits, it was a lit­tle grounder that helped things get out of hand at the start. 
after nick markakis led off the game with a single, young followed with a bouncer up the middle. many shortstops in the majors could’ve turned it into a double play, but 39-year-old derek Jeter couldn’t quite get to it and the ball skipped under his glove for a single. 
“he dove. he did everything he could to make that play,” yankees manager Joe girardi said. 
davis followed with a sacri­fice fly, and Jones hit his first homer of the season for a 3-0 lead. The orioles chased nova with a three-run fourth that made it 7-1 and added four more in the sixth. 
alfonso soriano and Kelly Johnson hit solo home runs for the yankees. rookie yangervis solarte struck again, too, with a pair of doubles — he’s 11 for 24 overall. 
solarte is the first player since 1900 with at least six dou­bles in the first seven games of his career, the yankees said, citing the elias sports bureau. 
young was 1 for 6 this sea­son before manager buck showalter gave him this start. The designated hitter had an rbi single in the fourth that finished nova and added his first homer, a two-run drive in the sixth. wieters connected in the eighth. 
ryan Flaherty also had three hits for the orioles after start­ing the year in a 1-for-21 rut. one of his hits was an early bunt single when Francisco cervelli, a catcher making his first professional appearance at first base, ranged too far wide and in to field the ball. 
steve lombardozzi, Flaherty and Jonathan schoop, the bot­tom three hitters in baltimore’s lineup, started out 6 for 6. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
574-360-6910  Rockefeller  
3 Bed house for rent $850, 574-302-5312 “I have made good judgments in the past. I have made good judg­ments in the future.”- Dan Quale Don’t be afraid to give up the good to go for the great.-John D.  It is during our darkest moments that we must focus to see the light.-Aristotle Onassis Hope is a waking dream.-Aristotle “Glory is fleeting, but obscurity is forever.” -Napoleon Bonaparte  



SMC TENNIS 

Belles to take on Albion in matchup of unbeatens 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s has its eyes set on a big win today as it travels to albion for a match-up of two teams undefeated in conference play. 
The belles (6-4, 2-0 miaa) have already tallied a 9-0 win over olivet and an 8-1 victory against Trine, and head coach dale campbell said a win over the britons (10-1, 4-0) would be impor­tant in his team’s pursuit of a top-four spot and berth in the conference tournament. 
“a win in this match would be tremendous,” campbell said. “[albion] has beaten us in consecutive years so a win would be huge. most im­portantly i want to get bet­ter but it’s time for a big win. 
we don’t care in what form it would come, but a win over albion would get us out in front of many teams battling for tournament spots.” 
last time out, on april 1, the belles dropped an 8-1 decision to preseason naia no. 16 indiana wesleyan, but campbell said he took some positives from the defeat. 
“we faced a lot of pace, sol­id serves and just all-around good players,” campbell said. “if we can provide that pressure to other teams, serve better, return better and move as if we are playing against pace all of the time, it will help us to get com­fortable against solid oppo­nents. [The match] gave us some experience of what we will see moving forward.” 
Today’s contest starts a busy stretch for the belles, who will play three match­es over the next four days and five over the next nine. campbell said, however, that his team is taking things one step at a time. 
“we will just focus one day at a time, get some good preparation, play a match, prepare, play, in that order,” campbell said. “it’s impor­tant to have a good routine, a good warm-up and a consis­tent mental approach to play your best every day.” 
The belles take the court in albion, mich., against the britons today at 4 p.m. before returning home for Thursday and saturday home matches against bethel and alma. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 

MLB | whiTe soX 15, rocKies 3 
six home runs power white sox past rockies 
Associated Press 
denver — Jose abreu and avisail garcia each hit two of chicago’s six homers, power­ing the white sox to a 15-3 win over the colorado rockies on Tuesday night. 
Jose Quintana pitched sev­en sharp innings, and Tyler Flowers and alexei ramirez also went deep for the first time this season. The white sox had six total home runs before the fireworks in this one at hitter-friendly coors Field. 
The long balls were the first of the season for both garcia and abreu, the cuban slugger who signed a $68 million, six-year contract in october. garcia fin­ished with four hits and three rbis, while abreu had a three-run homer in the seventh and a two-run shot an inning later. 
marcus semien also had four of chicago’s 19 hits. 
Quintana (1-0) bottled up colorado most of the night, al­lowing five hits and two runs. he struck out four. The left-hander appeared ready to pitch the eighth, but after the white sox batted around, scoring six times, Quintana was removed for a reliever. 
Franklin morales (0-1) gave up six runs and two homers in 6 1-3 innings. morales was essen­tially pitching to keep his spot in the rotation, especially with Jordan lyles (2-0) off to a strong start and Tyler chatwood (ham­string) soon returning from the disabled list. 
once morales was pulled, chicago went to work against colorado’s relievers, with chad bettis giving up a homer in the seventh and wilton lopez serv­ing up three more in the eighth, including back-to-back shots by garcia and ramirez. 
lopez’s line wasn’t pretty: six runs, eight hits and three hom­ers while getting just two outs. he was booed as he walked off the mound by the smattering of fans that remained. 
michael cuddyer had a double and a solo homer off Quintana. Troy Tulowitzki add­ed an rbi double. 
The rockies juggled their lineup to give several start­ers the day off, including carlos gonzalez and streaking charlie blackmon. Tulowitzki was in the field a day after be­ing taken out with a tight right quadriceps. 
Tulowitzki looked a little ten­tative running out a grounder in the first inning and again in the fourth. he easily trotted to second on his rbi double in the sixth, which made it 4-2. 
The smooth-fielding short­stop said before the game he felt a slight twinge in his leg in the cool weather monday and was taken out as a precaution. Tulowitzki has a history of leg ailments, and the rockies plan to play it safe. 
asked if the tweak was at all a concern, Tulowitzki said: “if i play it smart and do the stuff that i need to do before the game, i think i’ll be fine.” 
Pirates 7, Cubs 6 
chicago — The pirates had a four-run lead in the first inning and were up two runs after five. 
both times the cubs came back, with starlin castro providing much of the power. 
in the end, the pirates were finally able to shut down chicago. 
pedro alvarez had two hits and two rbis, and russell martin drove in the go-ahead run on a sacrifice fly in the eighth inning as pittsburgh beat the cubs 7-6 on Tuesday night. 
Jason grilli closed with a perfect ninth for his second save in three chances. 
“we just kept playing,” pirates manager clint hurdle said. “it’s not about what’s not happening. it’s about what we’ve got to do next. That’s just the way we kept going. it was a fist fight off the mound for us most of the night. we executed extremely well in the first inning on offense and kept building innings.” 
cubs reliever pedro strop (0-1) walked two batters in the eighth and recorded only one out before being re­placed by left-hander James russell. russell walked alvarez to load the bases and martin followed with a fly ball to right field that made it 7-6. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish post strong weekend results 
Special to The Observer 

gymnastics club competed at the 2014 naigc nationals in chattanooga, Tenn., in the women’s open division on Thursday. sophomore mary Faurot competed in her first nationals and received a score of 4.4 on the balance beam and a score of 5.0 on the floor exercise. graduate student erin bela also competed in her first nationals, competing on the uneven bars, balance beam and floor exercise. erin received a 3.2 on the uneven bars, 5.8 on the balance beam and a 5.1 on the floor exercise. senior emily siebert competed in her final nationals meet on vault, balance beam and floor exercise. she received an 8.1 on vault, 9.0 on beam and a 
9.5 floor. emily tied for 13th on vault, placed first on the balance beam and tied for first on the floor exercise in the women’s open division. 
Men’s Rowing Club 

This past weekend the notre dame men’s rowing team traveled to san diego, to com­pete at the 41st annual san diego crew classic. The event, hailed as the first major regatta of the year, draws thousands of rowers from more than 100 universities, clubs and high-school programs. racing for the irish began early saturday, when the varsity 8+ raced their heat for men’s collegiate cal cup. conditions were fair with low wind and calm wa­ter. Finishing the 2,000-me­ter race with a time of 6:24.6 earned the irish a fourth-place finish in the heat and a spot in the petite Final, falling short of the grand Final to the university of san diego and miT by just more than three seconds. The novice team be­gan its weekend racing in the men’s collegiate novice 8, fin­ishing third in its heat with a time 6:18.4 and earning a spot in their petite Final be­fore falling short of the grand Final to the university of california and the university of california-santa barbara. later on saturday, the novice 8 went on to win the petite Final with a time of 6:40.6, earning them a seventh place finish in their event overall. on sunday morning, the varsity 8 raced in their petite Final, finish­ing third with a time of 6:21.2 and earning a ninth-place finish in the event overall. The men’s collegiate novice 8 and the men’s collegiate var­sity 8 events were won by the university of california and grand valley state university, respectively. 
Golf Club 
The club golf team played this weekend in the first great lakes divisional Tournament of the spring at the university of illinois golf course. notre dame placed third and fourth for the a and b teams, respectively. The club had three players place in­dividually with will murphy in third, sophomore brian miller in fourth and junior wes greene in eighth. 
Cycling Club 
The irish looked to take on the mwccc once again in a single day criterium event host­ed by ripon college in ripon, wis. The course was tremen­dously challenging, featuring kicker hills and a sweeping fast descent. The racing started around noon when freshman sarah cullen and freshman emma-Kate conlin partici­pated in the women’s b/c field. The field quickly shredded it­self, but the irish women held steady. cullen placed second and conlin took sixth. The final event of the day was the men’s a race. Junior Jim snitzer, se­nior luke Tilmans and junior John pratt took the line against some of the top riders in the midwest, themselves included. despite the hills, not many riders were shelled from this field. eventually, though, after a couple of attacks, several rid­ers were able to get up the road. snitzer and Tilmans found themselves in 10th and 11th, respectively, at the finish line. pratt finished 24th. 
next weekend, mwccc ac­tion comes to south bend for the annual notre dame collegiate cycling classic. 
Women’s Rugby 
on saturday, the women’s rugby team beat davenport university 22-15 at a charity game at stinson rugby Field. The irish raised money for the Kay yow foundation, which funds breast cancer research. The game began with an irish score by senior anna Fraser, but davenport answered with a try of their own before the break. with the score tied at the begin­ning of the half, the irish made a huge drive down the field, which ended with saint mary’s fresh­man bella bianco. however, the panthers came back with two more tries. The irish were down 15-10 with 10 minutes left in the game when they made a break and sophomore Katie loughran scored once more. Junior claire Kozlowski made the point-after kick to put the irish ahead 17-15. notre dame didn’t stop there and, with five minutes left it broke through again when se­nior leah Fisher scored the fi­nal try of the game. 



SMC LACROSSE | hope 16, smc 10 
belles denied in first bid at consecutive wins 
Observer Staff Report 
after a home win against the illinois Tech on saturday, saint mary’s came up short with a 16-10 loss against hope in Tuesday night’s matchup. 
The belles (1-8, 0-2 miaa) committed numerous fouls and turnovers in the opening minutes of the game as the Flying dutch took a 1-0 lead. Freshman midfield aubrey golembieski responded with an unassisted goal only min­utes later to put saint mary’s on the board. 
hope strung together a series of three goals be­fore golembieski would net another score. The Flying dutch struck back and ral­lied with four more goals to 
paid adverTisemenT 
take an 8-2 lead. 
golembieski combat­ed hope’s offensive strike throughout the first half, scoring three of the four goals for the belles in the period. The remaining goal was scored by sophomore defenseman sarah neeser. The half ended with hope establishing a 12-4 lead, tak­ing 11 of 17 draw controls, 11 of 15 ground balls and unleashing 23 shots to the belles’ 10. 
The Flying dutch scored two more goals within the first two minutes of play after the break. saint mary’s countered with two goals of its own, scored by golembieski and freshman defenseman Jackie loesch. 
hope responded with an­other pair of goals to se­cure a 16-6 lead. The saint mary’s defense locked down the Flying dutch offense and kept hope off the score­board for the remainder of the game. in the final 20 minutes of play, the belles’ offense did its best to close the deficit. 
neeser tallied her second score of the night before loesch scored two goals as­sisted by a pair of passes from sophomore attack Tess guerrero, while freshman midfield emilie vanneste scored the final goal in the last 10 seconds of the game. 
Freshman goalie stephanie szymas ended the game with nine saves for saint mary’s. 
The belles return to con­ference action saturday, when they will host adrian at 1 p.m. 







SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles prepare to take on Hope 
Observer Staff Report 
after coming out on top in their conference-opening games against albion, the belles look to remain un­beaten in the miaa as they travel to play hope today. 
saint mary’s (10-6, 2-0 miaa) is currently ranked third in the conference be­hind second-place hope (10­9, 4-0) and first-place Trine (20-1, 4-0). when the belles faced the Flying dutch last season, the teams split the games. saint mary’s won the first competition, 3-1, before losing the second bout, 8-2. 
Today’s results will rely, in large part, on whether the belles can out-hit hope. The belles have won nine out of 10 contests this season when winning the hits category. saint mary’s has dropped five of six contests when los­ing the hits battle. hope has racked up 99 hits in its 10 wins while delivering only 43 in nine losses. 
hope is currently on a four-game winning streak in which it has scored 35 runs while giving up only five runs. sophomore outfielder autumn anderson, junior catcher adalee robertson, sophomore infielder Jenna maury, junior infielder Kelsey cooper and junior infielder peyton wells lead the charge for the Flying dutch. all five players are hitting .283 or above this season, while wells and maury also lead the team with 12 rbi apiece. on the mound, hope’s junior ace natalie hiser has won seven of her 10 starts and has post­ed a 2.31 era along with 58 strikeouts. 
anderson was an all-miaa selection as a freshman last season, finishing fourth on the team in batting aver­age and third in successful steals. in the belles’ vic­tory over hope last year, anderson went 0-4 at the plate. 
The belles’ will have to rely on the big bats of freshman infielder caitlyn migawa, sophomore infielder Kayla chapman, senior pitcher callie selner and sophomore catcher Jillian busfield, who are all hitting above .314. busfield also leads the belles with two homeruns and 12 rbi. 
winners of eight of their last 10 games, the belles look to make their case as a legitimate miaa title con­tender with a double-header against hope tomorrow at 
3:30p.m. 
Softball 
conTinued From page 16 
The irish will look to their of­fense to carry them to a win in chapel hill. notre dame is cur­rently leading the ncaa with an average of 2.0 doubles per game and ranks 10th nationally in batting average. in the acc, the irish rank first in both catego­ries, batting for a team average of .334 and compiling 60 doubles as a team. 
The irish have benefited a power surge from sophomore in­fielder micaela arizmendi, who has hit five home runs in her past 10 games and currently is tied for the team lead in home runs 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
team did manage three hits through the first five frames. notre dame freshman catch­er ryan lidge paced the of­fense, getting four hits in all four of his at-bats.
 “he did great today,” mccarty said. “he’s just a freshman, but he is way ahead of his years, i think. he’s been getting better each game and getting used to the pace of the college game. i think he’s go­ing to be a great player for us in the future.” 
Though he has started only three of the last six games for notre dame, lidge has played in five. 

with seven, sharing the mark with junior outfielder emilee Koerner. irish freshman Karley wester will also be a player to watch against the Tar heels, as she leads the irish in batting av­erage at .392 and in hits with 38. she also leads the team in sto­len bases, with 16 out of notre dame’s total of 45. 
much like the irish, the Tar heels also will be looking to generate some serious offense. north carolina currently leads the acc with 46 home runs and average 1.24 long-balls per game. redshirt sophomore out­fielder Jenna Kelly leads the team with 10 homeruns this season. sophomore shortstop Kristen 
“we definitely have a great chemistry,” mccarty said. “each game, we get kind of closer and closer. we get on the same page with location, and the chemistry has just continued to improve.” 
however, mccarty did acknowledge lidge’s need to work on his visits to the mound. 
“[his mound conferences] are the place he most needs to improve, but he’s a person i trust to do that,” mccarty said. “we tend to just have a quick word and then he just kind of heads back to his spot and i head back to mine.” 
Though lidge led the team in hits on the night, both notre dame freshman in­fielder cavan biggio and brown leads the team with 31 runs scored and 36 runs batted in. 
both teams also have strong pitching to match their offen­sive capabilities, particularly in their respective aces. Tar heels senior lori spingola is currently 15-9 with a 2.91 era and has struck out 118 batters in 139.2 in­nings pitched. irish senior laura winter currently sits at 14-4 with a 2.06 era as well as 147 strike­outs in 119 innings pitched. 
The irish will resume play wednesday against the Tar heels in chapel hill, n.c. First pitch of the first game is scheduled for 4 p.m., with game two tentatively scheduled to begin at 6 p.m. 
Kutsulis had multi-hit games as well. both players had two hits on the night. 
From the other dugout, ju­nior infielder chase matheson and senior designated hit­ter nathan poff accounted for chicago state’s two hits off of mccarty. starting on the mound for the cougars yesterday was junior pitcher andrew wellwerts. wellwerts threw 5.2 innings and al­lowed all six of notre dame’s runs. 
notre dame returns to ac­tion tonight at michigan, where the first pitch will be at 7 p.m. at ray Fisher stadium in ann arbor, mich. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 


NBA | Thunder 107, Kings 92 

Thunder K.o. Kings 
Associated Press 
sacramenTo — caron butler made all six of his 3-point attempts to finish with 23 points, and the oklahoma city Thunder started the fourth quarter on a 16-0 run to pull away for a 107­92 victory over the sacramento Kings on Tuesday night. 
Kevin durant scored 23 points but was never needed in the fi­nal quarter, stopping his streak of scoring at least 25 points in 41 consecutive games. serge ibaka added 19 points and four rebounds for the Thunder, who rested russell westbrook ahead of wednesday night’s game at the los angeles clippers. 
oklahoma city (56-21) is 1½ games ahead of the clippers (55­
23) for the western conference’s no. 2 playoff seed. 
demarcus cousins collected 24 points and 14 rebounds, and Travis outlaw scored 24 points in sacramento’s third straight loss. even with three regulars out with injuries, the Kings made the Thunder work through the first three quarters. 
oklahoma city built double-digits leads throughout the game only to watch sacramento surge back each time. 
but with durant on the bench to open the fourth quarter, the Thunder finally built a lead that stuck. oklahoma city held sacramento scoreless for nearly 6 minutes while grabbing control for good. 

butler made his sixth 3-pointer and Jeremy lamb connected twice from beyond the arc, help­ing the Thunder build a 101-77 lead that played a role in the end one of the nba’s most impressive scoring streaks. 
durant had just surpassed michael Jordan’s 40-game streak of scoring at least 25 points. only oscar robertson (46 straight games in 1963-64) and wilt chamberlain (all 80 regular-sea­son games in the 1961-62 season) have done longer runs. 
coming off losses at memphis and phoenix, oklahoma city has plenty of bigger things to play for during the season’s final two weeks. 
The Thunder’s once com­manding lead over the clippers for the second seed in the west has almost evaporated. They are 13-9 since the all-star break, allowing san antonio to run away with the top seed and the clippers to close within striking distance. 
with the matchup in los angeles looming large, Thunder coach scott brooks rested westbrook — as he has done during done during one game of back-to-back sets since westbrook returned Feb. 20 following right knee sur­gery. westbrook is expected to start against the clippers on wednesday night. 
The Thunder got some relief with Thabo sefolosha playing for the first time since injuring his left calf against memphis on Feb. 28. he finished with two points and three rebounds in 16 minutes. 
sacramento, already among the conference’s worst teams, played even more short-handed. Kings big man reggie evans and forward rudy gay sat out with back injuries, and point guard isaiah Thomas missed his eighth straight game with a bruised right quadriceps. 
oklahoma city looked every bit like the better and deeper team at the start. The Thunder surged ahead 9-0 in the first two minutes before cousins brought the Kings back with his perimeter shot, slic­ing oklahoma city’s lead to 30-27 at the end of the first quarter. 
The Thunder began to pull away again with a 17-4 run in the second quarter propelled by butler, who made all four of his 3-point attempts in the first half. oklahoma city led 61-49 at intermission. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
setback against notre dame. Through their first 11 games they have relied on senior attack-man Tyler melnyk, who leads all marquette scorers with 32 goals. melynk, however, missed the game due to injury. 
“[melnyk’s absence] didn’t radically alter anything for us,” corrigan said. “They had to force a few more things, but it didn’t change our game plan.” 
irish senior midfielder and face-off man liam o’connor struggled with draws as he won just 11 of 20, well below his season average of 62 percent. between the pipes, freshman goalie shane doss stopped just five shots for the irish while giv­ing up the seven tallies. 
“we haven’t been consistent enough at that end of the field all year,” corrigan said. “decision­making, fundamentals, goalten­ding — it’s not on one guy.” 
notre dame found itself in a tight match for most of the game, taking just a 4-2 lead into halftime. The golden eagles came out hot in the second half, with sophomore midfielder Kyle whitlow and freshman mid­fielder ryan mcnamara scor­ing in quick succession to open the second half. both players scored two goals for marquette to lead the team. after the teams traded goals in the third quarter to move the score to 7-6 notre dame, the irish closed on a 5-1 run to seal the victory. notre dame’s man-up unit that went 3-for-4 on the day. 
“we’ve been really good at that all year,” corrigan said. “we have good personnel that are smart and patient with the op­portunities they are given.” 
notre dame will now have an­other quick turnaround while it gets set to play its third game in eight days. 
“we need to get our legs back under us and get our guys excit­ed and confident, playing with good energy,” corrigan said. “we’ll focus on the next game and continuing to get better as we go along.” 
The irish will return home saturday, when they play robert morris at 1 p.m. at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


Associated Press 
sT. louis — lance lynn dug another early hole. The st. louis cardinals offense climbed right out of it. 
lynn gave up three first-inning runs for the second straight time against the cincinnati reds, but again came away a winner. when he’s on the mound, the other pitcher often suffers. 
“There’s no secret that he gets good run production,” manag­er mike matheny said after the cardinals rallied for a 7-5 victory on Tuesday night. “it’s hard to ex­plain with lance. i think some guys just have a knack of being in the right place when we’ve got a lot of offensive support.” 
matt holliday hit a go-ahead two-run double in the sixth in­ning that glanced off right fielder Jay bruce’s glove on the warning track. 
yadier molina homered and peter bourjos had three hits and an rbi to help the cardinals clinch their 26th series win to go with three losses and two splits since 2003 at busch stadium against cincinnati. They’re 4-1 against the reds already this year, leaving a top division rival scuffling at 2-6 overall. 
“There’s not a whole lot of bla­tantly one-sided games, it’s one or two mistakes here or there,” reds starter homer bailey said. “we can’t think about what we do here or what we do just against them. 
bruce had a two-run triple in the first, billy hamilton’s second hit of the season drove in a run 
paid adverTisemenT 
MLB | cardinals 7, reds 5 

Cardinals top rival Reds 

and ryan ludwick had two rbis for the reds. 
The reds squandered a 4-0 second-inning lead by the bottom half of the inning. The cardinals averaged 5.67 runs in lynn’s starts last year, third-most in the national league, and have scored seven both outings this year. 
Trevor rosenthal finished for his third save in three chances. 
bruce appeared to have a bead on holliday’s two-out drive with two on against logan ondrusek (0-1), but had to jump a bit at the last instant and the ball glanced off his glove as the cardinals took a 6-5 lead. bourjos added an rbi single in the seventh off J.J. hoover. 
both starters scuffled, just as they did in the second game of the season in cincinnati. lynn has surrendered eight runs in 11 innings and bailey has permitted eight runs on 16 hits and five walks in 9 1-3 innings. 
“so far at the beginning of games i haven’t been able to get that rhythm that i would like,” lynn said. 
lynn is 5-1 for his career against the reds, including three wins last year. bailey is 5-10 against the cardinals. 
“Tonight, i definitely feel like i deserve the loss,” bailey said. 
Joey votto and bruce had one-out hits in the fifth ahead of ludwick’s run-scoring ground-out for a 5-4 lead. 
cardinals leadoff man matt carpenter had two hits, an rbi and was hit by a pitch against bailey. he’s 13 for 22 against the right-hander. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

CONTROLLED CHAOS | hillary mangiaForTe HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: you may feel overwhelmed, but do not back down or allow anyone to put you in a vulnerable position and you will prove that you are courageous and willing to go the distance to get what you want. in the end, the pendulum will swing in your favor. work quietly behind the scenes until you are ready to execute your mission. your numbers are 2, 12, 17, 28, 32, 34, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t leave anything to chance. you may be on edge both at work and at home if you are feeling paranoid. be patient and tolerant. choose unusual ways to present what you can offer and you’ll win points. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): communication and doing your best to lend a helping hand will separate you from the crowd. your offerings and your concern will bring you closer to someone you want to get to know better. romance is highlighted. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): protect your reputation at work and cover your tracks at home. you should be goal-oriented today, taking a serious approach to your work and how much you can accomplish. your resources are far greater than you realize. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): control your emotions. you are just as likely to swing one way as another. put your efforts into creative endeavors, self-improvement and stabilizing your life position and future. debates and arguments will only result in loss and depression. make love, not war. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): embrace change, but don’t let it cost you. your intent should be to save and invest in something that will bring you a high return. be creative and use your imagination. The way you handle your personal affairs will make a difference. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): volunteering to help others will lead to opportunities. an unusual situation will develop with someone who can offer you unique ideas or a proposition that will enhance your personal life. romance will bring you closer to someone special. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) a risk will lead to regret. Focus on your relationships with the people you deal with daily. it’s important to nurture and to keep the peace. a change may be required and compromise a necessity. defuse an argument with a compliment. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look for more ways to use your creative skills. diversification and expanding some of your old ideas and concepts to fit the changing times will pay off. love is highlighted, and changes to the way you live will bring you greater happiness. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): money matters and legalities must be handled with care. impulsive action must be controlled and a strategy put in place. an unfortunate situation with someone will develop and must be handled diplomatically if you want to avoid a setback. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): listen carefully and don’t react until you are fully aware of all the implications being made. a sudden change can lead to an argument and an irreversible situation with someone important. protect your alliances with those you trust. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): be prepared to lend a helping hand and to make changes to compensate for a shortcoming you didn’t expect. your ability to adapt and work quickly to fix anything that has the potential to go wrong will make an impression. live and learn. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look at your options and make choices that will help you utilize your ideas and expand your interests. love is on the rise, and socializing and discussing your secrets with someone you care about will bring you closer together. 

Birthday Baby: you are compassionate, loyal and imaginative. you are resourceful and adaptable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 12, marQueTTe 7 
Irish halt midseason stumble 
No. 18 Irish take down Marquette behind Marlatt, Brosco hat tricks 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after a slow start, no. 18 notre dame’s offense came on strong in the second half to put away marquette 12-7 on Tuesday in milwaukee. 
notre dame (5-4, 2-2 acc) relied on a balanced attack to secure the victory, with six different players scoring. none of those goals were by notre dame’s sophomore at­tackman matt Kavanagh, who leads the team with 20 goals and is on the Tewaaraton award watch list, an honor that is given annually to col­lege lacrosse’s most out­standing american player. Kavanagh had two assists in his second straight game not scoring a goal. 
“[matt] is our best offensive player, but we can’t become an offense that is centered on him,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “we need to find the right balance of him making plays and others mak­ing plays.” 
instead, notre dame was paced by senior midfielder Jim marlatt and sophomore midfielder Trevor brosco, both of whom netted their first hat tricks of the sea­son. Junior attackman conor doyle added two tallies for the irish, as did senior at­tackman John scioscia. The other notre dame goals came from sophomore midfielder/ attackman bobby gray and freshman midfielder sergio perkovic. 
“we were trying to find a way to play that allows us to make plays but still possess the ball,” corrigan said. “if we do that effectively i think we have a lot of guys scoring goals, and it opens up a lot of opportunities.” 
marquette (4-8, 2-1 big east) had been winners of three of their past five games before the 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 


ND SOFTBALL 
irish prep for Tar heels 
Observer Staff Report 
after a month of games away from the acc, notre dame re­turns to conference play today when it travels to chapel hill, n.c., to take on the university of north carolina. The irish (22-8, 3-3 acc) will play a doublehead­er against the Tar heels (21-6, 12-5 acc). 
notre dame enters wednesday’s games having won four of its past five games, with the lone loss coming to depaul on saturday by a score of 4-2. The irish also go in having won their last meeting with the Tar heels, during which they defeat­ed north carolina with scores of 6-5 and 9-3 over the course of a doubleheader Feb. 25-26, 2012. 
see soFTball PAGE 13 

BASEBALL | nd 6, chicago sTaTe 1 
mccarty cruises to complete game 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 

in a nine-inning, two-hit per­formance during notre dame’s 6-1 win at chicago state on Tuesday, irish sophomore nick mccarty threw 124 pitches, the most he has ever thrown, he said. 
“i’m pretty sore,” mccarty said. “This is the longest i’ve ever gone in my life, but i feel good, i’m just pretty sore.” 
after three straight losses, notre dame (11-20, 1-14 acc) earned their first win since april 1 with the victory over chicago state (9-18, 0-6 wac). coming into the game, mccarty carried a 3.91 era. last night, the soph­omore allowed no earned runs. 
“i was throwing the ball pret­ty good out there, especially the curveball, so it all felt good,” mccarty said. “That was the best i’ve felt in awhile, honestly. my curveball was definitely my out pitch tonight. i got them a couple times swinging on it, and then i was able to get them looking a couple times with the fastball. with the curveball and the fastball working, it felt good.” 
against the cougars, mccarty collected six strike­outs. simultaneously, a notre dame team hitting .247 on the season collected 11 hits, includ­ing a five-run sixth inning. 
“you never want to be in a spot where it’s tied 1-1, so that definitely helped,” mccarty said. “it’s great to have run sup­port, on any team. individually, it’s just a load of your back and it’s a great thing.” 
in the first inning, the irish committed two errors, allowing chicago state’s lone unearned run. at the end of the second inning, notre dame matched the cougars one score, as fresh­man infielder Kyle Fiala scored on sophomore left fielder Zak Kutsulis’s ground ball. 
it wasn’t until the five-run sixth inning that notre dame added to its total, though the 
see baseball PAGE 13 



ND Women’s Basketball vs. Connecticut  L, 79-58  SMC Tennis at Hope  3:30 p.m.  Men’s Tennis vs. Miami  Fri.  
Men’s Lacrosse at Marquette  W, 12-7  ND Softball at North Carolina  4 p.m., 6 p.m.  ND Women’s Tennis vs. Virginia Tech  Fri.  
Baseball at Chicago State  W, 6-1  Baseball at Michigan  7 p.m.  ND Women’s Lacrosse vs. Duke  Fri.  



notre dame lacks rhythm in poor offensive game 
Huskies outduel Irish in paint 

By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
nashviLLe, Tenn. — with 27 seconds left in the first half of the national cham­pionship game, irish soph­omore guard Jewell Loyd ducked behind a screen from a teammate at the top of the key and drained a long 3-pointer to pull no. 2 notre dame within five points of top-seeded connecticut, the closest the irish had been to the huskies in 14 minutes. 
it was the last field goal Loyd would make until there were less than four minutes left in the game. by that time, the irish (37-1, 16-0 acc) were down 71-49 and it was too late for a comeback. 
in between these two points, the notre dame of­fense, ranked second in the nation in points per game and field goal percent­age, was held to 11 points on 26-percent shooting by connecticut (40-0, 18-0 aac), who rank first in the country in defense, allowing just 47.6 points per game. 
part of notre dame’s strug­gles came from its lack of an interior game, where the huskies outscored the irish, 52-22, and out-rebounded them, 54-31. irish senior for­ward ariel braker said most of the problems inside came back to the team’s struggle to box out. 
“i don’t think their size [made a difference],” braker said. “we’ve played against people bigger than them or as big as them this entire season. we just didn’t get it done on the boards. when you come in at halftime and you find out that they have 45 points, but 32 of them came in the paint, that’s an issue. That’s something we should have handled in the second half but we didn’t.” 

without senior forward natalie achonwa, the irish relied on their perimeter shooters, including Loyd, senior guard Kayla mcbride and sophomore guard michaela mabrey. in the first half, they were able to stay close to the huskies in large part because of their five­for-eight 3-point shooting. 
The irish still shot just 43 percent from the field in the first period, below their season average of 51 per­cent. Things went from bad to worse in the second half, as the irish endured a five-minute scoreless stretch and put up over half of their points in the period in the final four minutes, when the game was already out of reach. mcbride said that it was the irish that held themselves in check, not connecticut’s defense. 
“we were kind of beating ourselves,” she said. “we weren’t in rhythm in the of­fense, we weren’t making the extra pass, we weren’t play­ing the normal way we’ve been playing the past 37 games. i think that’s what made it look so bad.” 
as the irish fell behind, mcbride and Loyd tried to exploit their one-on-one matchups and took more dif­ficult shots. in the second half alone, the pair attempt­ed 15 field goals, but made just three. 
“Their defense was very good,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “and a little bit, i think, was just the bad start [and] then we’re pressing. we were trying so hard, and we went one-on-one [although] our game has been team and assists and working the ball together. and i thought we tried to go a little bit too much off the dribble.” 
Loyd ended the game shooting 27 percent from the field, well below her sea­son average of 52.5 percent. mcbride also struggled from the field and turned the ball over four times compared to two assists, after owning a 1.85 assist-to-turnover ra­tio in the rest of the season. connecticut finished the game with six blocks, below their season average of 8.2 per game. 
“i think we just thought, ‘oh my gosh, you’re so big, i need to alter my shot,’” Loyd said. “well, not necessarily. we just needed to take our shots. we were trying to do too much and maybe forced it a little too much. They weren’t really denying us or pressuring us like they usual­ly do, it was just us not being aware in situations. … being down, we’re not used to it.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 

nashviLLe, Tenn. — The irish were feeling the heat in the paint during Tuesday night’s national championship game. 
at least that’s what irish coach muffet mcgraw told huskies coach geno auriemma during the post-game handshake after the huskies won the national title game by a score of 79-58 Tuesday night. 
“i said something like i thought we were playing the miami heat for a while; you guys are just that good,” mcgraw said. “i thought they were just missing Lebron.” 
Lebron James was not in at­tendance in bridgestone arena in nashville, but Uconn sophomore forward breanna stewart and se­nior center stefanie dolson con­trolled the paint just fine without him. The huskies (40-0, 18-0 aac) scored 52 of their points from the key, 30 more than the irish (37­1, 16-0). Uconn out-rebounded notre dame, 54-31, and those re­bounds translated into a slight ad­vantage in second chance points (18-12). in short, without senior forward natalie achonwa, who tore her acL in notre dame’s elite eight win over baylor, the irish just could not hold their own in the post. 
“They just overpowered us,” mcgraw said. “They killed us in­side. Their bigs were just too much for us. 
“i thought stewart was phe­nomenal … and dolson is pretty amazing. i thought we were over-matched in the post.” 
and once Uconn had taken control under the basket, the rest of the game played into their hands. 
“right from the beginning of the game we went in, took advantage of the size we had against them, and right when we realized what an advantage we had, we just kept kind of pushing it at them, and we never really backed down,” dolson said. “give a lot of credit to my guards. They got me the ball. stewy [breanna stewart], we got her the ball a lot in the post, too. when we got it, we just did what we wanted and finished it.” 
auriemma said he had made controlling the post a point of emphasis for the team before the game, but even he was surprised at how effectively his game plan worked. 
“we thought that there was some advantages that we had, that whoever was guarding stewy was going to have a tough matchup in the lane. and stefanie, the same thing,” auriemma said. “but you don’t go into a game thinking that you’re going to outscore the other team by 30 points in the paint. you have an idea of what you want to do, but we kind of went back to some things that were working earlier in the season, tried to get real comfortable. 
“we hadn’t been shooting the ball great coming in, so the last thing we wanted to do was come out here and start firing jump shots.” 
although the irish were un­doubtedly weaker under the basket without achonwa, irish senior guard Kayla mcbride did not blame her absence for notre dame’s performance under the basket. 
“i think that we just came out undermatched,” mcbride said. “ i don’t think anything could have changed that. They just came out and they went directly into the post, and our help-side wasn’t there from the get-go. They got comfort­able, they got into a rhythm, and it went downhill from there.” 
and while the irish were al­most able to match the huskies in rebounds in the first half, they faltered in the second as Uconn outrebounded notre dame 34-13 
“we really weren’t boxing out at all,” irish sophomore guard michaela mabrey said. “we weren’t getting a body on them. To begin with, they’re bigger than us, and i think we tried to make that a point at halftime, to box it out and get a body on it. we came out and we really didn’t do that. so i think that’s where they got most of their offensive rebounds.” 
The huskies laid claim to the paint, the game and, for at least one more year, the title of best team in the land. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



The observer | wednesday, april 9, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


GRANT TOBIN | The Observer 

Irish coach Muffet McGraw leads the Notre Dame coaching staff in a high-five line with Irish players before the national championship game Tuesday at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tenn. Notre Dame players wore warm-up jerseys with ‘Ace’ on the back in honor of senior forward Natalie Achonwa, who did not play in the Final Four with a torn ACL. 








