The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 14 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Remembering 9/11 on campus 
Students recount personal 9/11 experiences 
By JACK ROONEY 
associate news editor 
Thursday marks not only the 13th anniversary of the sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, but also one of the last years notre dame students, will distinctly and con­
sciously  remember  the  day’s  
events.  
For students from  new  york  

city, those memories are particu­larly vivid. 
Freshman Jessica cioffi’s fa­ther, Joseph, is a captain with engine 247 of the new york city Fire department, and will soon 
see 9/11 PAGE 5 



Flags represent lost lives on South Quad 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
news writer 
in commemoration of sept. 11, 2001, 2,977 flags on south Quad will be displayed to honor the victims of the terrorist attacks. 
sophomore Jack connors said the flags will be set out the night before and will remain on the Quad until 5 p.m. 
“each one of the flags repre­sents someone who lost their life in the terrorist attacks on 9/11,” connors said. “They will be east of the flag pole, towards o’shag.” 
Fr. rocca will lead a prayer 
see Flag PAGE 4 




SMC Library raises eco-friendly awareness 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the third installment in a three-part series exploring the new initiatives at the Cushwa-Leighton Library, which will showcase the life of Sister Madeleva Wolff, cater to students’ writing needs and raise awareness for eco-friendly printing. 
in an effort to conserve re­sources and create awareness of ways to be more environmen­tally friendly when printing, the saint mary’s cushwa-leighton library has spearheaded the initiative to display used print­er-paper boxes on the main floor of the library. 
The idea first came about during a meeting between a member of the library’s out­reach team and reference team and librarian Jill hobgood, she said. 
“we have been talking this idea over for a few years now about how much paper goes through the printer on the main floor [of the library],” hobgood said. “while working the ref­erence desk, we [librarians] constantly reload the printer throughout the day.” 

hobgood said the outreach and reference teams were stunned by the official number of pages produced each year by the particular main floor print­er, totaling nearly 500,000. 
“The printer is by far the busiest printer on campus— more than the second and third printers in the library com­bined,” she said. “That’s a lot of paper.” 
in the 2013-14 school year, the pages printed and toner used cost the library almost $8,000, which could be better spent on new books or journals, hobgood said. in addition, the amount of paper printed to­taled 80 empty printer-paper boxes — the equivalent of 33 trees — each containing 5,000 sheets of paper. 
The idea to create a display of empty printer boxes and stack 
see library PAGE 4 

saint mary’s among top-ten economically diverse colleges 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor 

saint mary’s received the no. 8 ranking on new york Times' list of most economically diverse Top colleges in the na­tion, published Tuesday. 
according to the article, the colleges in the ranking have all made significant changes in recruiting policies and have made compromises elsewhere to ensure that a diverse stu­dent body is a top priority. oftentimes, talented poor stu­dents who have traditionally excelled in high school, do not go onto top colleges, nor grad­uate from any college. 
saint mary’s college president carol mooney said it is the college’s goal to meet the financial needs of every student and ensure all stu­dents, regardless of socio­economic background, have the chance to receive a saint mary's education. 
“we do not want any student to be unable to attend saint mary’s because she lacks the financial means to do so. 
“as part of our catholic mis­sion to reach out to those with the greatest need, the college must find ways to allow these students to pursue a saint mary’s education,” mooney said. 
president mooney said the college is dedicated to edu­cating all qualified students. in the college's ongoing cam­paign, "Faith always, action now," the college has raised more than $23 million for such scholarships. 
compared to the other col­leges in the new york Times' ranking, saint mary's has a noticeably smaller endow­ment per student, at $80,000. as stated in the article, vassar's (no. 1) endowment per student is $340,000, grinnell's (no. 

2) endowment per student is $880,000 and harvard's (no. 
6) endowment per student is $1.52 million. 
vice president for enroll­ment management mona bowe said the ranking accords with saint mary's mission to enroll  qualified students who 
see ranK PAGE 5 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What is the longest distance you have to walk on a daily basis? 

Abbey Santanello 


Alaciel Torres 
senior 

junior 
walsh hall 

welsh Family hall 
“walsh hall to Jordan.” 

“welsh Fam to debart.” 

Shuyang Wang 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
“pangborn to Jordan hall of science.” 


Abbey Dankoff 
junior 
lewis hall 
“west lake hall to debartolo.” 
John Pratt 
senior 
off-campus 
“rolfs to south, after cycling practice.” 


Brian Miller 
junior 
alumni hall 
“alumni to rolfs.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kelly Konya Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen manny deJesus emilie Kefalas greg hadley 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
sam coughlin erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Faculty and Staff Volleyball Film: “The Congress” Mass at the Basilica Workshop: Crafting 
wei lin rex shannon 

Mass Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred a Strong Grant Log Chapel 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Arts Center Heart Proposal 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Part of the Shamrock 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 11:45 p.m. - 12:45 p.m. Brownson Hall 
Corrections 

In memory of 9/11. Invitational. Also showing at 7 p.m. Music by the Notre 4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. in the sept. 10 issue of The observer, Dame Folk Choir. Write a concise the graphic accompanying the article 
Artist Talk: Sue Coe Women’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass literature review. 
‘changes to printing policy spark 
Snite Museum of Art Alumni Stadium Basilica of the Sacred Reception for Fall Lecture: “Taking 
conversation’ incorrectly stated the 
6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Heart Exhibits a Scientific 
point allotments for graduate and law 
Open to the public. Notre Dame vs. Baylor. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Snite Museum of Art Approach to Science 
school students. They are 3,500 and 
Includes music by the 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Education” 
4,250 points per year, respectively. The 
Women’s Liturgical Free public reception. DPAC 
observer regrets this error. 

Choir. 7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Featuring Carl Wieman. 


Lecture explores international development 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
notre dame’s Kellog institute for international studies host­ed dr. sara sievers, a principal thought leader in international development from the earth institute at columbia university. 
her lecture, titled "making a difference in the world: connecting the personal and professional in international development," highlighted key strategies and requirements needed to implement effective changes in developing countries. 

during her lecture, sievers highlighted how personal values and basic principles of interna­tional development frequently conflict when working within the developing country’s political context. sievers said the main question at the core of the discus­sion is how good ideas and good intentions are sometimes side­lined when applied to a realistic scale. 
“This is where the personal and the professional become impor­tant," sievers said. "we can sit around and talk about all these glorious principles of millennium development goals, but if we vio­late that in the compounds that we live in, what does that say about who we are and what we really believe?” 
according to sievers, nigeria stands as a prime example of case studies in international develop­ment, due to its ecological com­plexity, relatively high economic disparity and maternal and in­fant mortality. 
“[nigeria is] a large country with a very complex federal sys­tem,” sievers said. "There are rela­tively few places in the developing world that are more complex than nigeria." 
sievers said one of the greatest difficulties she faced during her work in nigeria was living and working in a high-income house­hold while witnessing the eco­nomic hardships faced by a local underprivileged family. sievers was unable to help the lower-in­come family due to bureaucratic restrictions. 
sievers said the experience of not being able to take immediate action helping is one of the most painful dilemmas that workers in developing countries must face. 
“basically i was living in a violation of the things that i hold most profound,” sievers said. “at some point you have to be able to take care of the people you can touch, the people that are clos­est to you. don’t treat them like a statistic." 
while universities remain im­portant developers in aid strat­egies for developing countries, their theoretical approaches have difficulty translating because of the intricacy of political and eco­nomic structures, she said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

Professor recalls rebuilding of Nagasaki 
hamada said that o’hara, sent resentment to christianity as a Junshin girls’ school, hamada since then, both the campus 
By JEREMY CAPELLOLEE 

news writer to Japan by pope pius the Xii in foreign enemy religion,” she said. said. and student enrollment have 
1946 to assess the condition of “The content of education, in-“at 11:02 in the morning, the grown. Today, Junshin girls’ 
in the first lecture of the church, visited Junshin girls’ cluding religion, was strictly un-atomic bomb exploded,” she school has an enrollment of over the “nuclear nightmares: school in the aftermath of the der control by the government. said. “The beautiful town be-1,000 junior high, high school hiroshima and nagasaki in bombing and helped fund the sisters were not allowed to wear came a devastating inferno. and kindergarten students, as historical context” exhibit, construction of a new campus. habits, and could not say prayers since our school was located well as nearly 200 university stu­sr. yoko hamada, professor Junshin girls’ school, founded in latin.” very close to the hypocenter, the dents, hamada said. at nagasaki Junshin catholic by a fledgling order of sisters in hamada said war efforts to damage was extensive. hamada said that Junshin university, delivered a historical nagasaki, first opened its doors manufacture weapons and am-"since the factories where girls’ school still commemorates account of the establishment, in 1935 to 28 girls, hamada said. munition meant most people students worked were also close the events of aug. 9, 1945 and destruction and subsequent re-by 1939, enrollment had swelled lacked clothing, food and school to the hypocenter of the bomb-also the efforts of bishop o’hara building of Junshin girls’ school to 387 students, 33 of whom com-supplies. during this time, chil-ing, many died in the factories. in rebuilding the school. after the atomic bombing of prised of the inaugural graduat-dren were sent to work in ammu-others died at home under the “every year on august 9th, a nagasaki. ing class. nition factories. care of their family. in the end memorial service is held in the 
hamada said part of the re-The beginning of world war ii, “in 1944 our students were sent our school was 207 students out presence of our students with building efforts of Junshin girls’ however, caused much hardship to factories ... instead of going to of 700 students.” their whole families. we pray for school after world war ii was for students, hamada said. For school," hamada said. “The edu-in 1946, with the help of dona-the atomic bomb victims, as well thanks to John Francis o’hara, a school run by a religious con-cation system was shut down.” tions gathered by bishop John as for bishop o’hara,” she said. who at that time served as gregation, the persecution was on august 9th, 1945, however, o’hara, the sisters began con-bishop of buffalo and president especially harsh. Japan’s war time-efforts came structing a new campus for their Contact Jeremy Capellolee at of the university of notre dame. “The public had a strong to an end, and nearly with it, school. Jeremy.CapelloLee.1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


SENATE 
senate discusses student stress 
be extremely involved and excel 
By JESSICA MERDES 

news writer in academics while holding it all together, but this idea of perfec­
student senate met tion has negative effects on stu­
wednesday night to discuss dent stress levels.” 
mental health resources and senate plans on holding three 
general stress levels of students focus groups in the future to fur-
at notre dame. The goal of the ther gauge student perception 
conversation was to begin an on mental-health resources. 
ongoing dialogue about student senate also voted to pursue 
experiences with stress and how a discussion with the registrar 
the university's resources can about the university’s auditing 
better assist the issues. policy, which entails being able 
student body vice president to sit in on a class and receive 
matt devine began the meet-credit without paying for the 
ing by asking the group in at-class. 
tendance if students are aware student body president 
of their stress levels and how the lauren vidal also presented the 
levels impact their lives. state of the union to the sen-
The group discussed the stig-ate. vidal discussed the senate's 
ma that exists when students most recent accomplishments, 
admit to and seek mental health including the oh’snap program, 
resources; however, the repre-as well as other goals for the 
sentatives also noted that the year. vidal encouraged students 
dorms serve as support system to be catalysts of positive change 
for students, giving them friends in the campus and the world. 
nearby to talk to about stress. “we must look to a time when 
Kristen gates, a representa-we have all already graduated 
tive from walsh hall, said she and how our actions now will ef­
thinks the stress levels of stu-fect students for generations to 
dents stems from the desire to come," she said. 
succeed. 

“There is such a high expecta-Contact Jessica Merdes at tion for notre dame students to Jessica.L.Merdes.2@nd.edu 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lecture kicks off World War I centennial series 
By GUIDO GUERRA 
news writer 
in order to commemorate its centennial, dan lindley, associate professor of po­litical science, spoke about the First world war in the annenberg auditorium on wednesday. lindley's discussion of world war i, started off a five-part lecture series, hosted by the nanovic institute for european studies. 
“The question is what’s changed from then to now,” lindley said. “who cares about world war one any­more? it’s very important in history; it was known as ‘The great war,’ [and] 'The war to end all wars.' unfortunately, that did not turn out to be the case.” 
beginning with the very start of the war in 1914, lindley reviewed the as­sassination of archduke Franz Ferdinand of austria­hungary and the effect of tight alliances and all-or­nothing mobilization on the war’s frontier. 
“nationalism is another 
Library 
conTinued From page 1 
them near the printer is a tan­gible way to show students how much paper is used and wasted, hobgood said. 
“we want to try to show people in a visual way how the resources are overused,” she said. “This way, having it right in front of you, it is really impactful.” 
hobgood said there is also a bulletin board nearby the printer displaying other use­ful facts about this initiative for students to read over while waiting for their pages. 
“we aren’t suggesting that people just stop printing, but there are little things you can do that will add up in the long run,” she said. “For example, making sure to print on both sides of a page, or deciding not to print a title page of an article ... things like that will save paper as well as print limit money.” 
hobgood said many of the college’s professors have re­mained receptive to the goal of saving paper by giving stu­dents the option to read or factor here …  it’s taken to hy­per-nationalism with strong doses of social darwinism," he said. "The idea that na­tions have to fight each other to show their worth ... would we have a war if we thought fighting was good?” 

lindley described the con­flict as being of a scale and 
“Who cares about World War One anymore? It’s very important in history; it was known at ‘The Great War’ [and] ‘The War to End All Wars.’” 
Dan Lindley 
associate professor 
political science 

scope simply unimaginable in contemporary times. 
The first day of the war is a good example, as the british army lost the equivalent of one percent of their coun­try’s total population, he 
complete assignments online, rather than printing all the items needed for class. 
senior madison maidment said she noticed the dis­play during the first week of classes and was immediately interested. 
“i am always surprised by saint mary’s ‘green’ initia­tives, and it is no wonder that the library followed suit,” maidment said. “The display is small now but is growing, and it has already made me more conscious about how much i’m printing at a time.” 
maidment said it is nice to have a daily reminder in the library to be environmentally aware, as it is the first place many students start their days. 
“i hate throwing away huge stacks of paper, and it’s nice that so many of my classes have transitioned to offering assignments and readings on-line,” maidment said. “part of being ‘green’ and eco-friend­ly is doing little things each day, and it’s awesome that the library is playing its part.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
said. 

"imagine if in one battle, we lost 3 million people," he said. "it’s unfathom­able. at verdun, [the French and germans] started that battle with 37 million ar­tillery shells ... [it's] rather unbelievable.” 
lindley also compared the damage done by world war i’s artillery campaigns to the impact of the atomic bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki, showing pictures and describing how they leveled cities to a very simi­lar degree. 
“we talk about the hu­man cost, but there’s a per­manent cost to the beauty which is europe, and the lovely history that was there,” he said. 
lindley introduced a tool of his own creation, the 'lindley war prediction Table,' which is available on his website. he said the table features a variety of categories to diagnose rela­tions between two nations and the chances of a conflict arising. such groupings in­clude rapidly shifting power, 
scapegoating  and  ethnic  connecting with students in  
brethren abroad.  an  intimate way. moreover,  
midway through  the  lec­ he said he stresses the inter­ 
ture, lindley played a three- disciplinary nature of the  
minute snippet of  stanley  series, which is highlighted  

“We talk about the human cost, but there’s a permanent cost to the beauty which is Europe, and the lovely history that was 
there.” 
Dan Lindley associate professor political science 

Kubrick’s 1957 film paths of glory, an anti-war piece set in the trenches of the western Front. This was part of an effort to emphasize the brutality of the combat and its sisyphean nature with days spent fighting over feet of terrain, he said. 
dan graff, the director of undergraduate studies in the department of his­tory, said the lecture series exemplifies the intellec­tual life of notre dame, one where faculty are personally by the history department as an “exploring history” event. 
The next lecture of the five-part series will be de­livered by dr. Tait Keller of rhodes college at 4.30 p.m. on wednesday, october 8th. The lecture, along with the following three lectures, will take place in the annenberg auditorium of the snite museum of art. 
Contact Guido Guerra at gguerrap@nd.edu 

cosponsored by the Federalist national organization, which is donated by both the american society at notre dame law young america’s Foundation. legion in south bend and young school. There are close to thirty other america’s Foundation. 
“The club is a campus educa-colleges who are doing this same tion and activism club," connors event with their help.” Contact Catherine Owers at said. "it’s sponsored by a larger connors said the flags were cowers@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Flag 
conTinued From page 1 
service at the memorial at 5 p.m, connors said. 
“There will be a few readings, and then Fr. rocca will say a few words and bless the flags," he said. 
connor said the memorial will act as a visible reminder of all those who died in the attacks. 

“it was such a significant event in our nation’s history," connors said. "it’s been a while now, and people don’t really remember it as much as they really should. 
“it’s just a great way to remem­ber all those who lost their lives.” 
The memorial is sponsored by the young americans for Freedom, a new club beginning the process to gain official rec­ognition from the university and seeing her like that. 


“i remember going home and watching Tv and all they kept replaying was this building get­ting hit by this airplane. it felt like they were playing it on a loop for hours. it was the only thing i saw that day. my mom was on the phone constantly, talking to fam­ily members.” 
Junior chris Filos, who lives in scarsdale, north of manhattan, was home sick from school on sept. 11, and said he particularly remembered his mother’s anxi­ety because his father worked in manhattan. 
“i was always very good at un­derstanding when something important was going on, when something serious was happen­ing, so i didn’t necessarily know the nature of what was going on, but i knew it was something im­portant,” he said. 
“my mom kind of forced me into another room. … she shut the door on me because she didn’t want me to see the Tv. my mom was really emotionally distressed and frazzled wbecause my dad actually worked in the world Trade center complex, not in one of the two buildings, but it one of the buildings across the street. obviously it was impossible to get in touch with anyone that day because all the cell towers were clogged up, so [my mom] had no idea where he was. … eventually, my dad did come home. … he was covered in a little bit of dust.” 
sophomore Julia Kim, who lives in Queens and went to a high school a few blocks from ground Zero, said the lack of transporta­tion and communication on sept. 11 only added to the confusion and fear. 
“because we were on such high alert, i think you weren’t allowed to take the trains,” she said. “i know some people walked from manhattan across the bridges. it was a commute that would usu­ally take you 30 minutes had to be walked. none of the phones were working because so many peo­ple were using them at the same time.” 
in the aftermath of the at­tacks, anderson said the entire new york community, including school children, mobilized to aid in the recovery effort. 
“The fact that people kicked in so quickly is amazing,” she said. “The next day, we started making bag lunches to send down to the rescue workers. we were making little boots for the [rescue] dogs because their feet were getting cut and charred. 
“i think it was really striking to see how people kicked into action so quickly. almost everything be­came about ‘how can we help?’ even the littlest kids [helped]. we were in first grade and we were bagging lunches. all the children were given jobs to help because it allowed us to feel like we were contributing and not just be­ing pushed out and told ‘don’t watch.’” 
Junior rachael biscocho, who lives on staten island, said annual remembrances are a special time in new york, where most people were somehow directly affected by the attacks. 
“on staten island especially, i feel like there’s a lot of people who have family members on the police force or in the fire depart­ment, and those are some of the greatest casualties from 9/11,” biscocho said. “so everyone knew at least one person who had been affected by it.” 
“i love how everyone comes to­gether on that day, though. we all are there to support each other in a time of remembrance.” 
coming from an Fdny family, cioffi said the attacks affected a lot of friends and family. 
“because i was brought up with the fire department, i knew a lot of people, people i considered my uncles and other fatherly figures to me, some of whom perished and some of whom got sick after­wards,” she said. “it affects a lot 
9/11 
conTinued From page 1 
be promoted to chief, she said cioffi, who is from staten island, said sept. 11, 2001 began much like any other school day, but quickly became confusing and frightening. 
“i was in school that day, and i didn’t really know what was go­ing on, of course, but everyone started freaking out all of a sud­den,” she said. “my dad is a fire­fighter with the new york city Fire department, so he was on call that day. what happened is my mom ended up picking me up from school and taking me home. 
“my dad didn’t come home for three days. he was missing and he was in the rubble. he was try­ing to find survivors. [he did] a lot of first aid response, trying to help people. it was a really scary time because being so young and inno­cent, i would ask a bunch of ques­tions like ‘where’s dad, when’s he coming home?’ and then my mom would burst into tears be­cause she didn’t have the answers. 
“i remember when my dad called back to let us know that he was okay, that he was safe. it was a very short call, but my mom start­ed crying again. it was just good to know he was safe.” 
Junior laura anderson, who lives in westchester county, just north of manhattan, said she re­called a feeling of safety and calm in school despite the turbulent events of the day. 

“i have very vivid memories of sitting in my first grade class and having my teacher called out in the hallway, and when she came back in she was very obviously upset, her eyes were red from crying,” anderson said. “as a first grader, i was very confused. really shortly after that, a ton of parents started coming in and picking up kids. it got to the point at about 
10:30 in the morning or so, i think we only had five children left in the classroom. 
“my teacher used to put on mu­sic and dance with us, and on this day when only five of us were left in class, she still tried to keep that sense of normalcy and she put on music and we were waltzing around. i just remember feeling that something was wrong but feeling that i was really safe be­cause everyone was doing a really good job protecting us.” 
Junior amber Thomas, whose father is a new york city police officer, said people's moods and the constant television coverage made her realize the gravity of the situation, even at a young age. 
“i knew something happened where all the firefighters and police officers were needed,” Thomas said. “my mom was very anxious and i wasn’t used to of people more than you think it would.” 


as he has grown up, Filos said the memories of sept. 11 become less and less frequent, but he still wants to share his experience to help others better understand the impact of the attacks. 
“i don’t want to say it’s some­thing i think about often, because it’s not,” he said. “but every once in a while, something sparks a memory and i’ll think about it and reflect on it for a couple of minutes.” 
“i always enjoy talking about it with people who weren’t there and don’t have those personal ex­periences, so they can get a better understanding of what it was like to be there and know people who were involved.” 
cioffi said the attacks gave her a better appreciation for first re­sponders, like her father. 
“it makes you appreciate what people do,” she said. “my dad puts his life on the line every time he goes to work, and i was never fully able to realize that until i learned more about the events. being so young, i never really understood, but as i grew up i was able to learn more about it and appreciate what he does everyday.” 
anderson said the 9/11 attacks have remained an emotional topic, but something people must talk about in order to honor and remember those who died. 
“our schools knew this was go­ing to be something that would affect us, so they talked to us about it,” she said. “when you’re at the point where so many of your friends’ families are directly affected … i think they did a good job giving us the resources to be okay and to feel alright, but still making us very aware that we could still help. it was an impor­tant thing; we couldn’t just push it aside. we had to do something about it. we had to remember.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
Rank 
conTinued From page 1 

are ready to learn, work hard and make a difference in the world. 
“we first look for students with the academic background we feel will result in a successful academ­ic performance at saint mary's,” bowe said. “but beyond the aca­demics, we look for students who are well rounded: aware of the needs of others, strong in their faith, willing to go the extra mile, athletes, performers and artists. 
“a wide variety of backgrounds and interests makes for a rich community where learning hap­pens outside of the classroom as much as it happens in the classroom.” 
director of the office for in­stitutional research daniel Flowers said the article reflects the college’s ongoing efforts to provide education to students from all economic backgrounds, which began nearly 20 years ago. 
“[ny Times] calculated a 'college access index' that looks at the percentage of students re­ceiving pell and the net-price for low and middle-income families while taking into account our fi­nancial resources as measured by the endowment size,” Flowers said. "They found that out of the universe of top colleges with a four-year graduation rate above 75% (about 100 institutions) we were near the top of the list in terms of this access index. 
“we've also experienced one of the largest increases in students from economically disadvan­taged backgrounds from 2007-08 to 2012-2014, from 14 percent to 24 percent,” Flowers said. “only vassar and american saw larger increases." 
bowe said the admissions team does not consider the ability for students to pay a requirement for admission. 
“after acceptance, the financial aid team works very hard to make saint mary's a reality for as many students as possible,” bowe said. 
as a member of the enrollment team for almost 20 years, bowe said she is proud of the mission-driven, ethical approach to recruiting the next generation of belles. 
“it is a team effort, from our colleagues that raise the funds for scholarships, to our professors and student life professionals, who tend to the needs of our stu­dents,” bowe said. “and not only do we make it possible for stu­dents with less financial means to choose saint mary's, we make it possible for them to stay and graduate on time. 
“we will continue to be good stewards of the resources that our amazing donors have made possible. we hope to continue to provide access to students who find saint mary's to be a great fit for them.” 
Flowers said the ranking proves that saint mary’s is true to their mission of pioneering education. 
“in sum, we're living our mis­sion as there aren't many other top-quality institutions out there doing more for low and middle-income students than saint mary's college," Flowers said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I’m singing in the rain 

Jodi Lo 
associate photo editor 

These past few weeks i have had a constant companion with me at school. it has been there when i eat, when i sleep and even during football games. no i’m not talk­ing about my phone, my id card or anything as simply material as that. what i am talking about is the rain that has been with us for almost ev­ery day since we’ve started school, and as i write this, it looks like it’s going to rain again. i have nothing else to talk about, so instead i’m going to talk about my appreciation of rain. 
i grew up for a majority of my life in the philadelphia suburbs and let me tell you rain is awesome in the northeast. it makes everything green and vegetation grows like weeds because rain is always pres­ent. so imagine my remorse when i had to move to a desert! a desert 
– albuquerque, new mexico. sure you can say that cacti are green and that the lizards are also green­ish but it isn’t the same. There is a reason why most desert themes have warm colors consisting of red, orange, pink and brown, and it’s because rain simply isn’t there. my stucco house was a tan color, my car was a golden brown color, and even the inside of most places were built with wooden fixtures which was, you guessed it, brown. i spent my high school years chomping at the bit to go to an environment where i have green grass, green trees, and an unofficial green school color and i’ve loved every single moment of this greenness. 
sure the rain can be a nuisance once in a while. For example, i had to take senior pictures today and apparently half of the requirement was to also walk through paths of water that reached my shins. but imagine a place without rain. without rain, the halls without air conditioning would still have their box fans on at full blasts blowing more hot air into their rooms. The grass would be crunchy and hurt to stand on as we all stood in crowds listening to the pep rallies. and football games aren’t miserable, shout out to the seniors who know what i am saying from the Fall of 2011. 
so before you walk out of your halls to go to debartolo or the din­ing halls cursing the rain, take it from a girl who knows what it’s like not having rain. stop and appreci­ate it. having rain is much better than not having it at all. 
Contact Jodi Lo at jlo1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nudity and yik yak 

Daniel Sehlhorst 
we’ve lost our Quorum 

nudity. This conspicuous subject was launched to the pin­nacle of all social media spheres as september rolled in. The impetus for this was a group of unidentified hackers succeeding in an unprecedented breach of apple’s online storage service, icloud. These hackers leaked nude pictures of famous celebri­ties for the world to see. 
around the same time, i was introduced by a friend to a new social media application, yik yak. unfortunately, the close tim­ing of these events was not ideal. yik yak, for those of you who don’t know, serves as an anonymous, virtual bulletin board for fellow users on a college campus. The lack of identification leads to significantly more obscene and abusive content (colloquially known as “yaks”) than other social media outlets. it is similar in some ways to anonymous Facebook and Twitter accounts like nd confessions or nd crushes. 
due to the nature of yik yak, looking at yaks on my friend’s phone during the early days of september consisted of a tsu­nami of explicit references to individual’s activities that would have been better kept private. moreover, i found it to be a haven for unleashing a barrage of insults on others without the con­sequences of the perpetrator being identified as rude or cruel. worse yet, although yik yak is targeted at colleges, high school students across the country have used yaks for alarmingly hurt­ful cyberbullying that has disrupted school communities, and in some cases, even spurred death threats warranting multiple school evacuations. 
of course, the yaks from notre dame did include many hu­morous comments, entertaining stories and curious thoughts. anonymous messages can also serve good purposes for those who need support, but are afraid to ask in person. however, this doesn’t seem to be the goal for many users. 
yik yak’s designers did incorporate a function for users to vote down a yak until it disappears, but in many instances, the most troublesome yaks seem to be voted up more than any others. perhaps some users have taken to bolstering this medium to justify their own behavior with a modified, anonymous mob mentality. popular approval through social media, however, will never be enough to satisfy the heart of a man or woman and, in the end, we still must take responsibility for the lives we lead. 
yik yak is a powerful application that is dangerous on 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
multiple fronts. not only can it be a vehicle for hurting others’ reputations or self-image with impunity, it also elevates com­mentary that degrades human dignity. psychiatrists are dem­onstrating that social media can lead to damaged self-esteem, greater loneliness and depression. That said, some yaks are, quite simply, directly traumatic. 
Knowing all of this, i arrive at two persistent thoughts. First and foremost, i have resolved to avoid yik yak and other anonymous messaging services. in my view, i don’t need those negative thoughts bombarding my mind all day. in the words of buddha, “what we think about, we become,” and i would rather value my interactions with those i know and love. For those who continue to use yik yak, i challenge you to institute the golden rule in your yaks – please refrain from bullying and abuse. 
my second train of thought explored the cultural reasoning for this phenomena. is it possible that an impersonal, digital world with such a strong emphasis on holding the attention of others by being distinctive or sexy has damaged our sense of empathy? have we lost the distinction between private and public? The icloud hackers clearly violated the privacy of the celebrities in the leaked photos. closer to home, i remember one yak from a student on our campus who witnessed another student posting a derogatory yak about her. is it not evident that no anonymous bubble exists? people can be deeply hurt by our inconsideration and we would all do well to remember that. 
Furthermore, has a spirit of inevitability pervaded our culture so deeply that we are willing to tolerate individuals unmistak­ably savoring an opportunity to objectify women? with an epidemic of sexual assaults occurring on college campuses, we should be speaking out against demeaning language like that which assailed social media after the photos were leaked. 
perhaps my vision of a society devoid of gratuitous mistreat­ment of others is quixotic, but today, on the 13th anniversary of the fateful 9/11 attacks, we should remember the value of solidarity. community will always be the greatest security for humanity, and if our actions undermine that unity, we alone are responsible for the ensuing pain. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and politi­cal science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A capital idea: not for the squeamish 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

convicted murderer clayton lockett took 40 min­utes to die when he was executed by lethal injection in april of 2014. Just 14 minutes into the procedure, the ostensibly sedated murderer attempted to rise from his gurney and speak audibly. Just months later, the execution of Joseph wood took nearly two hours.  during his death, wood is recorded to have gasped nearly 600 times. 
in both cases, the states responsible for the execu­tions were using an experimental sedative called midazolam. This drug has become the go-to for lethal injections as more “traditional” execution drugs like pentobarbital have been pulled from the market by conscientious manufacturers. yet midazolam’s track record at sedation is obviously spotty. lethal injection, once touted as painless and easy death, is quickly proving to be anything but. 
The debate surrounding the death penalty in america has many ethical, religious, and consti­tutional components. while we will hopefully one day achieve consensus on whether or not our coun­try ought to practice capital punishment, this will clearly not happen anytime soon. in the meantime, death row inmates will keep dying. Therefore, re­gardless of your stance on the death penalty, it’s imperative that we have a conversation about the methods used to kill the condemned. 
on paper, the current cocktail of lethal injection drugs sounds like an excellent method of execution 
— the condemned criminal is gently sedated while his vital functions are powered down one by one. but differing rates of metabolism, clogged needles and a host of other problems have resulted in a high rate of botched executions, about 7.1%, according to amherst’s austin sarat. clearly, a better procedure is needed, and the answer can be found in the only method with a zero percent botch rate — the firing squad. 
consider the advantages of shooting a prisoner full of lead instead of potassium chloride. because death by gunshot relies on physically traumatiz­ing the body’s vital systems rather than chemically shutting them off, issues of toxin resistance or body composition are rendered moot. any convict shot half a dozen times at close range will die quickly, with far less opportunity for the anguish seen in the deaths of lockett and wood. For example, consider the execution of utah’s ronnie lee gardner, who was pronounced dead only two minutes after being shot in 2010. can it really be argued that he suffered more than those whose deaths took hours? 
additionally, participation in a firing squad re­quires none of the special training needed to handle or administer killer drugs — anyone competent enough to operate a rifle could be eligible to serve out the execution. whereas lethal injection depends on many complex mechanisms, both artificial and organic, to work as intended, the probability of a rifle malfunction is slim. 
it’s also unlikely that ammunition or arms manufacturers will raise moral objections to their products being used to take life. after all, many of these companies already advertise weapons to both police and civilians for use on criminals. even if these companies do try to boycott the death pen­alty, police departments doubtless have sufficient stockpiles of weaponry to carry out all necessary executions for the foreseeable future. as a result, the justice system will not be forced to use “experimen­tal bullets,” as they’ve had to do with midazolam. 
The squeamish, of course, will object that the fir­ing squad is too gruesome a death to be used in a civilized society. given the agony evidently suffered by victims of lethal injection, that case is becom­ing increasingly more difficult to make. moreover, the practical result of both execution methods is the same — a dead convict. The firing squad even provides the same diffuse responsibility associ­ated with lethal injection.  Just as only one of the technicians sending drugs down the condemned’s iv tube actually administers a fatal dose, one man on the firing squad can be given a blank round or a dummy bullet. as an execution tool, the rifle need be no more psychologically traumatizing than the needle. and considering the fate of the man on death row are the sensibilities of the headsmen re­ally a priority? 
of course, it’s possible to argue that our society ought not to execute criminals at all. such a position is certainly worthy of consideration and vigorous debate. but if we can’t agree on that, can we at least agree that we shouldn’t torture criminals to death? 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering. He lives in Alumni Hall and can be reached at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ncaa’s poor decision concerning penn state 
as i am writing in regard to the ncaa reversing the sanctions levied on penn state university. it is abhorrent that the ncaa abolished the sanctions levied on penn state university. i understand the decision followed a positive report from former senator george mitchell’s organization dla piper; however, the ncaa’s decision has undermined jus­tice for the victims. 
i have read the report, and while it is nice to see penn state’s recent commitment to ethics, nothing changes the fact that penn state as an institution allowed for rape and molestation of young men. The hurt and horror of those experiences will never go away and now the ncaa has diminished their justice. 
i have heard arguments that the sanctions were unfair to the players, that they did nothing wrong and sanctioning penn state will only continue to hurt these players. This is false. The ncaa correct­ly allowed current players at the time the ability to transfer without penalty. most of those on the orig­inal team have graduated or had the opportunity to transfer. any student committing to penn state the past two years would have known they would not be able to play in bowl games. 
while i understand the concept of “getting time off for good behavior,” an institution that knowing­ly overlooked the rape of a 10-year-old boy should not, under any circumstance, be forgiven so easily. although penn state’s sanctions did not even last two years, for more than 15 years Jerry sandusky was able to prey on young men. during which time the university, from the university president down to graduate assistants, covered up the assaults. 
To close, i wish to share with you a grave statis­tic: one in six men are sexually abused or assault­ed. according to the center for disease control, it is largely believed to be an underestimate due to the social stigma men face of reporting the abuse against them. i ask you to reflect on the message sent to that one in six and what it says about the values of the ncaa. how could an institution that fostered the abuse of children be let off the hook like this? by overturning the initial ruling, the ncaa is essentially saying that justice for victims is merely temporary. 
Jeffrey Homan 
graduate student Fischer graduate residence sept. 10 
Racial profiling on campus 
at the excellent forum on recent events in Ferguson, mo., hosted by professors Jason ruiz and dianne pinderhughes as well as ruiz’s class, “mixed race america,” a senior brought up the persistent issue of racial profiling by nd police on campus. This racial profiling leads to black students, espe­cially black men, being stopped repeatedly as they go about their daily activities on our campus. i would like to know what is being done to stop this unfair treatment. what is ndsp doing to ensure that all members of our community are being treated fairly and not hassled? because it is a hassle and an affront that our students are being stopped and questioned on a regular basis when others are not. The question may seem to pale beside the gross violations of civil and human rights in Ferguson, but it matters. 
Sarah McKibben 
professor department of irish language and literature sept. 10 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By Caelin Miltko 
scene editor 

This weekend is football’s first away game, meaning all of us domers staying on campus will have to find other ways to entertain ourselves. luckily, legends has two consecutive nights of musical acts. 
Thursday, the electro-pop duo cherub hits the legends stage, after releasing their first album, “year of the caprese,” on may 27. hailing from nashville, Tenn., their first single, “doses and mimosas,” was number 43 on billboard’s rock airplay chart and 23 on the alternative songs chart in February. 
cherub consists of Jordan Kelley and Jason huber, who met while both studying music production at middle Tennessee state university. 
The concert at legends is their fourth stop on “The champagne showers” tour. The pair just finished a summer tour, hitting up festivals like bonnaroo and glastonbury. in June, they performed on conan. 
when asked about their genre in an article by The guardian, they said, “it’s prince on ecstasy. we’d wan­na just say pop just because it’s got the catchy hooks and the feel-good vibe that we feel like a lot of pop 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 
Ten years ago, the music industry was a different place: cds were relevant, records were irrelevant and stream­ing services were just an optimistic thought. my personal music collection consisted of born in the usa, help! and whatever jingoistic album Toby Keith had just released. needless to say, i didn’t have a clue what death From above 1979 was, or how they had cemented themselves as a great band with “you’re a woman, i’m a machine.” They broke up before i even had an ipod. 
Fast forward to 2011, and death From above 1979 an­nounces a few shows and plans to start recording again. Fans were shocked, taking on “you’re a woman, i’m a machine” seemed to be a near insurmountable task. in spite of these fears, dFa’s new album, “The physical world,” drags you right back into the sounds of dance punk that gripped the mid-noughties and tears it up with a vengeance. 
The album opener, “cheap Talk,” kicks off right where “you’re a woman, i’m a machine” left off: flinging you off a cliff into a dark, intense basin filled with grungy, groovy riffs and angsty, sarcastic lyrics about lost innocence. i was thrown by just how catchy and accessible the first few tunes felt. “cheap Talk”, “right on, Frankenstein!”, and “virgins” are short enough to keep listeners interest­ed, but thick enough to have them digging for more. with songs have. maybe old school pop songs.” 
ghost beach and gibbz will be opening for them. 
The new york-based ghost beach have performed with acts such as imagine dragons, david guetta, vampire weekend and robin Thicke. 
ghost beach released its debut album, “blonde,” in march. popmatters described the album as “the soundtrack to a neon-swathed beach house party, a joy ride on a cool summer night, or a nostalgia-fueled rec­reation of the original passion pits.” 
gibbz is a brooklyn-based singer and producer, whose debut single was released in march. gibbz produced, wrote, and sung “again and again” all by himself. 
if you’re too busy to see the concert Thursday, make sure you don’t miss what’s happening in legends on Friday. Two-time olympic gold medalist shaun white brings his band, bad Things, to perform for the notre dame student body. 
The band consists of singer davis leduke, bass­ist Jared palomar (a former member of the band augustana), guitarist anthony sanudo, drummer-vo­calist lena Zawaideh, and guitarist shaun white. They 
the majority of the songs cutting off before the three-minute mark and the whole lp wrapping up in 35 min­utes, dFa does not give listeners a moment to breathe. overall, this album feels just as tight and well put togeth­er as the last one did, but trades abrasiveness for acces­sibility – by no means a bad thing – as dFa retains the intense essence that made them so special ten years ago. 
This essence permeates the whole album. “virgins” and “nothin’ left” capture the rebellious punk spirit that was so central to the first album. lyrics such as, “there’s nothing sacred to me” and “there’s no love lost and none found” recreate the swaggering, care-free attitude that was found in “you’re a woman, i’m a machine.” leading singles, “Trainwreck 1979” and “government Trash,” rip into listeners and fill them with a passionate, rollicking energy. with such wonderful tracks, dFa shows that they know how to give their fans exactly what they want. This time, though, the songs are more fun, more exciting and even more danceable. such surprising changes definitely make death From above 1979 more accessible to a wider audience, while their core punk spirit still satisfies the most hardcore of dFa fans. 
The most surprising and, ultimately accessible song is “white is red.” if a few years ago someone had said death From above 1979 would write a power ballad reminisc­ing about fast cars, fun girls and disapproving parents, they probably would’ve been banned from whatever in­ternet forum they tried to voice a dissenting opinion on. 
played lollapalooza in 2013 and the Firefly Festival this summer. 
Their self-titled debut album was released last January. 
The band got the chance to play one of the four head­lining saturday night stage slots at lollapalooza in 2013 after death grips didn’t show. 
according to rolling stone, white began playing the guitar after winning a Fender stratocaster from a snowboarding competition. 
“it was like a trophy — you weren’t even supposed to play it. and i just fell in love with it,” he said in the interview. 
members leduke and palomar admit to hesitation when they first looked into joining a band with world-famous snowboarder shaun white. but both said they felt better about it after meeting with white, according to interviews in rolling stone and grantland. 
The cherub concert starts at 10 p.m. on Thursday and the bad Things concert kicks off Friday at 10 p.m. These legends concerts should not be missed. 
Contact Caelin Mitko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
The lyrics scream bruce springsteen, the melodies mod­el The Killers and the attitude explodes with arena rock power. “white is red” is an unanticipated piece of awe­some that shows death From above 1979 is multifaceted and able to transcend their dance punk roots. 
even when death From above 1979 doesn’t break its mold, it still offers substantial, high quality hits that blow the mainstream alternatives out of the water. in an age of arctic monkeys, imagine dragons and other bands that have slowed down to the point of flat lining, it’s refresh­ing to hear death From above 1979’s aggressive, tireless tunes again. “The physical world” is a solid album, the kind that gets more enjoyable and more meaningful with each listen. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“The Physical World” 
Death From Above 1979 
Label: Last Gang Records Tracks: “Cheap Talk,” “White is Red If you like: Yeah Yeah Yeahs, LCD 
Soundsystem, Liars 


SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 

By Jared Clemmensen 
scene writer 

if you’ve been living under a rock since aug. 19, you may have missed out on what has arguably been the big­gest pop culture phenomenon since miley cyrus thought she could twerk — nicki minaj’s “anaconda” music video. 
The difference between minaj and cyrus? nicki ac­tually has license – and the assets – to twerk. and she’s not afraid to sing about — and show off — her aforemen­tioned assets in the video. if you’ve been having trouble trying to make sense of the different criticism and praise of the video, i’m here to clarify … or perhaps just make things more confusing. 
whether or not you like minaj or her video, the num­bers are astounding. sitting at 145,115,466 views as of wednesday, the video accumulated 19.6 million views within 24 hours of its release. The feat broke vevo’s previ­ous 24-hour record held by miley cyrus with 19.3 million views of her “wrecking ball” video. 
if you haven’t seen the video, i highly encourage it – if only just to stay culturally relevant. There has been a lot of controversy over the message minaj is trying to express: some argue her image is positive, some say it is negative. 
i’m here to argue that it establishes nicki’s place as a new feminist model, albeit in a very different vein than beyoncé’s “i woke up like This/everyone is Flawaless” philosophy. For those struggling to see this side of the video, its choreography, nicki’s verses and, perhaps most of all, the lap dance nicki gives drake at the end of the vid­eo all play to the idea. i would like to bring up big sean’s 2011 “dance (a$$) remix” video as a reference, in which minaj makes a cameo not unlike drake’s in “anaconda.” 
The contrast between these videos could not be more drastic. in the big sean video, we are barraged with images and lyrics pertaining to the objectification of women — nothing new to hip-hop,  and the rap music world did not cause a stir when this video was released. although some criticize minaj’s overt sexuality as being inappropriate, when we consider the male presence, or lack therof, in the video, the hyper-sexualized outfits and choreography take on a different meaning. 
while big sean tells countless scantily clad women (in­cluding minaj herself) to “shake that ass” in his video, the only male to appear in “anaconda” is drake. although a powerful recording artist in today’s entertainment in­dustry, he doesn’t even make a contribution to the song 
– existing merely as a visual prop. drake is clearly made to look like something of a fool. he is left speechless by nicki’s aggressive demeanor and ownership of her body. upon making a move to grab nicki’s ass, something we wouldn’t bat our eyes at in most hip-hop videos, nicki slaps him away — asserting that her body can be appre­ciated (she’s attractive and she knows it) but not taken advantage of. 
This isn’t to say nicki can do or has done no wrong. “anaconda” represents a key culmination of the growth she has exhibited over the course of her career, within which there are definitely instances of her subjecting herself to the objectification of men or failing to channel her anger in an articulate way. however, here she is the owner of her sexual self-worth. minaj rejects traditional beauty concepts through an aggressive celebration of a different body type. 
when it comes down to it, there is no single definition of feminism nor one way of being a feminist. nicki has found her own niche and established a unique, empow­ered image. only one thing is certain: nicki minaj doesn’t care what you or anyone thinks of her, and perhaps that makes her the ultimate feminist. 
Contact Jared Clemmensen at jclemmen@nd.edu 
WEEkEnd AT A GLAnCE 
THURSDAY 

What: Cherub When: 10 p.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free 

be sure to catch the electro-pop duo who played bonaroo and glastonbury this summer. Their single “doses and mimosas”  is quite the earworm and reached no. 23 on the alternative songs chart. head over to legends for what is sure to be a groovy show. 
FRIDAY 

What: Bad Things When: 10 p.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free 
you’ve seen shaun white snow­board on Tv... now see him play gui­tar irl! The two-time olympic gold medalist comes to campus  with his band, bad Things.  They played lolla in 2013 and Firefly this summer, so be sure to see them when they’re in walking distance and tickets are free. 
SATURDAY 

What: Shamrock Series When: 7:30 p.m. Where: Indianapolis How Much: $40 for students 
after last weekend’s victory, the team is rearing to take the field again. another night game not too far from campus promises a bois­terous time. be sure to go if you can, busses are available. 
go irish, beat boilermakers! (we may need to shorten that.) 
SUNDAY 

What: “Medea” When: 3 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $16 for students 
helen mccroy, better known as narcissa malfoy in the harry potter films, stars in the national Theatre’s take on euripides’ powerful trag­edy. medea bears two sons in exile, is abandoned by her husband, faces banishment and is seeking revenge. intense. go see it and get #cultured. 
SAMANTHA COUGHLIN | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

IndyCar Series has formula right 
Alex Carson 
sports writer 
i grew up a little over two hours down the road in indianapolis. in addition to being around high school bas­ketball and cornfields, growing up in indiana means you’re surrounded every may by my favorite sporting event in the world, the indianapolis 500. and, of course, if you were to make a buzzfeed list about sports in indiana, you’d have to put the 500 alongside peyton manning, reggie miller and the 1954 milan high school basketball team that inspired the movie “hoosiers.” 
as a kid, i heard stories about andretti, Foyt, mears and unser. and one of my most cherished memories is meeting helio castroneves at a local car dealership and then going back the next year so he could sign the picture of the two of us. 
but despite my love of open-wheel racing, i’ve found it harder and harder each year to maintain an inter­est in nascar. so, no, please don’t ask me if i’m a nascar fan next time i tell you i’m from indianapolis. whereas the open-wheel cars used in Formula one and the indycar series are sleek, the stock cars used on the nascar cir­cuit are slower. whereas the indycar series races on a near-equal combination of unique road, street and oval courses, nascar features a litany of tri­ovals and superspeedways — tracks that, from week-to-week, seem similar. 
and perhaps more than anything, the indycar series doesn’t have a gimmicky “chase for the sprint cup”-type format to determine its cham­pion. especially one as poor as the format nascar is employ­ing for this year’s chase. 
before i rip in to the rest of it, i’ll give credit where credit is due: nascar’s major change in qualifying for the chase was a positive. The series emphasized drivers that won races — all 13 series regulars that won a race qualified for the playoff — over drivers that simply paraded around the track to turn in top-five finishes, guaranteeing their spot in the final setup. 
but past that? it’s poor at best. The chase starts with 16 drivers and more or less resets them to the same point total. 

Then three races come along and the bottom four are elimi­nated. That’s fine, and the same thing is repeated twice over the next six races, leaving the series with four competitors for the championship going into the final race. cool, i guess. 
but that brings us to the point where — if it hadn’t already been done with the institution of the chase in the first place — nascar completely jumps the shark. simply put, the driver out of the four who has the best finish at homestead-miami speedway on nov. 16 will be the series drivers’ champion. end of story. 
That — above everything else — is the most frustrating part of the current nascar setup for someone that, quite frankly, already isn’t a big stock car fan. instead of saying, “ev­ery race leading up to the finale matters,” one just simply has to cross their fingers and hope nothing goes wrong on the final day. 
let’s put it more bluntly. brad Keselowski has four wins this season, more than anybody else on the circuit. let’s say he wins four of the first nine races in the chase — it would be impressive but it’s still entirely possible — and no other driver wins more than one. he’d have, at worst, twice as many victories as the second-most­winningest driver in the series this year but could very well be taken out in a first-lap wreck. and then we’re all supposed to believe he wasn’t the driver that deserved the title win on the season? please. 
For the series that instituted green-white-checker finishes, has “competition cautions” after it rains and randomly finds debris on the track when it wants to bunch the field back up to create a better show, the “championship race” idea is perhaps its worst gimmick yet. 
oh, yeah, and did i mention the indycar series champion­ship has been decided on the final race of the season for nine straight years without magically needing to reset the points four times in the final ten races? 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

Goodell questioned by Congress over Rice case 
Associated Press 

washingTon — members of congress from both par­ties on wednesday ques­tioned nFl commissioner roger goodell’s handling of a domestic violence incident involving former baltimore ravens running back ray rice. 
Twelve democrats on the house Judiciary committee sent goodell a letter calling for greater transparency from the nFl, and republican sen. dean heller of nevada said goodell had not acted swiftly enough to punish rice. 
“i fear the failure of the nFl to understand the scope and severity of this act of do­mestic violence has already led to significant damage for vulnerable members of soci­ety,” heller said, adding that he was “highly disappointed” that goodell and the nFl did not take severe action against rice until after a security vid­eo of rice punching his then-fiancee on a casino elevator was made public. 
“by waiting to act until it was made public you effectively condoned the action of the perpetrator himself,” heller wrote in a letter to goodell. “i cannot and will not tolerate that position by anybody, let alone the national Football league.” 
The letters by heller and the house democrats both state that the nFl’s prominence gives the league a special ob­ligation to forcefully address issues of domestic violence. 
“given the important role the nFl and the other major professional sports leagues can play in shaping public per­ceptions concerning domestic violence, it would appear to be in the public interest to have the highest level of transpar­ency associated with reviews of potential misconduct,” said the letter, signed by rep. John conyers, d-mich., and 11 other democrats. conyers is the senior democrat on the Judiciary panel. 
The letter notes goodell’s statements in media inter­views that league officials did not see the elevator video until monday. The ravens re­leased rice on monday and the nFl suspended him in­definitely after the website TmZ released video of the incident. goodell initially had suspended rice for two games. 
The democratic letter said goodell and the nFl have not stated how aggressively the league sought to obtain the video and how law enforce­ment agencies responded. 
goodell told cbs on Tuesday that “no one in the nFl, to my knowledge” had seen a new video of what hap­pened on the elevator until it was posted online. “we as­sumed that there was a video. we asked for video. but we were never granted that op­portunity,” goodell said. 
Two videos, one released by TmZ sports and another shown later to The associated press by a law enforcement official, show rice punching fiancee Janay palmer — who is now his wife — and knock­ing her unconscious. The vid­eos show more detail than an initial video released by TmZ in July that showed rice drag­ging palmer from an elevator. 
goodell has previously said he “didn’t get it right” with rice and the league set up new penalties for domestic violence: a six-game suspen­sion for a first offense, at least a year for a second. 
“we welcome your recent willingness to change the nFl’s policies regarding is­sues of domestic violence,” the democratic lawmak­ers said in their letter, “and we also believe other major professional sports leagues should consider making their policies public and reviews transparent as well.” 
MLB | aTlanTa 6, washingTon 2 
 Braves best Strasburg and Nationals to avoid sweep 
Associated Press 

washingTon — aaron harang outdueled stephen strasburg, Justin upton drove in three runs and the atlanta braves avoided a series sweep in washington with a 6-2 win over the nationals on wednesday. 
The braves snapped a three-game losing streak as harang (11-10) held the nl east lead­ers to one unearned run over seven innings. upton’s rbi single in the sixth broke a 1-all tie, and he added a two-run double off reliever ryan mattheus during a three-run seventh. 
strasburg (11-11) allowed 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSING TWNHM 
three runs and seven hits in six innings. bryce harper hom­ered for washington, which had won three straight. 
b.J. upton homered for the wild card-contending braves. washington leads atlanta by eight games in the division. 
washington won the open­ing two games of the series, and success against atlanta has been historically dif­ficult for the nationals and strasburg. 
The nationals dropped to 6-10 this season against the braves, though they had won five of the previous seven games. They have not swept atlanta in washington since 2008. 
strasburg has not earned a win against the braves since aug. 21, 2012. in four starts this season against atlanta, the righty is 0-2 with a 7.18 era. 
The nl strikeout leader fanned eight, but lost for the first time since august 8. strasburg entered with a 3-0 record in his previous five starts. 
harang struggled recently, going 0-3 with a 7.98 era in his last three starts. That ver­sion didn’t show wednesday. he struck out nine and sur­rendered six while improving to 2-0 with an 0.90 era versus washington this season. 
Kevin Frandsen had three singles for the nationals. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
For Rent 2015-16 yr from “With almost no time to decide, ND Alum! 4Bdrm Unit on they gave the entire country an Burdette; for 1 or 2 yr lease. incalculable gift. They saved the Text or call John 281-635-2019 capitol from attack”- B.Clinton 


SMC VOLLEYBALL | Trine 3, belles 1 
Belles fail to overcome Trine 
Observer Staff Report 
after coming out on top its pre­vious two conference games, saint mary’s miaa winning streak was snapped at two when conference-rival Trine defeated the belles, 3-1, on wednesday at angela athletic Facility. 
The belles (3-5, 2-2 miaa) got off to a quick start in the first set, with senior middle hitter melanie Kuczek tally­ing four kills in a row. From there, both teams traded points back and forth un­til the score was tied at 14. Then, the Thunder (6-1, 2-1) ripped off three points in a row to take a 17-14 lead, and they would not lose that lead again, as Trine took the first set of the match, 25-21. 
The second set was even more of a seesaw affair than the first set, with the score­board tied at 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. The Thunder would again go on a three-point run, which led to a saint mary’s timeout. 
Junior outside hitter Katie hecklinski and senior out­side hitter Kati schneider re­corded kills to bring back the belles, with a solo block by schneider tying up the score at 20. Trine would again take the lead at 23-21, but a block by Kuczek and sophomore setter claire mcmillan would help the belles take a 24-23 lead. From there, the belles would break through the 12th tie of the set and capitalize on two Trine errors to take the set, 26-24. 
The third set saw the Thunder take firm control of the game, going on streaks of four- and five-consecutive points in order to compile a 15-9 lead. Though the belles were able to narrow the gap to five points when they re­duced the score to 15-10 and later to 18-13, the Thunder were simply too strong and took the set, 25-16. 

That led to what ended up being the deciding set of the match. much like the first set, both teams were able to keep the score relatively close un­til the end of the fourth set. saint mary’s built an early lead, but the Thunder went on a five-point run to take the lead by a score of 17-14. From there, the belles were able to draw close again when blocks by sophomore settler lexi grady and freshman middle hitter leah buck made the score 20-19 in favor of Trine, but that was as close as the belles would get. 
From there, the Thunder went on a three-point run that ended up proving the difference. Trine held on for a 25-20 set victory, and went on to win the match, 3-1. 
schneider and hecklinski were the linchpins for the belles, as the duo led all players with 14 kills each. elsewhere, schneider com­piled a team-high 19 digs, and hecklinski was close behind her with 17. Kuczek led all players with five blocks on the night. 
The belles have the rest of the week off and will resume play Tuesday, when they host top-ranked calvin at home. game time is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. 
NFL 

Domestic violence investigations continue 
Associated Press 

carolina panthers pro bowl de­fensive end greg hardy has been convicted on two counts of do­mestic violence and is still play­ing. ray mcdonald of the san Francisco 49ers also remains active while he is being investi­gated for abuse allegations. 
The panthers and 49ers have not publicly discussed details of their investigations, saying only that they are following the nFl’s lead in waiting for the legal pro­cess to run its course. 
The cases have similari­ties to that of ray rice, who was released this week by the baltimore ravens and suspend­ed indefinitely by the league af­ter an explicit video surfaced of him hitting his then-fiancee. 
a law enforcement official told The associated press on condition anonymity that he sent a copy of the video to the league in april. 
panthers owner Jerry richardson broke down in tears wednesday night when talking about domestic violence at an award ceremony in his honor, saying he would be remiss if he didn’t “acknowledge an issue weighing heavily on our sport and our society.” 
“when it comes to domestic violence, my stance is not one of indifference,” an emotional richardson said after receiving the award against indifference for his business and civic con­tributions in charlotte from the echo Foundation, a non­profit education organization. “i stand firmly against domestic violence, plain and simple. 
“To those who would suggest that we’ve been too slow to act, i ask that you consider not to be too quick to judge. over the course of our 20 years, we have worked extremely hard to build an organization of integrity.” 
richardson left the event without taking questions. 
despite richardson’s plea, the nFl is under scrutiny for its wait-and-see approach in domestic violence cases like hardy’s. 
Judy harris Kluger, a former new york city judge and now executive director of sanctuary for Families, is anxious to see how the league handles the two pending cases. 
“i think the test for the nFl will be what they do with the other people who are charged now,” Kluger said. “and i don’t imagine there’s a videotape of that. what else did the nFl think happened in that elevator? so yes, it’s a very graphic depiction, and they took the action they took now. but i think all of us will be looking to see what they and other organi­zations do going forward.” 
while mcdonald has not been charged, hardy has been con­victed on two counts of domestic violence. he has appealed and a hearing is scheduled for nov. 17. 
hardy, one of the stalwarts on the panthers’ stout defense, is making $13.1 million this sea­son as team’s franchise player. he had four tackles and one sack in carolina’s season-opening victory. 
Though he has already been found guilty, the league is stick­ing by its policy to wait until the appeal process has been heard before making any decision on a possible suspension. 
“The hardy matter is under review,” league spokesman greg aiello said. “The case has not been resolved by the court.” 
san Jose police are still ac­tively investigating the aug. 31 incident involving the 6-foot­3, 290-pound mcdonald and detectives will turn over find­ings to the santa clara district attorney’s office for review, sgt. heather randol, a police spokeswoman said wednesday. 
mcdonald is scheduled to ap­pear in court on sept. 15. 
Though hardy has appealed his conviction, the panthers don’t have to wait for the nFl to take action. They have the option to bench hardy — or re­lease him. 
The ravens did not take ac­tion, opting to wait for an nFl ruling, though they now say they let their fans down. 
when asked wednesday if the panthers made the right deci­sion allowing hardy to play, coach ron rivera replied, “we are going through the process and while we’re in the process we’re not going to comment about the situation. 
“it’s a very tragic situation that is going on and we’re going from there,” rivera said of the rice case. “i have a tremendous amount of empathy and respect for the people who are in this situation. it’s very difficult.” 
rivera said hardy did not practice because he was given a “personal day” wednesday. 
hardy used the time to meet with his attorney. chris Fialko confirmed in an email that he met with his client but wouldn’t elaborate on the spe­cifics of the meeting. 

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 



W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

little’s success in goal for the irish this year is not sur­prising, considering the im­pact she made in her freshman campaign. 
before the Tulsa, okla., na­tive came to notre dame, no goalkeeper had started more than 20 games for the irish since the 2010 ncaa ti­tle squad. competing for the starting spot against a sopho­more and two juniors, little impressed then-coach randy waldrum enough to earn the opening-match start against illinois. From there on out, little has become one of notre dame’s most reliable players, logging over 2,000 minutes in the net and allowing .89 goals per game. she allowed only two goals in the ncaa tournament, both of which came off penalty kicks. 
at the season’s end, little was voted most valuable fresh­man on the team, ahead of midfielder morgan andrews, who led the team in goals and was named acc freshman of the year. 
“That meant a lot to me,” little said. “it was very hum­bling and a very proud moment knowing that my teammates thought that much of me to vote for me to win that award.” 
little was the first freshman since 2010 to start every sin­gle match, and only the third freshman goalkeeper to do so in program history. 
while waldrum departed in the offseason and new coach Theresa romagnolo arrived in the spring, little remained notre dame’s go-to option in goal. after sitting out the ex­hibition season, she returned to the starting role and al­lowed one goal over the first two games of the year, winning both matches. The sole goal she surrendered came on a corner kick from illinois in the 22nd minute of the game. 
The irish, however, stum­bled during the notre dame invitational on aug. 29, after taking an early lead against no. 7 Texas Tech only to surrender two second-half goals within 25 seconds of each other. little struggled on both scores, with one of the shots glancing off her glove into the net. after the loss, little did not play in the team’s 2-1 loss to usc two days later. 
“after the weekend we had, especially losing to [Texas] Tech that way and then usc, we just came back with the mentality of representing the name across our chests [in] everything we do, the big things [and] the little things,” little said. “we really pounded that mindset in the next week.” 

little and the irish bounced back when they traveled to santa clara, calif., to take on the no. 24 broncos. The notre dame defense blanketed santa clara, allowing just one shot on goal, which little saved, while the offense produced two goals for the 2-0 win. 
“i knew that if i made a mis­take, my back line and my team had my back and i had theirs’,” little said. 
little also benefits from a veteran defensive line that in­cludes senior sammy scofield and junior captain Katie naughton, she said. still, as the season goes on, little said she wants to develop as a defensive leader in her own right. 
“There are moments when i think i am somewhat of a leader,” little said. “but you can always grow and become a better leader, obviously. ... The team goal is to win the national championship and my goal is to do whatever it takes to help the team win.” 
little and notre dame take the pitch at alumni stadium on Friday to face baylor at 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles to run Calvin Knight 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 

after a second-place fin­ish at the wabash hokum Karem on aug. 30, the belles will head to their second meet of the season saturday in grand rapids, 
mich.  to compete  i n t he  
27-tea m  ca lv in  K n ig ht  
inv itat iona l.  

The Knight invitational 
— hosted by calvin, a fel­low miaa school — is the only five-kilometer race of the season for saint mary’s, and belles coach Jackie bauters said she is eager for the opponents her team will go up against this weekend. 
“we are really looking forward to racing at calvin this weekend,” bauters said. “it should be a great opportunity for the team to race against some great compet it ion.” 
in addition to calvin, the belles will face conference rival alma, as well as re-gionally-ranked squads in case western and depauw. 
at the wabash hokum Karem nearly two weeks ago 
— a six-mile relay race in which teams of two runners alternate “legs” — saint mary’s was led by sopho­more brittany beeler and freshman reilly pieri. The pair put in a time of 36:54.6 
wh i le t he  bel les a lso got  
scor i ng  cont r ibut ions  
f rom  t he  pa i rs  of  f resh­ 

men natalie hawks and caitlin blum and juniors allie danhof and Katelyn dunn, who finished in 10th and 11th place respective­ly. however, bauters said the race was more of an op­portunity for her team to get ready for the rest of the yea r. 
“we really use the hokum Karem as a fun, low-pres­sure season opener to get back in the racing mind­set,” bauters said. 
when the belles travel north this weekend, they will be running at the same course where the miaa conference championships will be held nov. 1. That race, like every other race the belles will run after the Knight invitational, will be six kilometers long and bauters anticipates seeing how her group of runners performs on the course. 
“we have a very large pack and i’m interested to see how they work together as well as how we can max­imize this pack as the sea­son progresses,” bauters said. 
and not only is the course the same one the belles will be running seven weeks later, but the weather might prove to be similar — saturday’s fore­cast calls for a temperature in the mid-50s when the gun sounds at 10:45 a.m. 
— and bauters thinks that her runners can post solid times in the conditions. 
“it’s looking to be a nice fall day, so i hope to see some great results,” bauters said. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson@nd.edu 




The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Football 
conTinued From page 16 
“[i] went through a lot of grow­ing pains and struggles [as a fresh­man],” clausen said. “we weren’t very good. my freshman year there, we were just grinding away and ev­eryone said if it doesn’t kill you it only makes you better. 
“The next year it got better.” 
clausen started all 13 games in 2008 and threw for 3,172 yards and 25 touchdowns, as notre dame finished 7-6. The irish had “a heck­uva team” in 2009, clausen said, but stumbled to a 6-6 mark. 
“we just couldn’t pull off a few of those wins,” he added. 
after forgoing his senior season in south bend, the panthers nabbed clausen with the 48th overall selec­tion in the 2010 nFl draft. clausen earned his first career start in week Three against Tampa bay and took the first snap in nine of the remain­ing games. 
“my rookie year felt the exact same as my freshman year at notre dame, being out there, getting thrown out there, myself not being great and being a little banged up, it was just tough,” clausen said. 
after not playing in 2011 and 2012 as cam newton grabbed hold of the starting job in carolina, clausen tore the labrum in his throwing shoulder in the 2013 preseason finale. 
“i was just rehabbing and just waiting to get another opportunity,” clausen said of this past offseason. 

“it was kind of frustrating not get­ting more calls early on. but pa­tience is a virtue.” 
in filling some of the passing time, clausen returned to notre dame in november and spent roughly a month finishing his degree. 
“it was kinda freezing when i was out there,” clausen said with a laugh. “but i promised my parents that i would go back there. it meant a lot to me, and i know it meant a lot to the notre dame people.” 
six months later, the bears signed clausen. now, he takes his second chance in stride, returning to a backup role as a veteran. 
“i think going through what i went through at notre dame helped me throughout my nFl career so far,” clausen said. 
“Just growing through age, grow­ing through good times, bad times,” clausen said, when asked how he’s grown as a person. “you’re gonna grow up coming into notre dame being an 18-, 19-year old kid, trying to go in there and compete as a true freshman. 
“coming out of high school, i didn’t lose a game, so it was tough on me going through that first year as a freshman losing games like we did. 
“but just to overcome adversity. That freshman year at notre dame really helped me my rookie year and the past four years that i’ve been in the league.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
M Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 

improve isn’t something he’s worried about, sachire said. 
“while we are extremely proud of the results and ranking that we attained last year, those are not our main focus,” sachire said. “our main focus always centers around each indi­vidual player improving every day and ultimately developing into the best player that he can be. There are multiple aspects of each of our players’ games that can continue to get better, so it ’s not very dif­ficult to motivate our guys on a daily basis when their focus is in the proper area.” 
last season, the team was led by senior greg andrews who finished his final year ranked 25th in the coun­try in singles. This year, the plan for the team is to come together throughout the season, sachire said. he said that the most im­portant thing for his team to remember is that all members of the team are 
a c c ou nt a ble  f or  one  a n- 
ot her  on  t he  c ou r t  a nd  i n  
pr ac t ic e.  

“one of the really, really fun things to see as a coach is how different players as­sume different roles on the team from year to year,” sachire said. “despite grad­uating three great seniors, including greg andrews who was such a dominant force in our program, we return seven talented guys who have all started over 20 matches during their ca­reers at notre dame. This experience will undoubt­edly serve us well, and i ex­pect the leadership of the team to emerge from this pack of players. while we probably won’t have one dominant leader, like greg was last year, i expect that void to be filled by mul­tiple players and enable us to have great continuity throughout our team.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
ACROSS 36 Skater Harding 1 It wraps scraps 
and others 
37 U
9 Scratches, say 
39 Downsized computer file 
15 Unlocked, as a 
42 Was 16 Saws overcome with embarrassment, 
17 J 
in slang 18 Apartment 
43 Goat sound 
dweller, e.g. 46 Does
19 Transvestite of perfunctorily, as song 
a performance 20 Loud laughs 
48 Openly state 
22 Third neighbor? 
50 Letters on a 
23 Cellphone stamp 
feature 51 Scand. land 
25 Backup singer’s 53 Parts of an “Oldsyllable MacDonald” 27 Eighth-day rite 
verse 28 Source of the 54 Mughal Empire phrase “brave rulers new world,” with 56 Related
“The” 31 Splitting 

59 Parks in a bus headache? 60 Beggars of a sort 33 Subj. of 62 X psychological 
64 Gettysburg experiments Address, e.g. 
with inconclusive results 65 Neat and trim 
34 Dirty 66 Trample 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


67 1994 film that spawned a TV series 
DOWN 1 Collapse 2 Division rivals of 
the Rays 3 Quaint illumination 4 A flat is the 
same as this 5 Derisive response 6 Hip-hop devotee, 
in old slang 7 Baseball’s Felipe 8 Gordon ___, 
“Wall Street” character 9 Fraternize, with “around” 10 Alternatives to saws 11 Y 12 “My bad” 
13 “Another name for opportunity,” per Ralph Waldo Emerson 
14 Trypanosomiasis transmitters 21 Roll at a nursery 24 Accelerator particles 26 This way 
29 Oscar-winning screenwriter for “The Social Network” 
30 “___ the last rose of summer” (Thomas Moore poem starter) 
32 Activity with dolls 35 Was up 37 O 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  
39  40  41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  
64  65  
66  67  

PUZZLE BY DANIEL A. FINAN 
38 Test the 44 Proposes a date temperature of, to in a way 
45 Armand of 39 Presses “Private together Benjamin” 
40 Negotiate 47 “Just kidding!” 
41 Tamed, as a 49 Dismissal stallion 
52 Strenuous 

43 Mediterranean college resort island, to programs, for locals short 
55 ___ lily 57 Light air 58 “The Sopranos” 
actress ___ de Matteo 61 Prefix with fuel 63 Location of the tragus 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 
1  2  3  4  



9/11/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ryan phillippe, 39; colin Firth, 53; amy irving, 60; Joe perry, 63. 
Happy Birthday: you have more options than you realize. expand your interests and take on extra responsibilities that will allow you to add to your resume. look at the big picture and don’t be afraid to express your ideas and to offer your exper­tise. establish your position aggressively, pursue your goals, and work diligently to stabilize your personal, financial and professional future. your numbers are 4, 11, 15, 26, 34, 40, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): what you want and what you need are not the same. don’t allow anyone to guilt you into spending to prove your love or dedication. speak up for your rights and begin making travel plans.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): love problems are likely to arise due to a situation being blown out of proportion. if someone begins to overreact, you are best to lay out the facts in a diplomatic manner and carry on with your day. avoid hasty decisions and arguments.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): home, friends and socializing will all lead to an interesting revelation regarding someone you find inspiring. a work relationship based on a creative connection will bring about a chance to try something new. love and romance will bring you happiness.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): say less and do more. you may be torn between what someone wants and what you can afford to do. put greater emphasis on bringing a unique and interesting alternative to an opportunity that can alter your life or a friendship.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): an emotional challenge must not be allowed to take over. call in favors or schedule your time so that you can take care of situations as they arise. don’t leave anything to chance. use your imagination and skills to find solutions.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): check in with people you have worked with in the past. a new development will create an opportunity that interests you. partner­ships formed now will be unique. get what’s being offered in writing. security should be your first concern.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): welcome change and turn each new adventure into an interesting prospect. mix and match the past and present plans to come up with the perfect set of circumstances. don’t fold under pressure or give away too much. equality should be your goal. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): be receptive to different philosophies and ways of doing things. your ability to mix the old with the new, coupled with your unique­ness and vivid imagination to offer something special, will be well received. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The information you pick up while participating in a cause will help you meet people willing to include you in a money-making plan. your financial intake, as well as your living conditions, can improve.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t take on any personal debt or meddle in emotional situations that can cost you a good friendship. listen, but don’t voice your opinion or take sides. you would be wise to mind your own business and focus on your responsibilities. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a change in the way you earn your living or what you learn that will ensure a bright future is apparent. believe in your ability to excel at whatever task you are given and you will make a noteworthy impression. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will pick up unusual ideas if you get involved in functions related to work or a plan you want to pursue. you will find a solution to a financial slowdown that will get you back in the game.  


Birthday Baby: you are compassionate, courageous and insightful. you strive for peace and equality. 

Jumbles:
Yesterday’s 
Answer: 
worK area 

JOINT TYING THORNY BICKER His new position at the medieval-themed restaurant was this — HIS “KNIGHT” JOB 

make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2014 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

With second chance, Clausen aims to start 
Former Irish quarterback returns to the Midwest as the backup for the Bears 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
The bright spotlights have shined down on Jimmy clausen for years. 
From the undefeated days at oaks christian high school in california to three seasons as the starting quarterback at notre dame to a starting role as a rook­ie with the carolina panthers, clausen was as recognizable a young quarterback as any from 2005 to 2010. 
The blonde-haired, california native graced the glossy pages of sports illustrated as a high-school junior, dubbed “The Kid with the golden arm” and considered a possible “once-in-a-generation talent.” 
but now, more than 1,300 days removed from his last regular-sea­son appearance, the former irish quarterback finds himself out of the spotlight, positioned on the chicago bears sideline, backing up quarterback Jay cutler. Though he’s away from the national gleam, clausen knows his helmet is within reach. 
“you can say it’s easier [not being the center of attention], but obvi­ously i want to be a starter in this league,” clausen said recently by phone after stepping off the prac­tice field. 

in early June, the bears signed clausen, a former second-round pick who started 10 games for the panthers in 2010 but did not play over the next three seasons. clausen’s four-year rookie contract expired at the end of the 2013 sea­son, and the bears scooped him up over the summer, providing the 26­year old a second chance. 
“it means a lot,” clausen said of his opportunity. “For [chicago head] coach [marc] Trestman and [chicago general manager] phil emery to give me an opportunity here, just to come in and compete, that’s all i can ask for. i just had to go out each and every day and make the most of it and whatever happens in the end, happens.” 
what clausen wants to happen, of course, is to get another crack as a starting quarterback. he beat out Jordan palmer for the backup job in chicago, but cutler is entrenched with the bears and just began his sixth consecutive season atop the depth chart. still, clausen said he prepares each day as if he’s the starter. 
“i’ve had to go out each and every day and act like i am the starter be­cause you’re one play away,” he said. “it’s actually tough in some circum­stances because you don’t get to have all the reps the starter does get, so you have to be in it mentally each and every day and just take mental reps and take some extra throws af­ter practice to get the reps in.” 
clausen’s current situation now is quite different to what he expe­rienced in his initial stops in south bend and charlotte, n.c., respec­tively. The no. 2 overall player in the nation in the class of 2007, per 247sports’ composite rankings, clausen enrolled early at notre dame, joining the irish for the spring 2007 semester. after deal­ing with offseason elbow surgery, he started the second game of the season against penn state, mark­ing the earliest in a season an irish freshman quarterback had started since 1972 (when freshmen re­gained their eligibility). clausen notched nine starts in 2007, but the irish finished just 3-9. 
see FooTball PAGE 14 

Observer File Photo 
Former Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen, pictured on the Oct. 15, 2009 Insider cover of The Observer, is now the backup for the Bears. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER MEN’S TENNIS 
little stands her ground sachire seeks between the posts national titles 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
as the minutes dragged by and no. 4 stanford did not score, notre dame sopho­more goalkeeper Kaela little felt no pressure. when regulation time ran out, overtime began and the no. 19 irish could not manage any offense, little still did not cave. a second overtime came and went, and still little held on. 
when it was all said and done, notre dame (3-2-1) tied the cardinal (4-0-1), 0-0, to cap off a two-game unbeaten road trip in california. it was the first time stanford has been shut-out all season and little’s third clean sheet of the year. she set a season high in saves, with six, and weathered 14 shots over 110 minutes of play. 
“[when] you’ve gone 90 minutes without giving up a goal, 20 extra minutes ... comparatively, isn’t that much,” little said. “going into overtime, our mindset 


EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 

Irish sophomore goalkeeper Kaela Little rolls the ball out to her teammate in Notre Dame’s 2-1 loss to Texas Tech on Aug. 29. 
was that the defense is hap-the end we got our result.” py with a tie and the offense, we’re going for the win. in see w soccer PAGE 14 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 

as notre dame prepares for its first contests of the season, second-year head coach ryan sachire is readying for another run towards the national championship. 
last season, the Fighting irish finished 13th in the nation during sachire’s first season, which marks the program’s highest fin­ish in the past two de­cades. before coming to notre dame, sachire helped coach the baylor bears to a semifinals ap­pearance in the 2005 na­tional championship. during his time as an as­sistant coach, the irish reached two straight ncaa national championships in 2008 and 2009. now as head coach, sachire said that the expectations for this year’s team are higher than ever. 
“The expectations for our players and for our program this year are extremely high,” sachire said. “we are confident that we can play and win at an elite national level, if we approach the year with the right perspective. our main message to our play­ers consistently focuses on maximizing each day and getting the absolute most out of everything that we do. our goal as a group is to improve more than any other team in the country, and to do that our play­ers know they have to be locked in on getting better every single day.” 
sachire said he has also stressed the importance of growing as an individual player before trying to cre­ate a strong team chemis­try. as a former dominant player at notre dame himself, sachire said that when his players get on the court, they compete as individuals with the goal of the team in the back of their minds. motivating the players to continue to 
see m Tennis PAGE 14 



